It is important that investors Law Debenture will normally support incumbent understand this structure and that they take time to management and vote in favour of resolutions proposed recognise the considerable benefits that investors in Law by the boards of companies in which it has a shareholding, Debenture derive from our business model.
but will vote against management or withhold a vote where appropriate.
Principal risks and uncertainties The board determines the Corporations investment strategy investment trust but does not issue express instructions to the investment The principal risks of the investment trust relate to manager on transactions in particular shares.
Where Law investment activities generally and include market price Debenture believes that incumbent management is failing in risk, foreign currency risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, its duties, Law Debenture or on its behalf, the Corporations credit risk and country region risk.
These are explained in investment manager may attempt to enter into dialogue with more detail in note 19 to the accounts.
the company concerned in an attempt to alter the managements position.
The Corporation takes risk management very seriously and the corporate governance report sets out in some detail the Where this is not possible, or where incumbent control framework in place to manage the risks that the management declines to alter its behaviour, Law Debenture group faces.
will consider voting against resolutions proposed by the management.
Further, if it is deemed necessary or Key performance indicators KPI desirable, the Corporation would consider acting The KPIs used to measure the progress and performance of collectively with other institutional investors to try and the group are: achieve a particular goal.
net asset value total return per share combining the Henderson, on Law Debentures behalf, monitors capital and income returns of the group : companies in which Law Debenture is invested, and from time to time may discuss matters of corporate governance the discount premium in share price to NAV: and with such companies.
The Henderson corporate the cost of running the portfolio as a percentage of its value.
governance unit will notify Law Debentures investment manager, who in turn will notify Law Debenture, should Since the objective of the investment trust is measurable matters arise that might lead the Corporation to consider solely in financial terms, the directors do not consider that it intervening, abstaining or voting against a particular is appropriate to adopt non-financial KPIs.
During the year, the Corporation abstained or voted against one or more resolutions at the annual general Investment strategy implementation meetings of 8 investee companies.
The way in which we implemented the investment strategy during 2013 is described in the investment managers The Corporation will not hold shares in companies whose review at page 16. ethical and environmental practices are in its view likely to damage the performance of the business to the detriment of Performance against KPIs is set out at pages 2, 3 and 9 to its shareholders.
15, which contain comprehensive tables, charts and data to explain performance both over the year under review and A conflict of interest could potentially arise from the over the long term, up to twenty years.
Corporations investments in products operated by its investment manager, Henderson.
The board is mindful of Law Debentures responsibilities this and manages the potential conflict by careful monitoring as an institutional shareholder of the performance of any such funds.
The Corporation recognises that in delivering its objective to The Corporation does not believe that conflicts can arise produce long term capital growth and a steadily increasing between its duties as an institutional shareholder and the income, it must ensure that its investment strategy is IFS work undertaken by the Corporations subsidiaries.
delivered with due emphasis on the need to ensure that The investment manager has complete discretion as to investee companies are acting in accordance with accepted portfolio decisions and as a matter of policy, has no access standards of corporate governance.
The Corporation has to non-public knowledge about any of the activities of the therefore adopted the following policy.
com The Law Debenture Corporation p. l. c.
