RESPONSE TO MACRO TRENDS OUR STRATEGY AND OUR PROGRESS.
How our response to the five big themes helps us achieve our ambition.
STRATEGY EXAMPLES OF PROGRESS For further detail on the points noted below, see pages 20 to 28 RETIREMENT Weve over one million people in our UK workplace pension SOLUTIONS schemes, having auto-enrolled over 550,000 employees PROTECTION Were a market leader in UK protection, with a 21% market share, outperforming our competitors in sales revenue, technology and product innovation DIRECT INVESTMENT We established a new team to deliver direct investments in infrastructure and are one of a group of six insurers who plan to invest 25 billion into infrastructure over the next five years LGIM INTERNATIONAL Our assets under management in the US grew from $12 billion to $38 billion since 2007 DIGITAL SOLUTIONS Our purchase of Cofunds in March 2013 gave us full ownership of the UKs largest digital investment platform, with customer assets of 64 billion OUR SOCIAL PURPOSE UNDERPINS EVERYTHING WE DO ACTIONS Helping people to protect against unforeseen circumstances, saving for retirement or investing money wisely Reducing the likelihood of people having to fall back on the State as a result of a loss of income, homelessness or poverty in retirement, thereby reducing the pressure on strained public finances Being an economically useful company that is fundamental to the UK economy in many ways: as an employer, a taxpayer, an investor in infrastructure and a responsible provider of long-term capital to UK companies Campaigning to improve the supply and quality of housing, raising the health of the nation, helping to diminish pensioner poverty and ensuring that major companies are run according to agreed standards of governance and ethics Benefiting wider society through our community and charity work ASSESSING PROGRESS We assess progress against our ambition through the AGAINST OUR AMBITION measurement of our key performance indicators KPIs, a number of which are used in deciding executive remuneration.
indd 18 14 03 2014 20:37 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS EXAMPLES OF PROGRESS GROWING THE DIVIDEND For further detail on the points noted below, see pages 20 to 28 Our Solvency I IGD capital surplus was 4.0 billion at the end of 2013 2012: 4.1 billion.
This equated to a capital coverage ratio of 222% 2012: 234%, within our preferred longer term range Were one of the largest liability driven investments of 175% to 225%.
LDI managers, with global AUM of 70 billion During the second half of 2013 there was encouraging progress on the development of the proposed Solvency II regulatory regime.
We now believe that the worst case scenarios have In the US we now have an 6.4% market share in the been avoided to the benefit of customers and the wider term life market, reaching the milestone of having economy.
While full clarity on Solvency II capital will not one million customers emerge for at least another 18 months, we currently anticipate that our Solvency II capital surplus will be no lower than our Solvency I IGD capital surplus.
We made a total of 2.9 billion investments in a range of sectors, including housing, care homes, hospitals We continue to see profitable growth opportunities, both organic and city regeneration and via selective acquisitions, in which to deploy some of our capital.
We also expect to increase the proportion of net cash we return to our shareholders as dividends while maintaining We were granted a regulatory licence to operate in a strong but efficient balance sheet.
More specifically, assuming China, having already opened an office in Hong Kong we continue to anticipate a Solvency II surplus being no lower than Solvency I, we expect over the next two years to reduce our net cash coverage of dividend towards 1.5 times.
We will provide Were the fastest growing home insurer in the dividend guidance for subsequent years when Solvency II clarity direct market has emerged.
The Board remains committed to a progressive dividend policy over the long term.
OUR SOCIAL PURPOSE UNDERPINS EVERYTHING WE DO PROGRESS In 2013 we paid 604 million in death claims, 16 million in critical illness claims and over 132 million in home insurance claims.
We helped 550,000 new customers towards a more comfortable retirement by welcoming them into our workplace pension schemes, since auto-enrolment started in October 2012.
We invested 2.9 billion in direct investments, including 173 million in housing and care homes and 33.5 million in student accommodation.
We paid 877 million worldwide in all forms of tax.
We met with the boards of 278 companies to discuss corporate governance issues Our employees contributed 2,247 volunteering days to community and charity work, delivering 4 million in community investment programmes.
Our financial review section on pages 34 to 41 addresses Growing net cash, earnings and returns on equity the following KPIs in detail: KPIs: Net cash generation, Operating profit, Reward our shareholders with superior financial returns IFRS profit before tax, Return on equity KPIs: Earnings per share, Full year dividend, Managing capital prudently Total shareholder return KPI: IGD surplus and coverage ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 19 80038 L&G p018-031.
indd 19 14 03 2014 20:37 RESPONSE TO MACRO TRENDS FOCUS.
Leaning in to the five big themes drives strategy and inspires success.
LGIM INTERNATIONAL This move to promote our passive business in the US builds upon our EXPANDING OUR GLOBAL existing strong franchise in the UK FOOTPRINT and our more recent expansion into International asset management is an Europe and the Middle East.
increasingly important component of LGIMs business as business from our The US has become a core market for traditional UK defined benefit pension our international business.
under management grew by almost 4 billion in 2013.
This momentum Our international business continued looks set to continue in 2014. to gain momentum in 2013 with strong PASSPORT TO EUROPE demand for our index tracking, fixed EUROPEAN PRESENCE income and liability driven investment As asset markets become In Europe, we increased our offerings strategies around the world.
At the increasingly global, clients no in the region by launching a SICAV same time, we launched an exciting longer wish to limit themselves socit dinvestissement capital new initiative in Europe and moved to their home market.
In Europe, variable fund platform, which enables to the next stage in our plans for Asia.
this trend has manifested our clients to access our institutional These developments complemented itself in the growth of investment capabilities via a universally our already well-established US cross-border funds.
The SICAV business and cemented our global includes three underlying funds, and approach to investing.
Against this we plan to increase this number backdrop, net inflows continued to throughout the course of 2014.
By the end of December, our Last November, we launched already have a healthy pipeline of total internationally sourced assets had three new funds contained institutional mandates in Europe and, advanced to almost 60 billion.
Thats within a new fund platform, as we gain traction through our new 300% growth in the last five years.
which is easily accessible across fund platform, we anticipate concurrent Europe.
These new funds give growth in our wholesale business.
A MAJOR US PLAYER clients access to some of our In the US, strong investment flagship active fixed income In mid 2013, we began to merge performance coupled with our capabilities, offering both our retail and institutional arms growing reputation for providing benchmark, relative and into a new wealth management unit thoughtful solutions won us many absolute return funds.
in order to better target retail and new clients in both our award-winning wholesale markets through a more fixed income and liability driven To date, theres been significant cohesive approach to distribution investment business.
In particular, we interest in the funds from global and product development.
Our were able to stay ahead of long-term financial institutions in the UK, progress to date has been good.
themes such as an ageing population Germany and Switzerland as and a low interest environment, well as pension funds in the IN THE GULF providing our clients with products Nordics region.
Given the In the Middle East, we continued to that seek to address the investment demand, we plan to launch more enjoy major inflows throughout 2013, implications of both these topics.
similar funds in the year ahead.
primarily into indexed mandates from sovereign wealth funds.
Our total Towards the end of the year, we book of business in the region has began to develop our index tracking grown from less than 500 billion capability with a number of highin 2009 to 16.8 billion today.
profile appointments to augment our in-house expertise.
indd 20 14 03 2014 20:37 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS Encouragingly, were also beginning to enjoy referrals from existing clients in the Gulf.
In terms of products, were seeing growing interest in US credit, high yield and, most recently, UK property funds.
ASIAN EXPANSION In Asia, following the earlier opening of our Hong Kong office, we were granted a regulatory licence in July, enabling us to start marketing our investment capabilities across the region.
The central banks, sovereign wealth funds and national pension funds we target all have large asset BUSINESS SNAPSHOT: LDI IN FOCUS pools that are growing significantly.
Theyve also demonstrated an interest Much of the success of our US investment business is founded in appointing overseas managers.
on the expertise of our highly experienced xed income managers Our initial focus will be on promoting working in partnership with our Liability Driven Investment team.
our market leading fixed income and The macro themes of increasing life expectancy and low interest index tracking strategies, although rates are having a major impact on the funding of traditional we will look to broaden this strategy pension funds and require urgent attention.
Thats where we as our business develops.
AARONMEDER, HEAD OF SOLUTIONS GROUP MANAGING RISK Our growth plans will mean that our operational risk profile will increase across our businesses.
As we grow we are investing in our system We can help companies to manage their liabilities on a customised basis.
capabilities and business processes to We do this by deploying sophisticated strategies that involve hedging a ensure that we meet the expectations plans exposure to interest rate movements.
At the same time we carefully of our customers, comply with select those corporate bonds that have the appropriate credit quality regulation and mitigate the risks of andyield to match a pension funds liabilities.
Our increasing reputation loss or reputational damage from for delivering fixed income performance and developing innovative LDI operational risk events.
solutions hashelped us win two industry-wide awards in the US for our fixed income and LDI capabilities.
Because we are operating across a broader range of jurisdictions, our regulatory risks profile will also increase.
We are investing as we develop an international operational infrastructure, but aim to retain our target cost-income ratio of no higher than 50%.
indd 21 14 03 2014 20:37 RESPONSE TO MACRO TRENDS FOCUS.
RETIREMENT SOLUTIONS Our retirement solutions are designed to help companies and individuals By 2050 around a third of the European across a number of global locations, population will be over 60.
And the shift the burden of providing for the ratio of working people to retired elderly away from theState towards people is expected to fall from four the private sector.
toone in 2010, to less than two to one by 2050.
Governments will struggle SOLVING THE PENSIONS CRISIS?
toprovide adequate state pensions, In the UK, auto-enrolment means that healthcare and elderly care services.
we expect to see around 11 million Employers will find it even more new people saving forretirement.
difficult to fund costly defined Two million people have already joined benefitpensions for their employees.
Pension deficits fell, as global stock markets rose, fuelled by quantitative easing and economic recovery.
A PARTNERSHIP THAT DELIVERSVALUE FOR MONEY The success of auto-enrolment is a great example of how Government and the insurance industry work together to help raise the living standards of pensioners.
Our market leadership not only drives our own business success, but also means that we can help toensure that those saving for retirement are treated fairly and charged reasonably.
Weve taken the lead in governance, transparency and charges, championing a commitment to keep charges made to employees choosing our default PURCHASE OF LUCIDA fund for enrolment to no higher than 50 basis points.
The success of our The purchase of Lucida will benefit their customers, giving auto-enrolment offer to companies them the comfort of knowing that their pensions will be paid means that we have nearly 25% of all by a long standing, trusted and well-capitalised business.
UK auto-enrolled schemes, with over KERRIGAN PROCTER, MD LGR halfa million new customers.
In June 2013, we announced the completion of the purchase of WORKING TOGETHER TO Lucida, a company specialising inpensions buyouts.
While the BENEFIT CUSTOMERS acquisition price was around 149 million, we will be able to release AND SHAREHOLDERS capital and reserves, giving a net purchase price of 85 million.
Our distinct advantage is that we bring together skills and experience The purchase not only shows our commitment to building from many different business areas to our market leadership in retirement solutions, but also shows provide a comprehensive retirement ourdetermination to accelerate our organic growth with and risk transfer service for both UK bolt-on acquisitions.
Businesses can benefit from our Since June 2013, weve seen a smooth integration of Lucidas workplace savings, group protection, business into our own.
The full implementation timetable ison asset management and group annuity track and we have successfully merged Lucidas policy data teams working closely together.
into our own computer systems.
Weve also boosted LGIMs Auto-enrolment in pensions has assets with a further 1.4 billion of internally managed funds.
helped drive growth in companies taking our group life and group 22 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 80038 L&G p018-031.
indd 22 14 03 2014 20:37 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS income protection products.
In its 2013 LDI survey, KPMG said For companies with DB schemes, that:Legal & General are now our LDI products help them match thelargest LDI manager in the UK.
And where funding DB costs becomes especially PROVIDING DIGITAL difficult, wework with employers RETIREMENT SOLUTIONS to facilitate aswitch to DC or to use Prism, launched in July 2013, is a our buyout, buy-in or longevity groundbreaking online monitoring, insurance products to manage analytics and risk management future annuity costs.
Prism provides online asset and liability analytics for pension GROWING OUR ANNUITY BOOK scheme trustees, employers and their SOLVING THE CARE CRISIS Were now the only UK provider to advisers.
It helps them describe the Currently there are around be a market leader in both individual risks in their defined benefit strategy, 850,000 elderly people receiving annuity and bulk annuity products.
supports our range of funds and This leaves us less reliant on care in their own homes and services and helps pension schemes about 300,000 in care homes.
individual annuities, a market which fide-risk by either moving towards The number of people needing reduced in size in 2013.
As well as the a low-risk investment strategy or purchase of Lucida, we reinsured care is forecast to increase by considering a buyout solution.
30% in the next 10 years, with New Irelands annuity book giving the UKs over 85 population us around 600 million euros under In Workplace pensions, we aim to management.
We also completed the doubling by 2030. move towards a fully digital platform.
UKs largest ever longevity insurance Weve built an efficient front end, transaction, securing 4.9 billion of which integrates seamlessly with BAE Systems pension scheme risk.
The coalition governments Weve also made progress in creating expected new funding PROVIDING BETTER ANNUITIES a digital platform for employees framework, to be introduced in Weve been working with the where they can change funds online 2015 to 2016, caps a portion of Association of British Insurers ABI and view online benefits statements.
care costs and intends to allow tohelp improve the value for money some people to defer care home that consumers get when turning Our most recent success is the costs until death.
However, pension savings into annuity income enhanced annuity platform EAP, someone living three years in and we welcome the regulatory which provides instant live annuity a care home and self-funding focus on improving annuity sales.
This platform allows potential might spend over 100,000.
Our We already encourage people to shop annuity customers to receive an solutions include owning care around for a better annuity, using individual quote based upon their homes, looking at stimulating the guidance or advice services to make own health and lifestyle criteria.
building of specialist housing for sure the right product is bought.
the elderly and developing more 75% of our individual annuities MANAGING RISK flexible retirement income plans.
Increasing the scale of our retirement business increases both the amount We believe that in the future, HELPING UK BUSINESSES of longevity risk that we take on as equity release can also help.
MEETTHEIR LIABILITIES well as credit risk from the assets Ultimately, we believe that LDI also shows how our businesses we hold to meet future obligations.
people need to start funding work together to help companies As well as our capabilities to evaluate care from a much earlier age, deliver pension benefits to employees.
and price for longevity, we actively using the success of autoBecause the ultimate aim is to ensure use reinsurance to control aggregate enrolment as a model.
that companies can afford to pay exposures.
Experts in LGIM and LGC pensions to scheme members, LGIM manage our exposures to credit risk.
provides investment funds, including ANNUITY ASSETS risk hedging schemes, while LGR canenable schemes to use buyout, 34bn buy-in and longevity insurance 2012: 32bn to manage risk.
indd 23 14 03 2014 20:37 RESPONSE TO MACRO TRENDS FOCUS.
DIRECT INVESTMENT INVESTING IN EDUCATION We expect the next decade to be Banking austerity has created an amore testing period for the UKs opportunity for insurers to offer long higher education sector, with higher term finance.
As banks retrench, a wide tuition fees shifting the financial range of attractive direct investment burden onto students.
However, the opportunities have arisen for us, UK continues to enjoy a world-leading providing both a return oninvestment position in the market for internationally and the opportunity tomatch liabilities mobile students.
As a result, we and assets in our annuity book.
expect to see an emerging trend We choose direct investments that can towards universities increasingly provide higher risk adjusted returns and being defined as premium, researchLAST TIME BUYERS provide a natural fit for us.
Our focus is oriented institutions able to attract on infrastructure, commercial lending, In the UK, 49% of ownerstudents from overseas and a more property commercial and residential occupied homes are, according value-oriented tier which are able and assetfinance.
We have earmarked todeliverlower-fee courses and to the English Housing survey substantial capital for these sectors under occupied.
A quarter of a good record of securing across the Group.
UK homes have just one person employment for graduates.
living in them: these are mostly HOMEBUILDING: A POLICY over 60s.
Yet the supply of Weve now invested over 750 million FAILURE homes for young people and into student accommodation.
Weve The failure to build homes in the UK delivered eight major university based families is inadequate.
isevidence of a structural problem acquisitions, with four taking place which has existed since theearly 1970s.
The long decline in homebuilding coincided with amassive rise in house In the UK, just 1% of elderly In 2013, we acquired new student prices.
In the late 1960s, the UK was people live in specially adapted accommodation schemes, one building over 400,000 homes a year, homes, compared to 17% in the backedby Aberystwyth University with local authorities and private US and 13% in Australia and andanother let to Newcastle investors bothcontributing in large New Zealand.
There are 25 University, for a total consideration measures.
Now fewer than 100,000 million empty bedrooms in of130 million.
We agreed to forward homes a year arebuilt, with the England, yet the supply of fund the development of an 193-bed supply from local authorities having housing stock for younger student accommodation scheme completely dried up.
The banks have people is woefully inadequate.
pre-let to Canterbury Christ Church retreated from lending money for Most of the nearly two million University for a total consideration homebuilding, while the rise in prices households on local authority of15.7 million.
has contributed to the 17 billion a waiting lists also want oneyear the Government pays in housing bedroom or two-bedroom In May 2013, we financed the University benefit, mostly to private landlords.
However, the proportion of Hertfordshires 3,000-bedroom of one-bedroom properties student accommodation scheme HELPING SOLVE being built has fallen to its through anindex linked unwrapped THEHOUSINGCRISIS lowest level for 20 years.
private bond placement, having also In March 2013, we announced a 102 We need to build more homes previously secured a 121 million, million, 15-year debt facility for the for first time and last time 10-year debt facility to UNITE.
Hyde Group, one of the largest housing buyers, encouraging the elderly associations in England.
Hyde was to move to smaller homes.
Previous deals have included formed in 1967, with the aim to make forwardfundings with Imperial a lasting difference topeoples housing College, University of the Arts needs and has grown into one of the London, Southampton University main providers of affordable housing in and Greenwich University.
Forward London and the South East.
Hyde owns funding enables loan agreements or manages around 48,000 properties to be made that start at a future date.
with a wide range of tenures, making a significant contribution to meeting housing needs and improving peoples qualityof life.
indd 24 14 03 2014 20:37 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS DELIVERING BETTER HOMESFORTHE ELDERLY The crisis in funding adequate care forthe elderly in the UK is also afailure of governments to plan societys accommodation needs.
While the over 60s in the UK are sitting upon over 1 trillion of housing wealth, young people are unable to afford to get on the housing ladder.
We believe that there must be a care solution that provides intergenerational fairness and helps last time buyers.
We not only want to see an equity release market in the UK that operates at critical mass and provides more flexibility in income withdrawal, but we want to see better quality housing CALA HOMES for the elderly, either retirement CALA has been a strategic and successful direct investment, villages or care homes according providing equity finance to supply new housing in the UK, when topeoples individual needs.
it is at a severe shortage.
PAUL STANWORTH, MD, LGC Our recent purchase of 13 care homes let to Methodist Homes MHA for just over 70m demonstrates our commitment to improve the quality In March 2013, weacquired a 46.5% shareholding in UK house builder, ofcare for retired people.
CALA Group, giving CALA the capitalbacking andpotential to build IMPROVING UK many new homes throughoutthe UK.
We acquired CALA from INFRASTRUCTURE Lloyds Banking Group in a joint venture with Patron Capital Partners.
In 2014, we continued our infrastructure Thepurchase enables us not only to develop assets with attractive investments, announcing a 60 million returns for shareholders but satisfies our desire toincrease theUK new business development in Salford, housing stock.
in partnership with the English Cities Fund ECf.
Through ECf we are also CALA is just oneof many initiatives where we have planned to provide working with housing associations newhousing across all sectors of the market.
We plan to useour own to produce affordable rental property.
land banks to increase the supply of housing.
We can alsomaximise value to the group through the futuresupply of mortgage and MANAGING RISK protection products.
In building our commercial lending portfolio, we are inherently exposed The purchase shows how differentparts of our business work together to the risk of loan default.
Over the on major projects.
Bill Hughes team in Legal & General Property years through Legal & General originated thedeal.
Wadham Downing, our mergers and acquisitions Property we have built significant and strategy director and Paul Stanworth took the dealforward with expertise in property markets, while help from Group Legal.
LGC has established credit models that support the assessment of loan security and the pricing of the risk.
indd 25 14 03 2014 20:37 RESPONSE TO MACRO TRENDS FOCUS.
PROTECTION In the UK, the budget deficit has fallen, but still stands at 96 billion.
TheUS deficit has also fallen, but was $680 billion in the 12months to September 2013.
A key part of government strategy is to manage the challenging issue of the growing cost of welfare benefits.
If governments decide to reduce eligibility for state benefits, then increasing the take up ofinsured protection products will allow people to be protected against the financial misery of sickness, disability, unemployment and death.
PROTECTION PROVIDER OF THE DECADE INNOVATIVE SERVICES HELPING EMPLOYEES Once again, we have been widely recognised across the Our Group Protection business insurance industry as an outstanding provider of protection provides protection-based employee products and service.
We are a market leader in DUNCAN FINCH, MD, PROTECTION important areas such as workplace rehabilitation.
This helps our corporate partners reduce costs and improve efficiency, as well We held the number one position inUK retail protection for each of as benefiting from reducing staff the last 10 years.
This doesnt just mean customers chose to buy our absence costs.
Interest in our products more often than our rivals, but that were recognised by proposition soared as we combined industry bodies and intermediaries as best in class for the products our two corporate business and the service we offer our customers.
Confirmation came inthe operations to respond more huge number of accolades wewon from around the industry.
wewon: We introduced our online Protection provider of the decade, LifeSearch Awards2013 quoteand buy system in Outstanding organisation of thedecade, Protection Review February 2013, which provides Awards 2013 quotes for smaller employers Best protection service, Investment Life & Pensions in as simple a way as possible Moneyfacts awards 2013 We strengthened our relationship Best life insurance provider, WhatMortgage Awards2013 with Rethink Mental Illness, Protection provider of the year, SimplyBiz Annual Provider helping our customers to improve Awards 2013 stress management and understand the signs of stress Understandably, were especially proud to be seen as the best and mental health issues protection provider of the last decade, a testament to all the hard We extended the employee work, technical excellence, inspirational strategy and strong assistance programme.
This free, leadership that weve delivered over the last 10 years.
Special preventative programme of praise is due to the four managing directors of our retail protection information, advice, training and business over that period: Simon Gadd, Bernie Hickman, services helps employees deal Peter Graham and Duncan Finch.
with events and issues in their everyday work and personal life We extended our free innovative online health assessment tool, healthy living that helps assess and monitor employees health 26 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 80038 L&G p018-031.
indd 26 14 03 2014 20:37 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS We also offer a prehabilitation These changes improve the costs of service to help employers reduce claims handling whilst driving up levels stress in the workplace.
Even though of customer satisfaction.
We consolidated 428,000 people in the UK had workthe success we had in 2012 with our related stress in 2011 12, 40% innovative lifestyle cover insurance plan, of employers are doing nothing which is a short-term income protection to address the problem of stress.
insurance policy, designed to help people maintain their income due to accident, A BETTER CUSTOMER sickness or unemployment.
EXPERIENCE 2013 saw our Retail Protection business We also entered an agreement to supply consolidate its market leadership with our customers with motor insurance DEADLINE TO THE BREADLINE a continuation of the high levels of through a panel, in partnership with If a households income suffers innovation seen in recent years.
We are already arranging about an unexpected shock and customers have the benefit of better 1,000 policies a month.
Helping our service, lower cost and improved terms suddenly stops, their money customers with their motor insurance would run out in 26 days on on products such as critical illness cover.
needs can mean we have a more average.
For working age complete view of their insurance We made our life cover application families, the deadline is reached product holdings and enables us to at only 11 days.
Yet a 2013 study questions easier to answer, which fill any gaps.
showed that only 50% of adults will give customers more confidence and reduce the time it takes to buy in the UK have life insurance.
We already have a strong US PROTECTION online proposition andnow we have Our US protection business increased improved our online acceptance its market share, becoming number Our Deadline to the Breadline rateseven further.
We increased the three in ordinary life coverage, report shows the precarious percentage of customers that can buy higher than many more well-known nature of UK families finances.
online withoutneeding to provide US insurers.
We improved sales A startling fact is that the extra medical evidence from 78% and delivered cost reductions.
average amount of UK savings to 81%.
This enables us to compete On 1 November 2013, we achieved is just 1,010.
Yet people effectively in the online aggregator the milestone of having one estimate their savings would market where we are a major player.
last for 72 days, well over twice the actual deadline.
And it would We will support industry initiatives to Historically, around 70% of our issued take the average UK household simplify protection products, making it policies have been in our better rate just under 13 years to save easier for people for buy online and classes.
However, our underwriting enough money to cover their understand what they are buying.
capabilities extend across all rate annual gross salary of 27,000.
This is crucial in building and maintaining classes.
We base our overall focus on customer trust and confidence.
Our evaluating the entire risk and giving own net promoter scores and customer distinctive customer service.
A simple and understandable buying process is LGA has achieved success through essential for good claims management.
digital innovation, while remaining We are delighted therefore that our committed to the intermediary pay-out ratios are 98% for death claims market.
Sales are made through and 93% for critical illness cover.
marketing groups with approximately 400 member agencies plus almost 75 A RECORD YEAR FOR GENERAL other independent brokerage general UK LIFE PROTECTION GWP INSURANCE agencies, giving us contracts with Our general insurance business saw approximately 100,000 brokers.
1.33bn increased profits and a combined 2012: 1.27bn operating ratio of 84% as we benefitted MANAGING RISK from benign weather.
Even when we Adverse mortality, weather and other needed to react to the storm and flood catastrophic events remain key risks events at the end of 2013, our innovations in our protection business.
Pricing and in claim handling radically improved using reinsurance to manage significant the speed of claims resolution.
indd 27 14 03 2014 20:37 RESPONSE TO MACRO TRENDS FOCUS.
DIGITAL SOLUTIONS ENHANCING THE CUSTOMER CENTRIC MODEL With 73% of the UK population Our digital vision is to use the new accessing the internet every day and skills and assets we have to develop 61% having access via mobile devices, a much closer and digital relationship people expect to be able to transact with our customers.
We are investing business and communicate in a digital in new capabilities that increase our fashion.
Our vision for the future is ability to provide better digital service forcustomers to use online devices and also to personalise a conversation tobuy from us, communicate with us, with a customer on websites.
Weve recommend us and build a diverse been building on our customer product holding with us.
database, consolidating what we DIGITAL INVESTING know about our customers across The movement of insurance and For professional investors, the Group and investing in efficient investment companies into the digital digital investing has become the systems to move data around and run world has recently begun to accelerate automatic campaigns.
These systems medium of choice with around with many organisations starting to 270 billion on adviser platforms.
can then cheaply facilitate campaign make strategic investments in the Fundscape forecast that assets and email marketing and help us meet second half of 2013.
It is essential that we our customers future needs.
on platforms will dominate the are not left behind by competitors who market and treble in size over build successful digital applications.
We also want to develop our existing Many consumers still need to engage customer self-service estate to move with insurers in traditional ways.
to a more all in one place model We have already begun to make Our digital strategy is to help where customers receive more strategic decisions and investments to our customers benefit from information and more content in capitalise upon digital opportunities.
financial advice, use platforms, a digital format rather than through or develop direct relationships a purely paper-based relationship.
We focus on the use DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY of insight that we derive from Were investing in listening to our The retail distribution review, the data that we have on our customers to gain better insight about which was introduced at the end of customers.
Social media listening means December 2012, has increased charge automated email campaigns to we can understand and respond as transparency.
In certain distribution develop these relationships in the appropriate to customer issues as they channels this has led to a reduction best way possible.
Our online community enables in the availability of advice, leading a knowledge-building campaign us to gather up-to-date insight on to some customers to buy online where intermediaries get customer preferences.
As such we are without advice.
We are active in accreditation through viewing starting to transform our conversations both direct and traditional channels.
our videos, and also increasing with customers on social media.
the number of attendees at We aim to build deeper direct events and webinars through USING DIGITAL APPLICATIONS relationships with customers to greater targeting.
TO PROTECT CUSTOMERS encourage them to increase the level Consumers have for many years of their investments and consider been comfortable about using digital a wider range of products with us.
applications to buy motor insurance.
This confidence is now extending to We use search engine marketing household cover and life insurance.
as it shows intent of the customer to interact with us rather than us pushing We were the fastest growing direct unwanted messages to them.
We home insurer in 2013 and have also seed our insight through online introduced many online features to channels to build awareness and we help customers such as our interactive optimise our websites to help our house, which helps customers assess audience engage with us effectively.
We have also invested in digital communications, delivering digital policy documents and text messages about the progress of claims.
indd 28 14 03 2014 20:37 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS We also remain the largest supplier of retail protection insurance in a market dominated by online and efficient process.
Our commitment to this model continues to win us business.
In 2013, we completed the purchase of theidol.
com, not only giving us a whole-of-market online protection system but also being able to supply software to many other online brokers or aggregators.
We are a major player COFUNDS for sales through aggregators.
Cofunds became the largest UK platform by innovating A DIGITAL EXPERIENCE FOR and responding to customer needs.
We look forward to EMPLOYEE BENEFITS continuing to extend our capability and distribution reach.
Our corporate businesses work DAVID HOBBS, MANAGING DIRECTOR, COFUNDS together to ensure that employers have access to modern digital solutions for employee benefits.
We won Workplace Savings Provider The purchase of Cofunds in March 2013 gave us full ownership of the Year at the Workplace Savings of the UKs largest digital investment platform, with customer assets and Benefits Awards 2013.
Not only is Cofunds the biggest platform, but the service recognises how our auto-enrolment it offers was recognised in 2013 by the influential Shares magazine, platform gives employers a seamless who named Cofunds as the best fund supermarket.
front-end process for new schemes as well as offering an online retirement Investment platforms are one of the real success stories of the last hub, where employees can see how decade, with assets on platforms projected to more than double their pension is building up.
Cofunds real strength is its distribution reach, with 7,200 IFAs using the platform.
MANAGING RISK As we increasingly digitalise our We are investing to enhance the capabilities of the Cofunds platform, business, we are exposed to new ensuring we take advantage of the significant growth we expect in this risks.
We are alive to cyber threats market over the coming years.
We plan to deliver operational in terms of protecting our customers efficiencies to enhance profitability.
data, minimising reputational damage and the potential for financial loss.
We are planning further digital enhancements, including creating branded micro sites for advisers and extending mobile and tablet We work closely with our IT business capability.
This will combine with an expanding customer engagement partners to manage new threats as programme, recently shortlisted in the financial services category at the they emerge as well as continuing to Chartered Institute of Marketing awards.
ensure our broader IT infrastructure is appropriately scaled to support our Were encouraging investors to make greater use of LGIMs successful plans for growth.
As digital solutions index and fixed interest funds.
Theres a huge potential to be the passive become central to our business, the provider of choice, sharing insights with Cofunds and developing effective management of our IT-related risks joint communications.
In the same way LGIM and Cofunds are working will become increasingly significant.
together to consider the best way of helping customers who have the confidence to buy online without advice.
