ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION Other than the above, the directors have no current The companys Articles of Association may only be intention of issuing further share capital and no issue amended by a special resolution at a general meeting will be made which would effectively alter control of of shareholders.
The Articles of Association are available the company without prior approval of shareholders on the companys website.
CONFLICTS OF INTEREST INTERESTS IN VOTING RIGHTS In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Board As at 28 February 2014, the company had been advised has adopted a policy and procedure for the disclosure of the following significant direct and indirect interests and authorisation if appropriate of conicts of interest, in the issued share capital of the company: and these have been followed during 2013.
Total Number interest POWERS OF DIRECTORS of Ordinary % of in issued The directors may exercise all powers of the company shares of 2.5p capital share capital subject to applicable legislation and regulation and the Schroders Plc 295,651,535 5.0% Indirect companys Articles of Association.
Blackrock, Inc 300,077,786 5.1% Indirect AXA S. A. and its Direct and group of companies 252,247,724 4.3% indirect SHARE CAPITAL The Capital Group As at 31 December 2013, the companys issued share Companies, Inc 290,344,506 5.0% Indirect capital comprised 5,917,066,636 ordinary shares each Using the voting rights gure announced to the London Stock Exchange on with a nominal value of 2.5p.
Details of the ordinary 3 March 2014 of 5,917,353,605. share capital can be found in Note 38 to the Group Consolidated Financial Statements.
DIVIDEND The company may, by ordinary resolution in a general At the 2013 AGM, the company was granted authority meeting, declare dividends in accordance with the by shareholders to purchase up to 591,358,534 respective rights of the members, but no dividend can ordinary shares, being 10% of the issued share capital exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
The of the company as at 27 March 2013.
In the year to directors propose a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013, no shares were purchased by the 31 December 2013 of 6.90p per ordinary share which, company.
This authority will expire at this years AGM.
together with the interim dividend of 2.40p per ordinary As such, a special resolution is proposed in the Notice share paid to shareholders on 30 September 2013, will of AGM seeking shareholder approval to renew make a total dividend for the year of 9.30p 2012: 7.65p.
Subject to shareholder approval at the AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 4 June 2014 to shareholders At the 2013 AGM, the directors were given the power on the share register on 25 April 2014. to allot shares up to an amount of 49,279,878, being 33% of the issued share capital of the company as at RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 27 March 2013.
This authority will also expire at this Details of related party transactions are set out in Note 41 years AGM.
As such, an ordinary resolution is proposed to the Group Consolidated Financial Statements.
in the Notice of AGM seeking shareholder approval to renew this authority.
RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS ATTACHING TO SHARES A further resolution is proposed, as set out in the Notice The rights and obligations relating to the companys of AGM, that will, if approved by shareholders, authorise ordinary shares are set out in the Articles of Association.
the directors to issue shares up to the equivalent of 5% A copy of the Articles of Association can be requested from of the companys issued share capital as at 28 March the company secretary at the companys registered ofce.
2014 for cash without offering the shares first to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
Detailed explanatory notes to these resolutions are set out in the Notice of AGM.
indd 262 14 03 2014 21:23 STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL OTHER INFORMATION OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERFORMANCE STATEMENTS Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend, speak Employee Share Trust, which is in the process of being and vote at general meetings.
In a vote on a show of wound up.
The voting rights in relation to these shares hands, every member present in person or every proxy are exercised by the trustee.
The trustee may vote or present, who has been duly appointed by a member, abstain from voting, or accept or reject any offer relating will have one vote and on a poll every member present to shares, in any way it sees t, without incurring any in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every liability and without being required to give reasons for ordinary share held.
These rights are subject to any its decision.
special terms as to voting upon which any shares may be issued or may at the relevant time be held and to Under the rules of the Legal & General Group Employee any other provisions of the companys Articles of Share Plan Plan, eligible employees are entitled to Association.
Under the Companies Act 2006 and the acquire shares in the company.
Plan shares are held in Articles of Association, directors have the power to trust for participants by Capita IRG Trustees Limited, suspend voting rights and, in certain circumstances, which holds 0.43% of the issued share capital of the the right to receive dividends in respect of shares where company as at 28 February 2014.
Voting rights are the holder of those shares fails to comply with a notice exercised by the trustees on receipt of the participants issued under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006. instructions.
If a participant does not submit an instruction to the trustees, no vote is registered.
In The Board can decline to register a transfer of any share addition, the trustees do not vote on any unawarded which is not a fully paid share.
In addition, registration shares held under the plan as surplus assets.
of a transfer of an uncerticated share may be refused in the circumstances set out in the uncerticated securities The company is not aware of any agreements between rules and where the number of joint holders exceeds shareholders which may result in restrictions on the four.
The Board may also refuse to register the transfer transfer of securities and or voting rights.
of a certicated share unless: CHANGE OF CONTROL a the instrument of transfer is duly stamped and is There are no agreements between the company and left at the companys registered ofce or such other its directors or employees for compensation providing place as the Board may from time to time determine for loss of ofce or employment whether through accompanied by the certicate for the share to which resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise in it relates and such evidence as the Board may the event of a takeover bid, except for those relating to reasonably require to show the right of the transferor normal notice periods.
The rules of the companys share to make the transfer: plans contain provisions under which options and awards b the instrument of transfer is in respect of only one to participants, including executive directors, may vest class of share: and on a takeover or change of control of the company or c the number of joint holders does not exceed four.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, The company has a committed 1 billion bank syndicated all or any of the rights attaching to an existing class of credit facility which is terminable if revised terms cannot shares may be varied from time to time either with the be agreed with the syndicate of banks in a 30 day period consent in writing of the holders of not less than threefollowing a change of control.
As at 28 February 2014, fourths in nominal value of the issued shares of that the company has no borrowings under this facility.
class excluding any treasury shares or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general There are no change of control conditions in the terms meeting of the holders of those shares.
of any of the companys outstanding debt securities.
The terms of the companys agreements with its banking Shares acquired through the employee share schemes counterparties, under which derivative transactions are rank equally with all other ordinary shares in issue.
undertaken, include the provision for termination of Barclays Private Bank & Trust Isle of Man Limited, transactions upon takeover merger if the resulting as trustee of the Legal & General Employees Share merged entity has a credit rating materially weaker than Ownership Trust, holds 0.46% of the issued share capital the company.
There are no other committed banking of the company as at 28 February 2014 in trust for the arrangements either drawn or undrawn that incorporate benefit of the executive directors, senior executives and any change of control conditions.
This includes shares held as nominee on behalf of Legal & General Share Scheme Trustees Limited, as trustee of the Legal & General ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 263 80038 L&G p262-268.
indd 263 14 03 2014 21:23 OTHER INFORMATION DIRECTORS REPORT.
USE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS Methodology Information on the Groups risk management We have reported on the emission sources required process isset out on pages 42 to 47.
More details under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and on risk management and the financial instruments Directors Report Regulations 2013. used are setout in Notes 8 to 18 and note 28 of the Financial Statements.
We have used the GHG reporting protocol for calculating our GHG emissions for 2013 and applied the emission INDEMNITIES factors from UK Governments GHG Conversion Factors The company has agreed to indemnify, to the extent for Company Reporting 2013. permitted by law, each of the directors against any liability incurred by a director in respect of acts or omissions The scope of the emissions included are those disclosed arising in the course of their ofce.
Qualifying pension under the UK CRC Energy efficiency Scheme, UK travel scheme indemnities as dened in section 235of the emissions and overseas property and travel emissions.
Companies Act 2006 have been granted, tothe extent Emissions outside of our responsibility and under the permitted by law, to certain trustees of the companys control of a third party have been excluded.
The indemnities were in force throughout 2013 and remain so.
Copies of the deeds of INDEPENDENT AUDITORS indemnity are available for inspection at the companys The companys auditors have expressed their registered ofce and will also be available atthe AGM.
willingnessto continue in ofce and the Audit Committee has recommended their re-appointment to the Board.
POLITICAL DONATIONS Resolutions to re-appoint  LLP No political donations were made during 2013. as auditors to the company and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration are proposed for the FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS forthcoming AGM.
The Directors report is prepared for the members of thecompany and should not be relied upon by any other DIRECTORS INTERESTS party or for any other purpose.
Where the Directors The Directors Report on Remuneration on pages 70 report includes forward-looking statements, these to 103 provides details of the interests of each director, aremade by the directors in good faith based on the including details of current incentive schemes and long information available to them at the time of their term incentive schemes, the interests of directors in the approval of this report.
Such statements should be share capital of the company and details of their share treated with caution due to the inherent uncertainties interests, as at 28 February 2014. underlying such forward-looking statements.
GOING CONCERN STATEMENT INSURANCE The groups business activities, together with the factors The company has arranged appropriate directors likely to affect its future development, performance and andofcers liability insurance for directors.
position in the current economic climate are set out in the This isreviewed annually.
Strategic report on pages 1 to 49.
The financial position of the Group, its cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing GREENHOUSE GAS DISCLOSURES facilities are described in the Group results on pages 34 to Global GHG Emissions Data for the period of January 41.
Principal risks and uncertainties are detailed on pages December 2013: 48 to 49.
In addition, the financial statements include, amongst other things, notes on the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital Note 29: Emissions from its financial risk management objectives Note 8 to 18: Scope 1 and 2 electricity and gas based on Legal details of its financial instruments and hedging activities & Generals UK CRC Energy efficiency Scheme Notes 12 and 13: and its exposures to credit risk and disclosed emissions, Overseas property emissions 12,979.11 tCO 2 liquidity risk Note 8.
Scope 2 electricity sourced from a renewable tariff 20,813.68 tCO 2 Scope 3 Business travel includes road, rail and air Whilst the economy has improved over the past year, travel for LGAS, France, Netherlands and USA 4,558.13 tCO 2 the general climate remains, to a degree, uncertain.
Total CO scope 1,2, 3 based on Legal & Generals 2 UK CRC Energy efficiency Scheme disclosed However, based on the available information on the future, emissions, Overseas property emissions and the directors consider that the Group has the plans and reported travel emissions 38,350.92 tCO 2 resources to manage its business risks successfully as it has Intensity ratio: Emissions per policy 3.78 kgCO 2 a diverse range of businesses and remains nancially strong.
Fugitive Emissions 571.24 After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable Please refer to our CSR report for further breakdown of emissions.
expectation that the company, and the Group, have 264 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 80038 L&G p262-268.
indd 264 14 03 2014 21:23 Strategic report Strategic report Strategic report governance Financial other inFormation OVERVIEW OUR PROGRESS OUR PERfORmancE StatementS adequate resources to continue their operations for The directors are responsible for the maintenance the foreseeable future.
For that reason, they continue and integrity of the companys website.
Legislation to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and financial statements.
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
AnnuAl GenerAl MeetinG The companys annual general meeting will be held at The directors consider that the annual report and 11.00am on Wednesday, 21 May 2014 at The Honourable accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and Artillery Company, Armoury House, City Road, London understandable and provides the information necessary EC1Y 2BQ.
for shareholders to assess the companys performance, business model and strategy.
StAteMent of DirectorS reSponSibilitieS The directors are responsible for preparing the directors Each of the directors, whose names and functions are report and the annual report and accounts in accordance listed in the Board of directors section confirm that, with applicable law and regulations.
to the best of their knowledge: Company law requires the directors to prepare financial the Group financial statements, which have been statements for each financial year.
Under that law the prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the directors have prepared the Group financial statements EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, in accordance with International Financial Reporting financial position and profit of the Group: and Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the parent company financial statements in the strategic report includes a fair review of the accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted development and performance of the business and Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting the position of the Group, together with a description Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair In accordance with section 418 of the Companies Act view of the state of affairs of the company and of the 2006, each of the directors who held office at the date profit or loss of the company for that period.
In preparing this report was approved confirms that: these financial statements, the directors are required to: a s o far as the director is aware, there is no relevant select suitable accounting policies and then apply audit information of which the companys auditors them consistently: are unaware: and make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: b he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European have taken as a director in order to make themselves Union and applicable UK Accounting Standards have aware of any relevant audit information and to been followed, subject to any material departures establish that the companys auditors are aware disclosed and explained in the Group and parent of that information.
company financial statements respectively: prepare the financial statements on the going concern The directors report and strategic report were approved basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the by the Board, and signed on their behalf.
company will continue in business.
By order of the Board The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act G J tiMMS 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, coMpAny SecretAry Article 4 of the IAS regulation.
They are also responsible 4 March 2014 for safeguarding the assets of the company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
