Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 16 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 MARKeT OVeRVIeW Growth expected to improve Given our uK focus, our financial performance The most likely outlook is for continued recovery in 2014, with faster growth is inextricably linked to the performance of the than in 2013.
But the recovery will still be held back by consumers subdued uK economy, its regulatory environment and appetite to borrow and government deficit reduction in the uK and across the competitive environment.
The current consensus for 2014 GDP growth is 2.7 per cent, close to the long-term average, and unemployment should continue to fall.
However, with growth in wages and companies unit labour UK economic trends costs remaining subdued, Bank Rate is expected to remain unchanged at 0.5 per cent through 2014.
The UK economy started to grow again in 2013 As with many developed economies, the shift from rising debt in the pre-crisis decade to a period of debt repayment in recent years has proved Recovery compared to other countries a difficult transition for the uK economy.
Many countries cutting back on UK GDP, real terms private spending and government spending at the same time resulted in Quarters from peak self-perpetuating cycles of weak growth and confidence, with exports unable -8 -6 -4 -2 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 to compensate for weak domestic demand.
110 However, progress on consumer and bank debt reduction has been greater US in the uK than across much of europe, and consequently uK economic 105 growth picked up significantly in 2013, much more so than in the eurozone.
Germany Business and consumer confidence increased as the eurozone economy France 100 UK stabilised, following the european Central Banks commitment to purchase Eurozone government bonds of countries experiencing financing difficulties and from a slowdown in their mandated pace of government deficit reduction.
95 Spain uK consumers appear to have reduced their precautionary saving, and Italy the appetite for unsecured credit, particularly for car purchase, increased, 90 helping consumer spending growth to accelerate to 2.4 per cent in 2013, Source: ONS up from 1.5 per cent in 2012.
Government initiatives have supported recovery Risks to sustained recovery remain A number of government initiatives have helped support recovery.
The Bank Risks to this outlook are more evenly balanced than in recent years.
In the of england initially introduced forward guidance for Bank Rate, ruling out short-term, the rise in confidence and the renewed buoyancy in house any increase until the unemployment rate had fallen significantly, hoping to prices could lead growth to accelerate by more than expected.
However, limit concerns that interest rates might rise before the economy was much downside risks also remain, mainly from outside the uK.
The eurozone still stronger, and although the guidance has since been updated, this helped doesnt have in place the full cross-country risk sharing necessary to ensure provide reassurance.
The government launched a two-pronged Help to Buy the long term stability of the euro, so financial market turbulence remains a scheme to help first-time house buyers struggling to raise deposits as well possibility if some countries governments or banks are revealed to be less as existing home-owners constrained by low levels of equity in their current robust than they currently appear.
In the uS, the unsustainable long-term properties.
Alongside the improving economy, this contributed to a rise trajectory of government debt could still result in sharp spending cuts in house prices of 6 per cent in 2013 compared to 2 per cent in 2012.
The despite the recent bi-partisan agreement.
Such scenarios would significantly Funding for lending scheme, introduced in 2012, continued to support the impact the uK economy, which would, in turn, have a negative impact on the economy with its beneficial impact on banks funding costs and consequent Groups income, funding costs and impairment charges.
lowering in interest rates on lending products, although its support for mortgage lending has now been withdrawn.
Our participation in both of The effect on our markets these schemes has not only been beneficial to the Group but also illustrates The weak economic recovery has kept many of our markets subdued.
our commitment to and focus on supporting the uK economy and helping Growth in uK households deposits slowed to 3.7 per cent in 2013 from Britain prosper.
5.7 per cent in 2012. net new mortgage lending amounted to just 0.9 per cent of outstanding balances during 2013, the fifth consecutive Recovery has so far been weak year around 1 per cent or less.
unsecured consumer borrowing, net of early estimates suggest that the uK economy grew by 1.8 per cent in repayments, increased by 4.7 per cent in 2013, the second consecutive 2013 compared to 0.3 per cent in 2012.
However, given how much the year of positive net borrowing, but at less than 1 per cent of income this economy shrank during the 2008-9 recession, recovery so far has been weak remains only one third of the level of the early 2000s.
non-financial company in a historical uK context and is only now outperforming the eurozone.
deposits with uK banks and building societies rose by 8.8 per cent in 2013, The weak eurozone economy continues to drag on the uK the uKs up from 4.9 per cent in 2012 while they reduced their borrowing from banks overseas trade balance remained close to 1.5 per cent of GDP in 2013, as for the fifth consecutive year.
Overall levels of corporate debt have however in 2012, with export growth estimated at below 1 per cent in 2013.
Further remained fairly flat relative to GDP in recent years, as large corporates have improvement in external trade is necessary if the economy is to make up been refinancing bank debt in bond markets.
some of the gap between current output and the pre-crisis trend, without increasing debt again.
As the economic recovery continues, we expect demand for credit from households and small and medium-sized businesses to increase, but growth unemployment, although still well above its pre-crisis level, fell relatively is likely to stay well below pre-crisis rates as the appetite to borrow remains quickly through 2013 from 7.8 per cent at the end of 2012 to 7.2 per cent in constrained by recent experience.
With Bank Rate not expected to rise until the final quarter of 2013. low interest rates have helped to keep company 2015, arrears are expected to continue to decline.
failures subdued, falling to just 0.6 per cent of active companies in 2013, close to its pre-crisis low.
Index peak in gdp 100 Group at a glance 2 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group performance 4 16 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group key performance indicators KPIs 6 Chairmans statement 8 Group Chief Executives review 12 Market overview 16 Business model and strategy 18 Delivering our action plan 20 Divisional overview 24 Relationships and responsibility 28 Risk overview 40 44 69 123 197 377 Regulation Customer drivers The regulatory landscape is now clearer but significant change is still In the competitive open markets in which we operate, customers are expected.
In particular, within the uK over the next few years we will benefiting from an increasing range of products and services from a growing need to implement the recommendations relating to ring-fencing and choice of providers.
The expectations and demands of customers continue culture established within the Banking Reform Act 2013.
developments in 2013 are outlined below.
Access to convenient branches remains important for many customers, but demand for a quality multi-channel banking proposition is now more Financial Services Banking Reform Act 2013 prevalent.
More customers expect to be able to manage their finances The Financial Services Banking Reform Act gained Royal Assent on whenever and wherever is most convenient for them, whether by telephone, 18 December 2013.
The Act implements the recommendations of the online, or using smart phones.
Service remains one of the key drivers of Independent Commission on Banking and the Parliamentary Commission customer satisfaction and customers are less accepting of poor service given on Banking Standards.
It includes provisions for criminal sanctions and the competitive nature of the market.
the new Senior Persons Regime.
It also requires banks to ring-fence some retail and SMe activities from investment banking activities and conform In the current low interest rate environment, many customers are motivated to additional capital requirements beyond those required by Basel III.
by their desire to achieve better value for money, but security and reputation Importantly for the Group, given we are primarily a uK focused retail and remain important factors.
Customers want clear and transparent products commercial bank, the majority of our operations are likely to be within delivered with good service and access to helpful, relevant, expert advice the ring-fence.
Product innovation is also important for some, whereas long-standing relationships remain important for others.
Capital Requirements Directive IV CRD IV There are some clear customer trends emerging, but we recognise that Final rules following the outcome of the Prudential Regulatory Authoritys every customer, whether an individual or an organisation, has particular consultation on future capital requirements were issued in December 2013, needs and we must engage with them accordingly.
Fundamentally, every and have implemented the european unions new capital requirements customer has a choice and will select the provider that can most effectively legislation, known as CRD IV, in the uK from 1 January 2014. fulfil their personal needs.
Recovery and resolution mechanisms We are seeing a number of new or expanding players make an increasing The european Commission published the Recovery and Resolution impact into an already highly competitive sector and the TSB business, Directive on 6 June 2012.
This should come in to force on 1 January 2015. which we intend to float on the london Stock exchange through an Initial The Directive requires all firms to develop a recovery plan and contribute Public Offering IPO in 2014, will have the capability of being another strong to a resolution fund.
It also proposes new early intervention powers for and effective challenger.
An enhanced industry-wide switching service was supervisors and introduces new powers for regulators at resolution stage.
launched in September 2013, giving customers increased confidence to This was in line with the recommendations of the Financial Stability Board.
change provider when dissatisfied or offered a better deal elsewhere.
The uK has pre-empted the european legislative process, with firms already required to prepare recovery plans.
Technological developments are already reshaping the banking industry and we expect this change to accelerate in the coming years.
We anticipate an UK supervisory structure influx of new entrants, with business models that do not rely on expensive The Financial Services Act 2012 confirmed the responsibilities of the Financial branch networks, offering innovative digital banking services.
These new Policy Committee for macro-prudential regulation and formalised the entrants are likely to have expertise and experience in digital product replacement of the FSA with two new bodies for prudential and conduct offerings, with strong funding positions, credible challenger brands, and in regulation: the Prudential Regulation Authority and the Financial Conduct some cases pre-existing customer bases.
The new institutions came into being on 1 April 2013.
From a regulatory perspective, the new conduct regulator, the Financial Other regulatory reforms Conduct Authority, has a competition duty giving it an explicit mandate to The Group is also implementing a broader range of regulatory changes, tackle competition issues, such as hurdles to switching or barriers to entry, which includes accounting standards, the Dodd-Frank Act, Benchmarks, swiftly and effectively.
Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act FATCA, the updated Markets Our strategy, as outlined on the next few pages, reflects these market in Financial Instruments Directive Review, and updates to the Deposit conditions and the changing needs of customers.
Above all it recognises Guarantee Scheme, amongst others.
that we operate in a competitive market where additional challengers continue to emerge and the only way of ensuring success is by focusing on the ever-changing needs of our customers.
Market trends Key opportunities Key challenges economic environment: significant progress in reducing the Groups economic environment: continuing economic uncertainty risk profile and strengthening the balance sheet along with strategic in the eurozone.
actions taken in the last couple of years means we are better Regulatory environment: uncertainty remains around the positioned to benefit as the economy recovers.
implementation of key elements of the proposals on ring-fencing.
Customer requirements: our differentiated customer focused Competition: it is likely that an increasingly competitive market strategy along with our comprehensive multi-channel distribution for lending and deposits will require us to innovate and offer network, well recognised brands and high quality people mean we attractive new products.
are well positioned to address changing customer needs.
Regulatory environment: greater clarity emerging on regulatory requirements.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information
