Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 72 73 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 GROuP eXeCuTIVe COMMITTee Board Members Delivering our vision Managing a more agile organisation Antnio Horta-Osrio Group Chief executive Antnio joined the Board in January 2011 as an executive The Group benefits from the depth and diversity Director and became Group Chief executive in March 2011. of experience within the management team.
Further details can be found on page 71.
The complementary skill sets across the team strengthen the Groups ability to effectively adjust to changing market environments, deliver on our strategic plan and become the best bank Non-Board Members for customers.
Brief biographies of the members of the Group executive Committee GeC are outlined opposite.
Andrew Bester Chief executive Officer, Commercial Banking Andrew was appointed as a Group Director on 1 July 2012.
He is also the Chairman of lloyds Development Capital.
Prior to joining lloyds Banking Group, Andrew worked at Standard Chartered Bank in a variety of senior roles including Global COO of Consumer Banking, Chief Financial Officer of Consumer Banking and Co-Head of Wholesale Banking for Greater China and the Africa region.
Before joining Standard Chartered, Andrew was the Group Finance Director for Xchanging.
Prior to this, he worked at Deutsche Bank.
Andrew qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Deloitte & Touche.
He is a member of the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants, the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and is a Chartered Global Management Accountant.
He is also a member of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Andrew sits on the board of the Global Financial Markets Association and on the Advisory Board of the university of Cambridge Programme for Sustainability leadership.
He is also a member of the Prince of Waless uK Corporate leaders Group.
David Nicholson Group Director, Halifax Community Bank David is Group Director of the Halifax Community Bank.
He has specific responsibility for the Halifax business, its branch network and 10,500 colleagues.
Halifax is playing a key role in the Groups strategy as a challenger brand, with a focus on making customers better off.
David has over 25 years experience in retail financial services.
He is Chairman of the Your Tomorrow pension fund trustees and is a member of the Institute of Financial Services School of Finance Board of Governors.
He is also community ambassador for Yorkshire and Humberside and chairs the Group Regional Ambassador programme.
Board of Directors 70 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group Executive Committee 72 72 73 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report 74 Corporate governance report 78 Directors remuneration report 100 1 44 123 197 377 Board Members George Culmer Juan Colombs Chief Financial Officer Chief Risk Officer George joined the Board as an executive Director in May 2012.
Juan joined the Group as Chief Risk Officer in January 2011 and joined the Board as an executive Director in november 2013.
Non-Board Members Alison Brittain Mark Fisher Antonio Lorenzo Group Director, Retail Director, Group Operations Group Director, Consumer Finance and Group Corporate Development Alison joined lloyds Banking Group in September 2011 as Mark joined lloyds Banking Group as the Director of Group Group Director for the Retail Division.
She has responsibility for Operations in March 2009.
In September 2009 his Antonio joined lloyds Banking Group in March 2011.
He is a the lloyds Bank, Halifax and Bank of Scotland retail branch responsibilities expanded to include Group Integration Group Director with responsibility for Consumer Finance and networks, remote channels and products, in addition to the Director.
Mark became the Chairman of lloyds TSB Scotland Group Corporate Development.
until recently, Antonio led the Retail Business Banking and uK Wealth businesses.
Alison is in December 2009 and is also the Groups executive Sponsor Wealth, Asset Finance and International division, which has also a member of the FCAs Practitioner Panel and a for disability.
been fundamental in supporting the Groups agenda to both non-executive Director for Marks and Spencer Group plc.
reshape its international presence and strengthen the balance Prior to joining Mark was Chief executive Officer of ABn AMRO sheet through significant non-core reduction and double digit Her last role was executive Director for Retail Distribution and and was appointed as Chairman of the Managing Board in deposit growth.
Antonio also led the Group Strategic Review.
a Board Director at Santander uK.
She previously worked at november 2007.
Mark was a Director of The Royal Bank of Barclays for almost 20 years in various senior roles including Scotland Group from March 2006, and Chief executive of the Antonio has over 20 years of experience in the financial services Director of Barclays and Woolwich Retail networks and Manufacturing division at RBS since 2000.
He worked for Arthur Andersen for over nine years Managing Director of Barclays Small Business Banking.
Alison have included: Chairman of the Association for Payment before joining Santander in 1998.
During his time at Santander, attended university in Scotland and the uSA and has an MBA Clearing Services 2003 2007. he worked in a number of different finance and business roles.
from Cambridge universitys Judge Institute.
Antonio was part of the management team in 2004 that took Mark is a career banker having joined natWest in 1981.
He was Retail Finance Director and later Chief Operating Officer before over Abbey national whilst also becoming Chief Financial Officer of Santander uK.
natWest was bought by RBS.
Miguel-ngel Rodrguez-Sola Toby Strauss Matthew Young Group Director, Digital, Marketing and Group Director, Insurance Group Corporate Affairs Director Customer Development Toby joined lloyds Banking Group in October 2011 as Group Matt joined lloyds Banking Group in February 2011 as Group Director for Insurance and CeO of Scottish Widows.
He has responsibility for internal and Miguel was appointed Group Director, Digital, Marketing and joining the Group, Toby was uK life CeO at Aviva and prior to external Communications, Public Affairs, Regulatory Customer Development in September 2013.
Previously, he was this he was Chief Operating Officer for uK life, having joined Developments, Community Investment including the Groups Group Strategy Director and Commercial and Shared Services Aviva in 2008.
He previously worked at Charcol, becoming Archives and Museums.
Prior to joining the Group, he was the Director for the Retail Division.
Before joining lloyds Banking Managing Director, before moving to JS & P now Towry as Communications Director at Santander uK and has also held Group in 2011, Miguel worked for over six years at the Chief executive.
Before that, Toby spent a number of years at senior positions with Abbey national and natWest.
Santander Group in Spain, the uSA and from 2008 in the uK.
In McKinsey, specialising in the financial services and technology the uK he was responsible for the Corporate and SMes Division Matt is a member of the Board of Trustees at In Kind Direct, sectors.
In April 2013 Toby was appointed as a Trustee of and later for the Retail Products and Marketing Division and for founded by HRH Prince of Wales in 1996.
He is a member Macmillan Cancer Support.
of the Guild of PR Practitioners.
Previous to this, Miguel worked as a Senior Partner at McKinsey & Co. for over 12 years where he specialised in the Banking, Insurance and Retail sectors in Germany, Switzerland, Spain, Italy and the uSA.
Miguel holds a Cum laude Bachelor Degree in Business Administration from the university of Barcelona and an MBA from IeSe Business School.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 74 75 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIReCTORS RePORT Results The consolidated income statement shows a statutory profit before tax for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 415 million.
Dividends The Directors do not propose to pay a final dividend in respect of the year ended 31 December 2013.
Further information on ordinary dividends is shown in note 49 on page 293 and is incorporated into this report by reference.
Post balance sheet events There have been no material post balance sheet events.
Going concern The going concern of the Company and the Group is dependent on successfully funding their respective balance sheets and maintaining adequate levels of capital.
In order to satisfy themselves that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future, the Directors have considered a number of key dependencies which are set out in the risk management section under principal risks and uncertainties: funding and liquidity on page 42 and pages 171 to 177 and capital position on pages 178 to 192 and additionally have considered projections for the Groups capital and funding position.
Having considered these, the Directors consider that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Branches, future developments and financial risk management objectives and policies The Group provides a wide range of banking and financial services through branches and offices in the uK and overseas.
Information about future developments, internal control and financial risk management systems in relation to financial reporting and financial risk management objectives and policies in relation to the use of financial instruments can be found in the following sections of the annual report, which are incorporated into this report by reference: Pages Future developments 123 to 196 Internal control and financial risk management systems in relation to financial reporting 123 to 196 and page 87 Financial risk management objectives and policies in relation to the use of financial instruments 123 to 196 and in note 54 on pages 327 to 349 Directors The names and biographical details of the Directors are shown on pages 70 and 71.
Particulars of their emoluments and interests in shares in the Company are given on pages 100 to 122.
Changes to the composition of the Board since 1 January 2013 up to the date of this report are shown in the table below: Joined the Board Retired from the Board nick luff 5 March 2013 Martin Scicluna 31 March 2013 Timothy T Ryan, Jr 18 April 2013 Juan Colombs 29 november 2013 Dyfrig John 1 January 2014 Sir Winfried Bischoff will retire from the Board on 3 April 2014 and will be succeeded as Chairman by lord Blackwell.
Appointment and retirement of Directors The appointment of Directors is governed by the Companys articles of association, the uK Corporate Governance Code and the Companies Act 2006.
The Companys articles of association may only be amended by a special resolution of the shareholders in a general meeting.
Juan Colombs and Dyfrig John have been appointed to the Board since the 2013 annual general meeting and will therefore stand for election at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
In the interests of good governance and in accordance with the provisions of the uK Corporate Governance Code, all of the other Directors will retire and those willing to serve again will submit themselves for re-election at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Directors indemnities The Directors of the Company, including the former Directors who retired during the year and since the year end, have entered into individual deeds of indemnity with the Company which constituted qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006.
The deeds indemnify the Directors to the maximum extent permitted by law and remain in force for the duration of a Directors period of office.
The deeds were in force during the whole of the financial year or from the date of appointment in respect of the Directors appointed in 2013 and 2014.
Deeds for existing Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
In addition, the Group had appropriate Directors and Officers liability Insurance cover in place throughout 2013.
The Company has also granted a deed of indemnity through deed poll which constituted qualifying third party indemnity provisions to the Directors of the Groups subsidiary companies, including to former Directors who retired during the year and since the year end.
Qualifying pension scheme indemnities were also granted to the Trustees of the Groups Pension Schemes.
Board of Directors 70 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group Executive Committee 72 74 75 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report 74 Corporate governance report 78 Directors remuneration report 100 1 44 123 197 377 Corporate governance report The corporate governance report can be found on pages 78 to 99 and, together with this report of which it forms part, fulfils the requirements of the Corporate Governance Statement for the purpose of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR.
Share capital and control Information about share capital, restrictions on the transfer of shares or voting rights and special rights with regard to control of the Company is shown in note 45 on pages 289 and 290 and is incorporated into this report by reference.
The powers of the Directors, including in relation to the issue or buy back of the Companys shares, are set out in the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys articles of association.
The Directors were granted authorities to issue and allot shares and to repurchase shares at the 2013 annual general meeting.
Shareholders will be asked to renew the authorities at the 2014 annual general meeting.
The Company did not repurchase any of its shares during the year 2012: none.
Substantial shareholders Information provided to the Company by substantial shareholders pursuant to the DTR is published via a Regulatory Information Service.
As at 31 December 2013 and the date of this report, the Company was notified under Rule 5 of the DTR that The Solicitor for the Affairs of Her Majestys Treasury had a direct interest in 23,326,529,533 ordinary shares, representing 32.7 per cent in the issued share capital with rights to vote in all circumstances at general meetings.
no other notification has been received that anyone has an interest of 3 per cent or more in the issued ordinary share capital.
Change of control The Company is not party to any significant contracts that are subject to change of control provisions in the event of a takeover bid.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Company is party to a deed of covenant with each of the four lloyds TSB Foundations the Foundations which hold limited voting shares in the Company the limited voting shares are further described in note 45 on page 289. under the terms of the deeds of covenant, the Company makes an annual payment to each of the Foundations.
In the event of a successful offer for more than 50 per cent of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company, each limited voting share would convert to an ordinary share under the terms of the Companys articles of association.
The payment obligation under the deeds of covenant would come to an end one year following the conversion of the limited voting shares.
Research and development activities During the ordinary course of business the Group develops new products and services within the business units.
Emissions reporting The Group has voluntarily reported on its carbon dioxide CO emissions in its annual Responsible Business Report and Annual Report and 2 Accounts since 2009, but new regulations introduced through an amendment to the Companies Act 2006 require changes to the scope of disclosure compared to previous years.
Previously, reported scope 1 emissions covered only the emissions generated from the gas and oil in uK buildings where the Group holds the supply contract direct with the utilities supplier along with emissions generated from companyowned vehicles used for business travel: and reported scope 2 emissions covered only the emissions generated from the use of electricity in uK buildings where the Group hold the supply contract direct with the electricity supplier.
This year, additional emissions included in the scope of 2013 reporting relate to: uK sites where the Group does not hold the supply contract directly with the energy supplier shadow sites : energy consumed in international locations non-uK sites : and gas emissions arising from the use of air-conditioning and chiller refrigerant plant fugitive emissions.
In addition the Group is now reporting emissions in terms of CO equivalent tonnes CO e. 2 2 Reporting period The reporting period for emissions October 2012 September 2013 differs to that of the Directors report January 2013 December 2013.
However, in line with the new regulations the majority of emission reporting year falls within the period of the Directors report.
Scope of disclosure The Group reports emissions based on an operational boundary.
Reported scope 1 emissions cover: emissions generated from the gas and oil used in all the buildings the Group operates business from uK and International : emissions generated from uK company-owned vehicles used for business travel: and fugitive emissions arising from the use of air-conditioning and chiller refrigerant plant to service the Groups uK property portfolio.
Reported scope 2 emissions cover emissions generated from the use of electricity in all the buildings the Group operates business from.
Reported scope 3 emissions relate to business travel undertaken by colleagues based in the uK using rail, privately owned vehicles, hired vehicles and air travel.
emissions associated with joint ventures and investments are not included in the emissions disclosure as they fall outside the scope of our operational boundary.
The Group follows the principles of the Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol Corporate Standard and Department for environment, Food and Rural Affairs Defra Voluntary Reporting 2012 Guidelines to calculate its emissions in scope 1, 2 and 3.
Omissions The Group does not have available data or estimates for business travel undertaken by colleagues based outside the uK when using company vehicles, or for fugitive emissions arising from the use of air-conditioning and chiller refrigerant plant to service its non-uK property portfolio.
under the new regulation this activity would be part of the Groups scope 1 emissions.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 76 77 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIReCTORS RePORT Compliance with the regulations The Group understands the principles of the regulations to report all emissions or explain where data has been unavailable for the first year of reporting.
Rather than omit material elements the Group has included estimated emissions, where actual data is not available.
each of these sources of emissions is being reported for the first time.
Energy consumed on non-UK sites, shadow sites and fugitive emissions non-uK sites lloyds Banking Group is a uK based retail bank with 97 per cent of employees based in the uK 2012 headcount data.
The Group continues the strategic reshaping of its international footprint and intends to further reduce its presence outside the uK.
As lessees the Group does not usually have access to consumption data for non-uK sites.
estimates have been based on a GHG emission value per full time equivalent colleague FTe for uK based operations.
Shadow sites As the Group is not billed directly for energy consumed in these sites the Group does not have full visibility of consumption data.
To allow emissions relating to these sites to be included within its emissions reporting for 2013, an estimation using an average gas electricity consumption level per occupied square metre obtained from sites where the Group holds the energy supply contract directly with the supplier has been calculated.
For electricity, consumption estimated in this way relates to 397 sites.
For gas, consumption estimated in this way relates to 185 sites.
The CO e emissions relating to this subset of emissions reported are calculated using the same methodology and emissions factors that have 2 been applied to actual billed consumption data.
Fugitive emissions Fugitive emissions for lloyds Banking Group arise from the use of air-conditioning and chiller refrigerant plant to service our uK property portfolio.
Actual data relating to fugitive emissions is not currently collated centrally by the Group.
Therefore, for the 2013 reporting period these emissions have been estimated based on a register of assets used by its Facilities Management partner to maintain and service the Groups estate.
leakage rates and emissions factors from the 2012 Guidelines to Defra Department of energy and Climate Change DeCCs GHG Conversion Factors have been applied to each asset on the register according to the gas type used within the asset.
GHG emissions CO e tonnes 2 October 2012 September 2013 October 2012 including additional September 2013 October 2011 Scope mandatory emissions like for like basis September 2012 1 Scope 1 73,196 53,279 49,943 2 Scope 2 333,212 291,547 293,521 Scope 3 37,827 37,827 34,740 Total 444,235 382,653 378,204 Additional mandatory carbon reporting includes Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions as described below: 1 Scope 1 emissions generated from the energy billed for gas and oil where the Group does not hold the supply contract directly with the energy supplier shadow sites, fugitive emissions and emissions generated from non-uK sites.
2 Scope 2 emissions generated from the energy billed for electricity for sites where the Group does not hold the supply contract directly with the energy supplier shadow sites and emissions generated from non-uK sites.
The Group has applied the principles of the new regulations to its previous reporting period.
Please note the totals include all GHG gases and the totals are CO e. In previous years the Group has only reported on CO.
The Group has restated the emissions data for the October 2011 2 2 September 2012 reporting period, replacing estimates with actual billed data.
The Group has applied the emissions factors from the 2012 Defra guidelines to both reporting periods.
Intensity ratio As the Group uses an operational boundary for its emission reporting, an intensity ratio of GHG gases per FTe has been selected.
October 2012 September 2013 including additional October 2012 October 2011 mandatory emissions September 2013 September 2012 GHG emissions per average FTe based on 2012 FTe 3.91 3.37 3.33 Verification Although not required by the new mandatory regulations the Group has retained the services of  llP PwC to provide an independent and robust assessment of the Groups scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions.
PwCs limited assurance report is included as part of the Groups 2013 Responsible Business Report, www.
Employees lloyds Banking Group is committed to providing employment practices and policies which recognise the diversity of its workforce.
The Group will not unfairly discriminate in the recruitment or employment practices on the basis of any factor which is not relevant to individuals performance including sex, race, disability, age, sexual orientation or religious belief.
The Group works hard to ensure lloyds Banking Group is inclusive for all colleagues.
To support the Group in this aim, lloyds Banking Group belongs to a number of major uK employment equality campaign groups, including the Business Disability Forum, The Age and employment network, Stonewall and Race for Opportunity.
Involvement with these organisations enables the Group to identify and implement best practice for staff.
lloyds Banking Group has a range of programmes to support colleagues who become disabled or acquire a long-term health condition.
These include a workplace adjustment programme to provide physical Board of Directors 70 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group Executive Committee 72 76 77 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report 74 Corporate governance report 78 Directors remuneration report 100 1 44 123 197 377 equipment or changes to the way a job is done.
The Group also runs residential Personal and Career Development Programmes to help colleagues deal positively with the impact of a disability and the colleague disability network, Access, provides peer support.
employees are kept closely involved in major changes affecting them through such measures as team meetings, briefings, internal communications and opinion surveys.
There are well established procedures, including regular meetings with recognised unions, to ensure that the views of employees are taken into account in reaching decisions.
Schemes offering share options or the acquisition of shares are available for most staff, to encourage their financial involvement in lloyds Banking Group.
lloyds Banking Group is committed to providing employees with comprehensive coverage of the economic and financial issues affecting the Group.
The Group has established a full suite of communication channels, including an extensive face-to-face briefing programme, which allows it to update employees on performance and any financial issues throughout the year.
Further information on employees can be found on pages 34 to 35.
Significant contracts Details of related party transactions are set out in note 51 on pages 303 to 306.
Statement of directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the directors remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
under that law, the Directors have prepared the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the european union.
under company law, the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company and Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the european union have been followed.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
A copy of the financial statements is placed on our website www.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
legislation in the uK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
each of the current Directors, who are in office and whose names and functions are listed on pages 70 and 71 of this annual report, confirm that, to the best of his or her knowledge: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the european union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and Group: and the management report contained in the strategic report and the directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The Directors consider that the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors have also separately reviewed and approved the new Strategic Report.
Independent auditor and audit information each person who is a Director at the date of approval of this report confirms that, so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Resolutions concerning the re-appointment of  llP as auditor and authorising the Audit Committee to set its remuneration will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
On behalf of the Board Marc Boston Company Secretary 5 March 2014 lloyds Banking Group plc Registered in Scotland Company number SC95000 Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information
