Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 18 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 BuSIneSS MODel AnD STRATeGY Unlocking the Groups potential We want to meet our customers financial needs, help them succeed and Customers are at the heart of the organisation create value for them.
We do this using our distinctive strengths, in particular and by leveraging our strategic assets and capabilities our superior customer insight, simpler tailored products and relationship effectively we believe we can help Britain prosper focus, whether that be through banking, insurance, investment, debt and deliver strong and sustainable returns for financing or risk management products.
Our focus on creating a simpler, more efficient and agile organisation is enabling us to provide a better product and service proposition at a fair price while delivering more efficient processes and reducing our cost base.
Our business model The uK financial services market remains one of the largest in the world and, lloyds Banking Group is a leading financial services group with a simple, low although our business model and strategy have been formulated in the risk, customer focused, uK retail and commercial banking business model.
context of a cautious outlook for the uK economy, they remain appropriate We provide a range of services, primarily in the uK, to individuals and for all stages of the economic cycle, whilst providing real differentiation and commercial customers and by focusing on the needs of customers and positioning us well for future regulatory reform.
operating sustainably and responsibly, we believe we will help Britain ultimately as a simple, low risk, customer focused uK retail and commercial prosper and create value for our shareholders.
bank, we can rebuild the trust of our customers and other stakeholders, The foundations for providing effective customer service are: our range of help Britain prosper and deliver strong and sustainable returns for iconic and distinct brands, our broad multi-channel distribution network, our shareholders.
our financial strength, our efficient systems and processes, our high quality, committed colleagues and our uK focus.
How we create value A simple, low risk, customer focused uK banking model, delivering the right products with good service at a fair price.
Simple, Unique Creating Enabling tailored products and effective distinctive sustainable addressing service value for value customer needs proposition customers creation.
through Superior lending A range of iconic and Helping consumer insight distinctive brands Britain Deposit taking Broad multi-channel Relationship focus prosper Insurance distribution network: using our cost Investment branch, telephone advantage for the Becoming the best and digital Debt financing benefit of customers bank for customers High quality, Risk management Targeting strong, committed sustainable returns colleagues for our shareholders delivered efficient systems and processes through our four Financial strength divisions.
uK focus Group at a glance 2 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group performance 4 18 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Group key performance indicators KPIs 6 Chairmans statement 8 Group Chief Executives review 12 Market overview 16 Business model and strategy 18 Delivering our action plan 20 Divisional overview 24 Relationships and responsibility 28 Risk overview 40 44 69 123 197 377 Our vision Our action plan for success Our aim is to be the best bank for customers and to create value for them by We are making significant progress on all four key elements investing where we can make a real difference.
of our action plan to deliver our strategy.
This is outlined in Customers are at the heart of everything we do, whether that be through more detail on the next few pages: our distribution network, our brands or our people.
This commitment is supported by our Group values of putting customers first, keeping it simple and making a difference together.
Reshape Our strategy our business portfolio to fit We are creating a simpler, more agile, efficient and responsive customer our assets, capabilities and focused organisation concentrating on operating sustainably and responsibly and helping Britain prosper.
We are reshaping and simplifying risk appetite.
the business and investing a portion of the savings made from our Simplification programme in customer related growth initiatives.
More on 20 Reshape We are reshaping our business portfolio to fit our assets, capabilities and risk appetite.
We are strengthening our balance sheet by continuing to reduce our non-core assets and applying a conservative approach to, and prudent appetite for, risk.
We have reduced our international presence in order to focus on our core uK customers.
Strengthen We are unlocking the potential in our franchise and delivering value the Groups balance sheet to customers and shareholders by creating a simpler organisation.
Opportunities exist to increase the efficiency of operations and processes and reduce costs whilst addressing changing customer needs and the external environment more effectively.
Our customer focus remains the key driver for strategy and business decision More on 21 Strengthen making and we are making substantial customer-related investment.
Our strategy reflects our customers needs for product simplicity and transparency, access to credit, demands for access through multiple channels, value for money products and services and the importance of our staff in managing customer relationships.
Simplify We are delivering our strategy though a clear action plan focused on the Group to improve agility, reshaping our business portfolio to fit our assets, capabilities and efficiency and customer service.
risk appetite, strengthening our balance sheet and liquidity position, simplifying the Group to improve agility, efficiency and customer service and investing to be the best bank for customers.
Our progress against this plan and the key priorities for 2014 are described on the next More on 22 Simplify few pages.
Following the significant progress we have made against our original strategic plan, we expect to announce an update on our strategy in the second half of 2014 which will also incorporate the key elements of our Invest new Helping Britain Prosper Plan.
to be the best bank More on our Helping Britain 28 Prosper plan for customers.
More on 23 Invest Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information
