Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 70 71 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 BOARD OF DIReCTORS Non-Executive Directors Sir Winfried Bischoff Lord Blackwell David Roberts Chairman Chairman from 3 April 2014 and Deputy Chairman and Independent Director retiring on 3 April 2014 Independent Director Joined the Board in March 2010 Joined the Board in June 2012 Joined the Board in September 2009 Chairman of the Risk Committee Member of the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Chairman of Scottish Widows Group Chairman of the nomination & Governance Committee Committee and the nomination & Governance Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee and Member of the Audit Committee, the Risk Committee and the the Risk Committee Skills and experience: David has many years of experience nomination & Governance Committee at board and executive management level in retail and Skills and experience: Sir Winfried has substantial experience Skills and experience: lord Blackwell has extensive insurance, commercial banking in the uK and internationally.
As Chair of leading complex international boards in the uK and the uS.
banking, regulatory and public policy experience gained from of the Risk Committee, he has a deep understanding of risk His background spans a range of sectors, including banking senior positions in a wide range of industries.
lord Blackwells management, underpinned by recent, in-depth knowledge and capital markets, finance and government regulation and deep financial services knowledge and experience, leadership of all aspects of banking operations.
Sir Winfried is a highly respected leader with the qualities and credibility with key stakeholders, made him the contributions to the deliberations of the Board and Committee proven experience and judgement who has led the Board of unanimous choice of the Board to succeed Sir Winfried as meetings, combined with natural leadership qualities, make lloyds Banking Group during a period of significant progress Chairman of lloyds Banking Group.
lord Blackwell has an MA him an effective Deputy Chairman.
David has a Diploma in over the past four years.
Sir Winfried has a BA in Commerce in natural Sciences from the university of Cambridge, and a Marketing from the Chartered Institute of Marketing, a degree from the university of the Witwatersrand, a Doctorate in Ph.
D in Finance and economics and an MBA from the in Mathematics & Applications from Birmingham university Science, Honoris Causa, from City university and was made university of Pennsylvania.
and an MBA from the university of Reading.
a Johnson Honorary Fellow of the university of Oxford.
External appointments: lord Blackwell is the Chairman External appointments: Member of the Strategy Board of External appointments: Sir Winfried is a non-executive of Interserve plc.
He is a non-executive Director of Ofcom until Henley Business School.
Director of eli lilly and Company and The McGraw Hill the end of March 2014 and Halma plc.
He is Chairman of the Advisory Council Former appointments: David joined Barclays in 1983 and held of TheCityuK, a Member of the Akbank International Advisory Former appointments: lord Blackwell is a former Senior various senior management positions culminating in executive Board and from 1 May 2014, will be Chairman of the Financial Independent Director of Standard life and chaired their uK life Director, member of the Group executive Committee and Reporting Council.
He was a non-executive Director of Chief executive, International Retail and Commercial Banking, Dixons Group and SeGRO, a member of the Board of the a position which he held until December 2006.
He is a former Former appointments: Sir Winfried was appointed Chairman Centre for Policy Studies and a non-executive Member of the non-executive Director of BAA and Absa Group and was of Citigroup europe in 2000.
He became the acting Chief Office of Fair Trading.
He was a partner of McKinsey & Co. and Chairman and Chief executive of BAWAG P. S. K. AG.
executive Officer of Citigroup Inc. in 2007 and was a Director of Group Development at natWest Group.
From subsequently appointed as Chairman in the same year until his 1995 to 1997, lord Blackwell was Head of the Prime Ministers retirement in February 2009.
Prior to this, he was the Group Policy unit and was appointed a life Peer in 1997.
Chief executive and then Chairman of Schroders.
Carolyn Fairbairn Anita Frew Dyfrig John, CBE Independent Director Independent Director Independent Director Joined the Board in June 2012 Joined the Board in December 2010 Joined the Board on 1 January 2014 Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Audit Committee, Member of the Audit Committee and the Risk Committee and the Remuneration Committee the Risk Committee and the nomination Skills and experience: Dyfrig has spent his career in banking, & Governance Committee Skills and experience: Carolyn has extensive digital and principally at HSBC where he worked for 37 years.
During that on-line, government and regulatory experience gained across Skills and experience: Anita has extensive board, financial and time he held a number of senior management and board a range of sectors including media and financial services.
With general management experience across a range of sectors, positions in the uK and overseas including Chief executive her broad experience and strong analytical mind, Carolyn including banking, asset management, manufacturing and Officer of HSBC Bank PlC.
He has the knowledge and plays an active part in reviewing the strategy of the Board and utilities.
Her breadth of experience and strong leadership experience to provide valuable insight and contribute contributing to the debate at Board and Committee meetings.
qualities make her an effective non-executive Director.
Anita is effectively as a non-executive Director and Member of the Carolyn has a BA in economics from the university of the Chairman of the Responsible Business Committee.
She has Audit Committee and Risk Committee.
Dyfrig has a Sloan Cambridge, an MA in International Relations from the a BA Hons in Business from the university of Strathclyde and Fellowship from the london Business School.
He is also a university of Pennsylvania and an MBA from InSeAD.
a MRes in Humanities and Philosophy from the university fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers.
External appointments: Dyfrig is the Chairman of Principality External appointments: Carolyn is a non-executive Director Building Society and will step down from that position of The Vitec Group and is the Chairman of its Remuneration External appointments: Anita is the Chairman of Victrex plc, on 17 April 2014.
He is a Member of the Welsh Rugby unions Committee.
She is a trustee of Marie Curie and a having previously been its Senior Independent Director, Audit Committee.
non-executive Director of the Competition and and is a Senior Independent Director of Aberdeen Asset Markets Authority and the uK Statistics Authority.
Former appointments: Dyfrig was a Director of HSBC Bank PlC from 2003 to 2009, Chief executive Officer from 2006 to Former appointments: Carolyn was a non-executive Director Former appointments: Anita was an executive Director of 2009 and Deputy Chairman from 2008 to 2009.
Prior to joining of the Financial Services Authority and chaired their Risk Abbott Mead Vickers, Director of Corporate Development at the Board of HSBC Bank PlC, he held a number of senior roles Committee, a Director of Group Development and Strategy at WPP Group and a non-executive Director of northumbrian including Group Managing Director and member of the Group ITV plc and Director of Strategy and a member of the executive Water.
She has held various investment and marketing roles at Management Board.
until recently he was a Board member of Board at the BBC.
She is a former partner of McKinsey & Co. Scottish Provident and the Royal Bank of Scotland.
and was a policy adviser in the Prime Ministers Policy unit.
Carolyn began her career as an economist at the World Bank.
Marc joined the Group in February 2010.
He is a qualified Marc Boston Company Secretary and solicitor with 20 years of experience Company Secretary in a broad range of listed entities within the financial services, retail and telecommunications sectors and with professional Appointed January 2014 service firms.
Board of Directors 70 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Group Executive Committee 72 70 71 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report 74 Corporate governance report 78 Directors remuneration report 100 1 44 123 197 377 Non-Executive Directors Sir Winfried Bischoff Lord Blackwell David Roberts Nick Luff Anthony Watson, CBE Sara Weller Chairman Chairman from 3 April 2014 and Deputy Chairman and Independent Director Independent Director Senior Independent Director Independent Director retiring on 3 April 2014 Independent Director Joined the Board in March 2010 Joined the Board in April 2009 Joined the Board in February 2012 Joined the Board on 5 March 2013 Joined the Board in June 2012 Joined the Board in September 2009 Chairman of the Risk Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee Member of the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Member of the Audit Committee, the Risk Committee and the Risk Committee Chairman of Scottish Widows Group Member of the Risk Committee Chairman of the nomination & Governance Committee and the nomination & Governance Committee Committee and the nomination & Governance Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee and Skills and experience: With a background in retail and Member of the Audit Committee, the Risk Committee and the Skills and experience: nick is a chartered accountant and has the Risk Committee Skills and experience: David has many years of experience Skills and experience: Tony is Senior Independent Director and associated sectors, including financial services, Sara brings nomination & Governance Committee significant financial experience in the uK listed environment Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
He maintains close dialogue at board and executive management level in retail and a broad perspective to the Board.
She is a strong advocate having served in a number of senior finance positions within Skills and experience: Sir Winfried has substantial experience Skills and experience: lord Blackwell has extensive insurance, commercial banking in the uK and internationally.
As Chair with shareholders with the aim of aligning executive reward with of customers and of the application of new technology, both a range of sectors.
His background and experience enables of leading complex international boards in the uK and the uS.
banking, regulatory and public policy experience gained from shareholder interests.
With over 40 years of experience in the of the Risk Committee, he has a deep understanding of risk of which directly support lloyds Banking Groups strategy.
him to fulfil the role of Audit Committee Chair and, for SeC His background spans a range of sectors, including banking senior positions in a wide range of industries.
lord Blackwells management, underpinned by recent, in-depth knowledge investment management industry and related sectors, he is well Sara has considerable experience of boards at both executive purposes, the role of Audit Committee Financial expert.
nick and capital markets, finance and government regulation and deep financial services knowledge and experience, leadership placed to carry out these roles.
Tony is a Barrister at law.
He has a of all aspects of banking operations.
Davids valuable and non-executive level.
She has an MA in Chemistry from is a Mathematics graduate from the university of Oxford.
Sir Winfried is a highly respected leader with the qualities and credibility with key stakeholders, made him the contributions to the deliberations of the Board and Committee BSc Hons in economics from the Queens university Belfast, a Oxford university.
proven experience and judgement who has led the Board of unanimous choice of the Board to succeed Sir Winfried as External appointments: nick is currently the Group Finance Diploma in Security Analysis from the new York Institute of Finance meetings, combined with natural leadership qualities, make lloyds Banking Group during a period of significant progress External appointments: Sara is a non-executive Director Chairman of lloyds Banking Group.
lord Blackwell has an MA Director of Centrica.
He will step down from the Centrica Board and was called to the Bar of england and Wales.
him an effective Deputy Chairman.
Sir Winfried has a BA in Commerce of united utilities Group and Chair of their Remuneration in natural Sciences from the university of Cambridge, and a before the end of 2014 to take up a new position as Chief Marketing from the Chartered Institute of Marketing, a degree from the university of the Witwatersrand, a Doctorate in External appointments: Tony is a non-executive Director of Vodafone Committee.
D in Finance and economics and an MBA from the Financial Officer of Reed elsevier.
in Mathematics & Applications from Birmingham university Science, Honoris Causa, from City university and was made Group, Senior Independent Director of Hammerson and Witan university of Pennsylvania.
Former appointments: Sara is the former Managing Director Former appointments: nick was previously Finance Director Investment Trust, Chairman of the lincolns Inn Investment Committee of Argos.
She held various senior positions at J Sainsbury External appointments: lord Blackwell is the Chairman of The Peninsular & Oriental Steam navigation Company and and a member of the norges Bank Investment Management External appointments: Member of the Strategy Board of External appointments: Sir Winfried is a non-executive including Deputy Managing Director and served on its Board of Interserve plc.
He is a non-executive Director of Ofcom until Chief Financial Officer of P&O Princess Cruises plc.
until Corporate Governance Advisory Board.
Director of eli lilly and Company and The McGraw Hill between January 2002 and May 2004.
She was a non-executive the end of March 2014 and Halma plc.
December 2010, he served as a non-executive Director and Companies Inc.
He is Chairman of the Advisory Council Former appointments: Former Chief executive of Hermes Former appointments: David joined Barclays in 1983 and held Director of Mitchells & Butler and also held senior management was the Audit Committee Chair of QinetiQ Group.
nick started of TheCityuK, a Member of the Akbank International Advisory Former appointments: lord Blackwell is a former Senior Pensions Management and formerly Chairman of the Asian various senior management positions culminating in executive roles for Abbey national and Mars Confectionery.
his career with KPMG where he qualified as a chartered Board and from 1 May 2014, will be Chairman of the Financial Infrastructure Fund, MePC and of the Strategic Investment Independent Director of Standard life and chaired their uK life Director, member of the Group executive Committee and accountant in 1991.
Former Member of the Financial Reporting Council.
He was a non-executive Director of Chief executive, International Retail and Commercial Banking, Reporting Council and the Marks & Spencer Pension Trustees.
Dixons Group and SeGRO, a member of the Board of the a position which he held until December 2006.
Executive Directors Carolyn Fairbairn Anita Frew Dyfrig John, CBE Independent Director Independent Director Independent Director Antnio Horta-Osrio George Culmer Juan Colombs Joined the Board in June 2012 Joined the Board in December 2010 Joined the Board on 1 January 2014 executive Director and Group Chief executive executive Director and Chief Financial Officer executive Director and Chief Risk Officer Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Audit Committee, Member of the Audit Committee and the Risk Committee Joined the Board in May 2012 Joined the Board in January 2011 Joined the Board on 29 november 2013 and the Remuneration Committee the Risk Committee and the nomination Skills and experience: Dyfrig has spent his career in banking, Skills and experience: George is a chartered accountant and Skills and experience: Juan has significant banking and risk & Governance Committee Appointed Group Chief executive in March 2011 Skills and experience: Carolyn has extensive digital and principally at HSBC where he worked for 37 years.
During that has deep operational and financial expertise including strategic management experience, having spent 28 years working in on-line, government and regulatory experience gained across Skills and experience: Anita has extensive board, financial and time he held a number of senior management and board Skills and experience: Antnio brings extensive experience in, and financial planning and control.
He has worked in financial these fields both internationally and in the uK.
He has served a range of sectors including media and financial services.
With general management experience across a range of sectors, positions in the uK and overseas including Chief executive and understanding of, both retail and commercial banking.
services in the uK and overseas for over 20 years.
With a strong as the Groups Chief Risk Officer and as a member of the Group her broad experience and strong analytical mind, Carolyn including banking, asset management, manufacturing and Officer of HSBC Bank PlC.
He has the knowledge and This has been built over a period of more than 25 years, working background in insurance and shareholder advocacy, his skills executive Committee since January 2011.
Juan is responsible plays an active part in reviewing the strategy of the Board and utilities.
Her breadth of experience and strong leadership experience to provide valuable insight and contribute both internationally as well as in the uK.
Antnios drive, and experience enhance the Board and strengthen further the for developing the Groups risk framework, recommending contributing to the debate at Board and Committee meetings.
Anita is effectively as a non-executive Director and Member of the enthusiasm and commitment to customers, along with his senior management team.
George is a chartered accountant its risk appetite and ensuring that all risks generated by the Carolyn has a BA in economics from the university of the Chairman of the Responsible Business Committee.
Dyfrig has a Sloan proven ability to build and lead strong management teams, and has a History degree from the university of Cambridge.
business are measured, reviewed and monitored on an Cambridge, an MA in International Relations from the a BA Hons in Business from the university of Strathclyde and Fellowship from the london Business School.
He is also a brings significant value to all stakeholders of lloyds Banking ongoing basis.
Juan has a BSc in Industrial Chemical External appointments: none.
university of Pennsylvania and an MBA from InSeAD.
Antnio has a Degree in Management & Business engineering from the universidad Politcnica fide Madrid, a of london.
Administration from the universidade Catlica Portuguesa, Financial Management degree from ICADe School of Business External appointments: Dyfrig is the Chairman of Principality Former appointments: George was an executive Director External appointments: Carolyn is a non-executive Director an MBA from InSeAD and has completed the Advanced and economics and an MBA from the Institute fide empresa Building Society and will step down from that position of The Vitec Group and is the Chairman of its Remuneration External appointments: Anita is the Chairman of Victrex plc, and Chief Financial Officer of RSA Insurance Group.
He is also Management Program at Harvard Business School.
He is a Member of the Welsh Rugby unions the former Head of Capital Management of Zurich Financial Committee.
non-executive Director of the Competition and and is a Senior Independent Director of Aberdeen Asset External appointments: Antnio is a non-executive Director Services and Chief Financial Officer of its uK operations.
External appointments: Member of the International Financial George previously held various senior management positions Markets Authority and the uK Statistics Authority.
of Fundao Champalimaud and Sociedade Francisco Manuel Former appointments: Dyfrig was a Director of HSBC Bank Risk Institute executive Committee.
dos Santos in Portugal and is a Governor of the london at Prudential.
PlC from 2003 to 2009, Chief executive Officer from 2006 to Former appointments: Carolyn was a non-executive Director Former appointments: Anita was an executive Director of Former appointments: Juan was previously the Chief Risk Business School.
2009 and Deputy Chairman from 2008 to 2009.
Prior to joining of the Financial Services Authority and chaired their Risk Abbott Mead Vickers, Director of Corporate Development at Officer of Santanders uK business.
Prior to this position, he the Board of HSBC Bank PlC, he held a number of senior roles Committee, a Director of Group Development and Strategy at WPP Group and a non-executive Director of northumbrian Former appointments: Antnio joined Grupo Santander in held a number of senior risk, control and business management including Group Managing Director and member of the Group ITV plc and Director of Strategy and a member of the executive Water.
She has held various investment and marketing roles at 1993, having previously worked for Goldman Sachs and for roles across the Corporate, Investment, Retail and Risk Management Board.
Citibank, and held various senior management positions Divisions of the Santander Group.
culminating in becoming executive Vice President of Grupo Carolyn began her career as an economist at the World Bank.
Santander and a member of its Management Committee.
In november 2004, he was appointed as a non-executive Director of Santander uK and, from August 2006 until november 2010, served as its Chief executive.
Antnio is also a former non-executive Director of the Court of the Bank of england.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information
