Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 124 125 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 RISK MAnAGeMenT Risk management is at the heart of our strategy to become the best bank for customers.
Our mission is to support the business in delivering sustainable growth.
This is achieved through informed risk decision making and superior risk and capital management, supported by a consistent risk-focused culture across the Group.
The Risk Overview pages 40 to 43 provides a summary of Risk Management within the Group.
It highlights the important role of risk as a strategic differentiator, risk achievements in 2013 and priorities for 2014 along with a brief overview of the Groups risk governance structure and the principal risks faced by the Group and key mitigating actions.
This full risk management section provides a more in-depth picture of how risk is managed within the Group, detailing the Groups appetite for risk page 124, emerging risks page 126, approach to stress testing, risk governance and committee structure pages 127 to 132 and a full analysis of the primary risk drivers pages 133 to 196 the framework by which risks are identified, managed, mitigated and monitored.
each risk driver is described and managed using the following standard headings: definition, appetite, exposure, measurement, mitigation and monitoring.
See Risk Overview 40 The Groups approach to risk The Group operates a prudent approach to risk with rigorous management controls to keep the Group safe, support sustainable business growth and minimise losses within risk appetite.
The Group has a strong and independent risk function Risk Division with a mission to maintain a robust control framework, identify and escalate emerging risks and support sustainable business growth within risk appetite through good risk reward decisioning.
Risk culture The Board ensures that senior management implements risk policies and risk appetites that either limit or, where appropriate, prohibit activities, relationships and situations that could be detrimental to the Groups risk profile.
The Group has a conservative business model embodied by a risk culture founded on a prudent approach to managing risk.
The Group refreshed its Codes of Business and Personal Responsibility in 2013 reinforcing its approach where colleagues are accountable for the risks they take and the needs of customers are paramount.
The focus remains on building and sustaining long-term relationships with customers whatever the economic climate.
Risk appetite The Group defines risk appetite as the amount and type of risk that the Group is prepared to seek, accept or tolerate.
The Groups strategy operates in tandem with its high level risk appetite which is supported by more detailed metrics and limits.
An updated Risk Appetite Statement was approved by the Board in 2013.
This incorporated recommendations from the non-executive Directors and is fully aligned with Group strategy.
Risk appetite is embedded within principles, policies, authorities and limits across the Group.
Risk appetite will continue to evolve to reflect external market developments and the composition of the Group.
The Group optimises performance by allowing business units to operate within approved risk appetite and limits.
Governance and control Governance is maintained through delegation of authority from the Board down through the management hierarchy, supported by a committee-based structure designed to ensure open challenge and that the Groups risk appetite, principles, policies, procedures, controls and reporting are fully in line with regulations, law, corporate governance and industry good-practice.
Board-level engagement, coupled with the direct involvement of senior management in Group-wide risk issues at Group executive Committee level, ensures that issues are promptly escalated and remediation plans are initiated where required.
The Groups approach to risk is founded on a robust control framework and a strong risk management culture which ensures that business units remain accountable for risk and therefore guides the way all employees approach their work, behave and make decisions.
The interaction of the executive and non-executive governance structures relies upon a culture of transparency and openness that is encouraged by both the Board and senior management.
A strong control framework remains a priority for the Group and is the foundation for the delivery of effective risk management.
The Groups approach to risk 124 Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group Emerging risks 126 124 125 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Stress testing 127 Risk governance 129 Full analysis of risk drivers 133 1 44 69 197 377 Risk decision making and reporting Taking risks which are well understood, consistent with strategy and with appropriate margin is a key driver of shareholder value.
Risk analysis and reporting supports the identification of opportunities as well as risks.
An aggregate view of the Groups overall risk profile, key risks and management actions, and performance against risk appetite, is reported to and discussed monthly at the Group Risk Committee and as a subset at the Group Asset and liability Committee, with regular reporting to the Board Risk Committee and the Board.
Rigorous stress testing exercises are carried out to assess the impact of a range of adverse scenarios with different probabilities and severities to inform strategic planning.
The Chief Risk Officer regularly informs the Board Risk Committee BRC of the aggregate risk profile and has direct access to the Chairman and members of the Board Risk Committee.
The Chief Risk Officer was appointed to the Board on 29 november 2013.
Table 1.1: Exposure to risk arising from the business activities of the Group The table below provides a high level guide to the how the Groups business activities are reflected in its risk measures and balance sheet.
Lloyds Banking Group Wealth, Asset Group Commercial 1 Division Retail Finance Insurance Operations & Banking & International Central Items The Retail division is The Commercial Wealth, Asset Finance & The Insurance division Group Operations a leading provider Banking division International comprises is one of the uKs provides high quality of current accounts, supports business uK and international largest insurers and services and delivers savings, personal clients from small wealth businesses, uK provides long-term investment project loans, credit cards and businesses to large and international asset savings, protection and capability through IT, Business mortgages corporates, with a finance and online investment products Operations, Property activities range of propositions deposit businesses and general insurance and Sourcing fully segmented along with international products to customers according to client retail business in the uK and europe needs RWAs: 1 2 credit risk 70,900m 111,482m 22,439m 13,559m counterparty 1 credit risk 7,643m 6m 145m 1 operational risk 14,777m 8,376m 3,441m 1 market risk 11,040m 42m 1 13,746m 85,677m 138,541m 25,886m TOTAL 1 As a separate regulated entity with its own Board, the Insurance Division maintains its own regulatory risk capital and liquidity requirements, including appropriate management buffers.
The Insurance Division operates within the Groups overall risk framework against agreed risk appetites, with Risk Division, represented by the Insurance Divisional Risk Officer, and Group Audit providing assurance to both the Insurance Board and Group Board through the respective risk and audit committees.
2 Predominantly relates to various non-financial assets, including fixed assets, cash, items in the course of collection, prepayments, sundry debtors and deferred tax assets, the RWAs for which are reported within credit risk for regulatory capital purposes.
Principal risks The Groups principal risks are shown in the Risk Overview pages 42 to 43.
The Groups emerging risks are shown overleaf.
Full analysis of the Groups risk drivers are on pages 133 to 196.
Strategic report Financial results Governance Risk management Financial statements Other information
