Lloyds Banking Group Lloyds Banking Group 6 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 GROuP KeY PeRFORMAnCe InDICATORS Measuring strategic performance Performance measures Our strategy Unlocking the Groups potential We operate a simple, low risk, customer focused uK retail and commercial We are reshaping our business portfolio to fit our assets, capabilities banking and insurance business.
Our aim is to become the best bank for and risk appetite: we are strengthening the Groups balance sheet and customers and well do that by addressing our customers needs through liquidity position: we are simplifying the Group to improve agility, efficiency superior insight, tailored products, better service and our focus on building a and customer service: and we are investing to be the best bank for customers.
By leveraging our capabilities we believe A set of key performance indicators has been developed to track we can help Britain prosper and deliver strong and sustainable returns for progress in each of these areas.
More on our 18 strategy and KPIs We have more than 30 million customers and employ high quality, committed people across our iconic brands which include lloyds Bank, Halifax, Bank of Scotland, TSB and Scottish Widows.
We are creating a simpler, more agile, efficient and responsive organisation with a focus on operating sustainably and responsibly.
We are focused on our core uK market which has attractive growth prospects, and where we can earn strong returns while maintaining a prudent approach to risk and a strong Building customer relationships balance sheet.
Customer relationships are key to our strategy and are critical for all our businesses.
Significant differences across our four divisions mean How we measure performance the financial and non-financial strategic indicators for the development We use a range of performance measures to track progress on of customer relationships are generally tracked at a divisional level.
our strategy of becoming the best bank for customers.
This progress Commentary on these is therefore included in the specific divisional is measured through a number of key performance indicators which sections of this report.
To assess progress towards our aim of becoming the best bank for customers we measure customer satisfaction and are publicly committed to reducing complaints.
Our colleagues are a key differentiator and we use an engagement survey to assess individual motivation and organisational processes.
unlocking the Groups potential More on our divisions 24 Performance Output More on customer satisfaction 30 and customer complaints measures measures More on staff Building customer Delivering sustainable 34 engagement relationships returns to shareholders Output measures Delivering sustainable returns to shareholders Alignment of remuneration with performance We have made significant progress against our strategic priorities in 2013.
To ensure our employees act in the best interests of customers and This is reflected in our improved underlying profit and stronger capital shareholders, remuneration at all levels of the organisation is aligned to the position as well as the improvement in statutory performance, despite strategic development and financial performance of the business and also legacy charges.
takes into account specific risk management controls.
Further detail on these measures is contained in the following pages.
Variable remuneration including bonuses for all staff, including our executive More on our Directors, is based on the performance of the individual, the business area and 44 Group results the Group as a whole.
Performance is assessed against a balanced scorecard Going forward, we will also track our performance against the commitments of objectives, reviewed on a regular basis, across five areas customer, of our new Helping Britain Prosper Plan.
building the business, risk, people and finance.
executive management are also eligible to participate in a long-Term Incentive Plan, which encourages More on our 28 delivery on long-term financial objectives including total shareholder return Helping Britain Prosper Plan and the Groups strategic objectives of becoming the best bank for customers and helping Britain prosper.
