6 Overview London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2013 WHAT WE DO BUSINESS MODEL We provide services to a broad set of customers on an international basis, across a diverse range of asset classes.
Our business activities fall into three areas: Capital formation Capital Markets Risk management Post Trade Services Intellectual property Information Services and Technology Services CAPITAL MARKETS PRIMARY SECONDARY MARKETS MARKETS Listing and Cash equities capital raising Derivatives E quity F ixed income Debt xed income Funds specialist products Commodities power TECHNOLOGY POST TRADE SERVICES CUSTOMERS SERVICES Trading systems Issuers Clearing CCP services M arket surveillance Intermediaries banks traders Settlement Post trade services Asset owners managers C ustody Smart order routing Data vendors information and market data providers solutions Third party trading venues Data centre and exchanges and other capital network services markets companies INFORMATION SERVICES Real time data More information prices trading Indices benchmarks See the Segmental Review Other information pages 19-32 for an update r eference on developments in each transaction main business area, and for reporting matching more information on KPIs news workow see previous page Read the Financial Review pages 34-39 for details of business performance over the past year See Market Structures pages 110-111 for an overview of the services provided by exchanges, MTFs and clearing houses.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Overview What we do Business model 7 Equities CAPITAL MARKETS Our primary markets are home to a wide range of companies, Our central economic function is to bring together companies and from global and well known, to small and medium size enterprises.
other issuers seeking capital with investors from around the world.
Our systems allow our members to electronically trade equities listed on our markets.
The majority of trading takes place on Primary market our Main and AIM markets, both in London and Italy.
Through Our primary markets in London and Italy provide companies and Turquoise, traders can also access pan-European equities.
other issuers of equity and debt from around the globe with cost efficient access to some of the worlds deepest and most liquid Fixed Income pools of capital.
The Groups MTS, MOT and ORB markets provide platforms for the trading of European Government and corporate bonds.
Secondary market Our systems provide fast and efficient trading, giving investors Derivatives and institutions access to UK and Italian equities, pan-European Our success in running primary markets has enabled us to develop equities through Turquoise, international depositary receipts derivative markets for the trading of emerging market equity on our International Order Book, European corporate and derivatives, particularly Russian derivatives.
IDEM is our derivatives government bonds xed income and equity and index market for Italian equities: Turquoise trades International Order Book derivatives Italian, Norwegian, Russian and UK.
derivatives and has also launched FTSE 100 Index Futures and Options.
TECHNOLOGY SERVICES POST TRADE SERVICES All of our businesses depend on technology that is secure, stable The Group offers a full range of post trade services, providing risk and performs to high levels of availability and throughput.
management and efficiency for traders.
Based in Italy, CC&G provides clearing services to a number of Group and other trading venues.
With continued demand for new functionality and highly automated trading, we are investing to increase the capabilities of our trading Monte Titoli, a central securities depositary, enables securities to services.
With MillenniumIT, we have an agile, efficient, in-house be processed, settled and held in custody.
IT development capability to serve the Groups various businesses.
MillenniumIT also sells and licenses the same exchange related Following completion of the acquisition of a majority stake in technology and services to over 30 capital markets businesses LCH.
Clearnet in May 2013, the Group now has majority ownership across the globe.
of clearing services in the UK, continental Europe and the US.
This business will be reported as a separate segment in future.
INFORMATION SERVICES Indices Through FTSE, a global leader in the calculation and provision of Real time data indices, we assist asset owners and managers and other market We supply real time prices and trading data, creating the transparency users to benchmark investment performance.
and liquidity that are essential for market users.
Other information services This data is of high value and is used and referenced by market To facilitate efficient trading on our markets, we have developed participants and trading services.
As well as providing feeds directly a number of other reference, desktop and workow products, to clients, we also distribute through providers such as Bloomberg which we provide to issuers, investors, traders, retail brokers and Thomson Reuters.
These providers incorporate our data with and market makers.
These services include: other information and sell it to trading rms, investors and institutions around the world.
SEDOL unique security identier numbering system UnaVista transaction matching and reconciliation service RNS Regulatory News Service Proquote market data system
