OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Business review Our wider responsibility 33 OUR WIDER RESPONSIBILITY The Group has significant corporate responsibilities.
We play a vital economic role by enabling companies to access funds for growth, while looking to run our own business responsibly.
Below, we summarise our approach and outline some of our key We also invested in potential through our third graduate in-take, joined Ladder achievements during the year.
We have also produced a detailed corporate for Londons apprenticeship scheme and continued to develop our staff through responsibility CR report, which can be downloaded at www.
htm Ethics and governance Our economic role Transparency and trust remain vital for inspiring confidence in our markets The Groups business directly promotes economic activity.
Our capital and for our business success.
We have a number of policies and guidance markets enable companies to access funds to grow, creating jobs and for our staff to ensure appropriate conduct in all that we do.
During the year, encouraging innovation.
Our robust technology provides the infrastructure we reviewed and updated our Code of Conduct, which sets out the behaviours that enables capital to ow, our information services help investors and we expect from our directors and staff.
companies create value by making sustainable decisions and our post trade services help manage systemic risks in financial markets.
The Board increased its focus on risk and we introduced a new enterprise risk management framework, which will enable us to better monitor, assess and Through FTSE we provide the market with a wide variety of data and tools manage our risk prole.
The Board views this as particularly important following for institutional investors, including those such as the FTSE4Good Index the LCH.
Clearnet transaction and the consequent increase in business Series, which support the integration of environmental, social and governance dedicated to post trade services and risk management.
See pages 50-59 ESG considerations into the investment process and stewardship activities.
for more detail regarding the Boards approach to Corporate Governance.
FTSE sits at an important juncture in the investment chain and is using its influence to support investor corporate communication and interaction Environment on ESG issues, for example through the dedicated ESG Service Unit, Our direct environmental impacts arise from the energy we use in our ofces set up in 2012. and data centres, from travel and from waste.
This was the base year for our data collection and reporting processes for our Group environmental data, The Group has an important public policy role, for example by making including carbon emissions.
Sustainability software was deployed to calculate the case for measures that increase investment in growing businesses.
our emissions and enable improvement targets to be set for the coming year.
This helps ensure that companies can access the widest set of investors We continue to make good progress, as shown by our Carbon Disclosure and raise capital at an attractive cost.
It also provides investors with the Project score rising from 23 per cent to 66 per cent.
We also signicantly broadest range of investment opportunities.
increased recycling rates from 61 per cent to 84 per cent.
We also promote responsible corporate behaviour.
During the year, Looking ahead we took part in domestic and EU consultations and we ran corporate As our business grows, we continue to review our approach to sustainability.
governance initiatives in the UK and Italy, for example by producing As part of this, we aim to develop a long term CR strategy in the coming year.
a guide to corporate governance for issuers.
In the short term, we have set objectives to enhance both our economic role and our performance.
Running a responsible business CR helps us to be a better business and to create value for our investors We will continue to support the growth of the Cleantech sector on our markets, and other stakeholders.
Our approach identies four key areas community, promote responsible investment with retail investors and work on integrating people, ethics and governance, and environment which are most likely to LCH.
Clearnet into our sustainability approach.
Additionally, with the likely shape our development and where we can most successfully contribute.
introduction of carbon reporting requirements by the UK Government, we will work with London listed clients to help them to prepare for these new Community regulations in a manner that will be most meaningful for investors.
With We aim to make a positive contribution to the communities in which we regard to the four pillars of our CR approach, our objectives include setting operate.
In total including the distribution of ne income, the Group and publishing environmental targets on our website during FY 2014 and donated 1,193,000 2012: 963,000 to charity in the past financial year, aligning the Foundations approach more directly to our overall CR strategy.
of which 716,000 was donated through the Groups charitable Foundation.
London Stock Exchange Group Foundation is our channel for charitable giving and a focal point for staff engagement.
During the year, the Foundation focused on projects that help young and disadvantaged people reach their potential by developing life skills and business enterprise.
It approved donations to 27 charities, in addition to long term support for our partner charities Friendship Works, Habitat for Humanity Sri Lanka and In-Presa.
People To remain competitive, we need to attract and develop a diverse skills base that can thrive in uncertain markets and identify and deliver growth.
This year, we have invested in developing a new behavioural framework, Comic Relief opened the London market as part of the Groups annual Charity Trading Day, March 2013 which focuses on behaviours that are key to our long term success.
