16 Overview London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2013 STRATEGY IN ACTION As we continue to execute our successful expansion and diversication strategy, our focus remains consistent: increasing efficiencies, internationalisation and developing growth opportunities.
In particular, we made good progress in the last year on integrating our strategic acquisitions, diversifying our service offering by product and asset class, and further developing our strategic customer relationships.
Exceptional people, a commitment to innovation and partnership and high performing technology continue to underpin the delivery of our strategy.
ACTION Building best in class Invest in skills and infrastructure Implement high performance and capabilities cost-effective technology Strict cost control Strong risk management oversight Excellent customer service Creating a Extend sales and distribution capabilities in Asia and the US global business Establish and develop partnerships in key geographies Continue to build a position in attractive high growth emerging markets Developing Invest in post trade and risk management services to deliver new and added value to customers opportunities Diversify offering into new asset classes and client segments and create innovative solutions Position for growth opportunities arising out of regulatory change Successful integration of acquired businesses Innovative products and services Partnerships with clients OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Overview Strategy in action 17 Income by product geography diversication of income over last 10 years PROGRESS 1 2 2004: 237m 2013: 853m Product We have built a strong and efficient business Three year, Group-wide technology upgrade completed putting cost-effective technology at the heart of the business Integration of acquired businesses is strengthening our skill set and our pool of management expertise Cost base held at in 2013 Capital markets 59% Capital markets 31% Information services 37% Post trade services 24% Technology & other 4% Information services excl.
FTSE 20% Our footprint is global FTSE 16% With LCH.
Clearnet we now have around 2,800 employees Technology services 7% Other 2% based in 13 countries, delivering services worldwide Over 50 per cent of Group revenue was generated outside Geography the UK Building prole in North America with FTSEs Vanguard index win and xed income index JV MillenniumIT partnering with global clients: Mongolian SE, Johannesburg SE and Borsa fide Valores fide Lima We are successfully diversifying to take advantage of growth opportunities UK 86% UK 45% Asset class diversication: FTSE TMX Global Debt Capital Other 14% Italy 18% Other 37% Markets JV, commodity derivatives listed on AGREX and IDEX durum wheat and energy futures, FTSE Crex 1 2004 gures prepared under UK GAAP currency indices 2 Adjusted total income Developing European SME franchise by improving access to capital for SMEs and investment opportunities for retail investors: AIM, AIM Italia, Elite, ORB, MOT Diversifying services offered in post trade with LCH.
Clearnet, Monte Titoli and UnaVista Developing strong buy-side and asset owner relationships 18 Overview London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2013 STRENGTHENED SENIOR MANAGEMENT The business is managed on a day-to-day basis by an Executive Committee.
The team meets regularly to review business and financial performance, develop Group strategy, review project development, set targets and agree actions.
The Executive team listed below was further strengthened during the year with David Warren joining as Chief Financial officer and Alexander Justham becoming Chief Executive officer, London Stock Exchange plc.
These new appointments reect the growing international prole of the Group and the increasing regulatory oversight of parts of our business: David brings experience from many years working in international capital markets and Alexander provides expertise in financial markets regulation.
Mark Makepeace also joined the Executive Committee, heading the Groups Information Services segment, which includes the FTSE Group.
For further information on Xavier Rolet, David Warren and Raffaele Jerusalmi, who are also members of the Board of Directors, see their biographies on page 48.
Xavier Rolet Alexander Justham Tony Weeresinghe Group Chief Executive Chief Executive officer, London Stock Exchange Director of Global Development and CEO of plc.
Joined the Group in 2012 from the Financial MillenniumIT.
Prior to Services Authority FSA where he was Director founding MillenniumIT in 1996 he was Head of of Markets.
Prior to the FSA he worked at the Open Systems Division of ComputerLand JPMorgan for 17 years, where he held a number and Country Manager of Oracle in Sri Lanka.
of roles, latterly as a Managing Director at JPMorganCazenove.
Raffaele Jerusalmi David Lester Antoine Shagoury Chief Executive officer of Borsa Italiana Group Director of Corporate Strategy.
Joined the Group Chief Operating officer and Chief and Director of Capital Markets Group in 2001.
He has over 23 years experience Information officer.
Joined in 2010 from the in financial markets including with Thomson American Stock Exchange now part of NYSE Financial, Accenture and KPMG.
Euronext where he was CIO.
Prior to his role at the Amex NYSE, Antoine held several executive technology positions over the preceding 10 years at Instinet, most recently as CTO of Instinet Services.
He has over 20 years of technology and financial services experience.
David Warren Mark Makepeace Chief Financial officer Group Director of Information Services and Chief Executive of FTSE Group.
Founding Director of FTSE Group in 1995 and joined the Group in 2012.
Mark has over 15 years experience of developing successful joint ventures and has forged alliances with stock exchanges, academics and leading industry groups.
Post year end, Ian Axe, CEO of LCH.
Clearnet, and Diane Ct, Chief Risk officer, also joined the Executive Committee.
