8 Overview London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2013 MARKET POSITION AND OUTLOOK The Groups three core business areas provide a wide range of services necessary to help support the effective functioning of global capital markets.
The markets we operate in are impacted by a wide range of factors, Capital Formation including structural shifts in the global economy, the geopolitical landscape and ongoing regulatory changes.
For an overview of market structures, Access to primary sources of equity and debt finance see pages 110-111. for companies of all sizes from all over the world Secondary markets for price formation and trading.
Economic conditions The past year was again shaped by market uncertainty.
In Europe, continued Risk Management slow growth was fuelled by the sovereign debt crisis in the Eurozone and renewed fears of a financial crisis.
In the United States, uncertainty was Post trade services to mitigate counterparty risk, maximise capital driven by the presidential and congressional elections, Washingtons inability efficiencies for customers, support the safe transfer of securities to reach consensus on the US scal cliff and the impending implementation and optimise cash ows for efficient collateral management.
Conversely, the outlook for most emerging economies remained relatively strong throughout the year, with swift structural reforms Intellectual Property and growing domestic consumption.
Downward revisions to the global Market data and information to increase knowledge and transparency economic outlook, coupled with continued scal tensions in developed countries, high volatility across all asset classes and lower trading volumes, as well as accessibility through the calculation of indices resulted in a challenging environment for most global financial institutions.
Technology solutions to enable markets to operate reliably, responsively and efficiently.
Also in the past year, more European countries have introduced austerity programmes to improve public sector nances.
France and Italy have implemented transaction taxes on cash equity instruments as part of an ongoing process by a total of 11 EU countries that is expected to introduce a financial transaction tax framework through a mechanism of enhanced cooperation.
Furthermore, parliamentary elections in Italy resulted in heightened political uncertainty, while the recent banking crisis in Cyprus has renewed fears of a full-blown European crisis, as well as questions around the European Central Banks room to manoeuvre with regard to further stimulus.
In spite of these factors, many European stock markets have rallied since January 2013, retail sales in Britain and Germany have risen above market expectations, and market reaction to the Cypriot events and subsequent bailout provide some basis for cautious optimism.
Against this backdrop, we strongly believe that the increased diversication and balanced income streams of the Group are critical elements in countering any macro economic headwinds.
Our results, which include growth in our Information Services and Technology businesses, are evidence of the effectiveness of our approach during the past year.
Furthermore, performance in our primary and secondary markets improved during the second half of the financial year and, although there are reasons to remain cautious, renewed IPO activity and increased investor confidence in our markets are signalling a potential improvement in market conditions.
Londons position as a financial hub means that the Group is strategically well placed to support capital formation and provide companies listed on our markets with diverse sources of equity capital, as well as benefiting investors looking to take full advantage of changes in market sentiment.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Overview Market position and outlook 9 FTSE 100 Despite a difficult trading environment, our focus on client relationships and high performance trading technology has successfully delivered a higher share of equity trading compared with the previous year.
Share of equity 7,000 trading for UK cash equities and Italian order book trading averaged 65.3 per cent and 85.3 per cent respectively excluding trading on Turquoise.
6,500 On a pan-European basis, the share of trading for the Groups equity order 6,000 books including Turquoise was 27.1 per cent, versus 25.5 per cent in 2012.
During the same period, principal global indices continued to be highly 5,500 volatile: the FTSE 100 nished the financial year up 11 per cent while the 5,000 FTSE MIB declined by four per cent.
4,500 Regulatory changes also continue to shape the environment in which 4,000 Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar we operate.
Further details are provided on the next page.
2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2013 2013 2013 Outlook For the year ahead, we believe that customer demand, regulatory changes FTSE MIB and evolving market conditions will continue to shape our business and allow us to explore and create new opportunities.
Our acquisition of a majority stake in LCH.
Clearnet, which completed in early May 2013, is a 20,000 vitally important development that will play a crucial role in helping us to further develop our clearing and risk management services across multiple 18,000 asset classes and geographies, enhancing our horizontal, open access business model.
This transformative transaction positions the enlarged 16,000 Group well for a long term, leading role in global market infrastructure.
14,000 It also reinforces the Groups diversication strategy, encompassing both product and geographic expansion, while allowing us to work more 12,000 closely with our clients.
X 64.0% 3.6 64.6% 3.2 66.0% 4.5 69.3% 3.8 67.4% 3.7 67.0% 3.2 65.4% 3.8 64.0% 4.0 63.1% 4.6 65.6% 10 Overview London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2013 MARKET POSITION AND OUTLOOK Regulation continues to shape the landscape A regulation has also been proposed in relation to Central Securities Financial markets continue to be at the centre of regulatory change.
Many Depositories CSDs, with measures to harmonise the authorisation and of the operations of the Group are subject to regulatory oversight and as the operation of central securities depositories and certain aspects of securities Group expands for instance, by taking a majority stake in LCH.
Clearnet, it settlement in the EU, including settlement periods and settlement discipline.
will be subject to further financial market regulation in multiple jurisdictions.
This will open the CSDs to competition across the EU, presenting both opportunities and risks to the Group.
In addition, there have been measures Many aspects of capital markets are global in nature.
Until the anticipated on short selling and settlement discipline and reviews of regulations in regulatory changes discussed below are fully implemented and their impact the areas of market abuse, prospectuses and issuer transparency.
In many fully realised, it is difficult to predict whether the markets will continue cases, the primary or Level I measure has been agreed and the process of this global trend or will retrench.
However, the rapid pace of technological developing the Level II regulations is underway.
The newly created ESAs development, which supports globalisation in all sectors, and is key in European Supervisory Authorities play a key role in this process.
financial services, shows little current sign of slowing.
The other key EU initiative is T2S TARGET2-Securities, a project of the The ow of regulatory initiatives and regulatory change has continued ECB European Central Bank which aims to facilitate cheaper cross-border unabated.
Despite the time that has elapsed since the real onset of the settlement across Europe: after earlier delays, the implementation date financial crisis in 2008, the continued difficult economic climate has of phase 1 has been set for June 2015. meant that the direction of travel remains towards increasing regulation, for the time being at least.
UK Regulatory Structure In the UK, the Financial Services Act passed into law in December 2012 Indeed, the application of regulation is being extended into areas of financial and the UK financial services industry has been operating since 1 April services and related activity that hitherto were not subject to regulation.
The FSA has been replaced by two For instance, as a result of the disclosures in summer 2012 around the new regulators and one existing body: 1 the PRA Prudential Regulatory manipulation of LIBOR, the activity of submission to, and administration Authority is part of the Bank of England and is responsible for micro of, specified indices namely LIBOR are, as from 1 April 2013, regulated prudential regulation, 2 the FCA Financial Conduct Authority is responsible activities in the UK and are most likely to be subject to similar measures for conduct, markets including London Stock Exchange plc and consumer under proposals due to be published by the European Commission by protection and 3 the Bank of England is responsible for regulating UK summer 2013.
The European Commission and IOSCO are also continuing CCPs including LCH.
Clearnet Limited and payment systems.
There is to work on possible measures related to what they term shadow banking also a Financial Policy Committee FPC to advise on macro-systemic risk, or market based finance, which are likely to extend some measure of which may lead to a more proactive approach to the regulation of financial regulation to the activities of money market funds and stock lending.
stability for those entities regulated by PRA, FCA and the Bank of England.
G20 goals Future measures Policymakers high level goals remain: establishing harmonised regimes Apart from the regulations and measures to implement the existing to minimise the scope for regulatory arbitrage: increasing the scope for legislation, the European Commission has brought forward proposals regulatory intervention: and introducing further measures to ensure for an FTT Financial Transactions Tax under the enhanced co-operation financial stability so as to minimise the risk of taxpayers being required procedure, as only 11 member States have currently indicated an interest to underwrite failed institutions and or market infrastructure all the more in such a measure France and Italy have already implemented their important given the G20 commitment in Pittsburgh in September 2009 to own versions of an FTT.
It is also expected to propose: the regulation increase the level of trading that should be traded on venues and or cleared of submission to, and administration of benchmarks key indices in clearing houses.
such as LIBOR: regulation on securities law, including securities holding accounts and stock lending as part of the measures around so-called In the US and EU, delivery of the Pittsburgh G20 commitments has been a shadow banking, enhanced corporate governance and gender balance priority.
In the US, the key measure is the Dodd-Frank Act, a wide-ranging requirements: and arrangements for resolving failed non-bank market act that facilitates an extensive set of rule-making by supervisory bodies infrastructure specifically CCPs, initially, all of which may affect on regulatory structures, bringing OTC derivatives on to trading venues and Group operations to some extent.
into clearing, increased regulation on the establishment and operation of CCPs and tools for resolving failed investment rms and banks.
These rules In the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section page 43, we set out will also apply to LCH.
Clearnet LLC, a DCO derivatives clearing organisation the potential implications for the expanded Group of the key measures in the US.
In the EU, delivering the G20 agenda has resulted in a number of key measures being proposed by the European Commission, including: EMIR trading and clearing of OTC derivatives, CCP regulation and introduction of Trade Repositories, CRD IV capital requirements directive and remuneration policy, MiFID trading obligation for some OTC derivatives and CRAR bringing Credit Rating Agencies within the scope of regulation.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Overview Market position and outlook 11 Overview of regulatory landscape The broad scope of regulation, its developing reach and the expansion of the Group to include further clearing and other regulated businesses mean that regulation will inevitably have a growing impact on the Group and its activities.
We set out below some of the key areas where there is likely to be some impact or opportunity: LSEG Division & Business Area Legislation measure Scope CAPITAL MARKETS Primary markets MiFID Commission proposal SME Small and Medium Sized Enterprises Growth Market proposals under negotiation to support SME funding and markets Secondary trading markets FTT non UK but in Italy, To impose transaction tax on trades in equity and derivative markets France Commission proposal under negotiation MiFID Commission proposal Requirements for trading venues to give access to competing providers under negotiation in order to promote further competition and for non-exclusive licensing of benchmark indices SME Growth Market Increased pre and post trade transparency for all non-equity asset classes, including bonds and derivatives Increased regulatory requirements for high frequency trading strategies and proprietary trading MAD MAR Commission Index manipulation and non-listed issues within Market Abuse regime proposal under negotiation POST TRADE CCPs EMIR Level II under Mandate CCP clearing for a wide range of eligible derivatives contracts implementation Mandate the reporting of derivative trades to Trade Repositories Establish harmonised requirements for CCPs and Trade Repositories so that they can demonstrate safety, soundness and efficiency EC regime for resolution for Commission likely to propose recovery and resolution measures in Q4 2013 banks and CCPs awaiting for CCPs and CSDs Commission proposal May provide regulators with expanded powers to intervene at an early stage, including the power to require an entity to implement measures under its recovery plan Resolution authorities will also be provided with wide range of resolution tools UK Financial Services Act Amends UK Banking Act to introduce recovery and resolution regime for UK CCPs 2012 implemented Settlement CSDR Commission proposal The Commission has proposed measures to harmonise: Monte Titoli under negotiation the authorisation and operation of central securities depositories certain aspects of securities settlement in the EU, including settlement periods and settlement discipline T2S ECB project The implementation date for phase 1 of the European Central Banks T2S project, aimed at facilitating cheaper cross-border settlement across Europe, has now been set for June 2015 In November 2011, the ECB agreed the Framework Agreement, which sets out the contractual rights and obligations of the Eurosystem and each contracting CSD.
Monte Titoli has already signed the Framework Agreement, reconrming its positioning in the first wave of the project INFORMATION SERVICES FTSE Index Regulation EU & Regulation of specified indices UK awaiting Commission proposal, already in UK law MiFID Commission proposal Access under MiFIR Art 30 requires non-exclusive licensing of benchmark under negotiation Market data MiFID Commission proposal Post trade consolidated tape CT likely introduction of requirements for under negotiation harmonised post trade data and some sort of consolidated tape process
