72 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2013 DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors of the Company are pleased to present their annual report to shareholders, together with the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013.
Principal activities and results Business review The principal activities of the Company and its subsidiaries are the The information that fulls the requirements of the Business Review admission of securities to trading, the delivery and operation of trading can be found in this Directors Report and in the following sections systems, the clearing and settlement of trading in securities, the of the Annual Report which are incorporated into this Directors Report organisation and regulation of markets in securities, the provision of by reference: investment support tools including benchmarking and index licensing products and the provision of real time data and other information Overview pages 2-18: and products, together with a wide range of technology services from trading Business Review including the Financial Review pages 19-47. platform solutions through to connectivity to our markets.
The Group made a profit before taxation, before amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items, of 380.7 million 2012: 400.6 million.
After taking into account amortisation of purchased intangible assets and non-recurring items, the profit of the Group before taxation for the year ended 31 March 2013 was 298.9 million 2012: 639.7 million and profit after taxation was 215.5 million 2012: 531.4 million.
Dividends The Directors are recommending a final dividend for the year of 19.8 pence 2012: 19.0 pence per share which is expected to be paid on 19 August 2013 to shareholders on the register on 26 July 2013.
Together with the interim dividend of 9.7 pence 2012: 9.3 pence per share paid in January 2013, this produces a total dividend for the year of 29.5 pence 2012: 28.3 pence per share estimated to amount to 79.6 million 2012: 76.4 million.
Share capital As at 31 March 2013 the Company had 271.1 million ordinary shares in issue 79 with a nominal value of 6 86 pence each, representing 100 per cent of the total issued share capital.
There were no changes to the Companys issued ordinary share capital during the year.
Share rights The rights and obligations attached to the Companys ordinary shares are set out in the Companys articles of association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Group Company Secretary.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend, speak and vote at general meetings of the Company.
Every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote on a show of hands and one vote for every ordinary share held on a poll.
Proxy appointments and voting instructions must be received by the Companys Registrars not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding a general meeting or adjourned general meeting or as otherwise specified in the Companys articles of association.
No shareholder shall be entitled to vote at a general meeting, either in person or by proxy, in respect of any share held by him unless all monies presently payable by him in respect of that share have been paid.
In addition, no shareholder shall be entitled to vote, either in person or by proxy, if he has been served with a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 concerning interests in those shares and has failed to supply the Company with the requisite information.
Other than restrictions considered to be standard for a UK listed company there are no limitations on the holding or transfers of ordinary shares in the Company, both of which are governed and regulated by the Companys articles of association and applicable legislation and regulation, and the Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Directors report 73 Corporate Governance Statement Authority to Purchase Shares The Companys Corporate Governance Report is set out on pages 50-71 and is, The authority for the Company to purchase in the market up to 27,000,000 together with the information on share rights set out above, incorporated into of its ordinary shares representing approximately 10 per cent of the issued this Corporate Governance Statement by reference.
share capital of the Company as at the latest practicable date before publication of the Notice of the Companys last AGM granted at the Articles of Association Companys last AGM, expires on the date of the forthcoming AGM.
The Companys articles of association adopted by special resolution passed Although the latter authority was not utilised by the Company, on 14 July 2010 may only be amended by special resolution at a general shareholders will be asked to give a similar authority to purchase meeting of the shareholders.
shares at the forthcoming AGM.
Substantial Shareholding Directors interests As at 15 May 2013 the Company had been notied of the following Directors interests in the shares of the Company as at 31 March 2013, interests amounting to more than three per cent in the issued share according to the register maintained under the Companies Act 2006, are capital of the Company in accordance with DTR 5 of the FCA Disclosure set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 60-71.
No company and Transparency Rules: in the Group was, during or at the end of the financial year, party to any contract of signicance in which any Director was materially interested.
Borse Dubai Limited 21.0% Employees Qatar Investment Authority 15.4% Information on the Companys employment policies is given on page 33 FIL Limited 5.2% and information on the Groups share schemes is provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 60-71.
The Company provides an induction Directors programme for new employees, including training on health and safety, Details of the Directors are set out on pages 48-49 and are incorporated into and a range of development programmes for all staff to develop their skills this Directors Report by reference.
The Company encourages and assists the employment, training and retention of disabled people.
Where changes to working The rules governing the appointment and replacement of Directors are set practices or structure affect staff, they are consulted and given the out in the Companys articles of association.
All employees are provided with information on matters of concern to them in their work, through regular brieng At each AGM, pursuant to the UK Governance Code, all of the Directors will meetings and internal publications.
retire and be proposed for re-election.
Donations Powers of the Directors Charitable Donations Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the Companys articles During the year the Group gave 884,000 2012: 663,000 to charitable of association and any directions given by special resolution, the business organisations.
In addition, 309,000 of ne income collected by the Group of the Company shall be managed by the Board which may exercise all the was donated to charity, giving rise to total donations of 1,193,000.
In powers of the Company, including without limitation the power to dispose aggregate, 799,000 2012: 800,000 of these donations were made of all or any part of the undertaking of the Company and to issue or buyback to the London Stock Exchange Group Foundation, which in turn donated shares under the authorities described below.
No alteration of the Companys 716,000 to charities.
Details of the Groups charitable giving is contained articles of association and no such direction shall invalidate any prior act of in the Corporate Responsibility Report on page 33. the Board which would have been valid if that alteration had not been made or that direction had not been given.
Political Donations and Expenditure The Group made no political donations and incurred no political expenditure Issue of Shares during the year.
It remains the Companys policy not to make political Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and without prejudice donations or to incur political expenditure, however the application of the to any rights attached to any existing shares or class of shares, any share relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006 is potentially very broad may be issued with such rights or restrictions as the Company may by in nature and, as last year, the Board is seeking shareholder authority to ordinary resolution determine or, subject to and in default of such ensure that the Group does not inadvertently breach these provisions as determination, as the Board shall determine.
a result of the breadth of its business activities, although the Board has no intention of using this authority.
Accordingly, the Board is proposing that Authority to Allot Shares shareholders pass a resolution at the forthcoming AGM to authorise the The authority conferred on the Directors at last years AGM to allot the Group to: unissued share capital of the Company up to a maximum nominal amount of 6,250,000 representing approximately 33.3 per cent of the issued share make political donations to political parties and independent capital of the Company as at the latest practicable date before publication of election candidates not exceeding 100,000 in total the Notice of the Companys last AGM or, in connection with a pre-emptive make political donations to political organisations other than offer to existing shareholders by way of a rights issue, up to a maximum political parties not exceeding 100,000 in total: and nominal amount of 12,500,000 representing approximately 66.6 per cent of the issued share capital of the Company as at the latest practicable date incur political expenditure not exceeding 100,000 in total before publication of the Notice of the Companys last AGM, expires on the date of the forthcoming AGM.
Although the latter authority was not utilised and in aggregate not exceeding 100,000, until the Companys by the Company, shareholders will be asked to give a similar authority to AGM in 2014. allot shares at the forthcoming AGM.
74 Governance London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2013 DIRECTORS REPORT Supplier payment policy circumstances the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to defer It is the Groups on-going policy to agree payment terms with suppliers when vesting and to require rights to be exchanged for equivalent rights over business transactions are negotiated and to make payments in accordance the acquiring companys shares.
with those terms when goods and services have been satisfactorily supplied.
London Stock Exchange plc is an approved member of The Prompt Payment Employee benefit trust Code, part of a structured initiative devised by the UK Government, with the As at 31 March 2013, the trustee of the London Stock Exchange Employee Institute of Credit Management, to tackle the issue of late payment and benefit Trust, which is an independent trustee, held 1.1 million shares help small businesses.
The Prompt Payment Code can be viewed at: 2012: 1.2 million under the terms of the trust for the benefit of employees www.
The creditor days at 31 March 2013 and former employees of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The trust is a based on the aggregate of the amount which was owed to trade creditors discretionary trust and the shares are held to meet employees entitlements and the aggregate of the amount in which the Group was invoiced by under the Companys share plans.
Employees have no voting rights in relation suppliers during the year was 27 days 2012: 28 days.
to the shares while they are held in trust.
The trustee has full discretion to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares or to abstain from voting.
Significant agreements Shares acquired by employees through the Companys employee share plans The following are significant agreements to which the Company is a party rank equally with the ordinary shares in issue and have no special rights.
that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
Contractual arrangements essential to the Company Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to provide information about Facility Agreements persons with whom the Company has contractual or other arrangements The Company as borrower has entered into: which are essential to the business.
The Group has contractual arrangements with its clearing services providers including the LCH.
Clearnet Group and SIX a revolving facility agreement with, among others, Lloyds TSB X-Clear and with SIA for the provision of technology to Monte Titoli and MTS, Bank plc, Bayerische Hypound Vereinsbank AG, London Branch, which remain essential for the business.
Various Group entities are regulated and Intesa Sanpaolo S. p. A. dated 24 July 2008, as amended by and the Group attaches the highest priority to complying with local an amendment agreement dated 7 February 2012 regulatory requirements.
a revolving facility agreement with, among others, Barclays Capital, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, HSBC Bank plc, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Financial risk management UFJ Limited, Intesa Sanpaolo S. p. A. Lloyds TSB Bank plc and Unicredit The use of financial instruments by the Group and the Groups financial risk Bank AG, London Branch, dated 17 November 2010, as amended by an management have been specifically considered by the Directors, and relevant amendment agreement dated 7 February 2012: and disclosures appear in Principal Risks and Uncertainties, on pages 42-47 of this Annual Report, and in the notes to the Financial Statements, on pages a revolving facility agreement with Lloyds TSB Bank plc, The Royal Bank 84-87 of this Annual Report, and in each case are incorporated by reference of Scotland plc, Morgan Stanley Bank International Limited and The Bank into this Directors Report.
of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Limited, dated 15 December 2011.
Audit information All the above agreements contain terms appropriate for an investment grade In accordance with Section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors borrower including change of control provisions which, if triggered, allow the confirm, in the case of each Director in ofce at the date the Directors Report relevant facility agent upon instructions from the majority lenders to cancel is approved, that: the relevant facility and declare all outstanding loans under that agreement, together with accrued interest and all other amounts accrued, due and payable.
so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and Notes he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a The Company has issued two sterling Notes to the wholesale xed income Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit market due 2016 and 2019.
Both Notes contain a redemption upon change information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of control provision which, if triggered by the combination of a change of of that information.
control and, within 120 days thereafter, a credit rating downgrade to non-investment grade, allows Note holders to exercise their option to require Auditors the Issuer to redeem the Notes and pay any accrued and unpaid interest due.
A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as the Companys auditors will be proposed at the AGM.
Retail Bond Issue The Company has issued during the year sterling denominated retail By Order of the Board bonds, under its 1,000 million Euro Medium Term Note Programme, due 2 November 2021.
The retail bonds contain change of control provisions which, if triggered, allow the holder of these bonds to have the option to require the Issuer to repay early or to purchase the bonds of that holder at their face value together with accrued interest.
Employee Share Plans Lisa Condron The rules of the Companys employee share plans set out the consequences Group Company Secretary of a change of control of the Company on employees rights under the plans.
15 May 2013 Generally such rights will vest on a change of control and participants will become entitled to acquire shares in the Company although in certain OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Governance Directors responsibilities for the financial statements 75 DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT, THE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT AND THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors The Directors have reviewed the Groups forecasts and projections, taking into Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with account reasonably possible changes in trading performance, which show applicable law and regulations.
that the Group has sufficient financial resources.
On the basis of this review, and after making due enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group and operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements Directors responsibility statement unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are set out on pages 48-49 of the affairs of the Group and the Company.
of this Annual Report, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge and belief: the Group financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the Group taken as a whole: and make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent the Directors report contained in the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union the Company and the Group taken as a whole, together with a description have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless By Order of the Board it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and with Lisa Condron reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and Group Company Secretary the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the 15 May 2013 Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Overview and Business Review sections of the Annual Report on pages 2-47.
In particular, the current economic conditions continue to pose a number of risks and uncertainties for the Group and these are set out in Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 42-47.
The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group and the exposure of the Group to capital risk, credit risk, market risk and liquidity risk are discussed on pages 84-87.
The Group continues to meet Group and individual entity capital requirements and day-to-day liquidity needs through the Groups cash resources and available credit facilities.
Committed term funding at 31 March 2013 increased to 1,650 million 2012: 1,350 million 1,450 million of which is committed until December 2014 or beyond 2012: 1,350 million committed until July 2013 or beyond, described further in the Financial Review on pages 34-39.
