06 Man Group plc Annual Report 2013 Business model AHL FRM Performance AHL MSS is Mans systematic investment FRM is the largest, independent alternatives specialist that focuses on delivering a range of specialist based in Europe and employs an Mans investment managers have absolute return, long only and momentumextensive research and investment team located expertise in a diverse range of strategies, based quantitative funds.
As a pioneer in the in London, New York, Tokyo, Guernsey and which offer investment returns matched systematic trading of global markets, and with a Pfaffikon Switzerland.
It specialises in open to investor appetite for risk and reward.
25-year track record, AHL MSS has established architecture hedge fund and alpha strategy itself at the forefront of its field.
Backed by solutions for institutional investors, including extensive research capabilities and a singular fund of hedge funds, client advisory solutions, collaborative culture, AHL MSS apply innovative outsourced research and consulting.
Their quantitative methods, informed by market extensive managed accounts platform offers FUM by manager understanding, to locate potential opportunities institutional investors control, transparency and 1 in more than 300 markets worldwide.
GLG 3 GLG is a leading discretionary, multi-strategy 2 global investment management business that offers a range of absolute return and long only strategies across asset classes, sectors and geographies.
Founded in 1995, GLG has built upa team of investment professionals covering equity, macro, emerging markets, credit, 1.
AHL MSS $11.9bn 22% fixedincome, convertible bond and 2.
FRM $12.0bn 22% Fund Investors These investors invest in independent fund Performance fees are charged as a percentage Mans investor base is broadly split one entities for which Man acts as the investment of the investment performance earned above a third two thirds between private investors manager.
The independent fund entities pay benchmark return or a previous higher valuation and institutional investors.
Mans private Manmanagement fees and performance fees.
investor base is focused on the mass affluent market and high net worth Management fees are charged for providing The fund entities are independently governed.
individuals and our institutional clients are investment management services at a Their investment performance, assets and predominantly pension funds, insurance percentage of each entitys gross investment liabilities are separate from Man and are not companies, banks, asset managers, exposure.
Gross investment exposure in this consolidated into Mans financial statements.
sovereign wealth funds and endowments.
report is referred as FUM.
EMEA London, Pfaffikon, Rotterdam, Dubai FUM Distribution 73% Our extensive global distribution network, long established local relationships and high quality technology-enabled investor The Americas reporting gives us competitive advantage.
Asia Pacific New York, Toronto, Montevideo Tokyo, Hong Kong, We distribute our products and solutions to Beijing, Sydney FUM private investors via a unique global network FUM ofintermediaries, and directly to institutions.
Intermediaries are rewarded through sales 7% commission.
Client service is an essential part 20% of our growth strategy and we focus equally onexpanding our investor base and serving existing investors.
D i s s t t r c i b u u d t o i r o P n M a r Strategic report 07 Corporate governance Man Group plc Financial statements Annual Report 2013 Other information Investor priorities and regulatory regimes vary Products significantly between jurisdictions, meaning that investor solutions need to be carefully tailored to Man is able to offer a wide range of liquid the needs of local markets.
Having the scale investment strategies and formats across and expertise to be able to package investment geographies to meet the needs of the returns appropriately to meet investor and investor.
These include quantitative and regulatory requirements is a key source of discretionary, long only and long short, competitive advantage.
Guaranteed $2.3bn 4% FUM by investor type 1 Fund Investors 2 1.
Institutional 66% Risk management and governance Mans Infrastructure and capital comprehensive risk management framework forms an essential part of our business model Surrounding our investment management and enables us to protect the interests of both and distribution is strong operational investors and shareholders.
infrastructure, risk management, people management and governance which People Man employs 1,115 people.
In addition ensures the sustainability of our business to the 332 investment professionals and 200 model and enables us to take advantage of people in sales and marketing we have 370 new business opportunities.
people in operations and technology and 213 people in management and support.
Capital Our surplus capital of $760 million andliquidity resources of $2.5 billion give us flexibility to support and grow our business across market cycles.
