D i s s t t r c i b u u d t o i r o P n M a r 04 Man Group plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic framework Objective Our objective is to be a leading provider of liquid, high-alpha investment strategies across a diversified range of asset classes and geographies.
Mans business model begins and ends with investment performance, and the ability of our investment managers Business model to deliver strong long-term performance for our investors across a broad spectrum of investment strategies.
Our expertise in investment management, combined with local client and regulatory knowledge, longstanding relationships and operational scale enables us to build investor solutions for private investors and institutions, worldwide.
Our marketing, sales and client support deliver highly professional client service to investors and localpartners.
Revenue generation Investment performance and fund flows drive the economics of our business.
Management fees are charged for providing investment management services at a percentage of each fund entitys gross investment exposure or NAV.
Performance fees are charged as a percentage of investment performance above a benchmark return or previous higher valuation high water mark.
Fund Investors Costs Man is fundamentally a people business and the majority of our costs comprise payments to individuals whether they are thirdparty intermediaries or internal sales staff who distribute our products, our investment managers who manage investor assets or the teams that manage our operations and infrastructure.
To achieve superior performance for our clients and shareholders we need to have the right people in the right roles, fully motivated and competitively paid.
See pages 6 to 7 for more detail k e t s I n f r a s t e r c u n c a t u m r r e o f a r n e d P C a p i t a l Strategic report 05 Corporate governance Man Group plc Financial statements Annual Report 2013 Other information Market context Markets remain sensitive to the influence of political as much as economic decisions and wecontinue to see spikes in volatility.
This creates a difficult environment for trend following strategies and the risk on risk off environment means that investor sentiment remains fragile.
In light of this challenging backdrop we are focusing on the things we can control as set out in our strategic priorities.
Strategic priorities Performance Growth Distribution Efficiency Deliver strong risk Focus on Ensure Cost reduction Maintain balance adjusted long generating distribution sheet efficiency term investment high-alpha effectiveness performance investment opportunities Achieve industryDevelop high-alpha Reorienting the Our key focus As the mix of leading risk-adjusted investment products distribution effort is implementing our business performance across and restructure to reflect the our cost saving changes away from a wide range of liquid existing products to increasing demand programmes and guaranteed products investment strategies.
appeal to a broader from institutional running the business we will continue to client base.
channels and away, as efficiently as focus on maximising in particular, from possible.
the efficiency of our See pages 9 to 13 guaranteed products.
for more detail Our four financial KPIs as listed below illustrate and measure the relationship between the investment experience Key performance ofour fund investors, our financial performance and the creation of shareholder value over time.
indicators These KPIs are used on a regular basis to evaluate progress against our strategic priorities: investment performance: creating options for growth: distribution effectiveness: and efficiency.
Investment performance Net flows Adjusted management fee EBITDA margin Adjusted management fee EPS growth See page 15 The executive directors long-term remuneration is linked to performance against KPIs, as detailed on page 50. for more detail Man identifies its principal risks across the firm and Mans principal risks are: Risks assesses their likely impact.
We measure and monitor the Investment underperformance risks size of our risks, and implement controls and transactions Legal risks to reduce and hedge exposures in order to ensure that Regulatory risks they stay within our firm-wide risk appetite framework.
Operational risks Credit counterparty risks Discretionary trading risk See page 20 Key staff retention for more detail Reputational risks The strategic report is set out on pages 4 to 25 By order of the board Emmanuel Roman Chief Executive Officer
