60 Man Group plc Annual Report 2013 Directors report Directors indemnities and insurance cover The directors submit their report, The Company has maintained qualifying third party indemnity provision together with the audited consolidated for the benefit of its directors during the year and this remains in force at the date of this report.
The indemnity is granted by the Company to new financial statements, for the year ended directors on their appointment and covers, to the extent permitted by law, any third party liabilities which they may incur as a result of their service 31December 2013 the year.
The Company arranges directors and officers liability insurance to cover certain liabilities and defence costs which the Company indemnity does not meet.
Neither the indemnity nor the insurance provides any protection in the event of a director being found tohave acted fraudulently or dishonestly in respect of the Company.
Shares Share capital Details of the movements in the issued share capital, together with the rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shares are set out in Note 21 to the financial statements.
This note also provides information onthe Companys unexpired authority to purchase its own shares.
Man Group plc is incorporated as a public limited company and is registered in England with the registered number 08172396.
The Substantial voting interests Companys registered office is Riverbank House, 2 Swan Lane, As at 26 February 2014 the following voting interests in the ordinary share LondonEC4R 3AD.
capital of the Company disclosable under the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules have been notified to the Company.
Directors Shareholder % Details of the current directors, together with their biographies, can be found on pages 26 and 27.
The following Board changes have occurred Odey Asset Management LLP 5.92 during the year: G&S Trustees Limited Pierre Lagrange 3.51 Restriction on voting rights Peter Clarke Retired 28 February 2013 Where shares are held in employee benefit trusts for the satisfaction of Alison Carnwath Retired 03 May 2013 awards made under the Companys share schemes, under the trust Patrick OSullivan Retired 03 August 2013 deeds the trustees have discretion to vote or abstain from voting.
Andrew Horton Appointed 03 August 2013 Dev Sanyal Appointed 01 December 2013 Share transfer restrictions The Board may decline to register a transfer of any share which is not a fully Details of directors interests in the Companys shares are given on page paid share.
In addition, registration of a transfer of an uncertificated share 53 of the Annual Report.
may be refused in the circumstances set out in the Uncertificated Securities Regulations and where the number of joint holders exceeds four.
Powers of directors The Board is responsible for the management of the business of the Change of control Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the The Companys employee share incentive schemes contain provisions provisions of relevant statutes and the Companys Articles of Association whereby, upon a change of control of the Company, outstanding options the Articles.
A copy of the Articles is available on the Companys and awards would vest and become exercisable, subject in the case of website www.
com and by request from the registered office of certain schemes only to the satisfaction of performance conditions at theCompany.
The Articles may be amended by special resolution of that time and any time pro-rating of options and awards.
Independent auditors Appointment, retirement and replacement of directors Following the Boards decision to recommend a change in the external The appointment, retirement and replacement of directors are governed auditors see page 37 for further information, a resolution to appoint bythe Companys Articles, the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Deloitte LLP as auditors of the Company and Group for the financial year Companies Act 2006.
Under the Articles, the Board has the power to ending 31 December 2014 will be proposed at the 2014 AGM.
appoint further directors during the year, but any director so appointed must stand for reappointment at the next annual general meeting.
In Carbon emissions reporting accordance with the Articles, one-third of the Board must retire by The information below details our mandatory reporting of greenhouse gas rotationat each annual general meeting and may stand for reappointment.
emissions pursuant to the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and In practice, and in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, Directors Report Regulations 2013 for the year ended 31 December 2013. all Board members retire and offer themselves for reappointment at each annual general meeting.
Around 82% of our overall emissions relate to purchased electricity and gas usage across our various geographical locations, with the remaining The Articles give the power to a director to appoint any person to be his 18% relating to air travel.
All emissions are reported in tonnes of carbon alternate, subject to the appointment of such person who is not another dioxide equivalents CO e. 2 director being approved by the Board.
Strategic report 61 Corporate governance Man Group plc Financial statements Annual Report 2013 Other information Man Groups emissions by scope Further disclosures Information fulfilling the further disclosure requirements contained in Tonnes theCompanies Act 2006, Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium-sized of CO e 2 emissions Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 and Scope Source 2013 theFCAs Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency Rules can be found in the following sections of the Annual Report for the year ended Scope 1 Natural gas 469 31December 2013 which are incorporated into the Directors report Scope 2 Electricity 3,558 byreference: Scope 3 Air travel 857 Total 4,884 Page Future developments in the business 813 The emissions we are reporting have been calculated using an intensity Research and development activities 910 metric which will enable us to monitor emissions independent of activity.
Dividend 78, 105 As Man is a people related business, we expect that any changes to Dividend waiver 87 headcount will impact the property space we occupy and the amount of Employment policy and employee involvement 25 business travel we use.
Therefore, emissions per employee are the most Financial risk management and financial instruments 8283, 9697 appropriate metric for our business, as shown in the table below.
Corporate governance report including internal control and risk management statements 2833 Emissions per employee Post balance sheet events 99 Tonnes of CO e Directors responsibility statements including disclosure 2 emissions of information to the auditors 63 2013 Scope 1 0.4 By order of the Board Scope 2 3.1 Scope 3 0.7 Rachel Rowson Emissions per employee 4.2 Company Secretary 27 February 2014 Methodology For practical reasons, emissions data was gathered for the first nine months of 2013 and, as appropriate, extrapolated in order to calculate thefull year emissions.
Based on the nature of our emissions and the consistency month on month, we believe this is an appropriate representation of the annual emissions.
In order to compile the reportable emissions data from our offices, electricity and gas meter readings have been obtained from our energy suppliers.
For some of our smaller offices, we are not charged for energy usage separately as these costs are incorporated into the service fees for our premises.
These emissions have not been included in the reported total above due to the data being unavailable and relate to offices for the use of six employees 2013 average employees: 1,163.
Where Man is the landlord of a property, and electricity costs are incurred on the behalf of sub-tenants, these costs are on-charged to the subtenants as the users of the electricity.
Accordingly, no emissions data for energy usage incurred on behalf of sub-tenants is included in Mans reportable emissions above.
Disclosures of emissions related to business travel are restricted to flight costs as a result of the CO e emission convertible data relating to other 2 means of transport i. e. taxis not being available.
During 2013, Man had five lease vehicles, used for both business and employee personal use.
Due to a lack of available data the emissions from these vehicles have not been included in the reported figures.
As from 1 October 2013 only one lease vehicle remained.
The remaining lease will end in mid 2014.
