26 Man Group plc Annual Report 2013 Board of directors Jon Aisbitt Phillip Colebatch Andrew Horton Frdric Jolly Chairman of the Board and Senior Independent Director and Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Chairman of the Nomination Chairman of the Remuneration director director Committee Committee Background and experience Jon Aisbitt has 20 years Prior to joining the Board, Phillip Andrew Horton has over 25 Frdric Fred Jolly was Chief experience in international Colebatch was a member of the years of broad financial services, Executive Officer ofRussell corporate finance and was Executive Boards of Swiss risk management and Investments Europe, Middle previously a Partner and Reinsurance Company and operational experience.
He held East and Africa until the Managing Director in the Credit Suisse Group.
He has various finance positions within summer of 2008.
Prior to this, Investment Banking Division substantial financial, operational ING, NatWest and Lloyds Bank he was Head of Investment ofGoldman Sachs.
prior to his appointment as Consulting at The Wyatt Group Finance Director of Company, Paris now Watson Beazley plc in 2003.
Fred has extensive appointed Chief Executive Officer knowledge of asset of Beazley in September 2008. management and broad international experience.
Date of appointment Jon was appointed to the Phillip was appointed to the Andrew was appointed to the Fred was appointed to the Boardas a non-executive Board as a non-executive Board as a non-executive Board as a non-executive director in August 2003 and director in September 2007. director in August 2013. director in August 2009.
He will wasappointed non-executive not be seeking reappointment at Chairman in September 2007. the 2014 AGM.
External appointments Jon is an Advisory Board Phillip is a non-executive director Andrew is Chief Executive Fred is Senior Advisor for Director of Celtic Pharma I and of Lend Lease Corporation and Officer of Beazley plc.
Europe, Investec Asset Celtic Pharma II biotechnology is on the Boards of Trustees of Management.
and a Director of New Forests the LGT Group Foundation and Company Holdings Limited the Prince of Liechtenstein African forestry.
Committee membership Jon is Chairman of the Phillip is Chairman of the Andrew is a member of the Audit Fred is a member of the Nomination Committee anda Remuneration Committee and and Risk Committee and the Remuneration Committee and member of the Remuneration amember of the Audit and Risk Nomination Committee.
He attends Audit Committee and Nomination and Risk Committee meetings Committee.
Strategic report 27 Corporate governance Man Group plc Financial statements Annual Report 2013 Other information Matthew Lester Emmanuel Roman Dev Sanyal Nina Shapiro Jonathan Sorrell Independent non-executive Chief Executive Officer Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Chief Financial Officer director and Chairman of the director director Audit and Risk Committee Matthew Lester is Chief Finance Emmanuel Manny Roman Dev Sanyal has held a number Nina Shapiro has had a long Jonathan Sorrell joined Man Officer of Royal Mail plc.
He was joined Man as Chief Operating of senior financial and line career of senior roles within the inAugust 2011 as Head of Group Finance Director of ICAP Officer in October 2010 following management positions within World Bank and was Vice Strategy and Corporate Finance.
from 2006 to 2010 and prior to the acquisition of GLG.
He BP in a career of more than 20 President, Finance and Before this he spent 13 years that worked at Diageo plc in a joined GLG in 2005 as Co-Chief years.
As Group Treasurer, he Treasurer of theInternational atGoldman Sachs in the number of senior finance roles, Executive Officer after 18 years gained in-depth experience of Finance Corporation from 2000 Investment Management, including Group Financial with Goldman Sachs where he capital markets, asset to 2011.
She has in-depth Securities and Investment Controller, Treasurer and was Co-Head of Worldwide management, trading and knowledge of global capital Banking Divisions, latterly leading Divisional Finance Director.
Global Securities and Co-Head foreign exchange.
He is currently markets and emerging investments inabroad range of Hehas substantial financial of the European Securities Executive Vice President and economies.
He has broad management and regulatory Division.
He has extensive Group Chief of Staff and a strategy development, financial expertise.
trading, investment member of BPs Group and commercial expertise.
Matthew was appointed Manny was appointed to the Dev was appointed to the Board Nina was appointed to the Jonathan was appointed to the totheBoard as a non-executive Board in May 2011.
He was as a non-executive director on 1 Board as a non-executive Board as Chief Financial Officer director in May 2011. appointed President of Man December 2013. director in October 2011. in June 2012. inAugust 2012 and Chief Executive Officer in February2013.
Matthew is Chief Finance Officer Manny is a trustee of the Hedge Dev is Executive Vice President Nina is a director of African None.
He is on the Fund Standards Board Limited and Group Chief of Staff of BP Minerals Limited and holds a main Committee of the Hundred and a non-executive director of p. l. c. He is a member of the number of Senior Advisor and Group of Finance Directors.
Grupo Prisa SA education, Accenture Global Energy Board, Advisory Board roles in the media and entertainment.
a member of the International financial and other sectors.
Business Leaders Group of The Duke of Edinburghs International Award Foundation and a Trustee of the Career Academy Foundation.
Matthew is Chairman of the Manny regularly attends Dev is a member of the Audit Nina is a member of the Jonathan regularly attends Audit and Risk Committee and Auditand Risk Committee, and Risk Committee and the Remuneration Committee and Auditand Risk Committee amember of the Nomination Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee.
Nomination Committee meetings Heattends Remuneration by invitation.
He is Chairman of Committee meetings for certain the Executive Committee.
He is a member of the Executive Committee.
