54 Focus on responsibility Making Responsibility Real Our approach is all about Making Responsibility Real.
We create evidenceKey stakeholders based solutions for a safe and secure online gaming environment and seek to drive innovation and knowledge across the industry.
We want to share that knowledge with stakeholders and society and prove that we are doing it for real.
There are eight main elements to our approach to Making Responsibility Real, being: t Real innovation we support the creation of scientific evidence and use it to create a gaming environment that is pioneering in terms of innovative, safe and responsible products and services.
We share our knowledge through the Transparency Project for more information, please visit www.
org: t Real prevention weve developed an evidence-based responsible gaming framework to identify risky behaviour and help prevent gaming-related problems: t Real fairness we create a fair gaming environment that provides consumer protection, prevents fraud and fosters the integrity of sports: t Real compliance we comply with national and European regulations and set the standards for the security of gaming: t Real governance we give our stakeholders a full and clear picture of the performance of our management team and how the company is run: t Real care for the environment we identify, measure and strive to reduce our impact on the environment: t Real people we empower employees to realise their individual potential and ensure that they remain our greatest asset over the long-term: and t Real engagement we enable employees to contribute to local communities by creating opportunities to volunteer and support goodcauses.
Our other corporate responsibility initiatives include contributing to societythrough charitable donations.
Being a leader in Responsibility starts at the top of bwin.
Martin Weigold, responsible gaming is ChiefFinancial officer, has executive responsibility for our corporate responsibility matters, a role he has held since 2005.
The overall process is fundamental for our overseen by the Audit & Risk Committee comprising four Independent NonExecutive Directors Helmut Kern, Rod Perry, Per Afrell and Sylvia Coleman.
long-term success sums The Committee oversees bwin.
partys corporate social responsibility up our Acting Responsibly policies and procedures that have been adopted to manage our relationships with stakeholders including customers, the wider community strategy that runs across and the environment, regulators, suppliers and providers of capital.
and penetrates deep into For more information on our Audit & Risk Committee Report see pages 75 to 79.
Customers many areas at bwin.
After eight years of collaboration with the Division on Addiction, Cambridge As well as our customers, Alliance, a Harvard Medical School teaching afliate DOA, we have developed the first prototype of a predictive algorithm to help prevent we recognise we have problem gambling.
Following successful trials amongst 7,000 players in a number of important Spain in late 2013, the algorithm will now be tested in a wider eld involving active players on bwin.
com and then on partypoker.
is an important step forward in the protection of those online gaming customers that may be at risk of developing gambling-related problems.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St trategic rategic Gover Govern na ance nce F Fi in na ancia ncial l rep repor ort t p per erf for orma mance nce 55 Based on evidence and a validated algorithm, a players behaviour Community and the environment is analysed and agged, resulting in tailored, tiered interventions Helping to protect the environment and provide support to our local that range from information distributed via pop-ups to a manual communities are important elements of our overall approach to investigation that canlead to an imposed exclusion if further evidence responsibility.
We fund a variety of responsible gaming organisations for gambling-related problems is confirmed.
andmore general charities and also run a pro bono scheme that allows Only by tailoring our efforts to the customers protective needs, can employees to give their time to good causes.
we leavethe greatest possible freedom to responsible players, while In addition to our research with the DOA, in 2013 we donated more than being ableto closely monitor and protect those who might be at risk of 360,000 to several responsible gaming organisations in Europe including developing problems in the future.
For the first time, player protection The Responsible Gambling Trust, Gambling Therapy, Spielsuchthilfe, Jogo is not uniformly the same for all players.
Instead of over-protecting the Responsavel, Addictel and the University Clinic Aarhus.
majority of recreational players or not sufciently protecting those at risk, we have chosen to implement an individualised approach that is Hundreds of employees from our ofces in India, Israel, Europe and based on our understanding of our duty of care: the United States participated in a variety of pro bono schemes that included the construction of a school in India, raising funds for cancer t Providing an informed choice to the majority or recreational gamblers: research, helping out at centres for elderly and homeless people, t Supporting at-risk players in maintaining control over their gameplay: and supporting childrens charities and environmental projects including tree planting and helping out with repair and construction work at a t Protecting problem gamblers and supporting them to actively seek bigcat sanctuary.
Resource consumption Having reached an important milestone, our research with the DOA is being continued in order to further improve the effectiveness of the Compared with many other international businesses, we are a lowpredictive model and the associated interventions.
impact company, but we continuously monitor our environmental performance by measuring the water and energy we consume, the More information about our approach to sustainability: embracing amount of physical waste we produce and the amount of CO2 gas we ourapproach for safe and secure digital entertainment can be accessed produce through air travel.
Key metrics for 2013 show that: Proactive detection processes are increasingly helping us to detect t A total of 5,765 air ights taken by employees producing an estimated a greater number of possible cases of gambling-related problems 2,780 metric tons of CO2: Average number of t Our highest energy consumption resulted from our eight data incidents per month centres, which consumed 9.24 million KWh of electricity in total: Incident type Intervention % of total investigated cases t On average, each full time employee in our six main ofces every 2013 2012 month used: Suspicion with Exclusion 136 KWh of electricity: indication of gamingimposed related problems 93 25% 64 26% 607 litres of water: and Suspicion with Agreed on riskproduced 200 grams of waste.
indication of at-risk mitigation with behaviour customer 74 20% 43 18% Our approach to the environment and the community goes beyond our own Concerns allayed Responsible gaming business.
Our suppliers commitment to a wider corporate responsibility advice given 198 55% 138 56% agenda relating to the environment is also assessed by aligning our interests we can try and make a real difference where it is needed.
Players ratings of the player protection tools offered via our two Employees global gaming brands bwin and partypoker Rebasing and reshaping bwin.
party in 2013 required employees in bwin partypoker all of ourofces to adapt to some big changes, especially in how they supported and drove the business strategy as the shift towards Percentage 2013 2012 2013 2012 regulated and to-be-regulated markets gained momentum.
Rating our player protection positively Belgium and New Jersey joined our growing list of nationally regulated excellent to good 89% 91% 87% 90% markets and more can be expected to be added in the near future, Considering our player protection each with differing requirements that we will have to address quickly effective completely to partly 86% 87% 86% 87% and effectively.
Given our diverse geographic footprint relative to Considering our player protection some of our peers, the shift from dotcom to dotnational means we easyto nd completely to partly 92% 92% 91% 91% have already implemented the requisite structural changes, changes which have yet to reach much of theonline industry but which are Considering our player protection easy inevitable for those seeking to secure aleadership position in key to understand completely to partly 96% 97% 95% 95% regulated markets.
56 Focus on responsibility The core of our business is technology, accounting for 33% of the total Our transition to Agile will continue to be a prime focus for us in 2014, number of employees.
Under the leadership of Guy Duncan, Product aswilldeveloping strong leaders and leadership across the Group.
and Technology Director, we have introduced the Agile working Forfurther details on our transition to Agile, see the Spotlight on methodology that has set global leaders in online commerce apart Technology onpages 38 and 39. fromtheir peers.
Leadership capability Transition to Agile The dynamics of our industry require that we have strong leadership Agile will not be the preserve of our technology teams, however.
capabilities from the top down.
During 2013 we dened our own Whilst Agile is most frequently referred to as a methodology and leadership prole that is, the behaviours that make for a great leader approach for software development organisations, we plan to embed at bwin.
We then selected a model that dovetails with this prole, many of its core principles group-wide by mid-2015.
The reason is simple, known as the Transformational Leadership Model TLM the origin of the process can be tailored for all disciplines bringing about operational which derives from James MacGregor Burns analysis of political leaders efficiencies, increasing productivity and ultimately ensuring the timely in 1978. execution of our business strategy.
Beginning with Norbert Teufelberger, CEO, we conducted a Through Agile we will be able to assess our progress more effectively detailed 360-degree leadership feedback process for more than using a series of new internal Key Performance Indicators both 80 of our senior managers based on the TLM which provides each collectively for departments and teams, as well as for individuals.
participant with a comprehensive report as a basis for their personal development planning.
Outside of the technology discipline, we are changing the assessment and development of every employees performance ahead of formally During 2014 a further 130 leaders will participate in the feedback introducing Agile towards theend of 2014.
Following a review of our processand around 80 leaders drawn from all levels of management performance management process, in 2013 we introduced an element willparticipate in our newly designed leadership programme to develop of 360-degree feedback for all employees that in turn became the further their transformational leadership.
cornerstone for personal development planning for 2014.
Employee review of 2013 We also moved away from recording the detailed steps of how The diversity prole registers 62 different nationalities which makes objectives are achieved to focusing more on the results that for aculturally-rich, interesting as well as a challenging place to work.
To support this move we also reduced sharply the Overcoming those challenges require passion, insight and creativity administration needed to measure performance, easing the process for eachof which lie at the heart of our corporate values.
party has had an inevitable knock-on Increasing collaboration and teamwork effect on employee numbers.
We had 2,771 employees at the end of 2013, Looking forward, performance management for our technology a net reduction over the year of around 8.0% that comprised amixture of employees working within an Agile team will be recorded on voluntary attrition at a manageable 13.4%, redundancies and new hires a team basis as opposed to an individual basis previously.
Collective performance will also be the driver and denominator for Our future success depends upon the skills, knowledge and endeavours reward and recognition through team-based bonuses.
We are committed to fostering and nurturing a Under Agile, a managers role changes signicantly the team assumes culture that enables people to learn, develop and achieve, irrespective more management of itself while a managers role becomes more of their nationality or gender.
about coaching, mentoring and facilitating.
As a result, managers Life is fast-paced and highly demanding, but for those with the right are ultimately responsible for a greater number of individuals than skillsand temperament, there is great opportunity.
Discover more at: they would have in a more traditional structure: during 2013 the span www.
com Careers of control for the total workforce moved from 5.12 employees per manager in January to 6.46 at the end of December.
Within technology, General 2013 2012 the measurement moved from 4.6 to 10.74 respectively.
As a result, while some managers moved into different roles we were also Average headcount 2,818 2,907 able to remove several layers of management, reducing costs and Total headcount as at 31 December 2,770 2,952 increasing productivity.
Average length of service: 4.1 years 3.6 years Transitioning to Agile requires that employees learn and embrace a broader set of skills, increase their knowledge across different Average staff turnover voluntary % 13.4% 12.8% technologies and domains, and understand how to increase Average staff turnover involuntary % 8.4% 4.0% effectiveness as part of a newly formed, self-managed team.
Sickness absence rate 1.9% 1.5% During 2013 we designed a certication process for employees Working part time % 3.0% 4.0% acquiringnew skills and increasing their knowledge.
This provides a clear view of the learning undertaken and the knowledge gained by Total no of nationalities 62 61 ateam as a whole as well as by its individual members it also ensures Total no of international moves 23 29 that we have the necessary skills in-house to respond to the changing needs of the industry.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St trategic rategic Gover Govern na ance nce F Fi in na ancia ncial l rep repor ort t p per erf for orma mance nce 57 Providers of capital past, present and future Gender split at 31 December 2013 2012 Over the past decade, the online gaming market has changed Female Male Female Male considerably, principally due to three prime catalysts regulation, technology and competition.
Number of employees 905 1,865 952 2,000 All three factors are particularly relevant given the needto adapt to Gender 32% 68% 32% 68% theongoing shift from dotcom to dotnational regulated markets % at Grade 9 20% 80% 21% 79% andthe increasing uptake of mCommerce.
% at Grade 10 8% 92% 5% 95% The common denominator in helping investors understand why % at Grade 11 17% 83% 13% 87% changes have happened, whats happening now and whats likely to happenin the future is transparency.
This allows investors to gain a % at Manager Level Grade 9 and above 18% 82% 18% 82% greater understanding and appreciation of our business model and long-term prospects by being kept fully informed on developments Age prole at 31 December 2013 2012 affecting our own performance and also that of the wider industry.
Employees under 25 258 324 We have endeavoured to again move forward with the quality and breadth of our disclosure.
Our annual report, however, is just Employees 25 to 29 716 836 one medium through which we engage with investors and other Employees 30 to 49 1,727 1,731 stakeholders whose ranks include lenders, politicians, regulators, environmentalists, academics and business partners, amongst others.
Employees 50 and over 69 61 Their collective and individual opinions and actions matter and can Suppliers impact on how we operate our business.
They also affect the perceptions of both our company and the industry as a whole.
There isno set Our decision to shift from volume to value necessitated numerous calendar that governs stakeholders interaction withonline gaming, adjustments to be made to our supply chain, most notably amongst sowe have to communicate often and through avariety of channels.
afliates that had previously been at the forefront of acquiring customers inthe 18 markets where we decided to cease player These include: acquisition.
Another consequence of our tactical marketing shift t Providing shareholders and lenders with regular updates on both wasthe need to establish new supply chains in two new markets corporate and financial developments throughout the course of the Belgium and in New Jersey in the US.
financial year: Our supply chain is diverse, spanning IT, travel, sponsorship, translation t Regular meetings between our executive team and financial analysts, services, telephony and afliates amongst others.
We manage all current as well as prospective investors, but with a focus around the suppliers through a single Enterprise Resource Planning system, publication of our half year and full year results: overseen by our central procurement team whose strategic aim is to: t Investor and industry presentations, online webcasts, the publishing t Reduce risk: ofnancial reports and analysts consensus forecasts, to name but t Develop mutually beneficial long-term business relationships: and afew, all of which are publicly available on our corporate website: www.
com: and t Deliver best value from our suppliers on a long-term basis.
t Using our regular interactions to gain a greater understanding of Our procurement policy includes a Supplier Acknowledgement and investors and other stakeholders perceptions about our strategy, Self-Certication Checklist, which requests information relating to: performance and prospects.
t Financial strength to ensure long-term reliability: The saying that news travels fast has been replaced by news is instant t Ability to deliver enduring quality and value: andhas to be addressed promptly so as to avoid misinterpretation and consequent confusion that can easily arise through the rapid shaping t Commitment to innovation and ability to help us develop new ofviews via social media channels and online sites that are always keen products, processes and ways of working that will provide us with a tobethe first to break a story.
commercial advantage: and The instant exchange of information around the globe poses a big t Commitment to a wider corporate responsibility agenda relating to challenge for any public company.
This is why we continue to invest the environment, labour employment standards, equal opportunities time and resources in building strong and long-term relationships with and employee rights.
investors, analysts and other providers of capital to avoid the potential In return, we aim to operate to the highest professional standards, risks that can sometimes be created by an unwitting comment or article treating our suppliers in a fair and reasonable manner and settling placed through digital media.
For further details on our relations with Shareholders see page 73.
We have now reached the end of our Strategic Review and now move on from talking about our operational performance and prospects to how we govern our business, beginning with a statement by Simon Duffy, Chairman of the Board.
