26 Markets and regulatory overview Market snapshot Spotlight on The global online sports betting market is highly fragmented, comprising a large number of privately owned companies and a few large publiclysports betting listed operators.
In the EU 28, where the majority of the Groups customers are based, the online sports betting segment was estimated to be worth around 4.0bn in gross gaming revenue GGR in2013, an increase of 7.7% over the prior year.
This growth is forecast tocontinue, reaching 22 anestimated 6.0bn by 2018, implying a CAGR of8.4%.
Success factors Offering odds on a wide variety of sporting events is important but so too isscale and brand strength.
By having a broadly-based pool of bets, a sports book operator is better able to balance its exposure to risk.
Customers bet against the operator or the house and so if it fails to set odds correctly, the operator can lose money.
The amount of revenue generated by a bookmaker or gross win margin is influenced both by the level of betting volume but also by the outcome of sporting results.
The dominance of favourites over an extended period can be expected to result in lower gross win margins for the bookmaker.
Whilst the bookmaker can adjust the odds to take these results into account, it makes it easier for the individual to pick winning bets.
However, across a wide variety of bets and events, an operator should be able to make apositive return.
The increasing popularity of live betting means that operators also need to be able to offer an extensive range of live bets in order to remain competitive.
Betting through mobile and touch devices is increasingly popular and being available on multiple channels is becoming a further source of value for operators see overleaf.
How we make money By offering attractive odds to customers, bookmakers seek to balance the portfolio of bets taken on a particular event so that they achieve atargeted return or gross win margin based on the expected outcome.
By predicting Bet type: the correct result more often than not, an online bookmaker can expect to Against the house or bookmaker achieve an average gross win margin of 68% of the total amount wagered before any withholding of gaming taxes due, depending upon the mix Key offer: of live and pre-event betting that tend to generate different returns as summarised below: Odds on a broad range of sports both pre-event and live or in-running where Example revenue model Live Pre-event Total customers can place a bet whilst the gameor event is underway Amount wagered 700 300 1,000 Variations: Typical gross win margin 6% 14% 8% Single bets as well as combination or Gross revenue 42 42 84 accumulator bets on multiple results Less bonus costs 10% 10% 10% andspecial bets on individual elements Net gaming revenue 38 38 76 such as first goal scored Less cost of sales and local gaming taxes Key brand: e. g. 20% of gross revenue 8 8 16 bwin Gross profit 30 30 60 22 H2 Gambling Capital March 2014 bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St trategic rategic Gover Govern na ance nce F Fi in na ancia ncial l rep repor ort t p per erf for orma mance nce 27 Our offer Sponsorships Sports betting is our largest product vertical, generating total revenue 2013 marked a shift in bwins sponsorship strategy.
Ourprimary brand traditional brand-building sponsorship opportunities, we have created is bwin, a pioneer inonline sports betting and which today offers odds a network of digital partnerships, with a focus on online and mobile on more than 90 different sports in 18 different languages.
Our panintegration, social media and social gaming, reecting the significant European footprint means that our sports betting performance is not increase in usage of these channels.
In addition to our ongoing directly comparable with other, mainly UK-focused sports books.
partnership with Manchester United and Bayern Munich, bwin moved from main shirt sponsor to digital partner of Real Madrid, and signed While many of our processes are automated, more than 100 bookmakers similar partnerships with three of Europes other leading clubs, Juventus, are responsible for managing our sports offer and work around the Olympique fide Marseille and RSC Anderlecht.
clock managing odds on sports including all popular ball-related sports, US sports and motorsport such as Formula 1 and MotoGP.
By far our Away from football, bwin sponsors MotoGP, the International Basketball most popular sport is football, for which we offer odds on more than Federation FIBA European and World Championships and Euroleague 500leagues in over 100 different countries.
Since launching in the US we have signed sponsorship deals for partypoker with the New Jersey Devils of the NHL and the NBAs As well as pre-event betting, we revolutionised the industry in 2002 Philadelphia 76ers.
Each of our sponsorships is subject to a continuous by enabling customers to bet on live sports events.
In 2013 we offered process of evaluation including the impact on customer acquisition, odds on 96,000 live events, covering 27 sports including live multi-bets brand awareness and the media value obtained.
with integrated real-time streaming of audio and video coverage.
Streamed matches included all games in the German Bundesliga, games % total sports betting revenue from nationally regulated taxed markets from the Spanish La Liga BBVA Primera Division, Serie A in Italy as well as the qualiers for the Champions League, the Europa League and the 100 European Championships, to name but a few.
Complementing our core consumer-facing offer, we have begun to 75 explore B2Brevenue opportunities byproviding third-parties with someof our sports betting content including video streaming as well 67% asbetting odds.
Still in its early stagesof development, this represents 50 anew source of potential revenue growth.
47% In addition to our dotcom offer, our sports betting products are licensed 25 in several nationally regulated and or taxed markets for a summary of the latest developments by market please see Spotlight on regulation on pages 40 and 41.
0 Mobile touch 2013 2012 Smartphones and tablet devices have grown in popularity in recent Priorities for 2014 years and have quickly become a major channel through which digital gaming services are consumed.
It is estimated that the EU 28 mobile t Increase market share in regulated markets, leveraging our sports gambling market was worth approximately 1.2bn of GGR in digitalpartnerships 22 2013, up by 35% versus 2012.
This rapid growth is predicted to continue, t Roll-out new mobile offer across core markets reaching 3.8bn by 2018 or a CAGR of 26.0%.
In the past year we have seen a significant uplift in sports betting revenue generated from t Capitalise on 2014 FIFA World Cup opportunity our mobile channel that represented 19% of total sports GGR in 2013 2012: 12%.
t Increase B2B revenue streams Having been a pioneer in the eld of mGambling with the launch of t Improve CRM and risk management procedures to increase ourrst mobile product in 2001, our focus on integrating our technology player values following the merger of bwin and PartyGaming in 2011 meant that our t Consolidate our technology platforms in Italy and France mobile offer had fallen behind some of our competitors.
That changed in 2013 with the launch of our next generation mobile product, returning us to the vanguard of mobile sports betting.
Built in HTML5 with Discover more at: additional native apps for both iOS and Android, the new bwin mobile www.
com productsandbrands product will be available across a range of markets and devices so as tomaximise its reach.
As well as mobile touch, we are also exploring the opportunity to leverage social channels suchas Facebook as an additional driver forreal money sportsbetting.
28 Markets and regulatory overview Market snapshot Spotlight on Online casinos were some of the first online gaming sites to emerge inthe mid-1990s.
The online casino market in the EU 28 countries was estimated casino & games to be worth approximately 2.5bn of GGR in 2013, up 4.3% versus 2012 and it is forecast to reach 3.3bn by 2018, implying a compound annual 23 growth rate of 5.4%.
In the US, regulation of online casino games has been adopted in New Jersey while other states are considering a similar move.
Despite an absence of widespread regulation, the US online casino market is predicted to reach 1.5bn by 2018 as more states are expected 23 toregulate, implying a CAGR of 17.6%.
Success factors As play is against the house, player liquidity is not as important as in community games like poker.
However, scale does mean that an operator is able to offer larger jackpot prizes and this can act as a major draw for customers.
Reputation is also important as players need to be confident that games are fair and that if they win a major prize, the operator will pay them their winnings.
Having a broad range of popular games that is continually being refreshed with new content is another important successfactor, ensuring that players can nd a game they want to play.
Our offer Our online casino business has a global footprint and is a market leader.
In 2013, casino & games generated total revenue of 215.6m 2012: 271.2m or 33% of the total.
% total casino & games revenue from nationally regulated taxed markets 40 30 Bet type: Against the house that extracts a 24% 20 22% statistical margin or edge, being a fixed percentage of the amount wagered.
The edge varies depending upon which 10 game is being played Key offer: 0 2013 2012 A variety of slot games, jackpot slots and traditional table casino games such as In addition to our dotcom offer, our casino products are licensed in blackjack and roulette several nationally regulated and or taxed markets.
In November 2013 the Variations: Group began offering casino games in the state of New Jersey under our partypoker brand and also as a supplier to the Borgata Hotel Casino and Casino tournaments, raffle jackpot slots, Spa, under our partnership with Boyd Gaming.
In Europe we operate online virtual racing, video poker and live dealer casino games in Italy under the Gioco Digitale brand, in Denmark under the Key brands: partycasino brand, in Belgium under the bwin brand and in Spainwe offer table-based casino games under the bwin and partycasino brands.
For a bwin summary ofthelatest developments by market please see Spotlight on partypoker regulation on pages 40 and 41. partycasino Gioco Digitale 23 H2 Gambling Capital March 2014 bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St trategic rategic Gover Govern na ance nce F Fi in na ancia ncial l rep repor ort t p per erf for orma mance nce 29 How we make money Mobile touch Games pay out randomly and therefore over short periods, revenues As with sports betting, mobile touch is a rapidly growing channel can be volatile but over time will gravitate to the pre-determined rate forthecasino segment.
H2GC estimates that, taken collectively, real of return or edge that is earned by the house.
Prizes for progressive money gaming including casino, poker andbingo through mobile orjackpot slots are accrued out of gross revenue.
devices was worth 761.4m of GGR across the EU 28 countries in 2013, up61.1% on 2012 and this is expected to increase to approximately 3.1bn by 2018, implying a compound annual growth rate of 32.4%.
Example revenue model Total Amount wagered 1,000 In 2013 we launched a new mobile browser-optimised product under thepartycasino brand to complement our existing bwin branded Typical gross win margin 3% mobile offer.
In the second half of 2013 we began transforming our Gross revenue 30 production process to enable us to offer games simultaneously on PCs, mobile and tablet devices.
This process, augmented by the addition of Less bonus costs 15% games from third-parties, will see us roll-out a much expanded casino Net gaming revenue 25 offer in 2014, including the introduction of native apps for the iOS and Android platforms.
Less cost of sales and local gaming taxes e. g. 20% of gross revenue 6 New channels Gross profit 19 The vast majority of customers arriving at one of our casino sites have In casino, content is an important factor in attracting players.
first played at one of our other gaming sites, mainly sports or poker.
Developing some of our own games is a point of differentiation from Forexample the majority of our partycasino customers arrive via our competitors that tend to rely entirely on third-party suppliers for their partypoker brand, while bwin casino players come via the bwin sports content.
This approach has enabled us to offer our customers a unique betting site.
and diverse portfolio of titles that includes internally produced slots, In 2013 we began supplying real money casino and poker games in the such as Melon Madness, through to blockbuster themed games we UK to Zynga, the worlds leading producer of social games.
Under the havebuilt under license.
Our jackpot strategy is another major draw terms of the arrangement, Zyngas real money casino is based upon forcustomers and one of our customers hit a single jackpot prize of our market-leading software, complemented by a number of bespoke US$7.5m in 2013. features including FarmVille-branded slots produced by our inWhile this differentiation is an attraction for customers, we also house team.
recognise that many customers enjoy playing classic slots offered Priorities for 2014 on a variety of competitor sites.
Our scale and open application programming interfaces APIs have helped us to add some of t Tailor our offer to maximise cross-sell to sports betting and the markets most popular online slot games under licence from pokercustomers with a focus on nationally regulated and or manufacturers such as IGT, Amaya and others, ensuring that our offer taxed markets remains current and popular.
In 2014 we will add further third-party t Roll-out new mobile casino games on main brands in key content, augmented byasmall number of internally produced games.
regulatedmarkets Casino products are offered in both download and instant play variants.
t Enhance our games portfolio through integration of leading The latter, which is the most popular of the two options, does not require third-party content targeting 120 new games by June 2014 the installation of any software onto a customers computer.
com productsandbrands 30 Markets and regulatory overview Market snapshot Spotlight Whist globally the online poker market was largely at in 2013, itexperienced a marked decline in Europe, where the majority of the on poker Groups customers are based.
The online poker market across the EU 28 countries was estimated to be worth approximately 1.8bn of GGR in2013, 24 down 8.4% versus 2012.
It is forecast to remain largely at overthe next few years, and is estimated to be worth 1.9bn by 2018, implying a compound annual growth rate of just 0.8%.
More positively, in 2013 we saw the regulation of online poker in three US states: Nevada, Delaware and New Jersey.
H2GC estimates that the US online poker market regulated and unregulated was worth approximately 140.0m ofGGR in 2013, but this is expected to rise signicantly due to further regulatory change, reaching 1.7bn by 2018, a compound annual growth rate of 66.4%.
The decline in the value of the dotcom online poker market over the past decade is due to a number of factors, some of which have also impacted several newly regulated markets.
The first was the change in US law in 2006, prompting many poker operators to withdraw from the worlds largest online poker market, while a few privately owned companies remained and became dominant players in the sector.
The second was the advent of a new regulatory concept that saw a number of markets ring-fence their player liquidity.
Italy was the first market to effectively remove all of its players from the dotcom liquidity pool, a step which has been followed by France and Spain.
By fragmenting player liquidity, the quality of the poker players experience is reduced and this has impacted the value of the global online poker market as well as the value of those markets that have gone down this path.
Success factors In addition to excellent software and safe and secure payments, having sufficient player liquidity is a prerequisite for success in online poker.
It means that players can quickly nd a table to play at the stakes they Bet type: want.
Being able to offer attractive tournaments and promotions are also Peer-to-peer important for long-term success.
How we make money Key offer: Texas Holdem is the most popular The Group facilitates games and in cash games takes a small commission on the amount wagered on each hand, referred to as rake.
In tournaments variant, played in both cash game and we charge an entry fee that constitutes revenue.
In cash games, players directly bet against each other Example revenue model Total while in tournament play, chips are used as a virtual currency, with a knockout Amount wagered 1,000 format adopted where the winner Typical gross win margin 2% is the player who ultimately wins all Gross revenue 20 oftheallotted chips Less bonus costs 18% Variations: Net gaming revenue 16 Other formats include Omaha and 7 Card Less cost of sales and local gaming taxes e. g. 20% of gross revenue 4 Stud in both standard and Hi Lo versions and FastForward, a quick-fire variant of Gross profit 12 Texas Hold em where players who fold are immediately dealt in at a new table, increasing the velocity of gameplay Key brands: partypoker bwin Gioco Digitale 24 H2 Gambling Capital March 2014 bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St trategic rategic Gover Govern na ance nce F Fi in na ancia ncial l rep repor ort t p per erf for orma mance nce 31 Our offer World Poker Tour In September 2013 our principal poker brand, partypoker, underwent The World Poker Tour WPT, while not included in net revenue from amajor relaunch, with new brand positioning, user interface, social a financial reporting perspective, is an important part of our overall features, missions and achievements, as well as substantial changes poker offer.
WPT was a major force behind the explosive growth in toour tournament structures and overall poker ecology.
This was the early years of online poker, breaking new ground by televising followed in November 2013 with the launch of this new partypoker high stakes tournaments that proved to be a hugely popular format.
experience toplayers in New Jersey.
As well as the partypoker brand, Televised coverage of poker games has soared since the WPT enabled through our agreement with Boyd Gaming Corporation, we also supply viewerstosee each players cards during a game, enhancing the software toour network partner the Borgata Hotel Casino and Spa, New broadcasting appeal.
Although its only a short period since the market Since its acquisition in 2009, WPT has expanded its reach both inside opened, the partypoker Borgata network has established itself as the andoutside the US, hosting a total of 65 main events in 2013 up from market leader in the state with an approximate 40% share of GGR in 55in 2012.
Now into its twelfth season, WPT programming has been February 2014. aired in over 150 countries and territories.
US viewership was up by Outside New Jersey, we also offer poker under thebwin brand.
58%in 2013 over the previous year, maintaining its number one rating Sports betting is an important source of customers in Europe, operating onFox Sports Networks for the third consecutive year.
com is in Belgium, France, Italy and Spain under dotnational domains.
the Groups online membership site which offers inside access to the In France, a large part of our liquidity is driven through ourstrategic World Poker Tour.
It includes a sweepstakes-based social poker offering alliance with PMU, the French horseracing giant, while inItaly our and remains the largest site of its kind in the US.
WPT revenues are largest brand is Gioco Digitale that was acquired in2009.
Against a challenging market backdrop, our dotcom poker network, that Mobile touch combines the player liquidity of our two leading poker brands, is one of In 2013 we began the roll-out of a first generation mobile version of the larger networks outside of the PokerStars Full Tilt nexus.
In 2013 our ournew partypoker product.
Offered for both iOS and Android devices, poker segment generated total revenue of 114.6m 2012: 176.5m or these new applications were initially available with standard and 18% of the total.
fast-fold poker functionality in the dotcom and New Jersey markets.
In 2014 we will be improving and rening this offer, adding a number % total poker revenue from nationally regulated taxed markets of features including Sit and Go and Multi-table Tournament functionality for the first time.
In addition, we will evolve the business 50 messaging layer to allow seamless integration of mobile products into our holistic player communications.
Our mobile poker offer will 40 42% also be expanded to additional markets including Belgium, Spain and 41% Denmark both on our own B2C labels and to our B2B partners labels.
30 Priorities for 2014 t Roll-out of next generation partypoker software in key regulated 20 markets including Belgium, France, Italy and Spain 10 t Enhance native mobile apps iOS and Android in H1 2014, launch fullyfeatured mobile client in H2 2014 0 t Improve and expand tournament structure and continue to add 2013 2012 newmissions and achievements t Build on early leadership position for partypoker Borgata network Our B2B agreement with Zynga saw the introduction of real money inNew Jersey, leveraging our sponsorship of the New Jersey Devils poker using the Zynga brand in the UK through the web and on and the Philadelphia 76ers Facebook.
Zyngas real money UK players form part ofour dotcom pokerliquidity pool.
Discover more at: In addition to our dotcom offer, our poker games are licensed in several www.
com productsandbrands nationally regulated and or taxed markets for a summary of the latest developments by market please see Spotlight on regulation on pages 41 and 42.
32 Markets and regulatory overview Market snapshot Spotlight Whilst smaller than our three other product verticals in terms of revenue, bingo is a highly dynamic, regional market opportunity, one that typically on bingo attracts a dedicated player base.
The size of the online bingo market across the EU28 was estimated to be worth approximately 1.0bn of GGR in 2013, up 11.4% versus 2012.
It is estimated that it will reach approximately 1.5bn 25 by 2018, implying a compound annual growth rate of 7.2%.
The major markets in Europe are the UK, Italy and Spain.
The UK is the worlds largest online bingo market, estimated to be worth 424.6m ofGGRin 2013 2012: 388.3m, where Foxy Bingo, our primary brand, is one of the UKs leading bingo sites.
We also have a number of secondary brands including Cheeky Bingo, appealing to a slightly younger demographic.
Gioco Digitale is our leading brand in the Italian market whilst bwin and our dedicated bingo brand Binguez are aimed at Spanish-speaking customers.
Success factors Like poker, player liquidity in bingo is important for long-term success.
As a pari mutual game, the more players there are then the bigger the potential prizes on offer, that themselves act as a draw for customers.
The online bingo experience has sought to replicate many of the ofine bingo characteristics including the ability for players to socialise through online chat rooms and to play slots and other games.
Our scale meant that during 2013 Foxy Bingo was able to offer jackpot prizes in excess of 100,000, helping it to maintain a market-leading position in the UK market.
Another important success factor for online bingo operators is being able to offer an appealing portfolio of side games thatare played while the mainbingo game is taking place.
How we make money We receive a percentage of each virtual bingo card sold, with the majority of the proceeds making up the prize fund.
Revenue on side games and casino games is astatistical gross win margin.
Bet type: Bingo players buy draw tickets to win Example revenue model Total an accumulated jackpot from which Amount wagered 1,000 the house takes a rake Typical gross win margin 35% Key offer: Gross revenue 350 30, 75 and 90-ball bingo, with guaranteed and progressive jackpots Less bonus costs 50% Net gaming revenue 175 Variations: Less cost of sales and local gaming taxes e. g. 20% of gross revenue 70 Side games include tournament bingo, team bingo and casino-type games, Gross profit 105 including slots Key brands: Foxy Bingo UK Gioco Digitale Italy 25 H2 Gambling Capital March 2014 bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St trateg rategic ic Gover Govern na ance nce F Fi in na ancia ncial l r repor eport t p per erf for orm ma an nce ce 33 Our offer Our primary markets for bingo are currently the UK and Italy where we have built leading market positions through the historical acquisitions We offer a variety of bingo games at varying stake levels and also a of Cashcade and Gioco Digitale respectively.
Having launched an range of side games and slots.
Our bingo business generated total all-new proprietary bingo product under the partybingo brand in 2013, revenue of 53.1m 2012: 64.3m or 8% of the total.
Focused on the UK, we plan to continue to improve all our bingo products during 2014.
Italy and Spain, almost all of our bingo revenues come from nationally regulated and or taxed markets.
Mobile touch Our browser-based mobile touch offer for Foxy Bingo went live % total bingo revenue from nationally regulated taxed markets inApril2013, and so the proportion of total bingo revenue coming from mobile touch is relatively small compared with sports betting.
However, 100 having launched our all-new Foxy Bingo mobile app inJanuary2014, the 98% 97% response has been very positive with an increasingproportion of new registrations now coming through themobile touch channel.
75 Priorities for 2014 50 t Complete the development of our new bingo platform and optimise our current third-party software agreement in the UK t Increase proportion of revenue coming through mobile touch 25 t Grow Foxy Bingo and Cheeky Bingo in the UK through operational excellence and focused marketing investments 0 2013 2012 t Extend the Foxy proposition with new products and features Discover more at: www.
com productsandbrands Hea Hear r more from Gola m n online bwinp bwinpa ar rt ty y. com ouryearinaction Name: Golan Shaked Title: Director of Games 34 Markets and regulatory overview Market snapshot Spotlight on The global payments industry will be worth an estimated $782 trillion innon-cash transaction value and $492bn in transaction revenues by payments 26 2020.
While the demand for electronic payments is already large and growing fast, it remained a small percentage of global payments which isstill dominated by cash-based transactions.
According to Capgemeni, a specialist consultancy, global non-cash payment transactions reached 307bn in 2011, up 8.8% on the prior year.
The M-payments and E-payments segments of the industry are forecast togrow by 58.5% and 18.1% respectively in 2014.
Whilst the mature markets in North America and Europe recorded mid-single digit growth rates, they remain the worlds largest non-cash payments markets, together accounting for about two-thirds of global non-cash transaction volumes.
The fastest growing areas include Central Europe, the Middle East and Africa CEMEA and the emerging Asia regions, eachgrowing by more than20% per annum, while Latin America also recorded above average 27 growth of 14.4%.
Kalixas unique expertise and assets put it in a strong position to increase revenues by generating new income streams from fast-growing payment segments.
Success factors The ability to make and receive payments across any device is a critical long-term success factor.
Another is being able to help merchants streamline their payment infrastructures, increase sales and deliver omni-channel B2C payment solutions that meet the constantly evolving needs of the digital commerce market.
As a FinTech business specialising in payments, Kalixa is in an excellent position to capitalise on the rapid industry growth that is expected over the next few years.
Kalixas single platform offers a turnkey solution with real exibility, agility and congurability, twinned with open access to Key offer: allow simple plug-in connectivity for merchants or partners.
Kalixa isalso Kalixa offers anentire payment able to integrate new payment options and methods rapidly for consumers.
ecosystem: issuing, acquiring and This gives Kalixa and its customers, measurable advantages in terms of acceptance, all under oneroof speed-to-market product development and innovation, allwithin a low cost model.
Key brand: How we make money Kalixa Kalixa sells payment products directly, as well as via third-party Key applications: distribution partners, to consumers and merchants for a recommended Kalixa Pay retail price.
Each time these products are used to make or accept a Kalixa Pro payment, Kalixa earns a share of the transaction value.
Kalixa Accept Illustrative fees charged for payments Gateway 5-25 cents per transaction Merchant service charging 1.0%1.5% Card and wallet revenue 1.03.0% Added value services Risk management 515 cents per transaction Reconciliation 510 cents per transaction 26 Boston Consulting Group 27 Capgemeni World Payments Report 2013 bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St trateg rategic ic Gover Govern na ance nce F Fi in na ancia ncial l r repor eport t p per erf for orm ma an nce ce 35 Our offer Priorities for 2014 Kalixa has developed its own technology platform enabling sellers and t Increase the level and proportion of revenue coming from outside buyers to make and accept payments, anywhere, anytime and any way.
ofthe online gaming industry with a focus on the retail, travel, digital This connectivity affords us a much bigger opportunity in the payments and government sectors market than competitors that dont have the same breadth of offer.
t Win new issuing and acquiring contracts across Europe, LATAM and Our next generation payment-as-a-service PaaS platform connects US, obtaining the necessary licensing to offer full service capability the end-to-end payments ecosystem so that consumers, merchants intarget markets andpartners enjoy real value, exibility and agility.
t Explore M&A opportunities to further bolster our full service Having launched in April 2013 with products that cover every area capability and increase business volume ofthepayments chain from issuing and acquiring to acceptance Discover more at: www.
com Kalixa owns its own ecosystem and offers three core products: t Kalixa Pay, a prepaid e-wallet with more than 150,000 users acrossEurope: t Kalixa Pro, a mPOS mobile point of sale for small businesses and soletraders: and t Kalixa Accept, which enables merchants to accept more than 200 payment methods.
In 2013, Kalixa processed transactions worth 2.5bn for more than 300 merchants.
Kalixa won Best Alternative Payments and Payments Pioneer at the Payment Awards and was shortlisted for numerous awards in 2013 including Best Prepaid Innovation at the Prepaid and Emerging Payments Awards.
Kalixa Pay holds an E-Money licence and Kalixa Accept a Payment Institute licence from the Financial Service Conduct Authority in the UK as well as MasterCard and Visa acquiring licences.
In New Jersey, Kalixa has a money transmission licence from the New Jersey banking and insurance regulators.
The payments value chain Reimburse Reimburse Bank B Issuer Bank Acquirer Collect transactions Deliver Deliver Payment Service transactions transactions Provider Card payments Consumer C Retailer Purchase goods Send transactions Alternative payments options e. g. online wallets, bank transfers, vouchers etc.
Bill cardholders Bill cardholders Collected payments Collected payments 36 Markets and regulatory overview Market snapshot Spotlight on The advent of social gaming has been a major success story over thepast few years.
During this period, revenue models have evolved extensively so social gaming that what previously was an interesting internet phenomenon has become a large commercial marketplace.
Within thebroader social gaming sector, casino-based games are the fastest growing genre, reaching an estimated market size of approximately $2.9bn in terms of GGR in 2013 and this is expected to rise to $4.4bn by2016, implying a compound annual growth 28 rate of 14.9%.
The social gaming sector offers games through a variety of online channels, the largest of which include social networks such as Facebook and mobile operating platforms such as iOS and Android.
Unlike the real money gaming market, social games are not subject to licensing and regulation and can be offered in a broader number of markets, including the United States and Asia.
Success factors We launched our social gaming strategy in May 2012 with the formation of Win, a dedicated social gaming business.
Several of the assets and skills required for success in the social gaming world are similar to thoserequired by successful real money gaming companies such as proprietary gaming content supported by state-of the-art graphics, CRMand business analytics, online marketing expertise and the ability to partner with leading brands.
Whilst a relatively new business area, we have established a specialist management team and acquired the team of software developers who built a number of the worlds leading social gaming applications and platforms including Slotomania and Caesars Casino.
Combining this expertise with the wider assets within the Group, we are optimistic about our prospects for social gaming.
To support our in-house and partner game applications, we have developed and released a robust end-to-end, proprietary analytics Bet type: platform called WinSight.
Social gaming players use virtual currency How we make money to play games and can never cash out.
Free virtual currency is provided on sign-up.
Customers can then purchase We are focused on the freemium model additional virtual currency to advance game play, open new features whereby players are given chips for free or send gifts to their friends this is the so-called freemium model.
but can choose to buy more to enhance Successful applications can achieve conversion rates from free to paying their game experience customers of 2% or higher, with average revenue per paying user of around $20 per month.
Advertising can provide additional revenue through offers, Key offer: banners and search.
A summary of illustrative conversion rates and costs Virtual currency-based slots, bingo, and value per user are shown below.
casinogames and sports betting Conversion Cost per user Value per user Key brands: Ad impression 0.1% $0.5 $1.5 Win Installation 50% $1.0 $3.0 Key applications: Active user 70% $1.55 $6.0 Slots Craze Paying user 4% $35 $200 Cheeky Bingo High-value player orwhale 3% $1,000 $2,000 Stardust Casino Sportster Bet and Win 28 Social casino metrics, SuperData Research 2013 bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St trategic rategic Gover Govern na ance nce F Fi in na ancia ncial l rep repor ort t p per erf for orma mance nce 37 Our offer Priorities for 2014 Social gaming can be used to describe a broad range of different t Grow customer volumes and revenue to reach $1m per month by gamingapplications.
Through Win we are focused on casino-themed December 2014 games where we can best leverage the broader Groups expertise.
t Roll-out Sportster Bet and Win on Facebook, iOS and Android Following the testing of several beta games in 2012, Win launched its first fully-edged product, Slots Craze, in February 2013, offering t Develop existing products and introduce new content and games a variety of highly original and engaging slot games within a single within each application portal.
t Launch additional games for our B2B customers In March 2013 we launched a bingo-based product under our Cheeky t Continually optimise existing titles and port to new platforms Bingo brand on Facebook and iOS.
In September 2013 we launched Stardust Casino on Facebook in partnership with Boyd Gaming Corporation, one of Americas leading casino entertainment companies.
Discover more at: A social game offering slots, blackjack and roulette, Stardust Casino is www.
com productsandbrands based on the classic Stardust Resort and Casino that has become an iconic brand from the Las Vegas strip and is also now available in iOS.
In the Win development pipeline for 2014 is a new sports betting gamecalled Sportster Bet and Win, which has been developed in conjunction with Nordeus, the creator of Top Eleven, currently one of the most successful sports apps in the social gaming arena.
In addition we are developing a new casino offer for another of the Groups US partners, the United Auburn Indian Community.
Sportster Bet and Win was launched in Spring 2014 in partnership with Nordeus 38 Markets and regulatory overview Introduction Spotlight on In the 2012 annual report we set out a clear vision, explaining why we believed that developing our own technology was essential for our technology long-term success.
Each of the core elements of our target platform remain in place with the addition of a new social layer catering for the fact that social features and access are increasingly standard requirements for our In 2013 we continued products and services.
our journey towards Our target platform While we are moving ever closer to completing our target platform, its completion of a unique, power and capabilities are already proving their worth as evidenced by our scalable, fully-flexible launch of a new poker product in September 2013.
This was swiftly followed by our launch of casino and poker into New Jersey in November.
Using a and inter-connected separate, stand-alone code branch, the launch further demonstrated the platforms power and exibility to deliver multiple products through technology platform multiple labels, in a very short timeframe.
While the completion of our target platform still needs to be synchronised with the shortand longupon which we can build term commercial objectives of the business, our experience in New Jersey provides a positive insight into the future capabilities of this proprietary a digital entertainment and, we believe, unique asset.
With many of Core platform the core elements in place, we began the transformation of our technology organisation BI & Products Payments Market through the adoption of predictive integration analytics the Agile methodology so that we can move faster, Social platform be more productive and deliver better quality services to Adaptive customer touchpoints ourcustomers.
Maximising the platforms potential required that we improve our feature cycle time, moving closer towards a process of continuous deployment of new products: we also had to be able to enter new markets, add new labels and move with greater velocity to deliver better quality software, all at low cost.
Another key requirement was that we increase the availability and quality of our services by continuing to pay down the technical debt that we had accumulated over recent years.
To achieve this ambitious goal we needed to change the way that we were organised and the way that we work.
We needed to become Agile.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St trateg rategic ic Gover Govern na ance nce F Fi in na ancia ncial l r repor eport t p per erf for orm ma an nce ce 39 The move to Agile We are focused on achieving a service-oriented and connected company, one with a culture of excellence, delivering quality Agile methodology is not a new way of developing software but it products and services at low cost: one that recognises and rewards has evolved substantially in recent years and at bwin.
party we are outperformance and can respond quickly to business requests.
developing our own tailored version, catered specifically for our We areempowering our technology teams to challenge convention requirements but drawing upon all of the key principles of Agile: andconsistently seek to improve our processes and procedures.
1 Active user involvement: We have reorganised our technology operations into a series of 2 Empowered decision-making teams: technology pods self-contained units with a shared purpose such asbwin Europe and partypoker US for example that are focused on 3 Requirements evolve but the timescale is xed: providing a service to other pods in the enterprise or on delivering a 4 Capture requirements at a high level, lightweight and visual: particular service or project.
Each pod contains a series of so called 5 Develop small, incremental software releases and iterate: scrum teams comprising up to six individuals, each team having the 6 Focus on frequent delivery of products: requisite skills to deliver discrete outputs that can be achieved within one or more technology sprints development cycles that typically 7 Complete each feature before moving on to the next: last two to three weeks.
8 Apply the 80 20 rule: Through this new organisational structure we are starting to see 9 Testing is integrated throughout the project lifecycle test early real benets in terms of faster and better quality software releases and often: and and through more effective resource allocation we are also reducing 10 Collaborative and co-operative approach between all stakeholders our technical debt that is improving overall system performance is essential.
With over 900 software engineers, located across three continents, we Key performance indicators opted for a new organisation structure to embrace this change, itself an ambitious goal, but essential in order that we stay on-track to meet our By the end of 2015 we expect to be in a position to deliver 24 platform strategic objectives.
releases each year and up to 52 games-related releases.
This would represent a substantial increase from what was achieved in 2013.
Improved stability and reliability will come from reduced technical debtas well as improved quality of newly-released software.
Name: Guy Duncan Title: Director of Product and Technology Hea Hear r more from Guy onl m ine bwinp bwinpa ar rt ty y. com ouryearinaction 40 Markets and regulatory overview Europe Spotlight on At the end of November 2013, the European Commission launched formal regulation infringement proceedings criticising the online gambling legislation in six Member States Belgium, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Lithuania, Poland and Romania and stepped up the two pending infringement cases against Sweden with the issuance of detailed opinions for failing to comply with EU law.
This move follows repeated calls from the European Parliament for the Commission to act as the Guardian of the European Treaties and significant legal clarifications by the Court of Justice of the European Union CJEU on how the Treaties apply to national gambling legislation.
The Commission made clear its position regarding other countries in a press release stating: After consultation of the Member States concerned, decisions on a first series of pending cases have now been taken.
Proceedings against otherMember States remain open either because the national rules inquestion are still under investigation or in the process of being 29 substantially amended.
Sweden, which was already subject to infringement proceedings, was sent two reasoned opinions requesting formally that its legislation be brought into line with EU law.
A reasoned opinion represents the final step before potential litigation at the CJEU.
Sweden was given until late January 2014 to reply to the Commission.
Whilst the minister in charge of Swedens gambling policy said in January 2014 that the European Commissions critique of Swedens approach was invalid, the Commission has yet to assess Swedens reply and respond accordingly.
Having launched the first infringement cases relating to online gambling back in 2006, the implications of the Commissions move could be significant.
With several Member States continuing to restrict the activities of EU licensed operators without having provided the requisite justication for doing so, a successful outcome for the Commission at the CJEU could result inpositive regulatory change in several other countries across Europe.
The shift towards Germany 24% of total revenue in 2013 nationally and locally Despite having enacted a revised State Lottery Treaty on 1 July 2012, regulated markets is problems with the licensing process, threats of legal action and a pending case at the CJEU have all contributed to a delay in any licences being issued.
continuing across many Itis understood that 41 companies have now been invited to resubmit their applications for up to 20 sports betting licences by the middle of countries in Europe March 2014.
Whilst we have applied for a licence and are working with the authorities todeliver a long-term solution that works for all stakeholders, andalso now in the itremains unclear how long the process will take for the regulator to review United States.
all of the applications, verify compliance with the regulatory requirements and issuelicences.
United Kingdom 10% of total revenue in 2013 The Gambling Licensing and Advertising Bill 201314 received three readings in the House of Commons by late November 2013, and then moved on to the House of Lords, where it received its first and second readings ahead of the Christmas break.
It is has now entered the report stage in the House of Lords and it is expected that licence applications from existing operators and those new to the UK market will commence two months after the Bill has received Royal Assent, expected some time during the first half of 2014.
While the applicable rate of taxation for offshore operators offering services to customers located in the UK has yet to be confirmed, the current rate of tax for onshore operators is 15% of gross gaming revenue.
It is expected thatthe new tax will become payable by licensed operators on orbefore 1December 2014.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St trategic rategic Gover Govern na ance nce F Fi in na ancia ncial l rep repor ort t p per erf for orma mance nce 41 Italy 9% of total revenue in 2013 Denmark 1% of total revenue in 2013 The delayed introduction of an extended range of permitted bets under The Danish online gaming market opened in January 2012 and as of 31 the less regimented Palinsesto Supplementare went live on 16 October November 2013, 43 licences were held by 30 online operators, led by 2013, providing a further boost for the Italian sports betting market.
our local partner Danske Licens Spil.
According to gures from the Total gross gaming revenue across all products grew by 2% in the third regulator the total size of the online gaming market in 2013 was equal quarter of 2013 versus the prior year to 143.7m according to ofcial toapproximately 309m of gross gaming revenue.
statistics from the regulator with strong growth in sports betting and Elsewhere, there is pending legislation for online gaming in several casino offsetting a 35% year-on-year decline in poker skill games and a countries including Bulgaria, Hungary and Netherlands with similar 23% decline in bingo.
proposals being contemplated in other countries.
The final details of such proposals and whether such legislation may become law France 6% of total revenue in 2013 remain unclear.
According to ARJEL, the French regulator, online sports betting gross 32 United States 2% of total revenue in 2013 gaming revenues in France grew nearly 19% to 164m in 2013 versus the prior year, while poker revenues declined 13% to 258m.
Overall, gross 2013 marked the watershed for online gaming in the US.
Nevada became gaming revenues in France for sports betting and poker fell 3% to 422m the first regulated online gaming market to launch, going live with real 30 versus 2012. money poker in April 2013.
While Delaware followed in November 2013, Despite continued concern that the regulatory and scal regime in it was the opening of New Jersey, with over eight million residents and France is not commercially viable, there has been little appetite to make a large transient population that proved to be the US online gaming any changes to the current framework.
Having issued transactional waivers to a number of online gaming Spain 5% of total revenue in 2013 service providers in partnership with locally licensed land-based casino operators, New Jersey opened for online poker and casino games on Since opening the online market in June 2012 the Spanish authorities 21 November 2013.
Despite similar challenges to that experienced in have continued to look at expanding the current regime to also include Nevada with geolocation and payments so far some of the major US online slots, but it is thought that they will first look at the possibility banking groups are not yet processing credit or debit card transactions of introducing betting exchanges.
According to data from the Spanish for online gaming in New Jersey, the market in New Jersey generated regulator, in the period from July to September 2013 Spanish customers approximately $27m of gross gaming revenue in its first full three wagered 1,293bn on online gambling, a 0.2% increase over the same months of operation.
Whilst the rigorous geolocation requirements period in 2012. set by the regulator have meant that it is not yet possible to play licensed real money gaming using mobile devices other than through Greece 3% of total revenue in 2013 a wi connection, the industry is working hard to nd a solution.
A concerted effort is also underway to persuade more of the major US Despite an outstanding detailed opinion from the European banks to permit licensed online gaming transactions in New Jersey.
Commission and in contravention of EU law, the Greek government Improvements in these factors, together with increased marketing began ISP blocking over 400 online gaming sites in 2013, including activities of several operators is expected to provide a further boost those of bwin.
This has had a severe impact on the overall market tothe total number of daily active players and overall revenue.
Despite the launch of several legal challenges by online operators, the ISP blocking remains in place.
In California, the Internet Consumer Protection Act of 2014 was introduced in the form of two separate bills on 21 February 2014, one in Belgium 1% of total revenue in 2013 the Senate SB1366 by Senator Correa and one in the Assembly AB2291 by Reggie Jones-Sawyer.
Should a bill progress through committee There have been no material changes to the regulated regime where stages and pass during the 2014 legislative session, it is anticipated that all products are allowed and gross gaming revenues are taxed at the market would open in 2015.
It is estimated that with over 26 million 11%.
In a presentation given by the Belgium Gaming Commission in residents over 21 years old in the state, the size of the intra-state October 2013 it was reported that the regulatory model had been a online poker market in California could be as large as $1bn of gross major success and that the countrys online market, excluding lottery, gaming revenue.
would generate gross gaming revenue of between 100m and 120m in 2013.
Prompted by certain concerns over the current gambling regime, While many other states have considered online gaming legislation Belgium was among those countries to receive an infringement notice in the past it remains unclear whether other states will seek to follow from the European Commission in November 2013.
New Jersey, Nevada and Delaware with their own framework.
However, through our existing agreements with MGM Resorts International, Boyd Gaming Corporation and the United Auburn Indian Community as well as further partnership opportunities throughout the US, we believe the Group is well-placed to take advantage of further market expansion.
dk 32 Including WPT 42 Key points Business and Total revenue of 652.4m 2012: 801.6m financial review reflecting shift from volume to value, ISP blocking in Greece, migration losses and the full year impact of gaming taxes in Germany: nationally regulated and or taxed markets represented 53% of total 2013 revenue 2012: 43% Gross gaming revenue through mobile touch grew by 77% to 76.9m 2012: 43.4m Successful US launch number one online poker network in New Jersey Costs reduced by 97m in 2013 versus 2012 compared with targeted savings of 70m Clean EBITDA from Continuing operations of 108.0m 2012: 164.9m due to lower revenue, increased gaming taxes in Germany and start-up costs in New Jersey Continuing operating profit of 51.9m 2012: loss of 16.5m driven by release of acquisition fair value provisions, absence of retroactive taxes and lower amortisation costs Continuing Clean EPS of 7.3 cents per share 2012: 14.7cents Current trading: average daily net revenue up 6% versus Q413 with nationally regulated and or taxed markets representing 56% of net revenue Recommended final dividend up 5% to 1.80pence per share 2012: 1.72 pence making a total FY13 dividend of 3.60 pence per share 2012: 3.44 pence bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St trategic rategic Gover Govern na ance nce F Fi in na ancia ncial l rep repor ort t p per erf for orma mance nce 43 Financial summary Amortisation fell by 28% to 68.9m 2012: 95.5m, partially offset by a small increase in depreciation charges, reecting the acquisition of the 2013 2012 business and assets of Orneon and Velasco Services that were acquired Year ended 31 December million million in May 2012.
Net revenue 609.4 768.9 83.8m of a fair value provision created at the time of the Merger was Other revenue 43.0 32.7 written-back during the second half of 2013.
1.9m was transferred Total revenue 652.4 801.6 to creditors.
Clean EBITDA from Continuing operations 108.0 164.9 Clean EBITDA from Discontinued operations 21.3 Share-based payments fell by 3.5m to 16.6m 2012: 20.1m because of a reduction in the number of senior executives participating in the Total Clean EBITDA 108.0 143.6 Groups incentive schemes as part of the Merger synergy programme EBITDA adjusted for exchange differences, reorganisation expenses, income or expenses and other cost-saving measures.
thatrelate to exceptional items, and non-cash charges relating to share-based payments seereconciliation of Clean EBITDA to operating profit loss below and reconciliation of Impairment losses of 9.4m 2012: 2.0m were incurred in respect CleanEPSto Basic EPS in note 11 to the Consolidated financial statements.
of write-downs of certain non-core investments held by the Group.
Discontinued operations refers to Ongames B2B business as well as operations located Market exit costs relate to expenses incurred on the Groups exit from physicallyoutside of the US but which relate to US customers that were no longer the Argentinean market.
These totalled 2.5m in the period 2012: nil.
accepted following the enactment of the UIGEA.
As a result, the Groups Continuing operations reported a profit before tax of 44.9m 2012: loss of 23.5m.
2013 Results Total revenue was 652.4m 2012: 801.6m reflecting the shift from volume Discontinued operations relate to the Ongame B2B poker business that to value announced in March 2013, the impact of reduced cross-sell volumes was sold in October 2012 as well as on-going costs associated with the following the dotcom platform migration in December 2012, as well as Companys Non-Prosecution Agreement NPA that was reached with market declines in certain regulated markets and ISP blocking in Greece.
the United States Attorneys Ofce for the Southern District of New York The introduction of a 5% turnover tax on sports betting in Germany and the USAO on 6 April 2009.
No further charges were incurred during the the securing of a licence in Belgium contributed to higher gaming taxes in period.
The profit before tax after taking Discontinued operations into these two countries.
However, market declines in other regulated markets account was 44.9m 2012: loss before tax of 62.9m.
meant that total gaming taxes excluding retroactive taxes fell by 2.7m to Taking into account Discontinued operations, total Clean EPS of 80.1m.
Increased TV production costs at WPT meant that total cost of sales, 7.3cents was down 40% 2012: 12.1 cents while total basic EPS excluding retroactive taxes and associated charges, increased by 0.2m to was5.4 cents 2012: loss per share of 7.8 cents.
Taken together with lower revenue and start-up costs in New Jersey, Clean EBITDA declined to 108.0m 2012: 164.9m.
New basis of segmental reporting The table provides a reconciliation of the movements between Clean EBITDA As disclosed at the time of the 2013 half year results, the basis for the and operating profit.
allocation of costs and resources for the latest reporting period has changed and is no longer comparable with the prior year.
While total Reconciliation of Clean EBITDA to operating profit Clean EBITDA is directly comparable with the prior year, the Clean EBITDA generated by each vertical is not and so we have provided the 2013 2012 gure on both the new as well as the previous basis, against which the Year ended 31 December million million prior year is directly comparable.
It has not been possible to provide a Continuing operations comparable Clean EBITDA gure by vertical on the new basis for 2012 Clean EBITDA 108.0 164.9 asthe new organisation structure did not then exist.
Exchange differences 8.0 5.3 The new basis aims to reect more appropriately the fact that certain Depreciation 24.4 21.3 product verticals are dependent on the cross-sell of players from Amortisation 68.9 95.5 other product verticals and thus includes a re-allocation of marketing Retroactive taxes and associated charges 0.6 31.5 costs between these verticals in order to reect more accurately the Share-based payments 16.6 20.1 profitability of that segment on a stand-alone basis.
Also, under the Merger and acquisition costs 0.1 new basis, a higher proportion of costs are allocated directly to each Impairment losses 9.4 2.0 segment and the remaining central costs are now allocated pro rata to Market exit costs 2.5 gross profit instead of net revenue.
Release of acquisition fair value provision 83.8 There follows a more detailed review of the Continuing operations Reorganisation expenses 9.5 5.6 including each of the individual product segments.
profit loss from operating activities Continuing operations 51.9 16.5 Discontinued operations Clean EBITDA 21.3 Exchange differences 0.2 Depreciation 0.1 Share-based payments 0.2 Merger and acquisition expenses 0.5 Loss on disposal of discontinued operations 17.3 profit loss from operating activities Discontinued operations 39.2 44 Business and financial review 2013 Sports betting Key Performance Indicators 2013 2012 Year ended 31 December million million Change Year ended 31 December 2013 2012 Change Total stakes 2,775.3 3,804.5 27% active player days million 37.1 45.2 18% Gross win margin 9.2% 7.8% 18% Daily average players 000s 101.6 123.5 18% Gross revenue 256.7 298.2 14% Yield per active player day 6.3 5.8 9% Bonuses and other fair value adjustments to revenue 22.7 35.4 36% new player sign-ups 000s 555.9 791.9 30% Net revenue 234.0 262.8 11% average daily net revenue 000 641.1 718.0 11% Other revenue 1.8 0.1 1,700% Whilst new player sign-ups and player volumes declined by 30% and Total revenue 235.8 262.9 10% 18% respectively, this was driven by the shift from volume to value, ISP % of total revenue from nationally regulated blocking in Greece and the fact that prior year volumes activity and new and or taxed markets 67% 47% player sign-ups were flattered by the Euro 2012 Championship that had Cost of sales 55.0 44.9 22% resulted in a higher than normal level of activity.
The greater focus on Gross profit 180.8 218.0 17% more valuable players can be seen by the increase in player yields that Clean EBITDA new basis 53.7 n a n a also benefited from a reduced number of casual players during the Euro Clean EBITDa margin 22.8% n a n a 2012 Championship.
The net impact was that average daily revenue was Clean EBITDA old basis 23.2 42.7 46% down year-on-year at 641,100 2012: 718,000.
Clean EBITDa margin 9.8% 16.2% n a While bwin remains a leading brand across continental Europe, our digital austria, Belgium, France, Denmark, Germany, Italy, Spain and UK partnerships with Manchester United UK, Real Madrid Spain, Bayern Munich Germany, Olympique fide Marseille France, RSC anderlecht In addition to the shift from volume to value and ISP blocking in Belgium and Juventus Italy have all helped to raise our brand profile Greece, the introduction of a 5% turnover tax for German customers on in each of these nationally regulated and or taxed markets.
Based on 1 July 2012 contributed to a 27% decline in amounts wagered, as well external market data, our estimated market share in terms of gross as a 22% increase in cost of sales.
The new fiscal regime in Germany gaming revenue in Belgium was 8% went live under licence in March partly contributed to an increase in gross win margin as we sought 33 2013, in France it was 18%, in Italy it was 9% and it was 20% in Spain.
to recover some of the tax due from customers, as well as encourage them to shift towards betting on longer odds and combination bets.
Mobile and touch is an increasingly popular channel for sports bettors as a result, the total gross win margin increased to 9.2% 2012: 7.8%.
In 2013, mobile touch represented 19% of sports gross Our increased focus on higher value customers, together with the gaming revenue 2012: 12% and in December 2013 it had reached 28% absence of the Euro Championship, saw bonuses reduce to 0.8% of the of gross gaming revenue versus 15% a year earlier.
Our analysis shows amount wagered 2012: 0.9% and this helped to mitigate the impact that bwin customers that play on both mobile and desktop generate of lower turnover on net revenue which was down 11% at 234.0m incremental value over those that use the desktop alone.
Having generated approximately 17.6m of net revenue expect that by increasing the proportion of our customers using our next in 2012, ISP blocking in Greece from august 2013 saw Greek revenue generation mobile product as well as desktop, our revenue will also grow.
almost eliminated during the fourth quarter.
While there are several legal challenges underway in Greece, it seems unlikely that there will be Objectives for 2014 15: any positive resolution there in the short-term.
as mentioned above, increasing our share in regulated markets The impact of lower revenue and a 10.1m increase in gaming taxes, is atthe heart of our business strategy.
We plan to increase our primarily in Germany, resulted in Clean EBITDa from sports betting of already strong brand presence in these markets using our digital 53.7m on the new basis and 23.2m on the old basis 2012: 42.7m.
partnerships with six of Europes leading football clubs by offering unique experiences and content to bwin customers.
This effort Under the previous basis of segmental reporting, costs that were not will be complemented by improvements in our digital marketing able to be directly allocated to a particular vertical were allocated capabilities, leveraging our extensive international player base.
pro rata to the net revenue generated by each vertical.
Following the Wealso plan to expand the reach of our new mobile and touch introduction of the turnover tax on sports betting in Germany, the products significantly and expect that by December 2015, 50% of sports betting segment was allocated a disproportionately high share total net revenue will be through mobile and touch devices, driven of central costs under the old basis.
Under the new basis of segmental by sports betting.
reporting, a higher proportion of costs are allocated directly to each segment, and the remaining central costs are now allocated pro rata to The first stage of the FIFa World Cup starts on 12 June and the final gross profit.
With all of the major European countries competing, this should provide a meaningful uplift in betting a summary of the key performance indicators for sports betting during turnover for the Group during June and July.
2013 is shown in the following table: Having entered into a supply agreement with Fortuna Entertainment Group in January 2014, we are looking to add further B2B agreements with a view to leveraging our extensive sports content through partnerships in non-core markets.
33 Company estimates based on data provided by aRJEL, aaMS and DGOJ respectively.
In the absence of any official data from the regulator, the estimate for Belgium has been based on data from H2 Gambling Capital February 2014. bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St trategic rategic Gover Govern na ance nce F Fi in na ancia ncial l rep repor ort t p per erf for orma mance nce 45 Casino & games Key Performance Indicators 2013 2012 Year ended 31 December million million Change Year ended 31 December 2013 2012 Change Total stakes 7,023.6 8,117.7 13% Active player days million 7.3 9.9 26% Gross win margin 3.7% 3.9% 5% Daily average players 000s 20.0 27.0 26% Gross revenue 262.3 318.6 18% Yield per active player day 29.2 27.2 7% Bonuses and other fair value adjustments to revenue 49.5 49.8 1% New player sign-ups 000s 59.2 134.3 56% Net revenue 212.8 268.8 21% Average daily net revenue 000 583.0 734.4 21% Other revenue 2.8 2.4 17% Active player days fell by 26% which was in line with the performance in Total revenue 215.6 271.2 21% the first half of 2013, driven by the shift from volume to value.
This also % of total revenue from nationally regulated impacted new player sign-ups following the decision to cease player and or taxed markets 24% 22% acquisition and registration in 18 countries.
Despite steps taken to Cost of sales 9.8 11.0 11% improve operational performance in the second half, such as improved Gross profit 205.8 260.2 21% mini games and mobile offerings, ISP blocking in Greece in August acted Clean EBITDA new basis 45.0 N A N A as a significant drag on performance with a significant reduction in the Clean EBITDA margin 20.9% N A N A number of daily players from Greece during the second half versus the Clean EBITDA old basis 72.6 80.1 9% same period in 2012.
While the focus on more valuable customers meant Clean EBITDA margin 33.7% 29.5% N A that player yields increased by 7%, lower player activity meant that average daily revenue declined by 21% to 583,000 2012: 734,400.
Belgium, Denmark, Italy, Spain, UK and US New Jersey Total stakes fell by 13% in the year driven by the shift from volume to Objectives for 2014 15: value, ISP blocking in Greece and a softer performance in poker that Regulated markets will remain a consistent theme, although for continues to act as a major source of player trafc for partycasino.
casino & games, customer trafc is much more dependent on crossPerformance was also impacted by migration losses incurred following sell from sports betting and poker than from stand-alone customer the transfer of 13 million bwin customer accounts onto our integrated acquisition.
While the main cross-sell in Europe will be from sports technology platform at the end of 2012.
While the full launch into New betting, in the US it will be from partypoker.
By tailoring our offer Jersey on 26 November provided some growth in December, it was to maximise the appeal of our casino offer to sports bettors and insufficient to prevent the decline year-on-year.
poker players respectively and by improving our digital marketing A reduction in gross win margin to 3.7% 2012: 3.9% reected a shift in capabilities, we aim to increase player volumes and revenue.
business mix towards lower hold table games driven by the popularity Having represented 6% of total casino gross gaming revenue in ofthese games among bwin sports betting customers.
As a result, 2013, we plan to increase the proportion of casino & games revenue gross revenue fell by 18% to 262.3m 2012: 318.6m.
Whilst bonus costs coming through mobile touch channels signicantly over the next remained at in absolute terms, they increased as a proportion of gross 18 months, driven by the launch of mobile casino apps in several revenue reecting increased loyalty points generated and redeemed by regulated territories following our successful launch in Belgium top tier players and as a result net revenue fell 21%.
Lower total revenue inJanuary 2014. and launch-related marketing costs associated with New Jersey meant that Clean EBITDA was 45.0m on the new basis and 72.6m on the old We plan to differentiate our content offering with a greater selection basis, a 9% decline versus the previous year 2012: 80.1m.
A summary of exclusive proprietary games, including games leveraging our ofthe key performance indicators for casino & games is shown in the sports sponsorships, while at the same time sourcing best of breed following table: games from leading content suppliers so that we will have over 120new games in our portfolio by June 2014, of which 25 will be available on mobile touch devices.
46 Business and financial review 2013 Poker Key Performance Indicators 2013 2012 Year ended 31 December million million Change Year ended 31 December 2013 2012 Change Gross revenue 135.5 219.0 38% Active player days million 17.3 28.4 39% Bonuses and other fair value adjustments to revenue 25.4 45.2 44% Daily average players 000s 47.4 77.6 39% Net revenue 110.1 173.8 37% Yield per active player day 6.4 6.1 5% Other revenue 4.5 2.7 67% New player sign-ups 000s 177.3 390.6 55% Total revenue 114.6 176.5 35% Average daily net revenue 000 301.6 474.9 36% % of total revenue from nationally regulated For the reasons mentioned above, player volumes were down and or taxed markets 41% 42% signicantly versus the prior year.
Whilst pleased with the response to Cost of sales 13.7 21.9 37% our new poker product, we have yet to launch it into some of our largest Gross profit 100.9 154.6 35% regulated markets and were also hampered by the loss of Greece that Clean EBITDA new basis 7.7 N A N A in 2012 averaged 3,326 players per day.
Although player yields increased Clean EBITDA margin 6.7% N A N A by 5% due to lower bonus rates, the reduction in player volumes meant Clean EBITDA old basis 22.3 28.5 22% that average daily revenue fell 36% to 301,600 2012: 474,900.
Clean EBITDA margin 19.5% 16.2% N A Objectives for 2014 15: Belgium, Denmark, France, Italy, Spain, UK and US New Jersey Having launched the first phase of our new poker product on While the launch of our new poker product on 5 September 2013 to dotcom as well as in New Jersey in 2013, we plan to introduce further customers using our dotcom poker services helped to improve the new product features throughout 2014 and roll these out to our recent revenue trend, structural declines in many markets including key regulated markets including Belgium, France, Italy and Spain.
Italy and France, coupled with ISP blocking in Greece made for a Enhancing our mobile offering is a key objective and we will launch challenging operating environment.
While the new product has so far enhanced versions of our native mobile clients Android and iOS in only been made available to customers in dotcom markets and New our key markets as well as an HTML5 version of FastForward that Jersey it has not yet been launched in Belgium, Denmark, France, Italy we believe will prove popular.
Having grown the proportion of our orSpain, overall customer feedback has been positive and we are revenue coming from mobile during the second half of 2013, we pleased with its performance in a difficult market.
expect this to increase further in both 2014 and 2015.
Having exited the US market on 13 October 2006, partypokers return Having overhauled our tournament structure in January 2014, we in New Jersey was undoubtedly one of the highlights of 2013 and will continue to add new tournaments throughout the year and offer represented a major milestone for our poker business.
Having received new missions for players to embark upon every two weeks.
In New the requisite transactional waiver from the Division of Gaming Jersey we will seek to build upon our solid start since the market Enforcement and after a five-day test period, we went live with poker opened and capitalise on our new sponsorship deals with the New and casino products within the state of New Jersey on 26 November Jersey Devils in the NHL and the Philadelphia 76ers in the NBA.
While pleased with the early performance of our network, that operates on a completely stand-alone platform and is distinct from the rest of our technology, one months contribution in 2013 was not sufficient to make any meaningful impact on the overall poker result forthe year as a whole.
The shift from volume to value coupled with the challenges outlined above meant that new player sign-ups and activity levels were down 55% and 39% respectively.
Our increased focus on more valuable customers delivered a 44% reduction in bonus costs, the result being that net revenue declined by 37%.
Despite an increase in other revenue following the launch in New Jersey, total poker revenue fell by 35% to 114.6m 2012: 176.5m.
The drop in revenue was matched by a similar reduction in cost of sales due to market declines in a number of regulated markets including France where taxes are particularly high.
Clean EBITDA on the new basis was 7.7m and 22.3m on the old basis 2012: 28.5m, a 22% decline on the prior year, driven by lower revenue and costs associated with our launch into New Jersey.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St trategic rategic Gover Govern na ance nce F Fi in na ancia ncial l rep repor ort t p per erf for orma mance nce 47 Bingo Key Performance Indicators Year ended 31 December 2013 2012 Change Year ended 31 December 2013 2012 Change Gross revenue 104.8 119.7 12% Active player days million 6.4 7.1 10% Bonuses and other fair value adjustments to revenue 52.3 56.2 7% Daily average players 000s 17.5 19.4 10% Net revenue 52.5 63.5 17% Yield per active player day 8.2 8.9 8% Other revenue 0.6 0.8 25% New player sign-ups 000s 123.5 141.1 12% Total revenue 53.1 64.3 17% Average daily net revenue 000 143.8 173.5 17% % of total revenue from nationally regulated New player sign-ups and player volumes were down 12% and 10% and or taxed markets 98% 97% respectively, reecting the market decline in Italy as well as the highly Cost of sales 3.7 5.0 26% competitive environment in the UK.
While the launch of bwin bingo in Gross profit 49.4 59.3 17% several markets in December 2013 provided some incremental revenue, Clean EBITDA new basis 8.2 N A N A as did the launch of Foxy Bingo on mobile in April 2013, these initiatives Clean EBITDA margin 15.4% N A N A were unable to reverse the year-on-year decline seen in the Italian Clean EBITDA old basis 12.9 18.8 31% bingo market that shrank in 2013.
The net impact was that average daily Clean EBITDA margin 24.3% 29.2% N A revenue was down 17% year-on-year at 143,800 2012: 173,500.
Italy, Spain and UK Objectives for 2014 15: Both the UK and Italy remained highly competitive during 2013.
In the UK, the expected introduction of a point-of-consumption tax Preliminary discussions are already underway with 888 Holdings inDecember 2014 prompted a significant increase in marketing regarding possible options for the Groups existing supply agreement activityby competitors, many of whom seemed determined to try under which several of the Groups UK bingo sites are operated andincrease market share, irrespective of cost.
The strength of the using 888 software.
The contract is scheduled to terminate in May Foxy Bingo brand meant that while we did lose some revenue due 2014.
The two main options for the Group are to either terminate to aggressive, competitor promotions, we were able to maintain a the agreement and migrate customers to the Groups proprietary strong market position overall.
In Italy, a 26% decline in the size of technology platform: or extend the existing agreement under 34 thebingo market made for a challenging market backdrop.
It is expected that a decision will be reached over the despite aggressive attempts by competitors to seize market share, coming weeks.
we maintained a leadership position with an estimated 26% share Mobile is again a key area of focus and represented approximately of the Italian market in terms of gross gaming revenue.
In Spain, we 7% of total bingo GGR in 2013.
We are aiming to reach 40% of GGR have seen solid growth in revenue, in part due to the full year impact coming through mobile touch devices by December 2015 as we in 2013 following the Spanish launch that took place in June 2012. launch mobile apps for all of our key bingo brands.
Since launching Overall, Spanish net revenue increased by 47% versus 2012 although our new Foxy iOS app in the UK in January 2014, we have seen a themarketremains small as a proportion of the bingo segment.
significant jump in mobile activity and are confident of hitting our Gross revenue declined by 12% due to the factors outlined above but 2015 target.
also by a 5% weakening of Sterling versus the Euro.
An increase in the bonus rate meant that net revenue fell by 17% to 52.5m 2012: 63.5m.
The declines in Italy meant that gaming taxes also fell to 3.7m 2012: 5.4m, helping to offset the impact on gross profit as well as CleanEBITDA that was 8.2m on the new basis or 12.9m on the old basis 2012: 18.8m.
A summary of the key performance indicators for bingo is shown in thefollowing table: 34 Total gross gaming revenue AAMS 48 Business and financial review 2013 Other revenue Distribution expenses Other revenue includes revenue from network services, payment 2013 2012 services to third parties, domain sales, software services, World Poker Year ended 31 December million million Change Tour, Win, InterTrader and Winners, our retail franchise.
Total other Customer acquisition and retention 126.0 157.2 20% revenue was up 31% to 43.0m 2012: 32.7m driven by domain sales Afliates 32.4 53.5 39% of6.7m as well as a maiden contribution from social gaming and Customer bad debts 6.3 6.0 5% growth in Winners, B2B and InterTrader.
Third-party content 28.9 34.0 15% We are continuing to invest in Kalixa, our digital payments business that Webhosting and technical services 26.5 28.6 7% isperforming well and in-line with our original plans.
The dynamics of Clean EBITDA distribution expenses 220.1 279.3 21% thedigital payments industry are such that we are considering several Reorganisation expenses 2.5 0.9 178% opportunities to accelerate Kalixas expansion through a combination Total distribution expenses 222.6 280.2 21% oforganic growth and externally funded bolt-on acquisitions.
Clean EBITDA distribution expenses as a % of total revenue 33.7% 34.8% Distribution expenses as a % of total revenue 34.1% 35.0% Cost of sales As a result of our shift from volume to value, we stopped player 2013 2012 acquisition in 18 markets where the returns from marketing spend Year ended 31 December million million Change were insufficient or where there was significant regulatory uncertainty.
Gaming taxes 80.1 82.8 3% By focusing our marketing efforts on fewer, nationally regulated Broadcasting costs 6.6 3.5 89% and taxed markets, there was a significant reduction in customer Other 2.2 2.4 8% acquisition-related spend as well as afliates that fell to 19.3% and 5.0% Clean EBITDA cost of sales 88.9 88.7 0% of total revenue respectively.
Customer bad debts increased to 1.0% Retroactive taxes and associated charges 0.6 31.5 98% of total revenue 2012: 0.7% reecting a change in the mix of deposits Total cost of sales 89.5 120.2 26% following the dotcom platform migration.
However, this increase was more than offset by an associated reduction in transaction fees Gaming taxes fell slightly reecting market declines in Italy and see below.
Third-party content costs fell by 15% in absolute terms France and this more than offset increased taxes in Belgium and but increased slightly as a proportion of total revenue reecting Germany.
Broadcasting costs increased signicantly driven by higher the addition of new third-party games to our casino during the year.
amortisation costs arising from the production of the new Alpha 8 Series Webhosting and technical services costs fell by 2.1m reecting the by the World Poker Tour and lower sales of WPT library programming to realisation of merger-related synergies.
The net result was that Clean third-party broadcasters.
EBITDA distribution expenses were reduced by 59.2m or 21% to 220.1m 2012: 279.3m, representing 33.7% of total revenue 2012: 34.8%.
Reorganisation costs of 2.5m reected ongoing costs of the poker platforms in Italy and France that are still operated using the Ongame software and which are due to be migrated in 2014 and costs incurred following the ISP blocking in Greece.
Clean EBITDA distribution expenses as a % of total revenue Clean EBITD DA distribution ex xpenses as a % of total revenue W We ebhosting and bhost ting and technical services technica al services 34.8% 34.8% 300m 300m Customer bad debts Customer e bad debts 3.6% 3.6% 33.7% 33.7% 0.7% 07 0.7% % 250m 250m Third-party content Third-party content 4.2% 4.2% 4.1% 4.1% Afliates Afliates s 200m 200m 6.7% 6.7% 1.0% 10 10 1.0% % % 4.4% 4.4% Customer acquisition Custome er acquisition 150m 150m 5.0% 5.0% 19.6% 19.6% and retention and retention 19.3% 19.3% 100m 100m 50m 50m 0 0 2013 2013 2012 2012 bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St trateg rategic ic Gover Govern na ance nce F Fi in na ancia ncial l r repor eport t p per erf for orm ma an nce ce 49 Administrative expenses Taxation The tax charge for the period was 3.8m 2012: 1.4m reecting an 2013 2012 effective tax rate for Continuing operations of 8.5% 2012: 6.0%.
Year ended 31 December million million Change The deferred tax credit of 6.9m 2012: 11.6m is related to the release of Transaction fees 30.1 40.9 26% deferred tax provisions set up on the Merger arising from amortisation Staff costs 121.0 133.6 9% of short-life intangible assets.
Outsourced services 25.6 28.4 10% Other overheads 58.0 69.5 17% Net cash Clean EBITDA administrative expenses 234.7 272.4 14% As at As at Depreciation 24.4 21.3 15% 31 December 31 December Amortisation 68.9 95.5 28% 2013 2012 Year ended 31 December million million Impairment losses 9.4 2.0 370% Cash and cash equivalents 173.3 169.7 Market exit costs 2.5 N A Short-term investments 12.7 31.5 Reorganisation expenses 7.0 4.7 49% Loans and borrowings 46.1 36.4 Administrative expenses before share-based payments 346.9 395.9 12% Net cash 139.9 164.8 Share-based payments 16.6 20.1 17% Payment service providers less chargeback provision 48.7 68.6 Administrative expenses 363.5 416.0 13% Net cash including amounts held by processors 188.6 233.4 Clean EBITDA administrative expenses as a % of total revenue 36.0% 34.0% Less: Client liabilities and progressive prize pools 124.8 136.7 Administrative expenses before share-based payments as a Net cash including amounts held by processors less % of total revenue 53.2% 49.4% clientliabilities 63.8 96.7 Administrative expenses as a % of total revenue 55.7% 51.9% Transaction fees fell both in absolute terms and relative to revenue Cashow reecting the reduction in revenue, merger-related synergies and the Continuing operations increased focus on nationally regulated and or taxed markets where Operating cashow from Continuing operations increased by 49% fees tend to be lower.
Staff costs and outsourced services were reduced to 61.0m 2012: 40.9m, due primarily to the prior year having been by 12.6m and 2.8m respectively reecting the realisation of mergerimpacted by a payment of 31.5m in retroactive taxes and associated related synergies.
Other overheads were reduced by 11.5m or 17% charges in Spain.
reecting synergies arising from the Merger.
The net result was that Clean EBITDA administration costs fell by 37.7m.
After dividend payments of 33.6m 2012: 33.0m, capital expenditure including intangibles of 45.8m 2012: 39.7m and a reduction in shortterm investments of 17.9m 2012: 8.3m, the net cash inow in the Clean EBITDA admin expenses as a % of total revenue Clean EBITD DA admin expens ses as a % of total revenue period was 10.5m 2012 outow: 94.9m.
This was a marked increase over the prior year that was impacted by substantial share repurchases, Other overheads Other ov verheads retroactive taxes and associated charges, as well as payments relating 36.0% 36.0% 34.0% 3 34.0% Outsourced services Outsourced c services 300m 300m to acquisitions made.
Staff costs Staff cos sts 8.7% 8.7% 250m 250m Discontinued operations T Tr ransaction fees ansact tion fees 8.9% 8.9% 200m 200m 3.5% 3.5% The net cash outow arising from Discontinued operations in 2013 3.9% 3.9% 16.7% 16.7% comprises the settlement of the Kentucky litigation for 11.9m 2012: 150m 150m 18.5% 18.5% nil and contingent consideration due from the sale of Ongame of 0.7m 100m 100m 2012: nil.
In 2012, the net cash outow of 24.8m was driven primarily by the payments arising under the Non-Prosecution Agreement, the last 50m 50m 5.1% 5.1% payment of which was made in September 2012, coupled with the loss 4.6% 4.6% 0 0 on disposal of Ongame.
A summary of the Groups cashow in the period 2013 2013 2012 2012 is shown in the table overleaf: 50 Business and financial review 2013 Cashow continued 2013 2012 Continuing Discontinued Total Continuing Discontinued Total Year ended 31 December million million million million million million Clean EBITDA 108.0 108.0 164.9 21.3 143.6 Exchange differences 8.0 8.0 5.3 0.2 5.1 Movement in inventory 0.6 0.6 Movement in trade and other receivables 11.0 0.7 11.7 21.9 2.4 19.5 Movement in trade and other payables 27.6 27.6 41.6 13.8 55.4 Movement in provisions 0.2 11.9 11.7 10.1 10.1 Income taxes paid 12.2 12.2 8.2 8.2 Other 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 Net cash inow outow from operating activities pre-merger-related costs 71.1 11.2 59.9 78.1 32.5 45.6 Merger-related costs 0.1 0.5 0.6 Reorganisation costs 9.5 9.5 5.6 5.6 Retroactive taxes and associated charges 0.6 0.6 31.5 31.5 Net cash inow outow from operating activities 61.0 11.2 49.8 40.9 33.0 7.9 Issue of ordinary shares 1.6 1.6 1.0 1.0 Purchase of own shares 5.8 5.8 51.5 51.5 Dividends paid 33.6 33.6 33.0 33.0 Repayment of bank borrowings 7.6 7.6 32.6 32.6 New bank borrowings 18.1 18.1 36.4 36.4 Acquisitions 13.7 13.7 Acquisitions deferred payment 1.8 1.8 8.3 8.3 Capital expenditure 22.3 22.3 29.2 29.2 Purchases of intangible assets 23.5 23.5 10.5 10.5 Purchase of investments 4.1 4.1 Repayment of loan by joint venture 5.7 5.7 2.3 2.3 Dividend received from associate 1.5 1.5 Sale of assets held for sale 8.28.2 Decrease in short-term investments 17.9 17.9 8.3 8.3 Other 0.7 0.7 0.9 0.9 Net cashow 10.5 11.2 0.7 94.9 24.8 119.7 bwin.
party Annual report & accounts 2013 S St trategic rategic Gover Govern na ance nce F Fi in na ancia ncial l rep repor ort t p per erf for orma mance nce 51 Current trading and outlook Trading in the first 10 weeks of 2014 has been in-line with our expectations with average daily net revenue down 10% year-on-year but up 6% versus the previous quarter and with nationally regulated and or taxed markets representing 56% of net revenue.
While our shift from volume to value means that our year-on-year performance remains down versus 2013, we have achieved sequential growth since the third quarter of 2013, in line with our guidance.
A summary of the current trading performance in terms of net revenue relative to the same period in 2013 and also to Q4 13 is shown below: Average daily net revenue 10 weeks to 11 March 2014 2013 % change Q4 2013 % change Sports betting 725,000 772,000 6% 680,000 7% Casino & games 590,000 634,000 7% 564,000 5% Poker 275,000 385,000 29% 266,000 3% Bingo 153,000 155,000 1% 141,000 9% Total 1,743,000 1,946,000 10% 1,651,000 6% % from nationally regulated and or taxed markets 56% 51% 54% While New Jersey has yet to reach its full potential because of geolocation and payment processing issues that are continuing to impact all operators, the Group has made a solid start in this newly regulated market.
Despite the headwinds of lost revenue from Greece and continued pressures in European poker, based on the Groups performance to-date and the planned developments outlined above, weare confident that we can deliver year-on-year revenue and Clean EBITDA growth in 2014.
As a result, the Board remains confident in the Groups prospects.
