4 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Investment Managers Report Market Background Contributions to total returns in Last year was a very positive one for stock markets globally as they the year ended 31st January weathered some huge uncertainties, of which the biggest were the 2013 intensification of the Eurozone sovereign debt crisis, doubts over the % outlook for the Chinese economy and worries about the US budget Benchmark total return 27.2 deficit.
Although estimates both for economic growth and company Stock Sector selection 0.2 profits were revised downwards throughout the year, Central Banks Gearing Cash effect 0.9 offered the promise of continuing cheap credit.
This has given the Effect of management fee 0.5 politicians time to address structural problems and has allowed assets Cost of debentures 0.8 to reflate.
Return on net assets 26.6 Mid and small sized UK equities performed strongly in the year ended Effect of decrease in discount 2.4 31st January 2013.
Return to shareholders 29.0 Performance Source: Xamin JPMAM AIC Morningstar.
The net asset value total return for the year ended 31st January 2013 The table provides a breakdown, was 26.6% which was 0.6% behind the Companys benchmark index, relative to the benchmark, of the the FTSE All-Share excluding FTSE 100 constituents and investment contributions to total return.
The FTSE 100 index returned 15.5% A glossary of terms and definitions is for the period, with mid and small sized companies performing much provided on page 56. more strongly than larger quoted companies last year.
The bar chart shows the relative contributions to performance for the year for the five best and five worst sectors within the portfolio.
The green bars to the right show positive contributors relative to the benchmark index and reflect both sector weighting and stock selection.
The blue bars to the left show the negative relative contributors.
Year to 31st January 2013 0% Top 5 Oil & Gas Producers 1.90% Household Goods and Home Construction 1.76% Software & Computer Services 0.81% Fixed Line Telecommunications 0.69% Industrial Metals & Mining 0.44% Bottom 5 0.54% Food Producers 0.56% Aerospace & Defence 0.59% Electronic & Electrical Equipment 0.81% Financial Services 1.08% Mining Relative Contribution Source: Factset This shows that the most positive contributor was the Oil and Gas Producers sector where, following its discovery of substantial gas reserves offshore Mozambique, Cove Energy agreed a cash takeover approach from Thailands PTT at a substantial premium.
Takeovers were substantial contributors for the portfolio last year, with the strong The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 5 performance from the Software and Computer Services sector reflecting an agreed cash takeover for Logica by CGI and also Misys completing its agreed cash takeover by Vista.
The positive Fixed Line Telecommunications sector performance reflected an agreed cash takeover of Cable & Wireless Worldwide by Vodafone.
However, when takeover approaches fail, share prices can fall substantially and the negative contribution from the Aerospace and Defence sector reflected the decision by Carlyle not to make a formal bid for Chemring following its initial approach.
Similarly, African Barrick Gold failed to agree a price with China National Gold Group following a takeover approach and its share price fell sharply in January.
The Mining sector also suffered a poor performance from Petropavlovsk, another gold miner which continued to disappoint the market on output and cost of production, and which we sold during the year.
The Financial Services sector was a strong performer last year as asset values generally reflated and the negative relative contribution to the portfolio from that sector reflects that the portfolio was too underweight in a strong sector, representing a missed opportunity.
Another sector which performed strongly was Home Construction.
Profit forecasts for the housebuilders were increased throughout the year as they delivered better than expected profit margins as a result of both strong cost control and judicious land purchases.
Housebuilding is attracting strong Government support in terms of both funding for first time buyers and relaxation of planning rules as there is a structural shortage of new homes to meet anticipated new household formation.
Further, a return to historic new build rates would add 2.4% to UK GDP as each house built creates 3.5 direct jobs and one indirect job.
Activity The investment managers have the flexibility to operate within a gearing range of 10% net cash to 20% geared and a more specific tactical range is agreed regularly with the Board.
Over the course of the year gearing was reduced from 15% at 31st January 2012 to 3% at 31st January 2013 reflecting the fact that, whilst we remain positive, the market for UK mid and small sized stocks has performed strongly whilst profit forecasts have been reduced.
Stocks have been steadily re-rated since we increased gearing against a difficult economic backdrop in October 2011.
The portfolio continues to retain its style of broad diversification across all sectors, comprising 130 stocks of which 85 are mid-sized companies and 45 are smaller companies.
The ten largest holdings represent 22.2% of total assets less liabilities.
Of the ten, which are shown on page 11, Persimmon, Jardine Lloyd Thompson, Cable and Wireless Communications and Phoenix Group were all in the top ten a year ago and the other six stocks were already substantial holdings within the portfolio.
At the beginning of the year, as it became clearer that the housebuilders were generating both profits and cash ahead of market expectations, we added to our positions and housebuilders now account for five of the ten largest holdings.
Both Berkeley Group and Persimmon have committed to paying substantial cash dividends to shareholders over the course of several years.
Turning to the six largest investments of one year ago which are no longer in the 6 The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Investment Managers Report continued top ten: two were taken over, Cove Energy and Misys: two were sold on promotion into the FTSE 100 index, Wood Group and Pennon: Laird was sold following a failed takeover approach from Cooper Industries and the position in African Barrick Gold was reduced.
Geographic Revenue Exposures Rest of World 11% Middle East & Africa 4% Asia 11% UK 51% Americas 9% Europe Source: JPMAM 14% The pie chart above shows, by geography, where the revenues of the companies in which we are invested are generated.
Whilst UK mid and small sized companies tend to be more domestic in their focus than the larger FTSE 100 companies, nearly half of the revenue generated by the companies we are invested in is derived from overseas markets.
So whilst, for example, the housebuilders focus is on the UK domestic market, we can also access growth markets around the world through our investments in companies involved in insurance, manufacturing, telecommunications, food ingredients, mining and oil and gas production.
Portfolio Size Distribution Benchmark index Fund Relative Market weighting weighting weighting capitalisation % % % More than 1.5bn 47.4 44.2 3.2 1.0bn to 1.5bn 18.8 20.9 2.1 500m to 1.0bn 21.0 17.6 3.4 300m to 500m 6.7 3.9 2.8 100m to 300m 5.3 10.8 5.5 50m to 100m 0.7 0.4 0.3 Less than 50m 0.1 2.2 2.1 Total 100.0 100.0 0.0 As at 31st January 2013 The table above shows that our holdings in companies which have a market capitalisation of more than 1 billion account for nearly two The Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 7 thirds of the portfolio.
We focus on those successful larger companies which are progressing towards promotion into the FTSE 100 index and also on relatively small quoted companies which can offer superior growth prospects.
We are relatively overweight in smaller companies with market capitalisations of less than 300 million.
At that size they are often overlooked by the professional investment community.
Our intensive research process is designed to find the winners of tomorrow before they become better known.
During the year we held more than 300 research meetings with companies and this remains an important part of our investment process when evaluating companies.
Outlook We continue to believe that mid and small sized companies are the most interesting part of the UK stockmarket: it is where new themes emerge, profit growth tends to be higher, growth companies can prosper, value opportunities are present and merger and acquisitions activity is a constant theme.
Although it is a more volatile part of the stockmarket, a consistent approach to investing in mid and small sized equities brings substantial rewards over the longer term.
In general, quoted mid and small sized companies balance sheets are robust, cost cutting over the last five years has increased profit margins and dividend growth is strong.
Smaller companies are the growth engine of the economy and policy makers recognise that they can create substantial numbers of new jobs.
In the absence of substantial further disruptive macro-economic news, UK mid and small sized companies enjoyed a strong performance last year.
A resurgence of takeover activity demonstrated that acquirers believe there is real value in the stockmarket at current levels despite the generally subdued prospects for economic growth.
We believe that we shall continue to see further acquisition activity in mid and small sized equities.
Whilst we do not actively seek to buy acquisition targets, the same companies which are attractive to us are often attractive to corporate buyers: those which have market leading positions within their industries, profitable, cash generative growth prospects and strong management teams.
At the stock level, we are positive about the number of attractive opportunities that we continue to find in the mid and small sized company arena despite the difficult economic backdrop.
Martin Hudson Guy Anderson Anthony Lynch Investment Managers 21st March 2013
