The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Financial Report for the year ended 31 January 2013 Strategic Report Our objective is to provide shareholders with an above average level of income and income growth together with capital growth over the longer term.
This broad strategy has been in place for a long time and remains unchanged although it is regularly under review.
We often refer to the well-known phrase what it says on the tin to define what our shareholders want from their investment and to remind ourselves what we aim to deliver.
We measure our success in attaining this objective against the performance of the FTSE 100 Index, both in the short term and over longer time periods.
Additionally, we note how the yield on the companys shares compares with the yield of this index and the growth of the dividend itself over time.
For each of the past three years we have held a Strategy Meeting in September outside the normal timetable of board meetings.
We plan to have another meeting in 2013.
At the most recent meeting the topics covered included: the companys market position compared with its peer group, including an analysis of the companys shareholder base preparation for the Retail Distribution Review an in-depth examination of the investment philosophy the stock selection process In the next Annual Financial Report we will present a full Strategic Report, following company law changes which are expected to become law in October this year.
This will incorporate much of the narrative currently included in the Business Review section of the Directors Report on pages 25 to 32.
6 Aims The Merchants Trusts aims are to: consistently meet our growth and income objectives appeal to a broad range of investors to ensure the investment company remains relevant and attractive to new investors and investor groups ensure the costs of running the company remain reasonable and competitive be a widely recommended investment engage with shareholders and other relevant stakeholders to understand their needs and take their views into account in the development of future plans and strategy understand the implications of changes to future income growth prospects Key Performance Indicators KPIs The KPIs which the board uses are: performance against the FTSE 100 Index the impact on the companys relative performance of factors including stock selection and sector allocation the share price of the company relative to its net asset value the ongoing costs associated with the running of the company the level and growth rate of the dividend The board measures the companys successes against these aims which aid the evaluation of the company against its peers and against alternative investments.
More details of the KPIs can be found in the Business Review on page 25.
The Future The main trends and factors likely to affect the company in the future are common to all investment companies and include the future attractiveness of investment trusts as an investment vehicle and of the asset class in which the company invests, and the returns available from the market.
As background to this, the company has to be aware of the impact of macro-economic factors and the changing regulatory and legislative environment.
7 The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Financial Report for the year ended 31 January 2013 The Merchants Trust PLC Investment Managers Review 8
