The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Financial Report for the year ended 31 January 2013 Investment Managers Review economic activity to contract in 2012 with Germany Economic and Market Background managing less than 1% growth.
The UK economy This year has seen a marked contrast between the did not fare much better with minimal growth over performance of the economy and that of the stock the year.
Amongst the large Western nations, the market.
Major stock markets delivered high returns USA showed the strongest growth, at around 1.6%, despite a background of muted economic growth.
although unemployment levels remained high and It is, of course, normal for the stock market to the government did not convincingly address the anticipate the future and to rise ahead of improving budget deficit.
Simon Gergel is Chief financial conditions.
However in the last year the Investment Officer, UK markets rise owed more to a growing belief that Emerging markets were not immune to the Equities, RCM UK, based authorities had navigated the economic ship economic pressures with China seeing a significant in London.
around dangerous hazards, avoiding the so-called slowdown early in the year, but with some recovery tail risks, rather than a belief that conditions after a round of stimulus measures was introduced were yet on a sustainably improving trend.
The by the new leadership team.
India and Brazil also underlying issue has been the challenge of dealing saw growth rates fade materially during the year.
with unsustainably high levels of government and The stock market was range bound for much of consumer debt.
During the year markets became the period, with the FTSE 100 Index remaining more optimistic that this issue is manageable.
As in a trading range of around 5000 to 6000 that we discuss later, it is not yet apparent that there is a had stood since late 2009.
The market moved in clear and credible way to return to historic growth cycles of optimism and pessimism, often referred rates.
to as risk-on and risk-off phases.
These cycles Around the world, major economies were mirrored stresses in government and corporate relatively subdued last year.
Perceived safe haven bond markets remained low in the wake of the global financial in the US, UK and Germany performed well in riskcrisis.
Austerity policies caused overall Eurozone off cycles, with 10 year yields driven to historically 10 Investment Managers Review continued The best performers low levels of 1.5% or less in the summer as investors cuts and tax rises that were due to kick in from included financials like feared putting their money anywhere else.
January 2013, the so called fiscal cliff.
banks, life insurance Financial repression - the forcing down of interest and financial services, The FTSE 100 Index finally broke through the 6000 rates by central bank buying of government debt consumer cyclicals such level at the start of 2013 and closed near to 6300 at and other measures - further encouraged this trend as retail, media and travel the end of January.
It produced a 14.8% total return & leisure, and certain to lower bond yields.
Whilst bond yields fell in the including dividends.
Medium and smaller sized defensives like beverages perceived safe havens, equity markets weakened and food producers.
companies performed even better in this bullish and yields in peripheral European bond markets mood.
The FTSE 250 mid cap Index gave a 24.6% rose sharply, with Spanish yields peaking at over 7%.
total return whilst smaller companies rose 27.8%.
Conversely risk-on phases were marked by strong High yielding shares, as represented by the FTSE recoveries in corporate and peripheral European 350 Higher Yield Index, returned 16.4%, in line with government debt markets, with equity markets the broader FTSE All-Share Index.
following in their wake but safe haven bond yields rising again.
By the end of the year, UK and US Sector performances were mixed reflecting a 10 year bond yields had backed up to around 2%, number of different themes during the year.
The whilst Spanish yields had retreated to around 5%.
best performers included financials like banks, life insurance and financial services, consumer Two major events arguably led to the rising tide cyclicals such as retail, media and travel & leisure, of optimism that took hold towards the end of the and certain defensives like beverages and food year.
Firstly there was a renewed commitment producers.
Similarly the weakest sectors were by policymakers to defend the Euro at all costs, broadly spread, with resources including mining backed up by proposals to provide unlimited bond and oil & gas producing negative returns, whilst buying power to the European Central Bank and other defensives like mobile telecoms and an intention to move towards a banking union.
pharmaceuticals returned close to zero.
Secondly US authorities managed to temporarily defer the largest portion of a package of spending In the last year the markets rise owed more to a growing belief that authorities had navigated the economic ship around dangerous hazards, avoiding the socalled tail risks, rather than a belief that conditions were yet on a sustainably improving trend.
11 The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Financial Report for the year ended 31 January 2013 Investment Managers Review continued Another important driver of performance was the Investment Performance portfolios limited exposure to the weak natural Merchants investment portfolio significantly resources sectors.
The trust had no investments in outperformed its benchmark.
The capital return BG, Anglo American, Rio Tinto or Tullow Oil which of 14.8% was 4.3% ahead of the FTSE 100 Index all underperformed significantly.
The trusts bias towards high yielding shares improved the overall return further.
There were fewer negative contributors and these Including income, the portfolio delivered a total were principally stocks that were not owned or return of 20.1% in the year, 5.3% ahead of the underweighted within the portfolio.
The biggest FTSE 100 Index total return of 14.8%.
There were factor was a low exposure to the financial sector a number of drivers of this outperformance.
Strong which rallied on improved investor confidence, stock selection within medium sized companies, especially in the latter months of the year.
Not particularly in the media sector, was the clearest owning or having underweight positions in theme.
Barclays, Lloyds, Prudential, HSBC and Standard Life were all negative contributors.
Elsewhere The trusts three large media holdings, Daily The trusts three large not owning the beverage companies Diageo media holdings, Daily Mail Mail & General Trust DMGT, United Business & General Trust DMGT, and SABMiller had the biggest impact as both Media UBM and Reed Elsevier all delivered total United Business Media performed well.
returns of around 40% as investors warmed to their UBM and Reed Elsevier restructuring strategies and they delivered robust all delivered total returns Portfolio Changes of around 40% trading results.
Other significant outperformers were Inmarsat, where satellite communications As our central economic view did not change revenue trends improved, Britvic, where a significantly during the year, portfolio activity proposed merger with AG Barr was well received, generally reflected stock specific considerations.
and Greene King, which was re-rated along with There were many investment opportunities several other consumer companies in the portfolio.
provided by market volatility and major divergences Contribution to Investment Performance relative to FTSE 100 Index Positive Over under Negative Over under % % Contribution weight Contribution weight BG 1.2 - Barclays -0.6 - Anglo American 1.0 - Diageo -0.6 - Daily Mail & 0.7 Lloyds -0.5 - General Trust Rio Tinto 0.7 - Prudential -0.3 - UBM 0.6 SABMiller -0.3 - Reed Elsevier 0.6 HSBC -0.2 - Inmarsat 0.6 Standard Life -0.2 - Britvic 0.4 Arm Holdings -0.2 - Tullow Oil 0.3 - IG Group -0.2 Greene King 0.3 WPP -0.2 - Over under weight: Whether proportion of portfolio in stock is higher or lower - than its weighting in the FSTE 100 Index.
12 Investment Managers Review continued We have significantly between individual share prices.
Over the full year crisis, structural risks are higher and difficult to changed the financial we added eight new companies to the portfolio quantify.
Tighter regulation, increased capital holdings within the and coincidentally sold eight others completely.
requirements and asset price volatility are just portfolio over the year, Although decisions were principally stock driven, some of the risks that financial stocks are exposed reducing exposure to there were two themes that were quite noticeable to.
We have significantly changed the financial highly leveraged business models and preferring during the period.
holdings within the portfolio over the year, reducing companies with strong exposure to highly leveraged business models and balance sheets and lower Firstly, many defensive growth companies preferring companies with strong balance sheets sensitivity to market levels.
performed extremely well as investors looked and lower sensitivity to market levels.
We took for relatively safe havens in uncertain times.
We advantage of share price rallies to sell the insurers believed that some valuations had been pushed Aviva and Legal & General and the bank Barclays too far and future returns were thus likely to be less whilst also taking some profits on HSBC.
We sold out of Bunzl and significantly reduced holdings in Compass, Unilever and Reckitt Conversely we added to the positions in insurers Benckiser.
AstraZeneca was also sold but due Resolution and Catlin and the emerging markets to specific concerns about their prospects rather fund manager Ashmore at attractive prices.
We than their valuation, with the proceeds largely also made a new investment in ICAP, the worlds switched into GlaxoSmithKline.
Not all defensive leading interdealer broker, which facilitates trading shares were re-rated however and we were able to activity between major financial institutions.
increase exposure to Royal Dutch Shell and British ICAP has a strong balance sheet and a business American Tobacco, amongst others, at more diversified between voice broking, electronic attractive prices.
trading, data provision and other services.
Like many financial shares its valuation was depressed The second noticeable theme was in the financial and trading conditions have been difficult, but sector.
Whilst many financial stocks have been importantly the key driver of the business is modestly valued in the wake of the global financial transaction volumes rather than market levels.
Largest Net Purchases Largest Net Sales Company m Company m Royal Dutch Shell B 9.7 Compass 9.5 ICAP 7.3 AstraZeneca 8.7 BBA Aviation 7.1 Unilever 8.3 Smiths Group 6.7 BT 8.3 GlaxoSmithKline 6.4 Bunzl 7.9 Marks & Spencer 6.2 HSBC 7.2 Pennon 6.0 Aviva 5.7 CRH 5.9 Hammerson 5.6 British American Tobacco 5.0 Reckitt Benckiser 5.1 BHP Billiton 4.0 Barclays 4.0 13 The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Financial Report for the year ended 31 January 2013 Investment Managers Review continued Cineworld is one of the We see scope for a significant cyclical recovery in Cineworld is one of the UKs leading cinema UKs leading cinema the medium term and potential for cost cutting or companies.
The company is lowly valued and companies.
The company industry consolidation to improve returns.
After a period of high is lowly valued and investment in rolling out digital projectors, the generates strong cash Elsewhere most activity was stock specific.
After a period of company can now benefit from a number of new reported with the interim results, we introduced high investment in rolling initiatives, particularly expansion into new sites and BBA Aviation, Smiths Group and Marstons into out digital projectors, the the recently announced Picturehouse acquisition.
company can now benefit the portfolio.
In the second half, as well as ICAP, we Pennon offers exposure to secure regulated returns from a number of new made first investments in retailer Marks & Spencer, in the water industry as well as potential growth initiatives, particularly multiplex cinema operator Cineworld, building expansion into new from several large Energy from Waste projects materials company CRH and waste and water sites and the recently they are building.
The shares had fallen back after a announced Picturehouse company Pennon.
profits warning in their traditional waste recycling acquisition.
The investment case for Marks & Spencer rests business, providing the opportunity to buy at a upon their ability to significantly improve cash reasonable level.
flow over the next two to three years as they come CRH is a broadly spread building company with to the end of a substantial investment phase.
activities spanning aggregates, cement, building There is also the potential to improve trading in products and distribution.
It has a large US the non-food categories.
Starting from a modest presence, providing exposure to the housing valuation level with a well-established market construction market which we expect to show position amongst a growing, mature demographic good growth from an extraordinarily low base.
customer base, there is the potential to deliver CRHs other activities, particularly in Europe, face attractive shareholder returns whilst receiving a a more difficult outlook but they are cyclically good starting dividend yield.
depressed and offer long term recovery potential.
The companys strong cash flow and track record of adding value from bolt-on acquisitions should provide further opportunities.
14 Investment Managers Review continued Within the food retail sector we sold out of Tesco Our central view is that price.
This compares to a net profit of about economic growth will in the first half of the year following their profits 950,000 in the previous year.
remain constrained by warning and added to Sainsbury.
Later in the year, the high levels of debt Our approach to option writing remains selective we bought back into Tesco amid signs that their in the government and and is driven by the investment fundamentals on restructuring strategy was starting to improve consumer sectors in most each stock rather than by a separate derivatives developed nations.
Equally important was an rationale.
We write calls on portions of share increasing focus on capital discipline as well as holdings that we are happy to sell at the strike cuts to capital expenditure across the industry, price, provided that the premium income received which could structurally improve returns for all is sufficiently attractive.
The options written are competitors.
typically short dated with most under 4 months Other notable sales included a significant reduction duration.
The total exposure is closely monitored to the BT position after strong performance and is limited to 15% of the portfolio value with all and the sale of property stock Hammerson as option positions covered by shares owned.
From the share price approached the net asset value, a holistic view it can be argued that the overall leaving limited upside potential.
We also sold out strategy slightly reduces the trusts gearing to the of the construction and support services company equity market, neutralising some of the financial Interserve, which had recovered well from a leverage.
depressed level after the global financial crisis.
The final complete sale from the portfolio was Hays, Future Policy the recruitment company.
Whilst the business has Our central view is that economic growth will some attractive market positions and opportunities, remain constrained by the high levels of debt in we were concerned in particular that its biggest the government and consumer sectors in most profit earner, Australia, could see a material cyclical developed nations.
Governments ultimately downturn on the back of difficult trading conditions need to spend less money and or raise taxation in the mining industry.
revenues, both of which restrain economic activity and are politically unpopular.
At the time of writing, Derivatives Strategy the USA is struggling to agree a plan to address The trust operates a covered call overwriting their deficit with Republicans and Democrats strategy on a limited proportion of the portfolio to diametrically opposed on the issue of whether generate additional income.
In writing or selling spending should be cut or taxation raised.
In an option the trust gives the purchaser the right Europe, including the UK, most governments have to buy a specific number of shares in a company gone down the austerity path to a greater or lesser at an agreed strike price within a fixed period.
In extent but there is increasing resistance from vocal exchange the trust receives an option premium opponents who want to see greater spending to which is taken to the revenue account.
gets the full benefit of any move in the share price In order to help counteract these pressures, up to the strike price but not beyond.
If the share financial repression policies are being pursued, price rises above the strike price there is a potential whereby authorities are keeping interest rates opportunity cost but not cash cost to the trust low.
This is helping to lower borrowing costs for as the option holder can exercise their option to governments, companies and consumers, whilst buy the shares at the strike price.
The policy is intended The option strategy once again delivered its to boost consumption and to force capital into primary objective of income generation, with equity investment and into other riskier asset approximately 1.9m of option premiums accrued, classes that might promote economic growth.
similar to the previous year.
Due to the sharp share However this is a delicate balancing act with a price appreciation of a few holdings, particularly high risk of policy mistakes.
There are two major towards the end of the year, there was a small opposing risks, rising inflation or recession.
net cost of the strategy of around 150,000.
This Quantitative easing, or money printing, and low derived from the opportunity cost of selling shares interest rates could lead to an inflationary shock at the strike price rather than the prevailing market which could be difficult to control once it becomes 15 The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Financial Report for the year ended 31 January 2013 Investment Managers Review continued Whilst the economic entrenched.
Conversely a vicious spiral of falling prospects as well as their valuation.
The price outlook is important, the confidence leading to lower consumption and paid for an investment is closely and inversely principal driver of each slower economic growth, feeding back to falling correlated to the return that investors can expect to investment decision confidence could become self-perpetuating.
Buying a strong business remains the fundamental strength of the businesses at an attractive price is a sound proposition in most At the time of writing, equity markets are taking a we are analysing, their economic environments.
relatively optimistic view of these two opposing tail competitive positioning, financial strength and risks but we think these risks are significant and Fortunately there are many strong businesses growth prospects as well investors need to remain vigilant.
The implications quoted in the UK stock market with operations as their valuation.
for investment strategy of either risk are very spanning a wide range of industries and different.
We are therefore not taking too definitive geographies.
Whilst valuations have moved up a view on the outlook when constructing the over the last year, we are still finding interesting portfolio but trying to consider how investments investment opportunities in a wide variety of will behave in different circumstances.
There is a mixture of relatively defensive the risk of inflation is encouraging us to hold shares and more cyclical stocks within the portfolio.
with an element of inflation protection, whether in Among the defensive sectors there has been the form of inflation linked pricing or a real asset quite a divergence of performance so that food base such as property companies or pub owners.
producers and beverages stocks are typically highly Whilst the economic outlook is important, the priced and offer few opportunities.
Conversely principal driver of each investment decision utilities, telecommunications, pharmaceuticals and remains the fundamental strength of the the diversified oil companies still offer reasonable businesses we are analysing, their competitive or good value, considering their respective positioning, financial strength and growth operating environments.
16 Investment Managers Review continued The recent fall in Sterling, Within the more cyclical sectors, we still see companies are able to pay a greater proportion if sustained, will boost value in the consumer services areas even after of future cash flows out to shareholders.
The key dividend payments in the recent strength of media stocks and pub risks to these dividend flows remain economic the UK from the many companies.
There are also opportunities in a growth and its impact on corporate profitability, oil companies that pay number of industrial sectors, notably aerospace and commodity prices, financial asset prices and dividends in US Dollars or Euros.
& defence and construction where current currency movements.
The recent fall in Sterling, if uncertainty over government spending has left sustained, will boost dividend payments in the UK many companies trading at depressed valuation from the many companies that pay dividends in US levels.
Within financials, as discussed above, we have Overall we are confident that we can continue only a modest exposure to banks but several to find strong individual companies at attractive investments in insurance, real estate and financial valuations that will ultimately produce good growth services.
The other big underweight view within opportunities for our capital and income.
the portfolio is a limited exposure to the mining industry where we still have concerns over the vulnerability of commodity prices to demand Simon Gergel shocks and an improving supply outlook.
RCM UK Limited Dividends in the UK market grew by around 10% in 2012 and current forecasts are for mid-single digit growth this year.
Company pay-out ratios have come down since the global financial crisis and balance sheets have been rebuilt so that the risk of inflation is encouraging us to hold shares with an element of inflation protection, whether in the form of inflation linked pricing or a real asset base such as property companies or pub owners.
