The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Financial Report for the year ended 31 January 2013 Directors, Investment Manager and Advisers Directors Investment Manager The current directors details are set out below.
All directors are non-executive and RCM UK Limited independent of the manager.
Represented by Simon Gergel, Portfolio Manager, and Melissa Gallagher, Head of Investment Trusts Company Secretary and Registered Office Kirsten Salt BA Hons ACIS, Simon Fraser Chairman Henry Staunton 155 Bishopsgate, Joined the board in August 2009.
He Senior Independent Director London EC2M 3AD.
is Chairman of Foreign & Colonial Joined the board in May 2008.
He is ViceTelephone: 020 7065 1513, Investment Trust PLC and a nonChairman and the Senior Independent Email: kirsten.
co. uk executive director of Barclays PLC, Director of Legal & General Group plc Barclays Bank PLC, Ashmore Group plc, and a non-executive director of Standard Independent Auditor Fidelity European Values PLC and Fidelity Bank Plc, Capital and Counties Properties  LLP, Japanese Values PLC.
He spent his career plc and W H Smith PLC.
He was previously Chartered Accountants and Statutory at Fidelity International Limited, where Finance Director at ITV plc and Granada Auditors he held a number of positions, including Group plc.
He was also a non-executive 7 More London Riverside, Chief Investment Officer from 1999- director of Ladbrokes plc, Emap plc, British London SE1 2RD 2005, President of Fidelity Internationals Sky Broadcasting Group plc, Independent European and UK Institutional business Television News Limited, Vector Bankers and latterly President of the Investment Hospitality plc and Ashtead Group plc, HSBC Bank, Barclays Bank Solutions Group.
of which he was also Chairman between 2001 and 2004.
He is a Chartered Stockbroker Accountant.
JPMorgan Securities Limited Legal Advisers Herbert Smith LLP Mike McKeon Paul Yates Chairman of the Audit Committee Joined the board in March 2011.
He is Joined the board in May 2008.
He is Chairman of the Advisory Board of 33 St Group Finance Director of Severn Trent Jamess and is a non-executive director plc and prior to that, from 2000 until of Edinburgh UK Tracker Trust plc.
He 2005, he was Group Finance Director has had a long career in investment of Novar plc.
He held various senior management beginning at Samuel positions at Rolls-Royce plc from 1997 Montagu & Co in 1980.
He has extensive experience and Drew in 1985 the year that it was from a number of overseas roles, having acquired by UBS.
He held a number of worked at CarnaudMetalbox, Elf Atochem positions at UBS, covering management, and .
He is a portfolio management, pensions, Chartered Accountant.
He was CEO of UBS Global Asset Management UK Limited between 2001 and 2005.
After undertaking a number of global roles at UBS he retired in 2007.
