Directors Report The directors present their report and the audited financial Investment Objective and Policies statements of the company for the year ended 31 January 2013.
The companys objective is to provide an above average level of income and income growth together with long term growth of capital through a policy of investing mainly in higher yielding UK Business Review FTSE 100 companies.
The companys investment performance Business and Status of the Company is assessed by comparison with other investment trusts within The company is an investment company as defined in section 833 the UK Growth and Income sector.
In addition, it is benchmarked of the Companies Act 2006. against the FTSE 100 Index.
The company carries on business as an investment trust and was The company pays quarterly dividends and the board has a policy approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust in of making these progressive from year to year, in keeping with the accordance with section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 for companys stated objective to provide an above average level of the year ended 31 January 2012.
In the opinion of the directors, income and income growth.
Together with the proposed dividend, the company has subsequently conducted its affairs so that it the dividend has increased every year for the past thirty one years should continue to qualify.
The company will continue to seek and details of historic dividend payments for the past ten years are approval under section 1158 of the Corporation Taxes Act 2010 set out on page 22. each year.
The company is not a close company for taxation purposes.
Under the new investment trust regime for accounting Performance periods commencing on or after 1 January 2012 an application In the year to 31 January 2013 the NAV per share rose by will be submitted to HM Revenue & Customs for entry into the 16.0%.
This compares with the capital return on the companys regime before the end of April 2013 and the company must benchmark, FTSE 100 Index, of 10.5%.
At 31 January 2013 the thereafter demonstrate annually compliance with the regulations.
value of the companys investment portfolio was 587.9m.
The Investment Managers Review on pages 10 to 17 includes a Regulatory Environment review of developments during the year as well as information on The company is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is investment activity within the companys portfolio.
subject to UK company law, financial reporting standards, listing rules, tax law and its own Articles of Association.
In addition to Key Performance Indicators KPIs Annual and Half-yearly Financial Reports published under these The board uses certain financial KPIs to monitor and assess the rules, the company announces net asset values per share on performance of the company.
The principal KPIs are: a daily basis for the information of investors.
It provides more detailed information on a monthly basis to the Association of Performance against the benchmark Index Investment Companies, of which the company is a member, in The companys performance is benchmarked against the FTSE order for brokers and investors to compare its performance with 100 Index.
This is the most important KPI by which performance its peer group.
The board of directors is charged with ensuring is judged.
that the company complies with its own objectives as well as Performance against the companys peers these rules.
The board is aware of changes to the regulatory The board also monitors the companys performance with environment in the year ahead and the company continues to reference to its investment trust peer group.
prepare itself for implementation of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD, the Foreign Account Performance Attribution Tax Compliance Act FATCA and The Companies Act 2006 The performance attribution is considered at each board meeting Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013.
The and enables the directors to judge how the company achieved board has appointed RCM UK Limited to carry out investment its performance relative to the benchmark index and to see management, accounting, secretarial and administration services the impact on the companys relative performance of factors on behalf of the company.
The company has no employees or including stock and sector allocation.
A performance attribution premises of its own.
analysis for the year ended 31 January 2013 is given on page 3.
Discount to net asset value NAV The board has a share buy back programme which has a role to play in enhancing the NAV for existing shareholders, as shares are bought back at a discount, and in minimising the volatility of movements in the discount.
In the year to 31 January 2013 the shares traded between a discount of 3.7% and a premium of 7.2% with debt at fair value.
25 The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Financial Report for the year ended 31 January 2013 Directors Report continued Ongoing Charges Historical Record Ongoing charges are operating expenses incurred in the The distribution of total assets is shown on pages 20 and 21, running of the company, whether charged to revenue or capital and the historical record of the companys revenue, capital and but excluding financing costs.
The ongoing charges figure is invested funds over the past ten years is shown on page 22. calculated by dividing operating expenses, that is, the companys Graphs appear on page 9 showing the performance on a total management fee and all other ongoing charges by the average return basis over the past ten years of the net asset value of the net asset value with debt at fair value over the period.
Since May companys ordinary shares against the FTSE 100 Index, the growth 2012, ongoing charges have been published by the AIC.
in net ordinary distributions made by the company against the Retail Price Index, and the companys discount to net asset value Prior to this, the total expense ratio TER was calculated and over the same period.
The TER was expressed as a percentage of total assets less current liabilities: the difference between the two calculations Invested Funds is that the ongoing charges figure is calculated as a percentage Sales of investments during the year resulted in net gains based of average net assets which include the debt at fair value.
We on historical costs of 11,370,747 2012 gains of 4,753,833. have included in the table on page 3 both calculations for both Provisions contained in the Finance Act 2010 exempt approved periods for comparative purposes.
The new methodology is investment trusts from corporation tax on their chargeable gains.
recommended for use by the AIC and takes into account the European rules for open-ended funds, the intention being to allow Share Buy Back investors to compare charges on open-ended and closed-ended There were no shares bought back during the year 2012 nil.
The ongoing charges figure for the year ended 31 January 2013 was 0.66% 2012 0.63%.
The TER for the year Future Development ended 31 January 2013 was 0.48% 2012 0.47%.
The future development of the company is dependent on Performance over ten years is shown on page 22.
The Investment the success of the companys investment strategy against Managers Review on pages 10 to 17 includes a review of the economic environment and market developments.
The developments during the year as well as information on investment manager discusses his view of the outlook for the investment activity within the companys portfolio.
companys portfolio in his report beginning on page 10.
Revenue The board also believes that the Retail Distribution Review offers The net return attributable to ordinary shareholders for the year opportunities to generate more interest in investment trusts and amounted to 23,631,722 2012 23,712,211. to demonstrate the advantages over open-ended investments.
This should lead to the company continuing to raise its profile Net revenue return amounted to 23,631,722, or 22.9p per with new investors.
The first and second interim dividends each of 5,986,381 or 5.8p per share have been paid during the year.
Going Concern Since the year end the third interim dividend of 5.8p per share The directors have considered the companys investment has been paid.
The final proposed dividend of 5.8p per share - objective and capital structure and, having noted that the portfolio 5,986,381, subject to shareholder approval, will be payable on consists mainly of securities which are readily realisable, have 15 May 2013.
In accordance with FRS 21 Events after the Balance concluded that the company has adequate resources to continue Sheet Date, the third interim dividend and final dividend are not in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this recognised as liabilities within the financial statements on the reason the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in basis that at the year end the third interim dividend had not been preparing the financial statements.
paid and the final dividend not approved by the shareholders.
Net Asset Value The net asset value of the ordinary shares of 25p at the year end was 466.5p as compared with a value of 402.1p at 31 January 2012.
26 Directors Report continued Payment Policy It is the companys payment policy for the forthcoming financial year to obtain the best terms for all business and therefore there is no consistent policy as to the terms used.
In general, the company agrees with its suppliers the terms on which business will take place and it is our policy to abide by these terms.
There are no material trade creditors at the year end 2012 - nil.
Capital Structure The companys capital structure is summarised on page 55.
The details of the 4% Perpetual Debenture Stock and the 3.65% Cumulative Preference Stock are provided in notes 10 iv and 10 v respectively on page 55.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The principal risks identified by the board are set out in the table on this page, together with the actions taken to mitigate these risks.
A more detailed version of this table, in the form of a Risk Matrix, is reviewed and updated by the board twice yearly.
The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the company relate to the nature of its objectives and strategy as an investment company and the markets in which it operates.
Description Mitigation Investment Activity and Strategy The board manages these risks by diversification of investments through its An inappropriate investment strategy, e. g. investment restrictions and guidelines which are monitored and on which the asset allocation or the level of gearing, board receives reports.
RCM UK Limited provides the directors with management may lead to under-performance against information including performance data and reports and shareholder analyses.
The the companys benchmark index and peer board monitors the implementation and results of the investment process with the group companies, and may also result in investment manager, who attends all board meetings, and reviews data which show the companys shares trading on a wider risk factors and how they affect the portfolio.
The board reviews investment strategy, discount.
including gearing, at each board meeting.
Corporate Governance and Shareholder The board receives reports on shareholder activity and on shareholder sentiment on Relations a regular basis and contact is maintained with major shareholders.
Details of the Shareholder discontent could arise if companys compliance with corporate governance best practice, including there is weak adherence to best practice information on relations with shareholders, are set out in the Corporate in corporate governance and which could Governance Statement which can be found on the companys website http: result in potential reputational damage to www.
co. uk Tenants AGITrusts Content Documents Corporate the company.
The board is guided by its advisers both within RCM UK and external to the Regulatory manager on matters such as the implementation of AIFMD.
The financial risks associated with the company include market risk price and yield, Financial interest rate risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Further analysis of these risks can be found in note 17 on pages 58 to 63.
In addition to the specific principal risks identified in the table above, the company faces risks to the provision of services from third parties and more general risks relating to compliance with accounting, tax, legal and regulatory requirements, which could have an impact on reputation and market rating.
These risks are formally reviewed by the board twice each year.
Details of the companys compliance with Corporate Governance best practice, including information on relations with shareholders, are set out in the Corporate Governance Statement which can be found on the companys website http: www.
co. uk Tenants AGITrusts Content Documents Corporate Corporate Governance Statement.
The boards reviews of the risks faced by the company also include an assessment of the residual risks after mitigating action has been taken.
27 The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Financial Report for the year ended 31 January 2013 Directors Report continued Voting Rights in the Companys Shares The voting rights at 25 March 2013 were: Number of Voting rights Total Share class shares issued per share voting rights Ordinary shares of 25p 103,213,464 1 103,213,464 3.65% Cumulative Preference Stock of 1 1,178,000 1 1,178,000 Total 104,391,464 104,391,464 Every member on a show of hands has one vote.
On a poll every member who is present in person or by proxy or representative has one vote for every 1 in nominal amount of preference stock or one vote for every ordinary share of 25p.
Directors Biographical details of the directors in office during the year and up to the date of the signing of this report are shown on page 24 and all directors served throughout the financial year under review.
All of the directors are retiring by rotation at the annual general meeting and each offers himself for re-election.
The board considers each director to be independent of the manager and has the full support of the board in standing for re-election.
Following a formal performance evaluation conducted by the chairman it was noted that each directors individual performance continues to be effective and each director demonstrates commitment to his role.
All directors attended all board and relevant committee meetings during the year.
No contracts of significance in which directors are deemed to have been interested have subsisted during the year under review.
Contracts of service are not entered into with the directors, who hold office in accordance with the Articles of Association.
Directors and officers liability insurance cover is held by the company and deeds of indemnity have been entered into with the directors.
The current directors and their beneficial interests in the share capital of the company as at 31 January 2013 and 31 January 2012 are listed below: Ordinary shares of 25p 2013 2012 Simon Fraser 20,000 20,000 Mike McKeon 5,450 450 Henry Staunton 10,000 10,000 Paul Yates 10,000 10,000 There have been no changes to directors interests since the year end.
Management Contract and Management Fee The management contract with RCM UK Limited RCM provides for a fee of 0.35% per annum 2012 0.35% of the value of the assets, calculated quarterly, after deduction of current liabilities, short term loans under one year and any funds within the portfolio managed by RCM.
The management contract is terminable at one years notice 2012 one year.
The managers performance under the contract and the contract terms are reviewed at least annually by the Management Engagement Committee.
This committee consists of the directors not employed by the management company in the past five years and therefore includes the entire board.
During the year, the committee met the manager to review the current investment framework, including the trusts performance, marketing activity and total expense ratio.
The committee also reviewed the terms of the management contract and considered the level of the management fee.
The committee was satisfied with its review and believes that the continuing appointment of the manager is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
28 Directors Report continued Individual Savings Accounts The affairs of the company are conducted in such a way as to meet the requirements for an Individual Savings Account and it is the intention to continue to do so.
Interests in the Companys Share Capital As at 25 March 2013 the following had declared a notifiable interest in the companys issued share capital: Ordinary Shares Number of Percentage of Name shares voting rights Legal & General Group PLC 4,099,823 3.94 Lloyds Banking Group PLC 4,086,614 3.96 Axa SA 3,664,667 3.55 This represents no significant change since the year end.
Corporate Governance Statement The board has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code and been guided by the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
Both documents can be found on the AIC website www.
As confirmed by the Financial Reporting Council, following the AIC Guide enables investment company boards to meet their obligations under the UK Corporate Governance Code and Listing Rules.
The company has complied with the current recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of UK Corporate Governance Code, except in relation to the UK Corporate Governance Code provisions relating to: the role of the chief executive: executive directors remuneration: and the remuneration committee and the need for an internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and in the preamble to the UK Corporate Governance Code, the board considers these provisions are not relevant to the company as it is an externally managed investment company.
The company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
The full text of the companys Corporate Governance Statement is on the website: http: www.
Attendance by the current directors at formal board and committee meetings during the year was as follows: Management Audit Nomination Engagement Director Board Committee Committee Committee No.
of meetings 6 2 1 1 Simon Fraser 6 2 1 1 Mike McKeon 6 2 1 1 Henry Staunton 6 2 1 1 Paul Yates 6 2 1 1 Invited to attend meetings, although not a committee member.
29 The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Financial Report for the year ended 31 January 2013 Directors Report continued Special Rights Disclosure Nomination Committee There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities in The Nomination Committee meets at least once each year and the company: no special rights with regard to control attached to makes recommendations on the appointment of new directors securities: no agreements between holders of securities regarding and the re-election of existing directors by shareholders.
The their transfer known to the company: no agreements which committee also determines the process for the annual evaluation the company is party to that might affect its control following a of the board.
The committee is chaired by Simon Fraser, the takeover bid: and no agreements between the company and its Chairman of the board.
All directors serve on the committee directors concerning compensation for loss of office.
and consider nominations made in accordance with an agreed procedure.
The recruitment process for new directors is for the The company is not aware of any agreements between holders of board to appoint external consultants to nominate candidates for securities with regard to control of the company which may result the committee to consider.
in restrictions on voting rights.
The board has issued a statement giving support to the intention Conflicts of Interest of the Davies Review Women on boards to encourage diversity on the boards of companies.
There are four directors on the The Companies Act 2006 sets out directors general duties.
A director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct board and as each has served no more than five years there are or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with no current plans to recruit new directors.
In the last recruitment the companys interests.
Directors are able to authorise these exercise, as described in the previous annual report, the board sought to identify a wide spectrum of candidates and to take conflicts and potential conflicts.
The board reports annually on the companys procedures for ensuring that its powers of gender into account.
The boards aim is to continue with a policy authorisation of conflicts are operated effectively and that the of shortlisting women in the search for new directors.
Management Engagement Committee Each of the directors has provided a statement of all conflicts of The Management Engagement Committee meets at least interest and potential conflicts of interest relating to the company.
once each year to review the management agreement and the These statements have been considered and approved by the managers performance.
It has defined terms of reference and board.
The directors have undertaken to notify the Chairman and consists of the non-executive directors and would exclude any Company Secretary of any proposed new appointments and new directors previously employed by the manager.
It is chaired by conflicts or potential conflicts for consideration, if necessary, by Simon Fraser, the Chairman of the board.
The board has agreed that only directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the Terms of Reference relevant decision and that in taking the decision the directors The terms of reference for each of the committees may be viewed will act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely by shareholders on request and are published on the website to promote the companys success.
The board is able to impose www.
limits or conditions when giving authorisation if it thinks this is appropriate.
The board has not constituted a remuneration committee: all directors are non-executive and remuneration matters are dealt The board confirms that its powers of authorisation are operating with by the whole board.
effectively and that the agreed procedures have been followed.
Financial Reporting Board Committees The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Audit Committee financial statements is on page 35.
The Independent Auditors The Audit Committee Report is on page 36.
Report can be found on page 40.
30 Directors Report continued Auditors Information The appointment of RCM UK Limited RCM as the manager Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this provides investment management, accounting and company report confirms that: secretarial services to the company.
The manager therefore maintains the internal controls associated with the day to day a in so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit operation of the company.
These responsibilities are included information of which the companys auditor is unaware: and in the management agreement between the company and b the director has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a the manager.
The managers system of internal control director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit includes organisation arrangements with clearly defined lines information and to establish that the companys auditor is of responsibility and delegated authority as well as control aware of that information.
procedures and systems which are regularly evaluated by management and monitored by its internal audit department.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in RCM is regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA and accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies its compliance department regularly monitors compliance with Act 2006.
The company receives reports at least annually from the manager on its internal controls.
The company, in common Internal Control with other investment trusts, has no internal audit department, The directors have overall responsibility for the companys but the effectiveness of the managers internal controls is system of internal control and are responsible for reviewing the monitored by Allianz Global Investors internal audit function.
effectiveness of the companys systems of internal control.
Whilst acknowledging their responsibility for the system of internal There is a regular review by the board of asset allocation and control, the directors are aware that such a system is designed any risk implications.
There is also regular and comprehensive to manage rather than eliminate the risk of a failure to achieve review by the board of management accounting information including revenue and expenditure projections, actual revenue business objectives and can provide only reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
against projections and performance comparisons.
The board has established an ongoing process for identifying, Authorisation and exposure limits are set and maintained by evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the the board.
This process is subject to review by the audit committee The audit committee assesses the systems of controls of third and accords with the Turnbull guidance and it is believed that the party service providers by reviewing internal control reports of appropriate framework is in place to meet the requirements of the those parties including the manager, the companys registrars, AIC Code.
The process has been fully in place throughout the year Capita Registrars and the custodian, HSBC Bank plc.
under review and up to the date of signing of this Annual Financial Report.
The audit committee has received reports from each of its service providers on the anti-bribery policies of these third parties.
It The key elements of the procedures that the directors have receives reports on compliance with the managers anti-bribery established and which are designed to provide effective internal policy.
control are as follows: The directors confirm that the audit committee has reviewed the The board, assisted by the manager, undertook a full review effectiveness of the system of internal control.
During the course of the companys business risks and these are analysed and of its review of the system of internal control, the board has not recorded see page 27.
Every six months the board receives identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it from the manager a formal report which details any known has determined to be significant.
internal controls failures, including those that are not directly the responsibility of the manager.
The board continues to check that good systems of internal control and risk management are embedded in the operations and culture of the company and its key suppliers.
31 The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Financial Report for the year ended 31 January 2013 Directors Report continued Relations with Shareholders The board has noted the managers statement of its corporate The board strongly believes that the annual general meeting governance aims and objectives, summarised as: should be an event which private shareholders are encouraged to Our primary corporate aim is to maximise shareholder value attend.
The annual general meeting is attended by the Chairman through the securing of corporate performance whilst protecting of the board and the Chairmen of the boards committees, and this value through operating within established rules of the investment manager makes a presentation at the meeting.
The number of proxy votes cast in respect of each resolution will be made available at the annual general meeting.
Our primary investment management aim is to meet or exceed our clients expectations through generating first class returns The manager meets with institutional shareholders on a regular within the constraint of their risk tolerance.
basis and reports to the board on matters raised at these meetings.
The Chairman and, where appropriate, other directors, RCM votes in all markets wherever possible, and strives actively to are available to meet with shareholders to discuss governance encourage both improved levels of disclosure among companies and strategy and to understand their issues and concerns.
All and proper voting infrastructure among custodians and agents globally.
correspondence with shareholders is reviewed by the board.
Shareholders who wish to communicate directly with the In the UK, RCM is a member of the National Association of Pension Chairman, the Senior Independent Director or other directors may Funds and the International Corporate Governance Network, write care of the Company Secretary, The Merchants Trust PLC, and abides by these organisations founding principles.
guidelines also take into account international codes of corporate governance from a number of sources, including Employment The notice of meeting sets out the business of the meeting and Retirement Income Security Act legislation and Department of special resolutions are explained more fully in the Directors Labor recommendations in the U. S. where appropriate.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantive issue.
Where directors hold directorships on the boards of companies in which the company is invested, they do not participate in The UK Stewardship Code and Exercise of Voting Powers decisions made concerning those investments.
The companys investments are held in a nominee name.
The An extract from the companys voting record in the previous year board has delegated discretion to discharge its responsibilities in will be available for inspection at the annual general meeting each respect of investments, including the exercise of voting powers year.
on its behalf to the manager, RCM UK Limited RCM.
The UK Stewardship Code sets out good practice on engagement with Corporate Social Responsibility investee companies.
It provides an opportunity to bring together The board has noted the managers views on social responsibility UK and overseas investors committed to the high quality dialogue that it adheres to in engaging with the underlying investee with companies needed to underpin good governance.
companies and in exercising its delegated responsibilities By creating a sound basis of engagement it should create in voting.
RCM has said: We believe that good corporate a much needed stronger link between governance and the governance includes the management of the companys impacts investment process, and support the concept of comply or on society and the environment, as these are increasingly explain as applied by listed companies.
The Financial Reporting becoming a factor in contributing towards maximising long term Council therefore sees it as complementary to the UK Corporate shareholder value.
In its Sustainable Investment Policy Statement, Governance Code for listed companies.
RCMs policy statement RCM says it believes that the consideration of environmental, on the Stewardship Code can be found on its website: www.
social and governance issues within the investment decision .
co. uk en InstitutionalClients rcm process provides a new and longer-term perspective on Consultants Disclosure Documents Stewardship Policy.
The board has reviewed this policy statement and is satisfied that the companys delegated voting powers are being properly executed and is working with RCM to assess the effectiveness of the Stewardship Code in practice.
32 Directors Report continued Allotment of New Shares and Disapplication of Pre-emption Annual General Meeting Rights Amendment to the Articles of Association Approval is sought for the renewal of the directors authority to The company conducts its affairs so that it qualifies as an allot relevant securities, in accordance with section 551 of the investment trust and an investment company.
As an investment Companies Act 2006, up to a maximum number of 34,404,488 trust, the company is not liable to pay corporation tax on any ordinary shares, representing approximately one third of the capital gains.
Following a consultation process, certain of the existing ordinary share capital.
This authority is renewable statutory rules governing investment trusts and investment annually and will expire at the conclusion of the annual general companies were amended recently.
In particular, the rule which meeting in 2014. prohibited an investment trust or company from distributing any net gains arising from the realisation of its investments was A resolution was passed at the annual general meeting held on repealed.
It is intended that this will give companies greater 9 May 2012 in accordance with section 570 of the Companies flexibility with regard to paying dividends.
Act 2006, to authorise the directors to allot ordinary shares for cash other than pro rata to existing shareholders.
The authority In order to comply with the previous statutory regime, the is renewable annually and expires at the conclusion of the company has a provision in its Articles of Association which annual general meeting in 2013.
A special resolution is therefore expressly prohibits the distribution of any net gains arising from proposed under special business at the forthcoming annual the realisation of investments.
In light of the amended statutory general meeting to renew this authority until the conclusion of rules, the board no longer considers it appropriate to have such a the annual general meeting in 2014 or 10 August 2014 if earlier.
prohibition in the articles and therefore proposes that it is deleted.
This power is limited to a maximum number of 10,321,346 Resolution 14 will be proposed at the annual general meeting as ordinary shares, being approximately 10% of the issued ordinary a special resolution and if passed, will remove this prohibition by share capital of the company as at the date of this report, provided amending the articles.
that there is no change in the issued share capital between the The board believes that the removal of this restriction will give date of this report and the annual general meeting to be held on the company greater flexibility in the long term as it will allow 10 May 2013. distributions to be made from any net gains arising from the The directors may allot shares under these authorities to take realisation of investments should this be considered appropriate advantage of opportunities in the market as they arise but only if in the future.
It should be noted that the proposal to amend the they believe it would be advantageous to the companys existing articles will not result in any changes in how the companys net shareholders to do so.
The directors confirm that no allotment revenue is generated or calculated.
The company will continue to of new shares will be made unless the lowest market offer price pursue its policy of paying increasing dividends from net revenue of the ordinary shares is at least at a premium to net asset value, profits.
Such profits will be generated from income from portfolio valuing debt at market value.
companies and allocating expenses and finance costs between capital and revenue on the basis set out in the accounting policies Purchase of Own Shares on page 46.
The board is proposing that the company should be given renewed authority to purchase ordinary shares in the market Increase in Articles Limit on Directors Fees for cancellation.
The board believes that such purchases in the Resolution 10 will be proposed to increase the current cap on market at appropriate times and prices are a suitable method the aggregate amount of fees payable to directors in any year, of enhancing shareholder value.
The company would make contained in the Articles of Association, to 200,000.
The board either a single purchase or a series of purchases, when market believes that to enable flexibility in respect of succession planning, conditions are suitable, with the aim of maximising the benefits to and in particular to recruit new directors from time to time, it is shareholders and within guidelines set from time to time by the prudent to keep remuneration at or around market levels.
board is therefore proposing to increase the Articles cap from 150,000 to 200,000.
The cap was last increased, from 100,000 to the present limit, in 2006.
The increase will allow new directors to overlap with retiring directors and ensure that any overlap of directors service does not breach the aggregate fees the company is permitted to pay.
The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 37 and 38 contains further details of the directors fee policy and remuneration.
33 The Merchants Trust PLC Annual Financial Report for the year ended 31 January 2013 Directors Report continued Where purchases are made at prices below the prevailing net The authority in accordance with section 701 of the Companies asset value of the ordinary shares, this will enhance net asset Act 2006, will last until the annual general meeting of the value for the remaining shareholders.
It is therefore intended company to be held in 2014 or the expiry of 18 months from the that purchases would only be made at prices below net asset date of the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier.
The value, with the purchases to be funded from the capital reserves authority will be subject to renewal by shareholders at subsequent of the company which are currently in excess of 400 million.
The rules of the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules limit the price which may be paid by the company to 105% of the average Independent Auditor middle-market quotation for an ordinary share on the five The directors will place a resolution before the annual general business days immediately preceding the date of the relevant meeting to re-appoint  LLP as statutory purchase.
The minimum price to be paid will be 25p per ordinary auditor for the ensuing year.
A resolution to authorise the share being the nominal value.
Overall, this proposed share buydirectors to determine the auditors remuneration will also be back authority, if used, should help to reduce the discount to net proposed at the annual general meeting.
asset value at which the companys shares currently trade.
The board considers that it will be most advantageous to By order of the Board shareholders for the company to be able to continue to make Kirsten Salt such purchases as and when it considers the timing to be most Company Secretary favourable and therefore does not propose to set a timetable for 27 March 2013 making any such purchases.
Under the Listing Rules, the maximum number of shares which a listed company may purchase through the market pursuant to a general authority such as this is equivalent to 14.99% of its issued share capital.
For this reason, the company is limiting its renewed authority to make such purchases to 15,471,698 ordinary shares, representing 14.99% of the issued share capital, provided that there is no change in the issued share capital between the date of this report and the annual general meeting to be held on 10 May 2013.
