Directors and corporate governance report Good corporate governance is critical to ensuring our long-term success.
Sir Richard Lapthorne, cbe Chairman Dear Shareholder Alison Platt, Managing Director at Bupa responsible for International Development Markets, joined the Cable & Wireless Communications has complied Board in June 2012.
Alison brings skills, knowledge in full with the UK Corporate Governance Code and experience gained from her executive career throughout the year.
Corporate governance is about delegating safely and This section describes the way that corporate it is the responsibility of the Board to ensure that governance works in Cable & Wireless the Group is governed properly and responsibly.
Our governance focuses not only By its very nature effective corporate governance is on the boardroom but right across the business.
We fundamental to the Boards duty to maintain control believe that good governance supports long-term and line of sight across a geographically dispersed performance.
Group such as Cable & Wireless Communications.
Our commitment to ethical business behaviour is This year has been an active year for the Board.
The long-standing and starts at the top of the organisation disposals of the Islands and Macau business units and we believe that our success has been built on required an increased time commitment for the an honest and transparent approach.
A values-led Board of Directors during the year to ensure that culture, high behavioural standards and robust there was sufficient time for robust and challenging procedures are fundamental to a strong corporate debate in relation to the disposals and also to ensure governance framework.
We have updated our Code that the balance of time for Board discussions focused of Conduct during the year which sits alongside our on strategy, the review of financial and operational Anti-Bribery policy and procedures which were performance and oversight of internal controls to strengthened in 2011.
We have a comprehensive ensure the right checks and balances remained in internal programme which ensures that everyone place during a period of transformational change.
who is part of our Group understands our approach and values via a communications and training programme.
Sir Richard Lapthorne, cbe Chairman 21 May 2013 38 Cable & Wireless Communications Compliance with the There are a number of informal meetings held throughout the year and as part of the annual corporate governance programme the  Independent Directors meet once a year to discuss any relevant Throughout the year the Group has complied with all relevant governance matters.
They also met twice with the Chairman provisions set out in the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code the present and once with the Chairman and Chief Executive present.
Code and applied the main principles of the Code as described in This balance of formal and informal meetings throughout the year pages 37 to 67.
Reporting under the UK Corporate Governance creates an environment that encourages challenge, the sharing of Code dated September 2012 will take effect for our 2013 14 information, innovative thinking and open communication.
The Chairman is responsible for the overall operation and The Code is available on the Financial Reporting Councils website governance of the Board.
The Chairman provides the leadership www.
of the Board to ensure that the Board satisfies its duties and responsibilities.
The Chairman sets the agenda for the Board, Board membership ensuring that the Board receives clear, timely and accurate Biographies of the current Directors, including details of their information.
The Chairman is also responsible for facilitating the Committee memberships, are shown on page 37. contribution of the Directors.
Details of Directors attendance at scheduled Board meetings are The Chairman, together with the Senior Independent Director, is shown in the table below: also responsible for ensuring that the Company maintains effective communication with shareholders and other stakeholders.
Membership and attendance at meetings The commitment of the Chairman as a Non-executive Director Sir Richard Lapthorne 9 9 of Sherritt International, a company listed on the Toronto Stock Exchange, as Chairman of the PwC Public Interest Body and as Nick Cooper 9 9 Chairman of the Foresight Group on UK Manufacturing are noted on Tim Pennington 9 9 page 37, and the Board considers that these appointments are not a constraint on his agreed time commitment to the Company.
Tony Rice 9 9 The Chief Executive has responsibility for developing the strategy Simon Ball 9 9 for recommendation to the Board.
He is also responsible for the 1 leadership of the business and managing it within the authorities Mary Francis 0 2 delegated by the Board.
Mark Hamlin 9 9 Role of the Board 2 Alison Platt 8 8 The Board is responsible for the Groups corporate governance system and is committed to maintaining high governance standards.
Ian Tyler 9 9 In order to progress the objectives of the Group the Board meets 1 Mary Francis retired with effect from 30 June 2012. on a regular basis and is responsible for organising and directing the 2 Alison Platt was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 June 2012.
Company and the Group in a manner that promotes the success of the Company and is consistent with good corporate governance practice.
To enable the Board to function effectively, full and timely Alison Platt was appointed to the Board as a Non-executive access is given to all relevant information.
Director with effect from 1 June 2012, and Mary Francis retired as a Non-executive Director with effect from the end of her term The key policies and practices of the Company and the Group are set on 30 June 2012. out in this report as well as in the reports of the Audit Committee on pages 48 to 50 and the Remuneration Committee on pages 51 The Board meets regularly and there were nine meetings during to 66.
Furthermore, our independent Non-executive Directors have the year, including an annual strategy meeting.
One Board meeting prepared a report describing corporate governance and behaviours took place in a regional business unit location.
Such visits provide of the Board on page 47 and details of significant shareholdings and an insight into the business unit operations, the local teams and the rights, obligations, powers and procedures under the Companys culture and environment in which they operate.
Articles of Association are set out in the statutory information on pages 42 to 46.
Together, these reports provide shareholders with an insight into how our Board and senior management seek to manage the business to create and deliver long-term success for the Group.
Formal minutes recording decisions of all Board and Committee meetings are prepared and circulated to each Director as appropriate.
If a Director objects to a particular proposal, this is recorded in the minutes of the relevant meeting.
During the period under review there were no such objections.
Annual report 2012 13 39 Directors and corporate governance report continued There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board which Board balance and independence includes: The Board currently comprises the Chairman, three Executive Directors and four Non-executive Directors.
The Board considers Strategy and management: all the Companys Non-executive Directors to be independent in Approval of long-term objectives and strategy, extension of character and judgement.
Collectively the Non-executive Directors Group activities into new business or geographic areas, any contribute to an effective Board with a strong mix of skills and decision to cease to operate any material part of the Groups business experience, including recent financial, strategic, operations business, review of Group performance and the approval of and retail experience, gained in a variety of geographic areas.
As annual budget they all occupy or have occupied senior positions each contributes Corporate governance: significant weight to Board decisions.
Annual formal reviews of its own performance, a review of Group The Non-executive Directors are initially appointed for a three year corporate governance arrangements, receiving reports on the term with an expectation that they will continue for a further three views of shareholders and determining the independence of year term.
Non-executive Directors The terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-executive Financial reporting and controls: Directors, which sets out the time commitment expected of them, Approval of announcements of interim and final results, annual and service contracts for Executive Directors, are available for report and accounts, approval of dividend policy and approval of inspection by shareholders at our registered office during normal significant changes in accounting policies and practices business hours and at our Annual General Meeting AGM.
Board membership and other appointments: All Directors have access to the advice of the Company Changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board, Secretary as well as appropriate training and briefings on matters membership and chairmanship of Board Committees, ensuring including corporate social responsibility, ethics, health & safety adequate succession planning, appointment of the Senior and governance matters.
Additionally, any Director may take Independent Director and the appointment or removal of the independent professional advice on any matter at the Companys Company Secretary expense in the furtherance of their duties.
Remuneration: Determining the remuneration policy for the Directors and other The Senior Independent Director senior executives and the introduction of new share incentive Simon Ball is the Senior Independent Director of the Company.
The plans or major changes to existing plans to be put to shareholders Senior Independent Director is available to meet shareholders on for approval request and is the designated point of contact for shareholders to raise any concerns where contact through the normal channels of Delegation of authority: the Chairman or Executive Directors is inappropriate.
Matters raised The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the by major shareholders to any Director are brought to the attention Chief Executive and receiving reports from Board Committees on of the Board.
their activities As part of our commitment to regular dialogue, meetings have Contracts expenditure: been held between the Executive Directors and investors on an Approval of all significant contracts and expenditure and all ongoing basis throughout the year.
The Chairman and the Senior investments or disposals in shares in which the Group holds an Independent Director have offered ongoing dialogue and meetings interest with shareholders to discuss any issues they wish to raise, and held Internal controls: meetings where appropriate or requested.
The Company intends to Receiving reports on and reviewing the effectiveness of the continue this practice.
Groups risk and control processes to support its strategy and Internal control, risk management and financial reporting objectives and assessing these annually.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control Other specific responsibilities are delegated to the Audit, Nomination and for reviewing its effectiveness on a continual basis.
The Groups and Remuneration Committees, each with clearly defined terms system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than of reference.
Each Committee reviews their terms of reference eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and annually to ensure that they remain appropriate and effective.
can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against Full details on matters reserved to the Board and the terms material misstatement or loss.
The concept of reasonable assurance of reference of its Committees can be found on our website recognises that the cost of control procedures should not exceed at www.
40 Cable & Wireless Communications The Group operates a risk management process under which The ongoing training and development programme for the Directors the regional businesses identify the key risks to their plans, their includes: likelihood and impact and the actions being taken to manage those Regular visits to the overseas business units to meet the local risks and the effectiveness of steps taken to mitigate them.
During the year, this included a Board visit to the register is presented to the Audit Committee on a rolling 12 month Caribbean enabling enhanced knowledge of the business basis.
The principal risks identified by the Group are set out on pages operations and to meet local external stakeholders 31 to 33.
The Board also received presentations from an external provider The Executive Directors report to the Board, on behalf of on the economics, political environment, challenges and management, significant changes in the Groups businesses and the opportunities of the Central American telecommunications external environment in which it operates.
In addition, they provide markets the Board with monthly financial information, which includes key risk Technology briefing papers to enhance understanding of the and performance indicators.
The Groups key internal control and Groups products and services which, during the year, included a monitoring procedures include the following: briefing on customer relationship management and billing systems Financial reporting: each year, an annual budget is agreed and and processes approved by the Board.
At each Board meeting, actual results are Governance updates from external advisers or via the Company reviewed and reported against budget and, when appropriate, Secretarys report revised forecasts Additional presentations to provide an external stakeholder or Investment appraisal: the Group has clearly defined policies for market perspective which, during the year, included a capital expenditure.
These include annual budgets, detailed presentation to the Board regarding governance from an appraisal processes and post-implementation reviews for such institutional shareholders perspective expenditure In addition, individual training requirements are agreed and arranged Monitoring systems: internal controls are monitored through a with Directors as required.
The Internal Audit function reports to the Audit Committee on its examination and evaluation of the Board Committees effectiveness and adequacy of systems of internal control The reports of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee Financial and nonfinancial controls: the Group has dedicated are set out on pages 48 to 50 and 51 to 66 respectively.
resource to embed processes and controls across the businesses.
It operates a number of self-assessment exercises, which include Nomination Committee monthly and quarterly processes to certify compliance with key Nomination Committee membership financial and non-financial controls via the Business Assurance Membership and attendance at meetings Checklist BAC.
The BAC requires management to assess and certify the effectiveness of its fundamental controls over all Sir Richard Lapthorne 1 1 aspects of its operations.
The results of this exercise are utilised Simon Ball 1 1 by Internal Audit in planning its work for the forthcoming year 1 Mary Francis 0 1 Whistle blowing: the Group operates an Ethics Helpline which is Mark Hamlin 1 1 2 administered by an independent third party and is available to all Alison Platt 0 0 employees Ian Tyler 1 1 In addition to the regular updates and reports during the year, the 1 Mary Francis retired from the Committee with effect from 30 June 2012.
Board was also updated on cyber-security threats and the 2 Alison Platt was appointed to the Committee with effect from 1 June 2012. controls in place to protect against them.
Effectiveness of internal control The Nomination Committee the Committee was chaired by The Board reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control Sir Richard Lapthorne throughout the year.
Alison Platt became a systems in operation during the financial year in accordance with the member of the Committee upon her appointment to the Board as a revised Turnbull guidance.
The processes as set out above have been Non-executive Director on 1 June 2012, and Mary Francis retired in place for the year under review and up to the date of this Annual with effect from 30 June 2012.
All members of the Committee, report.
Where appropriate, necessary action has been or is being apart from the Chairman, are independent Non-executive Directors.
taken to remedy any failings and weaknesses identified as significant Terms of reference during this review.
The terms of reference set out the authority of the Committee to The responsibility for internal control procedures within our joint carry out its duties.
ventures rests with the senior management of those operations.
The full terms of reference of the Committee are available We monitor our investments and exert our influence through board at www.
The principal duties of the Committee are set out in the terms of Induction and professional development reference and include: On appointment, the induction of new Board members is undertaken To review the structure, size and composition of the Board and by the Company Secretary at the request of the Chairman, who make recommendations with regard to any changes retains responsibility for the induction process.
The induction includes the provision of information about the Company, details of To give full consideration to succession planning for key roles procedures, governance issues and Directors responsibilities.
The To identify and nominate candidates for the approval of the programme also includes meetings with senior management and Board, having evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge and key advisers, with meetings with major shareholders arranged on experience on the Board request.
To review the time commitment required from Non-executive Directors To ensure that the balance of the Board and its Committees is consistent with good corporate governance and complies with the minimum requirements of the Code Annual report 2012 13 41 Directors and corporate governance report continued In accordance with the terms of reference, the Committee has Performance evaluation reviewed succession planning requirements and the need to ensure In accordance with the Code, an external evaluation of the Board planned and progressive refreshing of the Board as and when takes place at least every three years.
The last external evaluation required.
was undertaken in 2011 by Independent Audit Limited, which evaluated the performance of the Board as a whole.
Independent Meetings Audit Limited has no other connection with the Company or Group.
The Nomination Committee met on one occasion in the period An internal Board evaluation was conducted in 2012 using a 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2013. structured questionnaire, which covered the operations of the Board During the period under review, the Committee considered and and its principal Committees.
Questionnaires were also issued, in the recommended to the Board the appointment of Alison Platt as a case of each of the Board Committees, to those participants who Non-executive Director, and as a member of the Audit, Nomination regularly attend these meetings.
Alison Platt, as a Managing Director The report on the findings of the review was discussed by the at Bupa responsible for driving retail growth in international markets, Board at its meeting in June 2012.
The evaluation concluded that was identified as a candidate who would complement the existing the Board and its Committees operate effectively.
A number of balance of skills and knowledge of the Board, with sufficient time recommendations were made following the review and the key to dedicate to the role.
JCA Group, an independent boardroom themes included further consideration of the size of the Board in consultancy firm, was appointed to undertake the search and was light of the strategic direction of the Group and augmenting the briefed with the criteria required for the role, including consideration Boards induction and training programme, with an increased focus for gender diversity.
The suitability of her knowledge and skills was on matters specific to the telecommunications industry.
The Nonindependently verified by JCA Group.
executive Directors also appraised the Chairmans performance In addition, in May 2013 the Committee considered and and carefully reviewed the relationship between the Chairman and recommended the re-appointment of Non-executive Director the Executive Directors to ensure that the Board structure and Simon Ball for a further one year period.
Simon Ball has been on the relationships continue to promote the long-term success of the Board of the Company since demerger in March 2010, and prior Group.
to this served as a Non-executive Director of Cable and Wireless The Board evaluation for 2013 will also be conducted using a plc from 1 May 2006.
The re-appointment of Simon Ball was structured questionnaire covering the operation of both the Board considered in the light of the Code requirements for his continued and its principal Committees and the results and recommendations independence and the need to ensure progressive refreshing of the will subsequently be discussed by the Board.
The Committee reviewed his contribution over the previous year and considered that his skills and breadth of experience would Other statutory information be valuable in retaining a well-balanced Board.
Principal activities, business review and results The Board remains supportive of Lord Davies recommendations.
The Groups principal activities are detailed on pages 2 and 3.
The Board understands the importance of diversity and recognises Through this Annual report, including the Chairmans review and the importance of women having greater representation in senior the Business review sections pages 1 to 33 that precede this roles.
The search for Board candidates will continue to be conducted, report and this corporate governance section pages 38 to 67, and appointments made, with due regard to the benefits of diversity the Board seeks to present a balanced and clear assessment of the on the Board and where appropriate specialist search consultants Groups activities, position and prospects.
Each of those sections engaged to assist in the search for suitable candidates.
However, all is incorporated by reference into the Directors report, which is appointments to the Board are ultimately based on merit, measured comprised of those sections, the information set out below and the against objective criteria, and the skills and experience the individual other information which is incorporated by reference.
The Groups can bring to the Board taking into account a number of factors results for the financial year are shown in the consolidated income including the existing size of the Board, the balance of Executive and statement on page 71.
Non-executive Directors as well as the existing skills, knowledge, Directors experience and diversity already represented and the likely future The names and biographical details of the Directors are set out on requirements.
The composition of the Board, including the balance of skills, In compliance with the Code which specifies that all directors independence, knowledge and diversity on the Board is reviewed of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual election by annually as part of the Board evaluation process.
shareholders, all Directors will stand for re-election at the 2013 AGM.
The interests of the Directors and their connected persons in the shares of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc, along with details of their share awards, are contained in the Directors remuneration report set out on pages 51 to 66.
42 Cable & Wireless Communications No Director had a material interest in any significant contract capital excluding shares held in treasury as at 11 June 2012.
Under with the Company or any of its subsidiaries during the year.
For the authority granted by shareholders at the 2010 AGM to purchase further information, refer to note 32 of the consolidated financial up to 262 million of its own ordinary shares, on 23 February 2011 statements.
the Company announced a share buyback programme up to a value of US$100 million in order to return capital to shareholders.
During The Company has granted indemnities in favour of its Directors the period 1 April 2011 to 20 July 2011, the Company purchased against personal financial exposure that they may incur in the course 94,726,873 shares with a nominal value of US$0.05 each for an of their professional duties as Directors of the Company and or any aggregate consideration of US$66 million, and these are held as subsidiaries as applicable.
These indemnities are qualifying thirdtreasury shares.
The total number of shares held in treasury as at party indemnity provisions for the purposes of the Companies Act 31 March 2013 is 137,488,873.
They were granted on appointment of the Directors and are still in force.
Officers of wholly owned subsidiary The Board intends to seek shareholder approval at the forthcoming companies within the Group have also been granted indemnities.
AGM on 25 July 2013 to make market purchases of up to 10% of its issued share capital excluding shares held in treasury.
Details of Dividends the proposed resolution are included in the Notice of Meeting.
The The Directors recommend a final dividend of US2.67 cents per Directors have no present intention of exercising this authority to ordinary share payable on 9 August 2013 to ordinary shareholders purchase the Companys ordinary shares but will keep the matter on the register at the close of business on 31 May 2013.
This final under review, taking into account other investment opportunities.
dividend, together with the interim dividend of US1.33 cents per The authority would only be exercised if and when, in the light share paid by the Company on 11 January 2013, makes a total of market conditions prevailing at the time, the Directors believe dividend payment to shareholders of the Company of US4 cents that the effect of such purchases will be in the best interests of per ordinary share for the year ended 31 March 2013. shareholders generally.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of Share capital and treasury shares securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities The called-up share capital of the Company, together with details or on voting rights.
of shares allotted during the year, are shown in note 8 to the Company financial statements.
At the 2012 AGM, the Company was Further details on the share capital of the Company are set out in authorised by shareholders to purchase up to 252 million of its own note 8 to the Company financial statements on page 132 and are ordinary shares, representing approximately 10% of its issued share incorporated into this report by reference.
Companys shareholders As at 31 March 2013 and the date of this report, the Company had been notified of the following substantial holdings of voting rights in the issued share capital of the Company in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: As at 31 March 2013 As at 21 May 2013 No.
of % of Nature of ordinary shares voting rights holding ordinary shares voting rights holding Orbis Holdings Limited 370,326,609 14.65 Indirect 370,326,609 14.65 Indirect As a As a discretionary discretionary Newton Investment Management Limited 252,784,845 9.99 fund manager 252,784,845 9.99 fund manager Ethics Charitable and political donations The Company is committed to sound business conduct in its During the year ended 31 March 2013, the Group relationships with key stakeholders shareholders, employees, gave US$1.42 million 2011 12 US$3 million to customers, business partners and suppliers, governments and charitable organisations including US$91,436 60,000 regulators, communities and the environment.
2011 12 US$144,312 90,000 to the Porthcurno Trust, a charitable organisation in the United Kingdom.
The Group During the year a review of the Groups ethics policies was actively supports corporate social responsibility in the communities undertaken.
A new Code of Conduct policy was approved by the in which it operates and more information on these activities is Board which sits alongside the Groups Anti-Bribery Policy and set out on pages 20 to 23. applies to all Group companies and employees.
Where the Group operates in conjunction with business partners, third parties or The Company has no intention of making donations to what are in joint venture arrangements without management control, it generally regarded as political parties within the European Union.
aims to promote the application of these policies.
Responsibility As a precautionary measure and in the light of the wide definitions for the compliance with the policy remains with the Board and the of European Union political organisations for the purposes of the regional Chief Executives are responsible for the communication, 2006 Act, a resolution was passed at the 2010 AGM permitting implementation and monitoring of their region.
the Company to make political donations and incur political expenditure.
During the year, the Company did not exercise its The Group seeks to conduct its operations with honesty, integrity authority granted to it at the 2010 AGM to make political donations and openness, and with respect for the human rights and interests within the European Union.
In aggregate, the sum of US$91,126 of our employees.
The Group respects the legitimate interests of US$233,167 2011 12 was made to non-EU political parties all those with whom it has relationships.
The Groups employees are by non-EU subsidiary companies during the year.
required to complete an annual online training programme in relation to these policies.
Supplier payment policy The Company did not enter into any purchase contracts with suppliers which required payment during the year to 31 March 2013.
It is the Groups policy to agree appropriate terms and conditions in advance with suppliers and to make payment in accordance with those terms and conditions, provided the supplier has complied with them.
Annual report 2012 13 43 Directors and corporate governance report continued Employee inclusion and diversity Change of control The Group operates in many countries with diverse employment The Group has a number of contracts that are subject to change of practices.
Whilst respecting local circumstances, wherever we control clauses.
These primarily relate to financing facilities, bonds, operate we follow the principles of equal opportunity in recruitment, licences and operating agreements.
The Groups Under the Groups US$500 million and US$100 million revolving employment policies also comply with local requirements and meet credit facility agreements, on a change of control the lenders are relevant standards on employment of disabled people.
Full and not obliged to fund any further sums and, if the majority lenders fair consideration is given to disabled applicants for employment require, on not less than 10 days notice, the facility can be cancelled and training, and career development is encouraged on the basis and all outstanding loans, together with related charges, become of aptitude and ability.
It is Group policy to retain employees who immediately due and payable.
become disabled whilst in its service and to provide specialist Under the terms of the US$500 million 7.75% 2017 Senior Secured training where appropriate.
Notes and the US$400 million 8.75% 2020 Senior Secured Notes Employee communication the Bonds, if a change of control event occurs, each holder of the The Group communicates with employees in many ways, including Bonds will have the right to require the repurchase of all or any part regular briefings by management, newsletters and intranet sites.
of their Bonds at a redemption price equal to 101% of the principal These communications help to achieve a common awareness among amount of the Bonds purchased, together with accrued but unpaid employees of the financial and operational performance of the interest.
A number of the Groups operating licences and shareholders agreements include change of control clauses which may be Exercise of rights of shares in employee share schemes triggered by the sale of all or a controlling stake in a business, or The Trustees of The Cable & Wireless Communications Share certain types of restructuring.
Ownership Trust the Trust exercise the voting rights on shares held in the employee trust in accordance with their fiduciary duties as In the event of a change of control, these clauses may require Trustees, which include the duty to act in the best interests of the consideration to determine their impact on the Group.
At present, beneficiaries of the Trust.
risks arising from a change of control are not considered to be significant.
The Group will take appropriate action to mitigate any Annual General Meeting risks arising from these events should they occur.
Change of control The AGM will be held at 11.00am on Thursday 25 July 2013 at the provisions in relation to Directors service contracts are explained in Grange Tower Bridge Hotel, 45 Prescot Street, London E1 8GP.
the Directors remuneration report on page 58.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are given in the Notice of Meeting.
Rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares The following section summarises the rights and obligations in the Auditor Companys Articles of Association the Articles relating to the Our auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, has instigated an orderly wind down ordinary shares of the Company.
The full Articles can be found on of its business as a result of an internal reorganisation and KPMG the Companys website www.
LLP an intermediate parent is proposed as statutory auditor of Amendment of Articles: The Articles may be amended by a special the Company for the next financial year.
Resolutions to appoint resolution of the shareholders passed at a general meeting of the KPMG LLP as our external auditor in place of KPMG Audit Plc and Company.
to authorise the Directors to set the auditors remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
Voting: Each share other than those held in treasury allows the holder to have one vote at general meetings of the Company on So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit votes taken on a poll.
Proxy appointment and voting instructions information as defined in Section 418 3 of the 2006 Act of which must be received by the registrars at least 48 hours before the time the auditors are unaware and the Directors have taken all reasonable appointed for the holding of a general meeting or 24 hours before steps to ascertain any relevant audit information and ensure the a poll if not taken on the same day as the meeting in each case auditors are aware of such information.
subject to the Directors discretion to specify that the time periods exclude any part of a day that is not a working day.
44 Cable & Wireless Communications Dividends: The Companys shareholders can declare dividends by Uncertificated shares: The Directors may decline registration of passing an ordinary resolution, but the payment cannot exceed the uncertificated shares if the transfer is in favour of more than four amount recommended by the Directors.
The Directors may also joint holders or otherwise in accordance with the Uncertificated pay interim dividends without shareholder approval if they consider Securities Regulations 2001. that the financial position of the Company justifies it.
The Directors Interests in shares: Except where express rights are given, the may operate dividend reinvestment plans or, subject to shareholder Company will only recognise a current and absolute right to whole approval, operate scrip schemes or pay dividends by distributing shares.
The fact that any share, or any part of a share, may not be assets.
No dividend carries a right to interest from the Company.
If owned outright by the registered owner is not of any concern to the dividends remain unclaimed for 12 years they are forfeited by the Company.
shareholder and revert to the Company.
US Holders: The Directors may require a shareholder or other person Partly paid shares: The Company has a lien on all partly paid shares appearing to be interested in shares, to disclose information relating and dividends, which has priority over claims of others to such to the ownership of such shares or to show that such shares are shares covering any money owed to the Company for the shares.
not held by a US Holder defined in the Articles as being: i persons The Directors may sell all or any of such shares where: i the money resident in the US who hold shares in the Company and ii persons owed by the shareholder is payable immediately: ii the Directors who appear to the Directors to fall within sub-paragraph i of the have given notice demanding payment, stating the amount due and definition of a US Holder.
The Directors may require a US Holder to that the shares will be sold on non-payment: and iii the money has sell their shares to someone who is not a US Holder, failing which, the not been paid within 14 clear days of the service of the notice.
Company may effect a sale of such shares on the US Holders behalf.
The Directors may make calls on shareholders to pay any money Disputes: Any disputes between a shareholder and the Company which has not yet been paid to the Company for their shares.
If a and or the Directors arising out of or in connection with the Articles call is unpaid, the shareholder will be liable to pay interest and all shall be exclusively and finally resolved under the Rules of Arbitration expenses incurred by the Company as a result of non-payment if of the International Chamber of Commerce, as amended from time the call remains unpaid for 14 clear days after the date of a notice.
to time, in accordance with the Articles.
In addition, failure to comply with any such notice may result in forfeiture of any share which is the subject of the notice, including Appointment and replacement of Directors any unpaid dividends.
The rules about the appointment and replacement of Directors are contained in the Articles, including the rules for who is eligible to be The Directors may decline to register the transfer of any shares elected as a Director and the procedure to be followed to nominate that are not fully paid, provided that such refusal does not prevent such persons.
dealings from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The Articles provide that Directors may be appointed by an ordinary Sanctions: Unless the Directors decide otherwise, a shareholder shall resolution of the members or by a resolution of the Directors, not be entitled to vote at any general meeting of the Company or at provided that, in the latter instance, a Director appointed in this any separate general meeting of the holders of any class of shares in way retires and stands for election at the first AGM following his the Company or exercise any other right conferred by membership appointment.
in relation to general meetings if the shareholder has not paid all amounts relating to those shares which are due at the time of the The Companys members may remove a Director by passing an meeting, or if the shareholder is given a notice following a failure ordinary resolution for which special notice has been given.
Any by that shareholder or someone who appears to be interested in Director will automatically cease to be a Director if: i they resign: the shares to comply with a notice under section 793 of the 2006 ii they offer to resign and the other Directors accept that offer: Act.
Further, if a shareholder holding 0.25% or more of the issued iii all the other Directors being at least three require it: iv they shares of a class excluding treasury shares or interested person is are suffering from mental ill health and the Directors require them in default of a section 793 notice, the Directors may also state in the to cease to be a Director: v they have missed Directors meetings notice that: i the payment of any dividend shall be withheld: ii the for a continuous period of six months without permission and shareholder shall not be entitled to elect to receive shares in place of the other Directors resolve that they shall cease to be a Director: dividends withheld: and iii the transfer of the shares held by such vi a bankruptcy order is made against them, or they make an shareholder shall be restricted.
arrangement or composition with their creditors: vii they are prohibited from being a Director by law: or viii they cease to be Certificated shares: The Company can sell any certificated shares at a Director under legislation or are removed from office under the the best price reasonably obtainable at the time of the sale if: i in Articles.
a period of 12 years at least three dividends have become payable and no dividends have been claimed: ii the Company has published a notice after the 12 year period stating that it intends to sell the shares: and iii during the 12 year period and for three months after the notice, the Company has not heard from the shareholder or any person entitled to sell the shares.
The Directors may decline registration of certificated shares if: i a share transfer form is used to transfer more than one class of shares: ii transfers are in favour of more than four joint holders: or iii the share transfer form is not delivered to the office, or such other place decided on by the Directors, accompanied by the share certificate relating to the shares being transferred unless the transfer is by a person to whom the Company was not required to, and did not, send a certificate and any other evidence reasonably asked for by the Directors to show entitlement to transfer the shares.
Annual report 2012 13 45 Directors and corporate governance report continued Powers of Directors Going concern The powers of the Directors are determined by UK legislation and The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely the Articles.
As provided in the Articles, the Directors may exercise to affect its future development, performance and position are all the Companys powers provided that the Articles or applicable set out in the Business reviews on pages 1 to 33 including the legislation do not stipulate that any such powers must be exercised Financial review on pages 24 to 30.
The financial position of the by the members.
The Directors have been authorised to issue and Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are allot ordinary shares, pursuant to Article 12.
The powers under described in the Financial review on pages 24 to 30.
Further, notes Article 12 are referred to shareholders at the AGM for renewal.
24, 28 and 36 to the consolidated financial statements include the Shareholders are also requested to renew the Directors power Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: to make market purchases of shares at each AGM.
Any shares its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial purchased may be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to credit and liquidity risk.
Conflicts of interest The Directors believe that the Groups geographic spread, robust The Articles permit the Directors to authorise conflicts and potential monitoring and forecasting processes leave it well placed to conflicts.
Procedures have been put in place for the disclosure by manage its business risks in the current economic conditions.
Directors of any such conflicts and also for the consideration and In addition, the Groups forecasts and projections, taking into authorisation of these conflicts by the Board.
These procedures account possible changes in trading performance which could be allow for the imposition of limits or conditions by the Board when reasonably anticipated, indicate that the Group is able to operate authorising any conflict, if they think this is appropriate.
within the level of its current available facilities.
A formal process for monitoring compliance with debt covenants is also in place.
Further information on debt can be found in note 22 to the consolidated financial statements.
After reviewing budgets and other longer-term plans and making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
By order of the Board Clare Underwood Company Secretary 21 May 2013 46 Cable & Wireless Communications
