Independent Directorsreport The strategic portfolio considerations leading up to the disposal 1.
What is the quality of the relationship between the Chairman of the Islands and Macau business units has required a different and the Executive Directors?
focus from the Board during the year.
The Chairman and the Executive Directors have been working together as a team since 2008 and the relationship between them Additional time was added to the eight scheduled Board meetings has remained strong.
This provided a stable background to plan and and a further Board meeting was also held.
Significant attention was execute two major corporate transactions and facilitate the decision given to the move from a diverse international portfolio of assets, to move towards a unified regional telecoms operator.
to a focused, unified regional telecoms operator.
The Board has discussed evolving strategy throughout the year with robust and There is a clear understanding of the roles of each of the Chairman challenging debate on the organic and inorganic opportunities in the and the Chief Executive with the Chairman being responsible for the pan-America region as well as the cultural and organisation demands leadership of the Board and the Chief Executive being responsible of the move to a regional telecoms operator.
External participants for running the business.
were invited to the strategy meeting in December to discuss the 2.
How open are the Executive Directors with the Board?
economic and political environment of the region which provided a The Board receives detailed reports and presentations from the valuable insight for the Independent Directors as well as a further three Executive Directors in advance of Board meetings, as well basis for rigorous debate in subsequent discussions.
as updates at the meetings.
This is supplemented by unstructured During the year, it was important that despite the substantive focus debates on key strategic areas.
There were also three informal on the changing business, close attention remained on delivering a meetings held during the course of the year.
The annual meeting plan included The Board also meets with members of the London and Regional a number of recurring items particularly in relation to financial and Senior Management teams who are invited to attend Board and operational performance to inform a structured debate.
In addition, Committee meetings to present and discuss a number of matters a number of unstructured debates took place during the year including remuneration, risk and operational performance enabling covering a number of matters including strategy and remuneration.
an open forum for discussion and debate.
These discussions enabled the Board to freely discuss and challenge the Companys behaviour and approach to such matters without the 3.
What is the visibility of the checks and balances between the constraints of predetermined opinions.
In the past three years, at least two Board meetings a year have The visibility of checks and balances between the Executive taken place in the regional business unit locations.
These visits give Directors has remained high.
This was particularly important for the the Independent Directors a valuable insight into the business unit execution of the disposal of the two business units as well as the operations, the local teams and the culture and environment within preparation and approval of the two circulars which were sent to which they operate.
The number of overseas visits was reduced shareholders.
in the year ended 31 March 2013 due to the time commitment The Executive Directors have openly shared and debated different required in relation to the disposal of the two business units.
During perspectives in Board meetings enabling the Non-executive the year, the Board visited the Cayman Islands and met with the Directors to obtain a rounded view of the Executive Directors views.
Caribbean management team as well as external stakeholders including Government Ministers and enterprise customers.
Have questions asked by the Independent Directors in Board As part of the annual corporate governance programme, the and Committee meetings been appropriately addressed?
Independent Directors met separately during the year to discuss The Independent Directors are comfortable that questions have any relevant governance matters.
They also met twice with the been answered in a considered and effective manner throughout Chairman present and once with the Chairman and Chief Executive the year ended 31 March 2013 and are satisfied that the corporate present.
governance controls of Cable & Wireless Communications Plc are effective.
Alison Platt, Managing Director at Bupa responsible for International Development Markets joined the Board as an Independent Director As we look ahead to the transformation process with the in June 2012.
Alisons breadth of experience gained during her consequent strategic and executive challenges that will present successful career at Bupa has augmented the Boards focus on to the Executive Directors and the Board, as a whole, it will be behavioural, organisational, market facing and cultural matters all critical that the beneficial behavioural practices established are of which are key considerations in this period of transformational continuously applied.
The Chairman, the Executive Directors and change.
the Independent Directors need to pay particular attention to this aspect of Board management and behaviours in the period ahead.
Turning now to the four questions posed annually as part of Cable & Wireless Communications approach to measuring effective Simon Ball corporate governance: Senior Independent Director 21 May 2013 Annual report 2012 13 47
