Simon Ball Chairman, Chairman of the Nomination Committee Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent Director, Sir Richard Lapthorne is Chairman of the Company having Chairman of the Remuneration Committee been Chairman of Cable and Wireless plc since January 2003.
Simon Ball is a Non-executive Director of the Company having He is also Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
In March previously served as a Non-executive Director of Cable and 2012 he was appointed Chairman of the Foresight Group on Wireless plc since May 2006.
He is also the Deputy Chairman, UK Manufacturing, and is Chairman of the PwC Public Interest Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Remuneration Body and a Non-executive Director of Sherritt International, Committee and a member of the Audit and Nomination based in Toronto.
Simon became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 1 June 2012 having previously been the Chairman Between June 2009 and April 2010, he was Chairman of the of the Audit Committee.
Simon is a Non-executive Director of McLaren Group.
From 1996 to May 2003 Richard was Chairman Tribal Group plc and of Allied Irish Banks plc.
Previously, Simon of Amersham International plc now GE Healthcare having joined was Group Finance Director for 3i Group plc until November its Board as a Non-executive Director in 1989.
He was Finance 2008 and also held a series of senior finance and operational Director of British Aerospace plc from July 1992 and Vice roles at Dresdner Kleinwort Benson, served as Group Finance Chairman from April 1998 until his retirement in 1999.
Director for the Robert Fleming Group and was Director General, Richard is a Trustee of Tommys Campaign, the charity Finance for the Department for Constitutional Affairs.
researching still and premature birth.
Mark Hamlin Chairman of New Look Group and Morse plc until November 2007 and February 2008 respectively and Her Majesty the Non-executive Director Queens Trustee at The Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew until his Mark Hamlin has been a Non-executive Director of the Company retirement in September 2009. since his appointment on 1 January 2012, and is a member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Tony Rice Mark is a Chartered Clinical Psychologist, and is the Chairman Chief Executive of the Organisation Resource Group of Companies.
He is a Tony Rice is Chief Executive of the Company and has been so senior adviser to the boards of global businesses in many areas since demerger in March 2010, having previously served as CEO including strategy, culture and corporate change programmes in of the predecessor Cable & Wireless Communications business international markets.
Born in Johannesburg, he is involved with since November 2008.
He was Group Finance Director of Cable a number of charities in Africa, some aimed at creating additional and Wireless plc from March 2006 onwards, having been a income for subsistence farmers and their families, and others Non-executive Director since January 2003. establishing life skills education centres for young people.
Mark is the President of Wedmore Opera, a community based music Tony was at British Aerospace and its successor company BAE performance charity in Somerset.
Systems for 16 years as Group Treasurer and ultimately Group Managing Director, Commercial Aircraft, responsible for its ANR 7.
Alison Platt Airbus and Regional Aircraft business units.
From 2002 he was Non-executive Director CEO of Tunstall Holdings Ltd, Europes leading telecare company Alison Platt was appointed a Non-executive Director of the until its sale in September 2005.
Company on 1 June 2012, and is a member of the Audit, Tony is the Senior Independent Non-executive Director of Spirit Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Alison is a Managing Pub Company plc which listed on the London Stock Exchange Director at Bupa, responsible for International Development in 2011.
He is also Chairman of Alexander Mann Solutions, and Markets.
She took up this post in October 2012 having Tony was recently appointed as a Trustee for Shelter, the housing previously held a number of senior posts across Bupa including and homelessness charity.
Chief Operating Officer of its UK private hospitals business, Deputy Managing Director in its UK insurance business and 3.
Tim Pennington latterly Managing Director for its businesses in the UK, Europe Chief Financial Officer and North America.
Before joining Bupa, Alison held a number Tim Pennington is Chief Financial Officer CFO of the Company.
of key positions in British Airways.
He previously served as the Group Finance Director for Cable Alison Platt was chair of Opportunity Now, which seeks to and Wireless plc.
Previously, Tim was CFO and an Executive accelerate change for women in the workplace, from May 2009 Director of Hutchison Telecommunications International Ltd, a until April 2013.
She was also a Non-executive Director of the company listed in Hong Kong and New York.
Tim was also Finance Foreign & Commonwealth Office between 2005 and 2010, and Director of Hutchison 3G UK Hutchison Whampoas UK mobile in the 2011 New Year Honours she was appointed a CMG for her business and has corporate finance experience with HSBC services to the Board of the FCO.
Investment Bank and Samuel Montagu & Co. ANR 8.
Nick Cooper Non-executive Director, Chairman of the Audit Corporate Services Director Committee Nick Cooper is an Executive Director of the Company, Ian Tyler has been a Non-executive Director of the Company having served as Corporate Services Director for the Cable since his appointment on 1 January 2011.
On 1 June 2012, & Wireless Communications business since December 2008 Ian was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Ian is also and Group General Counsel and Company Secretary for Cable a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
and Wireless plc from January 2006 to demerger.
He has Ian is a chartered accountant and was Chief Executive of Balfour Board level responsibility for Human Resources, Brand, PR Beatty plc from January 2005 to March 2013, having joined & Communications, Legal & Regulatory Affairs, Insurance, the company in 1996 as Finance Director and having become Corporate Social Responsibility, Procurement and IT.
Nick Chief Operating Officer in 2002.
From 1993 to 1996 Ian was qualified as a solicitor with London law firm Herbert Smith.
He Finance Director of ARC Limited, one of the principal subsidiaries has held in-house positions as company solicitor with Asda and of Hanson Plc, having previously been Hansons Group Financial George Clothing and as General Counsel and Company Secretary Comptroller since 1991.
Prior to that, from 1988, he held of The Sage Group Plc and JD Wetherspoon Plc.
In September the positions of Group Treasurer and Financial Controller at 2002, Nick was appointed Company Secretary and was part of Storehouse Plc, the retailing group.
Ian is a Non-executive the Executive Management Board of Energis until its acquisition Director of BAE Systems plc and also President of CRASH, by Cable and Wireless plc.
the charity for homeless people around the UK.
A Denotes membership of Audit Committee.
N Denotes membership of Nomination Committee.
R Denotes membership of Remuneration Committee.
Committee membership shown as at 31 March 2013.
