Managers Portfolio Review Managers Portfolio Review As the composition of our portfolio is quite unlike that of the Returns from Markets comparative index it has the potential to perform very differently for the year ended 30 April 2013 but clearly we got some things wrong.
The net asset value per Geographical performance against FTSE World Index in share total return with borrowings at fair value in the year to 30 sterling terms April 2013 of only 7.8% was disappointing during a period in which the FTSE World Index in sterling terms generated a total return of 21.4%.
Falling behind the comparative index during a very strong period for the index, combined with the losses sustained in the year to 30 April 2009, mean that the five year numbers are also now poor.
The net asset value total return over the five years to 30 April 2013 was only 11.2% while the total return for the comparative index was 42.6%.
This is not the first time that Monks has underperformed the FTSE World Index over a rolling five year period, as shown in the graph below.
Annualised NAV par Total Returns relative to the FTSE World Index We have appointed Tom Walsh as deputy manager and have taken steps to improve our investment process.
These changes are showing encouraging results.
Our enhancements have focused on improving the quality of the analysis carried out before investments are purchased as well as revisiting the investment case for existing holdings.
Following this review, a number of investments have been sold and the overall number of holdings in the portfolio has been reduced.
As in previous years, we have included here comments on the investments that made the largest positive and negative contributions to performance in the year to 30 April 2013.
In One error was being too cautious during what has turned out to aggregate the top ten positive contributors made a greater be a very strong period for stockmarkets, even though it has been absolute contribution than the ten biggest detractors and we have a pretty dismal time for the economies of the developed world, had some very exciting results from a number of companies that and the financial crisis that came to a head in 2008 has morphed suggest that they have considerable potential for further from a problem largely in the private sector into a government appreciation.
On the negative side the main common themes debt crisis rather than gone away.
Another has been to maintain a have been the contributions from gold mining stocks and small oil large position in Brazil, a market that has fallen by 11.3% in and gas exploration companies, the latter an area where we have sterling terms over the last five years and to have too little had some notable successes in the past.
exposure to the US market, which has generated a total return of There are also some exciting new holdings in the portfolio which 64.0% over the same period.
We also held on too long to our have the potential to figure in the list of top positive contributors in gold mining shares and gave up too soon on our positive call on future years.
These range from Burger King fast food and the Japanese market by allowing our options to expire rather than Frontline 2012 shipping, where we are backing proven renewing them one more time.
The most important factor, management teams to turn around underperforming assets, to however, was stock selection.
leading players in rapidly growing new industries such as To some extent, our performance can be explained by the fact Stratasys 3D printing.
One of the largest new holdings is Sky that some of the best performing shares in the recent past have Deutschland which seems set to do in Germany what BSkyB has been those of large relatively stable companies that we do not done in the UK yet has a significantly smaller market capitalisation believe have the potential to grow their earnings at an attractive despite operating in a country with many more potential rate and so do not wish to own.
We have, in fact, been net sellers subscribers.
of our higher yielding holdings as we have seen them re-rated in Largest positive contributors to performance the general search for yield and we are concerned that some such shares have been pushed up so far that they offer greater scope Nanoco is a manufacturer of tiny semi-conductor crystals, known for long run capital depreciation than appreciation.
as quantum dots, which have the potential for widespread application in television displays, LED lighting and solar panels as well as many other areas.
The companys greatest distinction comes from its patented method for manufacturing these crystals Source: Thomson Reuters Datastream.
Past performance is not a guide to future performance.
06 Annual Report 2013 Managers Portfolio Review in volume but without the use of the toxic metal cadmium.
During biotechnology sector that was observed in last years annual the year the company signed a licensing agreement with Dow report has continued in the latest financial year as further progress Electronic Materials under which Dow will build a manufacturing has been made in delivering the potential promised for so long by facility in South Korea to produce quantum dots using Nanocos this area of medicine.
Such success is demonstrated by patented process.
Dow has exclusive rights to market and sell estimates that 6 of the 10 best-selling drugs worldwide in 2012 these with Nanoco receiving royalty payments in return.
Not only were originally developed by biotech companies and the further is this agreement a huge vote of confidence in Nanocos progress of a number of drugs through clinical trials.
In addition to technology, it takes a fledgling British university spin-out from this investment trust, we continue to hold a number of direct small scale laboratory production to the sort of magnitude that holdings in the biotechnology area.
Following a period of very could see its product move into the mainstream.
strong performance we reduced the size of the holding, but it remains one of our larger positions.
Seattle Genetics specialises in antibody drug conjugates.
The companys technology enables chemotherapy to specifically Fuchs Petrolub is the worlds largest independent lubricant target cancer cells, meaning sufferers can be treated far more supplier with a particular focus on specialist lubricants, where it is effectively and with less damage to the rest of their body.
Although specialist lubricants is a far smaller initial purchase Seattle Genetics has brought one drug to market, market than commodity lubricants, where large integrated oil Adcetris.
Although this drug treats a relatively rare form of cancer, companies tend to dominate, it has proved to be a more over the last year the company has made good progress in attractive market over the last decade, enjoying steady growth in demonstrating that its patented technology can be used in a volumes and pricing.
As Fuchs has grown it has strengthened its much wider range of cancers.
advantage over smaller independent competitors whilst tightening its relationships with major customers.
Whilst growth is never Marine Harvest is the worlds largest salmon farmer.
Salmon likely to be explosive, we think the combination of this strong farming has historically been a very cyclical industry with limited competitive position and steady underlying growth in demand for discipline on capacity growth resulting in substantial swings in specialist lubricants places the company in a strong position for profitability.
By consolidating the industry, Marine Harvest is long term profit growth.
helping to improve discipline on capacity whilst also taking a greater share of the profit pool by acquiring expertise in Alnylam Pharmaceuticals is developing a new class of processing the fish it produces.
We believe the long term outlook innovative medicines based on a breakthrough discovery in for salmon consumption is good, as emerging market consumers biology known as RNA interference, or RNAi.
This approach catch up with developed world levels of protein consumption and attempts to treat genetically defined diseases by addressing the the health attractions of salmon versus other meats are behaviour of the defective genes that cause the disorder.
The size of the holding was reduced Although development of the technology remains in its relatively during the year following a period of strong performance but it early stages, the last year has seen a number of positive clinical remains a significant position.
developments moving potential drugs into late stage development and closer to final approval.
Seek operates an online job board covering both temporary and permanent roles, predominantly in the white collar sector.
It TUI Travel is Europes largest package holiday company, dominates its core markets of Australia and New Zealand but also operating under brands such as Thomson and First Choice.
Part has leading positions in China, Brazil and a number of other south of the investment case for TUI Travel rested on the proposition east Asian countries.
Whilst its core markets may now be that its majority shareholder, TUI AG, might make a bid for the relatively mature, the strength of Seeks position here should remaining portion that it does not own.
During the year, TUI AG support attractive returns for some time to come, providing did indeed make an approach for the company.
Although the funding to further strengthen its position in markets where the approach was not on terms that we found attractive, it did have a long term growth potential looks enormous.
positive effect on TUI Travels share price, taking it to a level which we felt increasingly reflected the attractions of its operations.
Kone is one of the worlds leading lift and elevator manufacturers, Consequently we decided to sell the holding.
operating in a global market that has grown strongly over the last decade but remains dominated by just a few companies.
The lift Angies List is a US-based on-line home services review network.
industry has proved remarkably resilient over the years, benefiting Members pay a subscription fee to gain access to a website that from relatively high barriers to entry for new competitors, rational contains reviews of plumbers, electricians and other such service behaviour from existing market participants and the high providers in their local area.
Reviews can only be made by proportion of profits derived from maintenance contracts rather subscribing members and service providers are only allowed to than initial installations.
This resilience has been reflected in advertise themselves on the site if they have sufficiently high Kones results, even as global economic growth has faltered average ratings.
In this way, customers feel they are better able to recently.
With the company now well established in key emerging rely on the reviews that they read and know that the promotions markets, we see potential for many more years of growth, with they are offered through the site come from reputable tradesmen.
profitability aided by the shift in its revenue base towards The business has been loss-making whilst it expands across the maintenance contracts as recent installations mature.
United States but Angies List looks to be nearing the tipping point at which its revenues can materially outstrip costs, moving The Biotech Growth Trust is an investment trust that invests in the company into profitability.
emerging biotechnology companies, most of which are listed in the United States.
The resurgence in performance by the The Monks Investment Trust PLC 07 Managers Portfolio Review and a more benign outlook for the global economy that appears Largest negative contributors to performance to make gold a less attractive asset class in the medium term we Falkland Oil & Gas is an oil and gas exploration company decided to sell the holding during the year.
searching to the south and east of the Falkland Islands.
The area the company is exploring has many of the ingredients necessary Peugeot manufactures and sells cars and light commercial for the formation of large hydrocarbon deposits but it is large and vehicles under the Peugeot and Citroen brands.
For many years almost completely unexplored.
During the year the company this has been a challenged company in a challenged industry, drilled two exploration wells which, while confirming the presence however a new CEO was appointed in 2009 who appeared to be of hydrocarbons in the area, sadly did not strike commercial oil.
doing sensible things to cut costs, increase labour productivity These well results and the decision of a leading US exploration and improve pricing discipline.
We have had some success in and production company to co-invest in the licence area add investing in out of favour companies in the past and felt that such weight to the theory that large commercial reserves might exist self-help, when combined with wider industry capacity reductions there.
The companys limited financial resources, however, mean across Europe, might present a substantial turnaround that the failure to discover oil early on had a substantial negative opportunity.
Unfortunately things at the company deteriorated effect on the share price.
We reduced the size of the holding prior rather than improved during the year, with greater involvement by to the announcement of the results of the second exploration well the French government raising questions over managements but it remains a holding.
ability to take the tough decisions necessary for Peugeots turnaround.
As a result we sold the holding.
Aggreko is the leading global provider of rented power generation and temperature control equipment.
For many years Aggreko has Borders & Southern Petroleum is an oil exploration company successfully grown its operations, positioning itself as the leading exploring for oil in the waters to the south east of the Falkland provider of temporary power solutions for a wide range of Islands.
As discussed above there remains a substantial prospect customers including major sports events and utility companies of large discoveries being made in this region, however during the and benefiting from the growing gap between power demand and past year the companys second well failed to achieve its supply in fast-growing emerging markets.
In the last year, the objective and had to be abandoned.
This left Borders & Southern combination of the general slowdown in global economic growth without the funds to continue exploration and with little to show and a number of very profitable contracts coming to an end has for its efforts.
We therefore decided to sell the holding.
provided a headwind for the company that it has struggled to Credit Suisse 0% Swap Rate Linked Note 2017 is a bond overcome.
After so many years of exceeding expectations, the issued by Credit Suisse, the redemption amount of which is linked unexpected slowdown in profit growth was not well received and to long term interest rates prevailing when it matures in 2017.
Its resulted in a sharp decline in the companys share price.
During value prior to maturity is determined by a number of factors the year we reduced the size of holding.
notably the credit quality of Credit Suisse, the market expectation MMX11 is a hybrid instrument that confers on holders the right to for long term interest rates in 2017, the level of short term interest receive a fixed income per ton of iron ore shipped from Port rates and the volatility of long term interest rates.
During the year Sudeste in Brazil, part of the empire of energy and mining the combined effect of changes in these various factors resulted magnate Eike Batista.
The fortunes of this instrument are in a significant fall in its market value.
It remains a holding and intrinsically linked to those of Mr Batistas empire, which has fallen provides a hedge against a rise in UK interest rates.
on harder times as the wider Brazilian economy has faltered.
The Semafo is a West African focused gold miner, with its largest MMX11 royalty securities have, therefore, failed to deliver the asset in Burkina Faso.
The company has suffered a series of returns we expected on purchase, with the potential for matters disappointments over the last year, including a substantial to deteriorate further should one of his other companies fail.
As a downgrade to estimates of the reserve quality in its largest mine, result of these concerns we decided to sell the holding and were rapid cost inflation and a reduction to medium term production in the process of selling at the year end.
The holding was sold during the year.
Chariot Oil & Gas is an oil exploration company with licences to Gulf Keystone Petroleum is an oil and gas exploration and explore offshore Namibia.
Although the region remains unproven production company focused on exploration in the Kurdistan we took comfort from recent investment in it by Petrobras, BP region of Iraq.
The company has already proven the existence of and one of the worlds leading seismic survey companies.
substantial oil deposits in its licence area but for a number of Furthermore, the scale of the oil reserves being targeted, meant years has been subject to litigation from a third party who claims that a single discovery could have a very dramatic impact on the ownership rights over these assets.
Whilst the claim has been value of the company.
Unfortunately neither of the wells drilled strenuously denied by the company the continuation of this during the last year was successful.
With the companys small litigation has been unhelpful for sentiment, as was the recent scale and its most recent drilling results limiting its ability to fund decision by the Executive Chairman to transfer effectively all of his further exploration in the area we decided to sell the holding.
shareholding in the company c. 17m to an unnamed third party.
Eldorado Gold is a Canadian gold mining company with We decided to sell the holding and were in the process of selling operations in a number of countries, including China, Turkey and at the year end.
The company has performed poorly during the last year.
Some of this has been due to factors outwith management Gerald Smith control, such as the declining price of gold and civil disturbances Baillie Gifford & Co around its Greek mines, however other elements suggest poor 18 June 2013 management execution.
In light of Eldorados operational failings 08 Annual Report 2013
