Directors Report Directors Report The Directors present their Report together with the audited levels, and the extent of equity gearing, are discussed by the financial statements of the Company for the year to 30 April 2013.
Board and Managers at every Board meeting and adjusted accordingly with regard to the outlook.
New borrowings will not Business Review be taken out if this takes the level of effective equity gearing to Business and Status over 30% of shareholders funds.
Equity exposure will, on occasions, be below 100% of shareholders funds.
The Company is an investment company within the meaning of section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
Performance and Results The Company carries on business as an investment trust.
It was At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of approved as an investment trust under section 1158 of the performance measures to assess the Companys success in Corporation Tax Act 2010 for the year ended 30 April 2012, achieving its objectives.
subject to matters that may arise from any subsequent enquiry by The key performance indicators used to measure the progress HM Revenue and Customs into the Companys tax return.
In and performance of the Company over time are established accordance with recent changes to section 1158, the Company industry measures and are as follows: has obtained approval as an investment trust from HM Revenue and Customs for all accounting periods commencing on or after the movement in net asset value per ordinary share on a total return basis: 1 May 2012.
The Company intends to conduct its affairs so as to enable it to comply with the ongoing requirements.
the movement in the share price on a total return basis: Objective the discount: and The Companys objective is to invest internationally to achieve ongoing charges.
capital growth, which takes priority over income and dividends.
The five year record for the net asset value and share price Investment Policy performance compared to the FTSE World Index can be found on page 3 along with the five year record for the discount.
Details of Monks seeks to meet its objective of achieving capital growth through investment principally in a portfolio of international quoted the ongoing charges ratio can be found in the ten year record on page 16 along with other financial highlights.
In addition to the equities.
Equities are selected for their inclusion within the portfolio solely on the basis of the strength of the investment case.
above, the Board also considers peer group comparative performance.
When investing, the Company is prepared to move freely between different markets as opportunities arise.
There are no limits to In the year to 30 April 2013 the net asset value total return with borrowings at fair value was 7.8% and the share price total return geographical or sector exposures, but these are reported to, and monitored by, the Board in order to ensure that adequate was 6.2%, compared to a return on the comparative index of 21.4%.
The discount of the share price to net asset value diversification is achieved.
The equity portfolio is relatively concentrated for a global fund and, as at the financial year end, it increased from 11.6% to 13.0%.
A review of performance is contained in the Chairmans Statement and the Managers contained 93 equity holdings including 8 investments in funds.
The number of holdings in equities and funds will typically be Portfolio Review on pages 4 to 8. between 70 and 200.
A portfolio review by the Managers is given Dividends on pages 6 to 8 and the investments held at the year end are The Board recommends a final dividend of 3.45p per ordinary listed on pages 12 to 15. share which, together with the interim already paid, makes a total Investment may also be made in funds open and closed-ended of 3.95p for the year.
including those managed by Baillie Gifford & Co.
The maximum If approved, the recommended final dividend on the ordinary permitted investment in UK listed investment companies in shares will be paid on 9 August 2013 to shareholders on the aggregate is 15% of gross assets.
Asset classes other than register at the close of business on 12 July 2013.
The ex-dividend equities will be purchased from time to time including fixed date is 10 July 2013.
The Companys Registrar offers a Dividend interest holdings, unquoted securities and derivatives.
The Reinvestment Plan see page 51 and the final date for elections Company may use derivatives for the purpose of efficient portfolio for this dividend is 19 July 2013. management including reducing, transferring or eliminating investment risk in its investments and protection against currency Borrowings risk and to achieve capital growth.
Following the maturity of the Companys 40m 2012 debenture While there is a comparative index for the purpose of measuring stock and repayment of its 40m one year floating rate loan, the performance, no attention is paid to the composition of this index Companys borrowing at the year end comprised its 40m 2023 when constructing the portfolio and the composition of the debenture stock and a 40m fixed rate loan.
The Companys 30 portfolio is likely to vary substantially from that of the index.
A long year interest rate swap was also closed out during the year.
term view is taken and there may be periods when the net asset Further details of the Companys borrowings are set out in notes value per share declines both in absolute terms and relative to the 11 and 12 and on pages 45 and 46. comparative index.
Payment of dividends is secondary to Review of the Year and Future Trends achieving capital growth.
The shares are not considered to be a A review of the year and the investment outlook is contained in suitable investment for those seeking a regular or rising income.
the Chairmans Statement and the Managers Portfolio Review on Borrowings are invested in equity and other markets when this is pages 4 to 8. considered to be appropriate on investment grounds.
Gearing 18 Annual Report 2013 Directors Report Regulation Employees The Board has been in discussions with the Managers on how The Company has no employees.
best to address the requirements of the EU Alternative Investment Social and Community Issues Fund Managers Directive.
This comes into law in July 2013 As an investment trust, the Company has no direct social or although the Company has until July 2014 to comply fully with the community responsibilities.
The Company however believes that it legislation.
The Directive requires the Company to appoint an is in the shareholders interests to consider environmental, social Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM who will be and governance factors when selecting and retaining investments.
responsible for portfolio and risk management and will be Details of the Companys policy on socially responsible investment regulated under the Directive.
Having taken external advice, the can be found under Corporate Governance and Stewardship on Board is of the view that, subject to the finalisation of the rules, page 22.
Baillie Gifford is best positioned to act as the Companys AIFM.
Corporate Governance Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Board is committed to achieving and demonstrating high The Companys assets consist mainly of listed securities and its standards of Corporate Governance.
This statement outlines how principal risks are therefore market related and include market risk the principles of the June 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code comprising currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk, the Code which can be found at www.
uk and the 2010 liquidity risk and credit risk.
An explanation of those risks and how AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code were applied they are managed are contained in note 21 to the financial throughout the financial year.
The AIC Code provides a framework statements on pages 42 to 47. of best practice for investment companies and can be found at Other risks faced by the Company include the following: www.
Regulatory Risk failure to comply with applicable legal and Compliance regulatory requirements could lead to suspension of the The Company has complied throughout the year under review Companys Stock Exchange Listing, financial penalties or a with the relevant provisions of the Code and the qualified audit report.
Breach of section 1158 of the Corporation recommendations of the AIC Code except that a Nomination Tax Act 2010 could lead to the Company being subject to tax on Committee has not been established and Mr JGD Ferguson, capital gains.
Chairman of the Board, is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Managers monitor investment positions and the level of As the Board comprises only four non-executive Directors, all of dividend distribution to ensure the provisions of section 1158 are whom are considered to be independent, a Nomination not breached.
Baillie Giffords Business Risk & Internal Audit and Committee is considered unnecessary.
The appointment of new Regulatory Risk Departments provide regular reports to the Audit Directors is considered by the Board as a whole.
The Board Committee on Baillie Giffords monitoring programmes.
conducts an annual review of its composition having regard to the Major regulatory change could impose disproportionate present and future needs of the Company.
compliance burdens on the Company or threaten the viability of The Board believes it is appropriate for Mr Ferguson to be the investment company structure.
In such circumstances Chairman of the Audit Committee as he is considered to be representation is made to ensure that the special circumstances independent and there are no conflicts of interest.
of investment trusts are recognised.
Operational Financial Risk failure of the Managers accounting The Board systems or those of other third party service providers could lead The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys affairs.
It to an inability to provide accurate reporting and monitoring or a has a number of matters reserved for its approval including misappropriation of assets.
The Managers have a comprehensive strategy, investment policy, currency hedging, borrowings, business continuity plan which facilitates continued operation of gearing, treasury matters, dividend and corporate governance the business in the event of a service disruption or major disaster.
A separate strategy session is held annually.
The Board The Board reviews the Managers Report on Internal Controls and also reviews the financial statements, investment transactions, the reports by other third party providers are reviewed by the revenue budgets and performance.
Full and timely information is Managers on behalf of the Board.
provided to the Board to enable it to function effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
Discount Volatility the discount at which the Companys shares trade can widen.
The Board monitors the level of discount and The Board currently comprises four Directors all of whom are nonthe Company has authority to buy back its own shares.
The Chairman is responsible for organising the business of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its Gearing Risk the Company may borrow money for investment agenda.
The executive responsibility for investment management purposes.
If the investments fall in value, any borrowings will has been delegated to the Companys Managers and Secretaries, magnify the extent of this loss.
If borrowing facilities are not Baillie Gifford & Co, and, in the context of a Board comprising renewed, the Company may have to sell investments to repay only non-executive Directors, there is no chief executive officer.
The Senior Independent Director is Mr DCP McDougall.
All borrowings require the prior approval of the Board and gearing The Directors believe that the Board has a balance of skills and levels are discussed by the Board and Managers at every experience that enables it to provide effective strategic leadership meeting.
The majority of the Companys investments are in and proper governance of the Company.
Information about the quoted securities that are readily realisable.
Directors, including their relevant experience, can be found on page 17.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 19 Directors Report There is an agreed procedure for Directors to seek independent Meetings professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
There is an annual cycle of Board meetings which is designed to address, in a systematic way, overall strategy, review of Appointments to the Board investment policy, investment performance, marketing, revenue Appointments to the Board are made on merit with due regard for budgets, dividend policy and communication with shareholders.
the benefits of diversity including gender.
The priority in appointing The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to new directors is to identify the candidate with the best range of discharge its duties effectively.
The table below shows the skills and experience to complement existing Directors.
attendance record for the Board and the Audit Committee The Board reviewed its composition during the year.
Having meetings held during the year.
All of the Directors attended the considered the balance of skills on the Board and having regard Annual General Meeting.
to the present and future needs of the Company, it has appointed Directors Attendance at Meetings Mr Karl Sternberg as a Director with effect from 1 July 2013.
Mr Sternberg worked for Morgan Grenfell Asset Management owned Audit by Deutsche Bank from 1992 to 2005 in a variety of roles, Board Committee ultimately as the chief investment officer of Deutsche Asset Number of meetings 6 2 Management Limited.
He left that role to establish Oxford Investment Partners, an investment management company for a JGD Ferguson 6 2 group of Oxford colleges, where he was chief executive officer CC Ferguson 6 2 until earlier this year.
Mr Sternberg is chairman of JPMorgan EM Harley 6 2 Income & Growth Investment Trust PLC and is a director of Island DCP McDougall 6 2 House Investments LLP, Lowland Investment Company PLC and Resolution Limited.
As the Board had identified a candidate who Performance Evaluation met its requirements it was not considered necessary to use an An appraisal of the Chairman, each Director and a performance agency on this occasion.
evaluation and review of the Board as a whole and the Audit The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set out Committee was carried out during the year.
After considering and in formal letters of appointment which are available for inspection responding to an evaluation questionnaire each Director had an on request.
The Chairmans appraisal was led by Mr DCP McDougall, the Senior Independent Director.
The A Director appointed during the year is required to retire and seek appraisals and evaluations considered, amongst other criteria, the election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
In balance of skills of the Board, training and development accordance with the Code all Directors offer themselves for requirements, the contribution of individual Directors and the re-election annually.
overall effectiveness of the Board and the Audit Committee.
Independence of Directors Following this process it was concluded that the performance of All the Directors are considered by the Board to be independent each Director, the Chairman, the Board and the Audit Committee of the Managers and free of any business or other relationship continues to be effective and that each Director and the Chairman which could interfere with the exercise of their independent remain committed to the Company.
The Board is currently of the opinion that the use of external The Directors recognise the importance of succession planning consultants to assist with the evaluation is unlikely to bring any for company boards and the Boards composition is reviewed meaningful benefit to the process, though the option to do so is annually.
The Board is of the view that length of service will not kept under review.
necessarily compromise the independence or contribution of A review of the Chairmans and other Directors commitments Directors of an investment trust company, where continuity and was carried out and the Board is satisfied that they are capable of experience can be a benefit to the Board.
The Board concurs with devoting sufficient time to the Company.
There were no significant the view expressed in the AIC Code that long serving directors changes to the Chairmans other commitments during the year.
should not be prevented from being considered independent.
Induction and Training Mr McDougall was a senior partner of Baillie Gifford & Co until he New Directors are provided with an induction programme which is retired in 1999.
He is a director of Pacific Horizon Investment tailored to the particular circumstances of the appointee.
Regular Trust PLC which is also managed by Baillie Gifford & Co. Mr briefings are provided on changes in regulatory requirements that McDougall and Mr Ferguson are both directors of The could affect the Company and Directors.
Directors receive other Independent Investment Trust PLC.
All Directors have served for relevant training as necessary.
Following a formal performance evaluation the Board has concluded that, not withstanding the above, Mr Remuneration McDougall, Mr Ferguson, Mr Harley and Ms Ferguson continue to As all the Directors are non-executive there is no requirement for a demonstrate independence of character and judgement.
Directors fees are skills and experience add significantly to the strength of the considered by the Board as a whole within the limits approved by Board.
The Companys policy on remuneration is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 26.
20 Annual Report 2013 Directors Report Internal Controls and Risk Management Internal Audit The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Companys The Audit Committee carries out an annual review of the need for risk management and internal control systems and for reviewing an internal audit function.
The Audit Committee continues to their effectiveness.
The systems are designed to manage rather believe that the Managers compliance and internal control than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives systems and internal audit function provide sufficient assurance and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance that a sound system of internal control, which safeguards against material misstatement or loss.
shareholders investment and the Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal audit function, specific to the Company, is The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for therefore considered unnecessary.
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company in accordance with Internal Control: Revised Accountability and Audit Guidance for Directors on the UK Corporate Governance Code The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the Auditors in The Turnbull Guidance.
connection with the Financial Statements are set out on pages 25 The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of and 27 respectively.
the Companys risk management and internal control systems Going Concern and they have procedures in place to review their effectiveness on In accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils guidance on a regular basis.
No significant weaknesses were identified in the going concern and liquidity risk, the Directors have undertaken a year under review.
rigorous review of the Companys ability to continue as a going The practical measures to ensure compliance with regulation and concern.
The Companys principal risks are market related and company law, and to provide effective and efficient operations include market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
An explanation of and investment management, have been delegated to the these risks and how they are managed is contained in note 21 to Managers and Secretaries, Baillie Gifford & Co, under the terms of the financial statements.
The Companys assets, the majority of which are investments in The practical measures in relation to the design, implementation quoted securities which are readily realisable, exceed its liabilities and maintenance of control policies and procedures to safeguard significantly.
All borrowings require the prior approval of the Board.
the assets of the Company and to manage its affairs properly, The Board approves borrowing and gearing limits and reviews including the maintenance of effective operational and compliance regularly the amounts of any borrowings and the level of gearing controls and risk management have also been delegated to Baillie as well as compliance with borrowing covenants.
The Board acknowledges its responsibilities to financial statements have been prepared on the going concern supervise and control the discharge by the Managers and basis as it is the Directors opinion that the Company will continue Secretaries of their obligations.
in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Baillie Gifford & Cos Business Risk & Internal Audit and Audit Committee Regulatory Risk Departments provide the Board with regular An Audit Committee has been established consisting of all reports on Baillie Gifford & Cos monitoring programmes.
Its authority and duties are clearly defined within its reporting procedures for these departments are defined and written terms of reference which are available on request and on formalised within a service level agreement.
Baillie Gifford & Co the Companys page of the Managers website: conduct an annual review of their system of internal controls www.
Mr JGD Ferguson is which is documented within an internal controls report which Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Board believes it is complies with ISAE 3402 and Technical Release AAF 01 06 appropriate for Mr Ferguson to be Chairman of the Committee as Assurance Reports on Internal Controls of Service Organisations he is considered to be independent and there are no conflicts of made available to Third Parties.
This report is independently interest.
reviewed by Baillie Gifford & Cos auditors and a copy is submitted to the Audit Committee.
The Committees responsibilities which were discharged during the year include: The Companys investments are segregated from those of Baillie Gifford & Co and their other clients through the appointment of The monitoring the integrity of the half-yearly and annual financial Bank of New York Mellon SA NV as independent custodian of the statements and any formal announcements relating to the Companys investments.
The custodian prepares a report on its Companys financial performance: internal controls which is independently reviewed by KPMG LLP.
reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of internal control A detailed risk map is prepared which identifies the significant and risk management systems: risks faced by the Company and the key controls employed to making recommendations to the Board in relation to the manage these risks.
appointment, reappointment and removal of the external These procedures ensure that consideration is given regularly to auditors and approving the remuneration and terms of their the nature and extent of the risks facing the Company and that engagement: they are being actively monitored.
Where changes in risk have developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the been identified during the year they also provide a mechanism to external auditors to supply non-audit services: assess whether further action is required to manage the risks reviewing and monitoring the independence, objectivity and identified.
The Board confirms that these procedures have been in effectiveness of the external auditors: place throughout the Companys financial year and continue to be in place up to the date of approval of this Report.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 21 Directors Report reviewing the arrangements in place within Baillie Gifford & Co The Company believes that it is in the shareholders interests to whereby its staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about consider environmental, social and governance ESG factors possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other when selecting and retaining investments and has asked the matters insofar as they may affect the Company: Managers to take these issues into account as long as the investment objectives are not compromised.
The Managers do reviewing the terms of the Investment Management not exclude companies from their investment universe purely on Agreement: and the grounds of ESG factors but adopt a positive engagement considering whether there is a need for the Company to have approach whereby matters are discussed with management with its own internal audit function.
the aim of improving the relevant policies and management systems and enabling the Managers to consider how ESG factors  LLP are engaged as the Companys could impact long term investment returns.
Although the Auditors have been in place for over 25 Statement of Compliance with the UK Stewardship Code can be years, the audit partners responsible for the audit are rotated at found on the Managers website at www.
The least every five years in accordance with professional and Managers policy has been reviewed and endorsed by the Board.
regulatory standards to maintain independence and objectivity.
The Managers are signatories of the United Nations Principles for Ms Lamont completed her five year term as lead audit partner last Responsible Investment.
year and her successor Ms Thomas will continue as lead audit partner until the conclusion of the 2017 audit.
Conflicts of Interest The Auditors have confirmed that they believe they are independent Each Director submits a list of potential conflicts of interest to the within the meaning of professional and regulatory requirements and Board on an annual basis.
The Board considers these carefully, that the objectivity of the audit partner and staff is not impaired.
taking into account the circumstances surrounding them and, if Non-audit fees for the year to 30 April 2013 were 3,000 and considered appropriate, they are approved for a period of one related to the certification of financial information for the debenture year.
Having considered the lists of potential conflicts there were trustee and accounting advice.
The Committee does not believe no actual direct or indirect interests of a Director which conflicted that this has impaired the Auditors independence.
with the interests of the Company.
Having considered the experience and tenure of the audit partner Bribery Act 2010 and staff and the nature of the services provided, the Committee The company has a zero tolerance policy towards bribery and is is satisfied that the Auditors remain independent and effective.
committed to carrying out business fairly, honestly and openly.
The Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that the The managers also adopt a zero tolerance approach and have Auditors be reappointed for 2013 14. policies and procedures in place to prevent bribery.
The Committee has noted the amendments to the UK Corporate Investment Managers Governance Code and, in particular, the recommendation to put the external audit contract out to tender at least every ten years.
The Board as a whole fulfils the function of the Management In accordance with the FRC guidance the Committee will consider Engagement Committee.
its tendering arrangements towards the conclusion of Ms An Investment Management Agreement between the Company Thomas period in office, or earlier if there is cause to do so.
and Baillie Gifford & Co sets out the matters over which the There are no contractual obligations restricting the Committees Managers have authority in accordance with the policies and choice of external Auditors.
directions of, and subject to restrictions imposed by, the Board.
The notice period for terminating the Management Agreement is Relations with Shareholders six months.
Careful consideration has been given by the Board as The Board places great importance on communication with to the basis on which the management fee is charged.
The Companys Managers meet regularly with considers that maintaining relatively low ongoing charges is in the shareholders and report shareholders views to the Board.
The best interest of all shareholders.
The Board is also of the view that Chairman is available to meet with shareholders as appropriate.
calculating the fee with reference to performance would be Shareholders wishing to communicate with any members of the unlikely to exert a positive influence over the long term Board may do so by writing to them at the Secretaries address performance.
Details of the fee arrangements with Baillie Gifford & on the back cover.
Co are shown in note 3 on page 33.
The Companys Annual General Meeting provides a forum for The Board considers the Companys investment management communication with all shareholders.
The level of proxies lodged and secretarial arrangements on an ongoing basis and a formal for each resolution is announced at the AGM and is published on review is conducted annually.
The Board considers, amongst the Companys page of the Managers website others, the following topics in its review: the quality of the www.
co. uk subsequent to the meeting.
personnel assigned to handle the Companys affairs: the Shareholders and potential investors may obtain up-to-date investment process and the results achieved to date: investment information on the Company from the Managers website.
performance: the administrative services provided by the Secretaries: and the marketing efforts undertaken by the Corporate Governance and Stewardship Managers.
Following the most recent review it is the opinion of The Company has given discretionary voting powers to the the Directors that the continuing appointment of Baillie Gifford & Investment Managers, Baillie Gifford & Co.
The Managers vote Co as Managers, on the terms agreed, is in the interests of against resolutions they consider may damage shareholders shareholders as a whole.
22 Annual Report 2013 Directors Report Capital entitlement Directors On a winding up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the Information about the Directors who were in office during the year surplus assets will be paid to ordinary shareholders in proportion and up to the date the financial statements were signed, including to their shareholdings.
their relevant experience, can be found on page 17.
In accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Voting Governance Code, all of the Directors are retiring at the Annual Each ordinary shareholder present in person or by proxy is General Meeting and are offering themselves for re-election.
entitled to one vote on a show of hands and, on a poll, to one Following formal performance evaluation, the Board considers vote for every share held.
that their performance continues to be effective and that they Information on the deadlines for proxy appointments can be remain committed to the Company.
The Board therefore found on page 49. recommends their re-election to shareholders.
Major Interests in the Companys Shares Mr Karl Sternberg, having been appointed to the Board with effect from 1 July 2013, is required to seek election by shareholders at The Company has received notifications of the following interests the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors believe that the Board in 3% or more of the voting rights of the Company as at 30 April will benefit from his extensive investment experience and 2013.
There have been no changes to the major interests in the recommend his election to shareholders.
Further information on Companys shares intimated up to 14 June 2013.
Mr Sternberg is provided on page 20.
Ordinary 5p The Directors at the end of the year under review and their shares held at interests in the Company are as shown in the following table.
Name 30 April 2013 % of issue There have been no changes intimated in the Directors interests Investec Wealth & Investment Limited 14,661,214 6.1 up to 14 June 2013.
U. S. Steel and Carnegie Pension Plan 12,820,000 5.3 Directors Interests Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management Limited 10,505,532 4.4 Ordinary 5p Ordinary 5p Nature shares held at shares held at Name of interest 30 April 2013 30 April 2012 Purchase of Own Shares During the year to 30 April 2013 the Company bought back JGD Ferguson Beneficial 220,000 220,000 15,793,000 ordinary shares nominal value 789,000, CC Ferguson Beneficial 50,000 50,000 representing 6.2% of the called up share capital at 30 April 2012 EM Harley Beneficial 200,000 200,000 on the London Stock Exchange for cancellation.
The total DCP McDougall Beneficial 1,373,160 1,373,160 consideration for these shares was 52,281,000.
Between 1 May 2013 and 14 June 2013 the Company bought back 9,694,000 Directors Indemnity and Insurance ordinary shares for cancellation at a total cost 34,084,000.
The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity in favour of The principal reason for share buy-backs is to enhance net asset each of its Directors.
The deeds cover any liabilities that may arise value per share for continuing shareholders by purchasing shares to a third party, other than the Company, for negligence, default or at a discount to the prevailing net asset value.
The Directors are not indemnified in The shares were purchased at a price after allowing for costs respect of liabilities to the Company, any regulatory or criminal below the net asset value per share and subsequently cancelled, fines, any costs incurred in connection with criminal proceedings thereby reducing the issued share capital see note 14 on page 39. in which the Director is convicted or civil proceedings brought by the Company in which judgement is given against him her.
In The Directors are seeking shareholders approval at the Annual addition, the indemnity does not apply to any liability to the extent General Meeting to renew the authority to purchase up to 14.99% that it is recovered from another person.
of the Companys ordinary shares in issue at the date of passing of the resolution, such authority to expire at the Annual General The Company also maintains Directors and Officers liability Meeting of the Company to be held in respect of the year ending insurance.
Share Capital In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, Capital Structure the maximum price excluding expenses that may be paid on the The Companys capital structure consists of 240,331,859 ordinary exercise of the authority must not exceed the higher of: shares of 5p each at 30 April 2013.
There are no restrictions i 5 per cent above the average closing price on the London concerning the holding or transfer of the Companys ordinary Stock Exchange of an ordinary share over the five business shares and there are no special rights attached to any of the days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and shares.
ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the Dividends highest current independent bid on the London Stock The ordinary shares carry a right to receive dividends.
dividends are determined by the Directors, whereas the proposed final dividend requires shareholder approval.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 23 Directors Report The minimum price exclusive of expenses that may be paid is 5p per share.
Purchases of shares will be made within guidelines established, from time to time, by the Board.
The Company does not have any warrants or options in issue.
Your attention is drawn to Resolution 11 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
This authority, if conferred, will be exercised only if to do so would result in an increase in net asset value per ordinary share for the remaining shareholders and if it is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Creditor Payment Policy It is the Companys payment policy to obtain the best terms for all business.
In general, the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on which business will take place and it is its policy to abide by these terms.
The Company had no trade creditors at either 30 April 2012 or 30 April 2013.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors The Directors confirm that so far as each of the Directors is aware there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and the Directors have taken all the steps that they might reasonably be expected to have taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Independent Auditors Resolutions to reappoint  LLP as independent auditors to the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Recommendation The Directors unanimously recommend you vote in favour of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting as it is their view that the resolutions are in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
By order of the Board JGD Ferguson Chairman 18 June 2013 24 Annual Report 2013
