Directors and Management Directors and Management Directors Directors Service Details JGD Ferguson Date of Due date for Name appointment re-election James Ferguson was appointed a Director in 2002 and became Chairman in 2005.
He is also Chairman of the Audit Committee.
JGD Ferguson 03 01 02 AGM 2013 He is chairman of Value & Income Trust plc, The Scottish Oriental CC Ferguson 01 09 03 AGM 2013 Smaller Companies Trust Plc, The North American Income Trust, EM Harley 03 06 03 AGM 2013 Amati Global Investors Limited and Northern 3 VCT Plc.
He is a DCP McDougall 30 11 99 AGM 2013 director of The Independent Investment Trust PLC and Audax Properties PLC.
He joined Stewart Ivory in 1970, becoming Managers and Secretaries chairman and chief executive in 1989 and retiring in 2000.
He is a former deputy chairman of the Association of Investment Monks is managed by Baillie Gifford & Co, an investment management firm formed in 1927 out of the legal firm Baillie & Companies.
Gifford, WS, which had been involved in investment management CC Ferguson since 1908.
Baillie Gifford are one of the largest investment trust Carol Ferguson was appointed a Director in 2003.
A qualified managers in the UK and currently manage eight investment Chartered Accountant, she began her investment career with trusts.
Ivory & Sime, an Edinburgh fund management group.
Thereafter, Baillie Gifford also manage unit trusts and Open Ended she moved to Wood Mackenzie, stockbrokers, becoming a Investment Companies, together with investment portfolios on partner in 1984.
Her most recent position was as Finance Director behalf of pension funds, charities and other institutional clients, for Timney Fowler, a textiles company.
She is a non-executive both in the UK and overseas.
Funds under the management or director and chairs the audit committees of BlackRock Greater advice of Baillie Gifford total around 92 billion as at 14 June Europe Investment Trust plc and Vernalis plc.
Based in Edinburgh, they are one of the leading privately Invesco Asia Trust plc, Standard Life UK Smaller Companies Trust owned investment management firms in the UK, with 39 partners PLC, the Chartered Accountants Compensation Scheme and is a and a staff of over 700. former chairman of the Association of Investment Companies.
The manager of Monks portfolio is Gerald Smith.
Gerald is a EM Harley partner of Baillie Gifford and is the head of Baillie Giffords Global Edward Harley was appointed a Director in 2003.
He joined Opportunities Team and is a member of their Investment Advisory Cazenove & Co in 1983, becoming a partner in 1994.
He has Group and Chairman of their Emerging Markets Investment Policy considerable experience of overseas markets, having worked in Committee.
The Deputy Manager is Tom Walsh, who has been an New York and latterly with responsibility for the firms business in Investment Manager in Baillie Giffords UK Equity team since 2009.
Latin America, S. E. Asia and Australia.
He is currently a director at Baillie Gifford & Co are authorised and regulated by the Financial Cazenove Capital Management.
He is involved with the charitable Conduct Authority.
sector both as a trustee and as a member of investment committees.
He has recently been appointed chairman of the Acceptance in Lieu Panel.
DCP McDougall Douglas McDougall was appointed a Director in 1999 and is the Senior Independent Director.
He is chairman of The Scottish Investment Trust plc, The Independent Investment Trust PLC and The European Investment Trust plc.
He is a director of Herald Investment Trust plc and Pacific Horizon Investment Trust PLC.
From 1969 to 1999 he was a partner in Baillie Gifford & Co and from 1989 to 1999 was joint senior partner and chief investment officer.
He is a former chairman of the Investment Management Regulatory Organisation, the Fund Managers Association and the Association of Investment Companies.
All Directors are members of the Audit Committee.
The Monks Investment Trust PLC 17
