Corporate Summary enhance returns where and to the extent this is considered Investment Objective appropriate.
Particular care is taken to ensure that any bank The Companys investment objective is to achieve a high and covenants permit maximum flexibility of investment policy.
growing income combined with capital growth through Significant changes to gearing levels will be communicated investment in a portfolio principally of UK equities.
Benchmark The Directors are responsible for determining the investment The Companys benchmark is the FTSE All-Share Index.
policy and the investment objective of the Company, while day-to-day management of the Companys assets has been Investment Policy delegated to Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited the In pursuit of the Companys objective, the Companys Manager or Aberdeen.
The Manager invests in a investment policy is to invest in the shares of companies that diversified range of UK and overseas companies, following a have potential for real earnings and dividend growth, while at bottom-up investment process based on a disciplined the same time providing an above-average portfolio yield.
evaluation of companies through direct visits by its fund The emphasis is on the management of risk and on the managers.
Stock selection is the major source of added value, absolute return from the portfolio, which is achieved by concentrating on quality first, then price.
Top-down ensuring an appropriate diversification of stocks and sectors, investment factors are secondary in the Managers portfolio with a high proportion of its assets in strong, well-known construction, with diversification rather than formal controls companies.
The Company makes use of low-cost, flexible guiding stock and sector weights.
The Manager is authorised borrowing facilities to enhance shareholder returns when to invest up to 15% of the Companys gross assets in any appropriate.
Currently, the top five holdings may not exceed 40% of the total value of the portfolio, and the top three The Company maintains a highly-diversified portfolio of sectors represented in the portfolio may not exceed 50%.
investments, typically comprising between 30 and 70 The Manager is permitted to invest in options and in holdings but without restricting the Company from holding structured products, provided that any structured product a more or less concentrated portfolio from time to time.
"The issued in the form of a note or bond has a minimum credit Company is unconstrained as to the market sectors in which rating of ""A""."
A detailed description of the investment process and risk The Company may invest up to 100% of its gross assets in controls employed by the Manager is set out on page 19.
The UK-listed equities and other securities and is permitted to twenty largest investments and the full list of holdings by invest up to 20% of its gross assets in other overseas listed sector, at the year end, are set out on pages 12 to 17.
At the equities and securities.
The Company invests primarily in the year end the Companys portfolio consisted of 43 holdings.
equity securities of large, well-known UK and overseas companies with an emphasis on investing in quality Capital Structure and Voting Rights companies with good management, strong cash flow and a The Companys issued share capital as at 30 June 2013 sound balance sheet, and which are generating a reliable consisted of 67,092,458 Ordinary shares of 25p 2012 - earnings stream.
As at 11 September 2013, the date of The Company may use derivatives for the purpose of approval of this Report, there were 67,592,458 Ordinary enhancing portfolio returns and for hedging purposes in a shares of 25p in issue and 451,000 Ordinary shares held in manner consistent with the Companys broader investment treasury.
The Company complies with the investment policy test in Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
Total Assets and Net Asset Value At 30 June 2013, the Company had Total Assets see It is the Companys policy to invest no more than 15 per definition on page 56 of 532.9m and a Net Asset Value per cent of its gross assets in other listed investment companies Ordinary share of 734.6p.
Borrowings and Borrowing Covenants The Board is responsible for setting the gearing policy of the Company and for the limits on gearing.
The Manager is The borrowings of 40 million represent 8.1% of Net Assets responsible for gearing within the limits set by the Board.
Borrowing facilities of 70 million are Board has set its gearing limit at a maximum of 25% of Net committed to the Company until 29 September 2013.
Asset Value at the time of draw down.
Gearing is used Financial covenants contained within the loan agreement selectively to leverage the Companys portfolio in order to provide, inter alia, that the ratio of Net Assets to borrowings 2 Murray Income Trust PLC shall at no time fall below 3.5:1 in effect, a limit on Company Secretary borrowings equivalent to 28.6% of Net Assets, and that the Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, Net Assets must exceed 185 million.
The Net Assets were th 7 Floor, 40 Princes Street, 492.9 million at 30 June 2013.
If any of the financial Edinburgh, EH2 2BY covenants are breached, the lender is entitled, following the Email: company.
co. uk serving of notice to the Company, to declare the loans and all accrued interest, fees and other sums owed under the Customer Services agreement to be immediately due and repayable.
Please refer Freephone: 0500 00 00 40 also to the statement of Going Concern on page 26. open Monday Friday 9am 5pm Duration Email: inv.
com The Company does not have a fixed life.
Risk Equity markets are volatile, and short-term movements may therefore be greater than justified by longer-term trends.
The use of gearing is likely to lead to an increase in the volatility of the Companys Net Asset Value.
Currently, 50% of the investment management fees and interest costs are charged to capital.
This increases distributable income at the expense of capital growth, which will be reduced to the same extent.
The policy of investing in higher-yielding shares may also diminish capital growth.
There is no guarantee that the market price of investment trust shares will accurately reflect their underlying Net Asset Value or move in line with it.
More detailed information is available in note 17 to the financial statements.
Share Dealing Shares in the Company can be bought in the open market through a stockbroker.
They can also be purchased through the Aberdeen savings schemes, and fully qualify for inclusion within tax-efficient ISA wrappers see pages 54 and 55.
Management Agreement The Company has an agreement with Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, for the provision of investment management and other services for a fee, as detailed in the Directors Report on page 25 and in note 3 to the financial statements.
AIC The Company is a member of the Association of Investment Companies.
com Murray Income Trust PLC 3
