Managers Review politicians assuaged investor concerns and conditions appear Background to have at least stabilised even if the journey back to The UK equity market performed strongly during the year to competitiveness, both externally and internally, remains the end of June 2013 following the small fall in the prior unfinished.
In the United States, the economy proved year.
The FTSE All-Share Index increased by 17.9% on a total resilient to the fiscal cliff and reduced government return basis with the gains evenly split between the first and spending, as household consumption buoyed by second halves of the year.
For the first eleven months of the strengthening labour and housing markets, took up the slack.
period the market closed at consecutive highs before falling Japan has witnessed a significantly more expansionary sharply during the final month of the year.
The catalyst for monetary policy environment but as yet it is too soon to be the improvements in risk appetite and investor sentiment sure of the impact.
The panacea of emerging markets was a realisation that coherent measures were being taken to growth became more questionable with the Chinese resolve the Eurozone debt crisis.
This was exhibited in actions economy continuing to slow, albeit from high levels, and taken by the European Central Bank to support the Euro, by relatively anaemic growth in India and Brazil compared to measures introduced to improve fiscal sustainability and by historic rates.
greater political harmony within the Eurozone.
This led to lower bond yields particularly for Italy and Spain and Performance reduced credit default swap rates providing confidence to equity investors as the most significant risks with low The Company generated a positive net asset value per share probability but high potential impact were reduced.
total return of 18.8% in the year to 30 June 2013, compared Although economic performance across emerging markets to a total return from the FTSE All-Share Index of 17.9%.
was mixed, the continued recovery in the US economy led The outperformance of 0.9% represented the fourth year in a investors to question when the Federal Reserve might start row of positive relative performance.
On a total return basis, to withdraw monetary stimulus.
This resulted in concerns the Companys share price increased by 21.5%, which over an adjustment in asset prices which in turn led to the reflected the move from a discount to a premium to Net market giving back some of its gains in the final month of Asset Value at which the shares traded compared to the the period.
In the United Kingdom, domestic economic data remained On a gross assets basis, the portfolio very marginally relatively weak, although an improving trend was discernible outperformed the benchmark by 0.1%.
Gearing benefited as the period progressed.
United Kingdom GDP increased by returns by 1.6%.
Borrowings remained steady at 40m 1.4% over the Companys financial year but still remained during the year with the actual level of gearing maintained in 3.3% below its peak achieved during the first quarter of a range between 5%-10% for the majority of the year.
However, downgrades to United Kingdom GDP growth expectations at the start of the period were replaced Within the market the Oil & Gas and Basic Materials sectors by upgrades as the period came to a close with the underperformed.
Mining companies performed particularly International Monetary Fund expecting GDP growth of 0.9% poorly for the second year in a row, the consequence of and 1.5% for calendar 2013 and 2014 respectively.
The relatively geared balance sheets, weakening commodity gently improving environment was manifested in a stronger prices and inflexible cost bases.
Conversely, the Financials housing market, higher consumer confidence and an sector performed very strongly, benefiting from low starting employment picture that strengthened throughout the valuations, improving balance sheets and an upturn in period.
Although above target, inflation remained steady sentiment as the issues surrounding the Eurozone stabilised.
allowing the Monetary Policy Committee to leave interest It is worth noting that in general, much of the positive rates unchanged again throughout the whole period, performance overall was due to a re-rating of valuations on although it did increase the level of asset purchases by 50bn which companies traded rather than positive changes in at the start of the period.
Approximately 70% of the Companys holdings revenues are From a size perspective, the FTSE 100 Index lagged both the derived from overseas where economic growth presented a Mid 250 and Small Cap Indices, a function of its more somewhat different picture from the trends of the last couple defensive constituents.
Although the pace of initial public of years.
Although in absolute terms there remains a offerings from which we tend to stand back given that the significant difference between the growth rates in mature information advantage rests heavily with the seller has and emerging markets, conditions generally stabilised or picked up, a little surprisingly, merger and acquisition activity improved in a number of mature markets while emerging has been relatively sparse.
However, as the confidence of markets which have been the principal engine of global management teams improves we would expect the rate of growth provided mixed signals.
As mentioned above, in the activity to quicken.
Eurozone, actions taken by both central bankers and 6 Murray Income Trust PLC The Company benefited significantly, in asset allocation Performance Attribution for the year to 30 June 2013 terms, from its underweight positions in Mining and to a lesser extent Oil & Gas, although the underweight standing relative to the Financials and Telecoms sectors proved to be 2013 detrimental.
Stock selection was positive in the Oil & Gas, % Basic Materials and Heath Care sectors, although weak in the Net Asset Value total return per Ordinary share 18.8 Consumer Services sector in particular in Media and Food FTSE All-Share Index total return 17.9 Retailers.
Relative return 0.9 From a stock-specific standpoint, many of the holdings Relative return % performed well but a number with share prices that Stock selection equities increased by more than 40% are worthy of specific mention.
Oil & Gas 0.7 GKN was helped by better momentum in the companys Basic Materials 0.5 aerospace end-markets and a perceived improvement in the Industrials quality of the business which led to a re-rating.
The Consumer Goods 0.2 Prudentials share price increase was due to a robust Health Care 1.1 performance from the companys Asian operations.
Roche Consumer Services 2.1 also performed very strongly as the market looked forward Telecommunications optimistically to the prospects for its immunotherapy drugs Utilities as well as a strong performance from its existing oncology Technology 0.1 franchise.
Finally, the two smaller company investment trust Financials 0.2 holdings, Aberforth Smaller Companies and Dunedin Smaller Total stock selection equities 0.3 Companies performed very well as risk appetite returned to Asset allocation equities the market.
Oil & Gas 0.4 Basic Materials 1.8 On the other hand, there were a number of holdings that Industrials detracted from performance.
BG performed poorly due to a Consumer Goods range of operational issues including delays to production in Health Care Brazil and the North Sea and higher decline rates than Consumer Services 0.3 expected in Egypt.
BHP Billiton, although outperforming its Telecommunications 0.5 peer group, was impacted by the fall in commodity prices.
Utilities 0.3 Pearsons performance was disappointing, being primarily a Technology function of cyclical weakness in the North American Financials 0.7 education market.
Finally, GDF Suez also performed poorly, Total asset allocation equities 0.4 its profitability affected by weak demand in Europe and Gearing 1.6 outages at its Belgian nuclear reactors.
Administrative expenses 0.2 Management fees 0.6 Portfolio Activity and Structure Tax charge 0.1 Residual effect 0.1 Our patient, buy and hold investment process resulted in low Total 0.9 turnover during the period, at below 10%.
Our aim is to Sources : Aberdeen Asset Management, Mellon & Lipper ensure that the Companys capital is employed as effectively Notes: Stock Selection measures the effect of equity selection relative to the as possible and to that end we will always seek to improve benchmark.
Asset Allocation measures the impact of over or underweighting the earnings and dividend generating capability of the each industry basket in the equity portfolio, relative to the benchmark weights.
Gearing effect measures the impact on relative returns of net borrowings.
Companys holdings if we feel that valuations remain Management fees & other expenses these reduce total assets and therefore attractive.
Our belief is that companies with strong reduce performance.
The effect is calculated by dividing expenses incurred during the year by average total assets less current liabilities.
Residual effect this arises competitive positions, robust balance sheets and experienced as a result of the different methodologies for calculating performance between management teams will generate attractive earnings and the NAV total return, the benchmark provider Lipper and the performance attribution system.
dividend growth over the long term which should translate into healthy share price appreciation.
During the period we added to GKN and Linde, both through placings to help fund the acquisitions of Volvo Aerospace and Lincare respectively.
Murray Income Trust PLC 7 Managers Review continued We added to our holding in Standard Chartered following the and providing a good discipline for optimising our exposure announcement of the fine levied by the New York to individual holdings.
Department of Financial Services concerning transactions with Iran, on the basis that the share price had overreacted.
In terms of portfolio construction, our aim is to build a Similarly, following a disappointing trading update from BG, sensibly diversified portfolio that is not dependent on any we used this as an opportunity to increase our holding in the one particular economic scenario but provides broad belief that the shares had been oversold.
Other additions exposure to the market as a whole.
Equally, we are keen to included Close Brothers, Schneider Electric and Sage.
Finally, ensure that each investment can make a difference, hence towards the end of the period, we added to BHP Billiton, the relatively low number of individual holdings there were encouraged by the tilt in strategy to focus on optimising the 43 holdings at the period end.
Given the low turnover over current asset portfolio rather than a focus on acquisitive the period, changes to the sector positioning of the Company growth allied to the attractive dividend yield.
However, the weighting in the Oil and Gas sector has reduced slightly due to the underperformance In contrast, we took profits in a number of companies that of the sector and the sales outlined above.
The marginally had performed well and looked increasingly expensive such higher exposure to Basic Materials is a result of the increases as Unilever, Associated British Foods and Compass.
The to BHP Billiton and Linde despite the poor performance of holdings in BP and Shell were reduced, helping to lessen the the Mining sector.
The weighting in the Industrials sector has concentration risk in the sector.
The reduction in British increased due to strong performances from Cobham, Rolls American Tobacco reflected the significant portfolio weight Royce and BBA Aviation coupled with an increase in the and the more challenging regulatory backdrop.
The exposure holding in Schneider Electric.
The position in Consumer to Vodafone was also reduced given the desire to diversify Goods is lower than the prior year mainly due to the the income exposure and the companys relatively muted reduction to the holding in British American Tobacco.
The prospects for further dividend growth.
exposure to Consumer Services has fallen due to the underperformance of Pearson and the food retail holdings.
We invested in three new holdings during the period, two of The weight in the Telecoms sector decreased as we reduced which are listed overseas.
This increased our weighting in the holding in Vodafone.
Finally, the exposure to Financials companies listed overseas to 14.9% at the end of the period.
increased significantly over the year, a function of the outperformance of the sector and the introduction of The first new holding purchased was the Scandinavian bank, Svenska Handelsbanken and Hiscox to the portfolio.
Svenska Handelsbanken, a high quality bank with leading market positions, a strong balance sheet with very low Income funding costs and scope for growth through its differentiated For the financial year ended 30 June 2013, the Company strategy.
The second new company was the insurer Hiscox.
witnessed a small increase in the level of income generated, This company provides a balance between opportunistic with the revenue return per share increasing from 30.6p to business written on internationally traded lines to generate 31.1p, or by 1.6%.
Income from investments increased by profit, and the longer term growth and value potential from 6.3% aided by the recognition of two special dividends from more niche areas with higher barrier to entry.
Finally we Hiscox and Sage as revenue items.
We believe that this introduced a small holding in Casino, an international recognition is appropriate given that the return of cash was supermarket company.
Although the companys French more from a build-up of profits generated by ongoing operations remain challenging, strong growth is evident from operations than by a sale of assets.
As noted above, the Casinos supermarkets in Brazil, Colombia, Vietnam and income derived from writing options decreased compared to Thailand.
The impact of a small rise in administrative expenses, higher taxation and marginally The only company sold during the period was Whitbread more shares in issue partially offset the increase in total where, to our minds, the further expansion of Premier Inn income.
and roll out of Costa Coffee had become reflected in the companys valuation.
The broad outlook for income generation has improved considerably over the past couple of years and the dividend We continued to write options gently to increase and culture of the equity market has perhaps never been diversify the income available to the Company.
The income stronger, but as ever, there remains the potential for negative from writing options accounted for 6.5% of total income earnings shocks and hence dividend disappointments.
Our compared to 8.5% of total income during the prior year.
concentration on companies with strong cash flows and Although we are wary of becoming overly dependent on robust balance sheets should help to mitigate these risks.
option income, we feel that the strategy has been of benefit Furthermore, the portfolio has been constructed to avoid to the Company by increasing the level of income generated being overly reliant on any one sector or company for its 8 Murray Income Trust PLC income generation.
It is worth noting that market dividends, in aggregate, are at present expected to increase by 6.8% per annum and 7.9% per annum in the calendar years 2013 and 2014 respectively.
Although this may be a little optimistic for 2014, we would still expect reasonable dividend progression from the underlying holdings in the Company.
Furthermore, the income from option writing provides a useful fillip and our revenue reserves remain very strong.
Outlook Equity markets in developed countries have performed very strongly over the past year as investors have taken encouragement from a series of actions by policymakers in the Eurozone and a gentle recovery in the United States economy.
Quantitative easing, where it has been employed, has more obviously benefited asset prices to a greater extent than the real economy.
Although the issues in the Eurozone have improved, it is likely that the region will remain in a prolonged period of low growth amidst austerity and high unemployment.
While the United Kingdom economy has started to heal, progress remains fragile and partly dependent on external factors.
Indeed, momentum in the global economy is still weak, the performance of many emerging markets has overall become more muted and high levels of debt in mature economies are likely to act as a cap on growth.
At the end of the period, concerns reflected, at least in the United States, the potential for a normalisation of monetary policy.
However, whilst inflation remains benign, these concerns and their ability to disrupt equity markets should probably not be overstated for now.
We have witnessed only the partial improvement in earnings that would help to justify the strong performance of the UK equity market over the past year.
Nonetheless, although no longer cheap, valuations do not look expensive relative to other regions or asset classes.
As well as starting valuations, returns over the long term will reflect the strengths of a companys underlying operations.
Hence the portfolio retains exposure to a mixture of robust businesses, with strong competitive positions and healthy financial characteristics to help protect against the challenges ahead but also to create a sound foundation for the Company to capitalise on any broader economic recovery.
Charles Luke Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited Investment Manager 11 September 2013 Murray Income Trust PLC 9
