Your Board of Directors The Directors, all of whom are non-executive and independent of the Manager, supervise the management of Murray Income Trust PLC and represent the interests of Shareholders.
Patrick Gifford BA Humphrey van der Klugt BSC Neil Honebon MA Hons, FCA Status: Chairman and Independent Status: Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Director Status: Independent Non-Executive Length of Service: 13 years 11 months Length of Service: 7 years 11 months Director, Chairman of Audit Experience and other public Experience and other public Committee, Chairman of Remuneration company directorships: Patrick company directorships: Neil Honebon Committee and Senior Independent Gifford was previously a director of is a director of AlphaGen Volantis and Director Robert Fleming Holdings Ltd and AlphaGen Octanis.
He was formerly a Length of Service: 9 years 2 months chairman of Fleming Investment Trust director of Fleming Family and Partners Experience and other public Management Ltd.
He is chairman of Asset Management, and has 30 years company directorships: Humphrey Invesco Perpetual Select Trust PLC and experience in investment analysis and van der Klugt was previously a director Martin Currie Pacific Trust PLC.
While previously at Flemings, of Schroder Investment Management Employment by Manager: None he was Head of Global Research and Limited.
In a twenty-two year career at Other connections with the Trust or deputy chair of the asset allocation Schroders, he was a member of the Manager: None committee.
Group Investment and Asset Allocation Shared Directorships with any other Employment by Manager: None Committees: and as a UK equity Trust Directors: None Other connections with the Trust or manager, he was directly responsible Shareholding in Company: 38,073 Manager: None for 3 billion of funds under Ordinary shares Shared Directorships with any other management, including the Schroder Remuneration: Year ended 30 June Trust Directors: None UK Equity and Schroder Income Funds.
2013 30,000 Shareholding in Company: 20,000 He is chairman of Fidelity European Ordinary shares Values PLC, and a non-executive Remuneration: Year ended 30 June director of BlackRock Commodities 2013 20,000 Income Investment Trust plc and JPMorgan Claverhouse Investment Trust PLC.
Employment by Manager: None Other connections with the Trust or Manager: None Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Shareholding in Company: 7,500 Ordinary shares Remuneration: Year ended 30 June 2013 24,000 20 Murray Income Trust PLC David Woods MA, MSC, FIA Jean Park BAcc, CA Donald Cameron BA Hons Status: Independent Non-Executive Status: Independent Non-Executive Status: Independent Non-Executive Director Director Director Length of Service: 4 years 6 months Length of Service: 1 year 2 months Length of Service: 1 year Experience and other public Experience and other public Experience and other public company directorships: David Woods company directorships: Jean Park was company directorships: Donald is a non-executive director and formerly Group Chief Risk Officer at Cameron qualified at the Bar of chairman of the risk committee of Phoenix Group.
Prior to that she was England and Wales in 2002.
Having Phoenix Group Holdings plc, and a nonRisk Management Director of the transferred to the Faculty of Advocates, executive director of Standard Life UK Insurance and Investments Division of he was called to the Scottish Bar in Smaller Companies Trust plc and of The Lloyds TSB and, before that, Head of 2005, and practises as an Advocate in Moller Centre for Continuing Education.
Compliance and Audit at Scottish Scotland.
He is a non-executive director He is also chairman of the Pension Widows.
of Edinburgh Worldwide Investment Fund Trustees for all of the UK Employment by Manager: None Trust plc.
companies in the Steria Group and a Other connections with the Trust or Employment by Manager: None trustee of the Scottish Provident Manager: None Other connections with the Trust or Pension Fund.
He was previously nonShared Directorships with any other Manager: None executive chairman of Royal Liver Trust Directors: None Shared Directorships with any other Assurance.
Shareholding in Company: 5,575 Trust Directors: None Employment by Manager: None Ordinary shares of which 2,575 are Shareholding in Company: 1,190 Other connections with the Trust or non-beneficial Remuneration: Year ended 30 June Manager: None Remuneration: Year ended 30 June 2013 16,444 Shared Directorships with any other 2013 19,946 Trust Directors: None Shareholding in Company: 3,000 Ordinary shares Remuneration: Year ended 30 June 2013 20,000 Murray Income Trust PLC 21
