Directors Report The Directors submit their Annual Report together with the The key performance indicators are established industry Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended 30 measures, and are as follows: June 2013.
Net asset value total return relative to the Companys benchmark Review of the Business Share price total return A review of the Companys activities is given in the Discount to net asset value Corporate Summary on pages 2 and 3, the Chairmans Performance attribution Statement on pages 4 to 5 and in the Managers Review on Earnings and dividends per share pages 6 to 9.
This includes a review of the business of the Ongoing charges ratio.
Company and its principal activities, and likely future developments of the business.
A historical record of these measures except performance attribution is disclosed in the Results on page 10.
The Investment Objective and Policies Companys performance is compared to the benchmark and The Boards objective is to achieve a high and growing selected peer companies and the performance attribution is income combined with capital growth through investment in disclosed on page 7.
A range of comparator groups are used, a concentrated selection of principally UK equities.
The including the AIC UK Growth & Income peer group and the shares that make up the portfolio are selected from UK and Open-Ended UK Equity Income peer group.
overseas companies which have potential for real earnings and dividend growth, while at the same time providing an Management of Risk above-average portfolio yield.
The emphasis is on the The Board regularly reviews the major strategic risks that the management of risk and on the absolute return from the Board and the Manager have identified, and against these the portfolio, which is achieved by ensuring an appropriate Board sets out the delegated controls designed to manage diversification of stocks and sectors, with a high proportion those risks.
The principal risks associated with the Company of its assets in strong, well-known companies.
The twenty are: largest investments and the sectoral analysis of the Resource risk like most other investment trusts, the investment portfolio, at the year end, are set out on pages 12 Company has no employees.
The Company therefore relies to 17.
The Company makes use of low-cost, flexible on services provided by third parties, including, in particular, borrowing facilities to enhance shareholder returns when the Manager, to whom responsibility for the management appropriate and net gearing see definition on page 56 was of the Company has been delegated under an investment 5.6% of net assets at 30 June 2013 2012 4.7%.
management agreement the Agreement further details of which are set out on page 25.
The terms of the Investments are not formally limited as to market Agreement cover the necessary duties and conditions capitalisation or sector weightings within the UK.
It is the expected of the Manager.
The Board reviews the Companys policy to have a focused portfolio.
There were 43 performance of the Manager on a regular basis and their holdings at 30 June 2013. compliance with the Agreement formally on an annual basis.
It is the Companys policy to invest no more than 15 per Diversification risk the objective of the Company is to cent of its gross assets in other listed investment companies achieve a high and growing income combined with capital including listed investment trusts.
The Boards aim is to maximise absolute returns to investment policy is set out in full in the Corporate Summary shareholders while managing risk by ensuring an on page 2. appropriate diversification of stocks and sectors.
As a consequence, the investment portfolio may not always Oversight and Review of Performance match that of the stock market as a whole, with a The Board meets typically five times a year to review consequential impact on shareholder returns.
As well as carrying out the Investment policy and gearing a major risk affecting the matters set out in the Statement of Corporate Governance Company is inappropriate sector and stock selection pages 27 to 32, the Board receives, for each meeting, a leading to under-performance relative to the Companys detailed portfolio report and an analysis of economic benchmark index and peer group.
In addition, the use of indicators, and discusses performance and strategy, borrowing facilities to invest in markets may have a considering perceived risks and economic conditions.
It uses negative impact if markets fall.
To mitigate these risks, the measures such as attribution analysis against the benchmark, Manager operates within investment guidelines and agreed active weights and valuation matrices to assess the levels of borrowing.
Performance against the benchmark Companys success in achieving its objectives.
index and the peer group is regularly monitored.
22 Murray Income Trust PLC Discount volatility - investment trust shares tend to trade shareholders of 21,543,000 during the year ended 30 June at discounts to their underlying net asset values, although 2013, as shown in note 6 on page 44.
The third interim they can also trade at premia.
Discounts and premia can dividend of 7.0p per Ordinary share was paid on 12 July fluctuate considerably.
In order to seek to minimise the 2013. impact of such fluctuations, where the shares are trading at a significant discount, the Company has operated a share The Directors now recommend a final dividend of 9.75p per buy-back programme for a number of years.
If the shares Ordinary share payable on 29 October 2013 to holders of trade at a premium, the Company has the authority to Ordinary shares on the register on 27 September 2013.
The issue new shares or re-issue shares from treasury.
Whilst ex-dividend date is 25 September 2013.
A resolution in these measures seek to minimise volatility, it cannot be respect of the final dividend will be proposed at the guaranteed that they will do so.
Foreign currency risk a proportion of the Companys investment portfolio is invested in overseas securities and Dividends are paid by means of three interim dividends, the value of the Companys investments and the income normally in January, April, July, and a final, after the Annual derived from them can, therefore, be affected by General Meeting in October or November.
Further movements in foreign exchange rates.
In addition, the information on dividends is contained in the Chairmans earnings of the Company's other investments may also be Statement on pages 4 and 5. affected by currency movements which, indirectly, could have an impact on the Company's performance.
Principal Activity and Status Regulatory risk - the Company operates in a complex The Company is an investment company as defined by regulatory environment and faces a number of related risks.
Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and carries on A breach of Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 business as an investment trust.
The Directors do not could result in the Company being subject to capital gains envisage any change in this activity in the foreseeable future.
tax on the sale of its investments.
Serious breach of other regulations, such as the UKLA Listing Rules and the The Company has been approved by HM Revenue & Companies Act, could lead to suspension from the Stock Customs HMRC as an investment trust for the purposes Exchange and reputational damage.
The Board receives of Sections 1158 - 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 monthly compliance reports from the Manager to monitor Sections 1158 -1159 for the year ended 30 June 2012. compliance with regulations.
During the year, the Company was approved by HMRC as an investment trust under Sections 1158 1159 and Part 2 An explanation of other risks relating to the Companys Chapter 1 Statutory Instrument 2011 2999 for all financial investment activities, specifically market price, interest rate, years commencing on or after 1 July 2012, subject to the liquidity and credit risk, and a note of how these risks are Company continuing to meet the relevant eligibility criteria.
managed, are contained in note 17 to the financial statements on pages 48 to 52.
In the opinion of the Directors of the Company, its affairs have been managed in such a manner as to allow the Key risks relating to investment and strategy, for example, Companys Ordinary shares to be qualifying investments for inappropriate asset allocation or gearing, are managed the stocks and shares component of an ISA and to satisfy the through investment policy guidelines and restrictions, and by conditions which enable it to continue to obtain approval as the process of oversight at each Board meeting outlined an investment trust under Sections 1158 1159. above.
Operational disruption, accounting and legal risks are also covered annually, and regulatory compliance is reviewed Share Capital and Voting Rights at each Board meeting.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 23 October 2012, shareholders approved the renewal of the authority Results and Dividends permitting the Company to sell or transfer up to 6,468,944 The total return attributable to equity shareholders for the of its Ordinary shares out of treasury.
30 June 2013, 1,127,000 new Ordinary shares 1.7% of the issued Ordinary share capital at 30 June 2012 were issued A third interim dividend of 5.5p per Ordinary share was paid by the Company: an additional 466,000 shares 0.7% of the on 13 July 2012, and the final dividend for the year ended 30 issued Ordinary share capital at 30 June 2012 were reJune 2012 of 13.25p per Ordinary share was paid on 25 issued from treasury.
The issued Ordinary share capital at 30 October 2012.
The first and second interim dividends for the June 2013 consisted of 67,092,458 Ordinary shares of 25p year ended 30 June 2013 of 7.0p per Ordinary share each and 451,000 Ordinary shares held in treasury.
were paid on 14 January 2013 and 12 April 2013 respectively, making a total distribution to Ordinary Murray Income Trust PLC 23 Directors Report continued Subsequent to the year end and up to the date of approval of sales from treasury would only take place when the Board this Report, 500,000 new Ordinary shares were issued while believes that to do so would assist in the provision of no further Ordinary shares were re-issued from treasury liquidity to the market.
The Directors recommend that resulting in 67,592,458 Ordinary shares in issue, with voting shareholders vote in favour of Resolutions 11 and 12. rights, and an additional 451,000 Ordinary shares held in treasury representing 0.7% of the issued share capital Share Repurchases excluding treasury shares.
Each Ordinary share of the At the Annual General Meeting held on 23 October 2012, Company, excluding those held in treasury, carries one vote shareholders approved the renewal of the authority at general meetings of the Company.
permitting the Company to repurchase its Ordinary shares.
The Directors wish to renew the authority given by Special Business at Annual General Meeting shareholders at the previous Annual General Meeting.
A Issue of New Shares and Sale of Treasury Shares share buy-back facility enhances shareholder value by Ordinary Resolution No.
11 in the Notice of Annual General acquiring shares at a discount to net asset value, as and Meeting will renew the authority to allot the unissued share when the Directors consider this to be appropriate.
The capital up to an aggregate nominal amount of 844,905 purchase of shares, when they are trading at a discount to equivalent to approximately 3.4m Ordinary shares, or 5 per net asset value per share, should result in an increase in the cent of the Companys existing issued share capital on the net asset value per share for the remaining shareholders.
This date of approval of this Report excluding treasury shares.
authority, if conferred, will only be exercised if to do so Such authority will expire on the date of the next Annual would result in an increase in the net asset value per share General Meeting or on 31 December 2014, whichever is for the remaining shareholders and if it is in the best interests earlier.
This means that the authority will have to be of shareholders generally.
Any purchase of shares will be renewed at the next Annual General Meeting.
made within guidelines established from time to time by the Board.
It is proposed to seek shareholder authority to renew When shares are to be allotted for cash, Section 561 of the this facility for another year at the Annual General Meeting.
Companies Act 2006 the Act provides that existing shareholders have pre-emption rights and that the new Under the current Listing Rules, the maximum price that may shares or shares to be issued from treasury must be offered be paid on the exercise of this authority must not exceed the first to such shareholders in proportion to their existing higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market holding of shares.
However, shareholders can, by special quotations for the shares over the five business days resolution, authorise the Directors to allot shares or sell from immediately preceding the date of purchase and ii the treasury otherwise than by a pro rata issue to existing higher of the last independent trade and the highest current shareholders.
12 will, if passed, give independent bid on the trading venue where the purchase is the Directors power to allot for cash or sell from treasury carried out.
The minimum price which may be paid is 25p per equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of share.
Shares which are purchased under this authority will 1,689,811 equivalent to approximately 6.8m Ordinary either be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
Special shares, or 10 per cent of the Companys existing issued share Resolution No.
13 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting capital on the date of approval of this Report, as if Section will renew the authority to purchase in the market a 561 of the Act does not apply.
This authority will also expire maximum of 14.99% of shares in issue at the date of signing on the date of the next Annual General Meeting or on 31 this Report amounting to 10,132,109 Ordinary shares.
Such December 2014, whichever is earlier.
This authority will not authority will expire on the date of the next Annual General be used in connection with a rights issue by the Company.
Meeting, or on 31 December 2014, whichever is earlier.
This means in effect that the authority will have to be renewed at The Directors intend to use the authority given by the next Annual General Meeting, or earlier, if the authority Resolutions 11 and 12 to allot shares or sell shares from has been exhausted.
The Directors recommend that treasury and disapply pre-emption rights only in shareholders vote in favour of Resolution No.
No circumstances where this will be clearly beneficial to dividends may be paid on any shares held in treasury and no shareholders as a whole.
The issue proceeds would be voting rights will attach to such shares.
The benefit of the available for investment in line with the Companys ability to hold treasury shares is that such shares may be investment policy.
No issue of shares will be made which resold.
This should give the Company greater flexibility in would effectively alter the control of the Company without managing its share capital, and improve liquidity in its shares.
the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
It is the intention of the Board that any issue of shares or any reDirectors sale of treasury shares would only take place at a price not less than 0.5% above the net asset value per share prevailing The Directors, who held office during the year under review, at the date of sale.
It is also the intention of the Board that are shown on pages 20 and 21 of the Annual Report with 24 Murray Income Trust PLC the exception of Ms Glen who retired on 23 October 2012, cover has been maintained throughout the year at the and their share interests are shown below.
The Articles of Association provide that Directors retire and Manager and Company Secretary are subject to election at the first Annual General Meeting Investment management services are provided to the following their appointment and thereafter must offer Company by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
Company themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
In secretarial, accounting and administrative services are order to meet the requirements of section B.
7.1 of the UK provided by Aberdeen Asset Management PLC.
Corporate Governance Code, all of the Directors of the Company will stand for re-election, except where they intend For the year ended 30 June 2013, the management and to retire from the Board at an Annual General Meeting.
Mr secretarial fees payable to the Manager were calculated and van der Klugt will retire from the Board with effect from the charged on the following basis: conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting.
Resolutions 4 to 8 inclusive, which relate to the re-election of each of the A monthly fee at the rate of one-twelfth of 0.55% on the Directors, except for Mr van der Klugt, will therefore be first 400 million of net assets, 0.45% on the next 150 proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
million of net assets and 0.25% on the excess over 550 million.
The value of any investments in unit trusts, open No contract or arrangement significant to the Companys ended and closed ended investment companies and business and in which any of the Directors is interested has investment trusts of which the Manager or another company subsisted during the year.
The Directors Remuneration within the Aberdeen Asset Management Group is the Report may be found on pages 34 and 35. operator, manager or investment adviser: is deducted from net assets.
The investment management fee is chargeable Directors Interests 50% to revenue and 50% to capital.
A secretarial fee of The interests of the Directors in office in the Ordinary share 75,000 per annum is also payable, which is chargeable capital of the Company, at 30 June 2013, were as shown 100% to revenue.
The management and administration contracts may be At 30 June 2013 At 1 July 2012 terminated by either the Company or the Manager on the Ordinary shares Ordinary shares expiry of three months written notice.
On termination, the P A F Gifford 37,473 34,410 Manager would be entitled to receive fees which would D Cameron 1,190 n a otherwise have been due to that date.
M Glen n a 3,056 The management and secretarial fees paid during the year N A Honebon 20,000 20,000 ended 30 June 2013 are shown in notes 3 and 4 on page 43.
H van der Klugt 7,500 7,500 J Park 5,575 n a In monitoring the performance of the Manager, the Board D E Woods 3,000 3,000 considers the investment record of the Company over the Ms Park was appointed on 2 July 2012 and Mr Cameron on short term and longer term, taking into account both its 5 September 2012.
Ms Glen retired on 23 October 2012. performance against the benchmark index and peer group investment trusts.
The Board also reviews the management Ms Park had a non-beneficial interest in 2,575 Ordinary processes, risk control mechanisms and marketing activities shares which she held at the date of her appointment as a of the Manager.
As a result of these reviews, the Board Director on 2 July 2012.
Mr Giffords interest in the considers the continuing appointment of the Manager to be Companys shares increased to 38,073 following the in the interests of shareholders because the Aberdeen Asset acquisition of 345 Ordinary shares on 15 July 2013, 127 Management Group has the investment management, Ordinary shares on 23 July 2013 and 128 Ordinary shares on marketing and associated secretarial and administrative skills 21 August 2013.
As at the date of approval of this Report, required for the effective operation of the Company.
The there had been no other changes to the above holdings.
Board continues to keep this matter under review.
Directors' Insurance and Indemnities Audit Committee The Directors have the benefit of the indemnity provision Details of the Audit Committee are contained in the contained in the Companys Articles.
The Directors of the Statement of Corporate Governance under the heading Company have, during the year ended 30 June 2013, been Audit Committee on pages 29 and 30. granted a qualifying third party indemnity provision, which remains in force.
Directors' and Officers' liability insurance Murray Income Trust PLC 25 Directors Report continued The Company did not have any trade creditors at the year Corporate Governance end 2012 - nil.
The Statement of Corporate Governance is contained on pages 27 to 32 and forms part of the Directors Report.
Auditor The auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, has expressed their Political and Charitable Donations willingness to continue in office.
Resolution 9, to re-appoint The Company has not made any political or charitable Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditor, will be put to donations in the year 2012 - nil.
the forthcoming Annual General Meeting along with Resolution 10, to authorise the Directors to fix their Environmental Matters and Social Community remuneration.
Non-audit fees of 2,000 were paid to the Issues auditor during the year ended 30 June 2013 in relation to the As an externally managed investment company with no preparation of corporation tax returns in the format employees, the company has no policies in place in relation prescribed by HMRC.
The Directors who held office at the to environmental social or community issues.
However, the date of approval of this Directors' Report confirm that, so far Company does operate a Socially Responsible Investment as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit Policy as set out on page 32. information of which the Company's auditor is unaware, and each Director has taken all the reasonable steps that he or Going Concern she ought to have taken as a Director to make him or herself aware of any relevant audit information, and to establish In accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils that the Company's auditor is aware of that information.
guidance on Going Concern and Liquidity Risk issued in October 2009 the Directors have undertaken a rigorous Additional Information review of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Companys assets consist of a diverse portfolio Where not provided elsewhere in the Directors Report, the of listed equity shares which in most circumstances are following provides the additional information required to be realisable within a very short timescale.
disclosed by Part 15 of the Companies Act 2006: There are no restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary shares in the Borrowing facilities of 70 million are committed to the Company other than certain restrictions which may from Company until 29 September 2013.
The Company is in time to time be imposed by law for example, insider trading negotiation with its bankers in advance of renewal but at this law.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between stage has not received confirmation that the facility will be shareholders that may result in a restriction on the transfer renewed.
If acceptable terms are available from the existing of securities and or voting rights.
The rules governing the bankers, or any alternative, the Company would expect to appointment of Directors are set out in the Statement of continue to access the facility.
However, should these terms Corporate Governance on pages 27 to 32.
The Companys not be forthcoming, any outstanding borrowing would be Articles of Association may only be amended by a special repaid through the proceeds of equity sales.
resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
The Directors are mindful of the principal risks and The Company is not aware of any significant agreements to uncertainties disclosed on pages 3, 22 and 23 and have which it is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a reviewed forecasts detailing revenue and liabilities and they change of control of the Company following a takeover.
believe that the Company has adequate financial resources Other than the management and administration contracts to continue its operational existence for the foreseeable with the Manager, further details of which are set out on future and at least 12 months from the date of this Annual pages 25 and 26, the Company is not aware of any Report.
Accordingly, the Directors believe that it is contractual or other agreements essential to its business appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in which ought to be disclosed in the Directors Report.
Company Registration Number Annual General Meeting Registered in Scotland Company Number SC012725 The Annual General Meeting will be held on 25 October 2013.
The Notice of Meeting may be found on pages 57 By order of the Board to 60.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Secretary th 7 Floor, 40 Princes Street Creditor Payment Policy Edinburgh EH2 2BY The Companys payment policy is to agree terms of payment 11 September 2013 before business is transacted, to ensure suppliers are aware of these terms and to settle bills in accordance with them.
