The Investment Process Philosophy and Style Risk Controls The Managers investment philosophy is that markets are not We seek to minimise risk by our in-depth research.
We believe that superior investment returns not view divergence from a benchmark as risk we view are therefore attainable by identifying good companies that investment in poorly-run, expensive companies that we do are cheap, defined in terms of the fundamentals that, in our not understand as risk.
In fact, where risk parameters are opinion, drive share prices over the long term.
We undertake expressed in benchmark-relative terms, asset including substantial due diligence before initiating any investment, sector allocation constitutes a significant constraint on including company visits, in order to assure ourselves of the stock selection.
Hence, diversification of stocks provides our quality of the prospective investment.
We are careful not to main control.
pay too high a price when making the investment.
Subsequent to that investment, we keep in close touch with Aberdeens performance and investment risk unit the company, aiming to meet management at least twice a independently monitors portfolio positions, and reports year.
Given our long-term fundamental investment monthly.
As well as attributing performance, it also produces philosophy, one would not expect much change in the statistical analysis, which is used by the Manager primarily to companies in which we invest.
We do, however, take check the portfolio is behaving as expected, not as a opportunities offered to us by what we see as anomalous predictive tool.
price movements within stock markets to either top up or top slice positions, which accounts for the bulk of the activity Options are used in a manner consistent with the Trust's within the portfolio during the year under review.
investment objective, in order to control risk and enhance returns.
They are used as an alternative way to increase or reduce positions, and provide an additional stream of distributable cashflow.
We employ a basic strategy of writing covered calls and covered puts.
These are written when our company research and due diligence suggest that the options are attractive.
Regional Teams Company visit note Risk controls Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Quality Aberdeen Price Portfolio universe construction Pass or fail?
Potential revisit Watchlist Review Monitor Murray Income Trust PLC 19
