Strategic Report Overview of Strategy circumstances to exceed 30% of Net Assets with cash Aim deposits netted against the level of borrowings.
At the year The primary aim of the Company is to achieve a total return end there was net gearing of 15.1% calculated in greater than its benchmark by investing predominantly in accordance with AIC guidance and particular care is taken to equities worldwide.
Within this objective the Manager will ensure that any bank covenants permit maximum flexibility seek to increase the Companys revenues in order to of investment policy.
maintain an above average dividend yield.
Changes to Investment Policy The business of the Company is that of an investment trust Any material change to the investment policy will require the and the Directors do not envisage any change in this activity approval of the shareholders by way of an ordinary resolution in the foreseeable future.
The Companys overall objective at a general meeting.
The Company will promptly issue an and key results are shown on page 1.
A review of the announcement to inform the shareholders and the public of Companys activities is given in the Chairmans Statement on any change of its investment policy.
pages 6 to 8 and the Managers Review on pages 9 to 12.
"The review includes an analysis of the business of the Company Delivering the Investment Policy and its principal activities, likely future developments of the Day to day management of the Companys assets has been business, the recommended dividend and details of any delegated to Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited ""AAM"" or acquisition of its own shares by the Company."
The Manager invests in a diversified range of international companies in accordance with the investment Business Model - Investment Policy objective.
Asset Allocation The Companys assets are invested in a diversified portfolio The investment manager, Bruce Stout, has responsibility for of international equities and fixed income securities spread portfolio construction across all regional segments.
The across a range of industries and economies.
The Company's Manager utilises a Global Equity Buy List which is investment policy is flexible and it may, from time to time, constructed by each of the specialist country management hold other securities including but not limited to indexteams.
This list contains all buy and hold recommendations linked securities, convertible securities, preference shares, for each management team, which are then used as the unlisted securities, depositary receipts and other equityinvestment universe.
Stock selection is the major source of related securities.
The Company may invest in derivatives for added value.
the purposes of efficient portfolio management.
The Companys investment policy does not impose any Top-down investment factors are secondary in the Managers geographical, sectoral or industrial constraints upon the portfolio construction, with stock diversification rather than Manager.
formal controls guiding stock and sector weights.
Market capitalisation is not a primary concern.
It is the investment policy of the Company to invest no more than 15% of its gross assets in other listed investment A detailed description of the investment process and risk companies including listed investment trusts at the time of controls employed by the Manager is disclosed on page 64 purchase.
The Company currently does not have any and 65.
A comprehensive analysis of the Companys portfolio investments in other investment companies.
is disclosed on pages 15 to 21 including a description of the twenty largest investments, the portfolio of investments by Risk Diversification value, attribution analysis, distribution of investments and The Manager actively monitors the Companys portfolio and distribution of equity investments.
attempts to mitigate risk primarily through diversification.
The Company is permitted to invest up to 15% of its At the year end the Companys portfolio consisted of 50 investments by value in any single stock at the time of equity and 10 bond holdings.
The Manager is authorised by purchase.
the Board to hold between 50 and 150 stocks in the portfolio.
Gearing The Board considers that returns to shareholders can be Principal Risks and Uncertainties enhanced by the judicious use of borrowing.
The Board is The Board has adopted a matrix of the key risks that affect responsible for the level of gearing in the Company and the business.
The major financial risks associated with the reviews the position on a regular basis.
Any borrowing, Company are detailed in note 19 to the Financial Statements except for short-term liquidity purposes, is used for and the other principal risks are summarised below.
Further investment purposes or to fund the purchase of the detail on the Principal Risks and Uncertainties is provided in Company's own shares.
Total gearing is not in normal the Companys Prospectus dated 21 December 2010 which is Murray International Trust PLC 3 Strategic Report - Overview of Strategy continued available on the website at www.
murrayDiscount and Premium Control Policy intl.
The Company operates a discount and premium control policy.
The operation of the discount control element of this Details of the management of the risks and the Companys policy could lead to a significant reduction in the size of the internal controls are disclosed on pages 29 to 30.
Company over time, which would increase the Company's total expense ratio and prejudice the ability of the Company The Shares to pay satisfactory levels of dividend to shareholders.
While The market value of, and the income derived from, the shares the Company intends to issue new shares and to resell shares can fluctuate and, notwithstanding the Board's discount and held in treasury at a small premium to the Net Asset Value premium control policy, may not always reflect the Net per share where demand exceeds supply, this will be Asset Value per share.
There can be no guarantee that any dependent upon the Company being able to issue new shares appreciation in the value of the Company's investments will and to resell shares held in treasury at a premium, on market occur and investors may not get back the full value of their conditions generally at the relevant time, upon shareholders investment.
No assurance can be given that any sale of the in general meeting conferring appropriate authorities on the Company's investments would realise proceeds which would Board to issue further shares and, where required under the be sufficient to repay any borrowings or provide funds for Prospectus Rules, upon a prospectus having been approved any capital repayment to shareholders.
Shareholders will bear by the Financial Conduct Authority and published.
The ability the rewards and risks of the success or otherwise of the of the Company to operate the discount control policy will Company's investments.
depend on the Company being able to purchase its own shares, which will be dependent upon shareholders in general The market value of the shares, as well as being affected by meeting conferring authority on the Board to purchase its their Net Asset Value, also takes into account their dividend own shares.
The Directors will seek renewal of this authority yield and prevailing interest rates, supply and demand for the from shareholders annually and at other times should this shares, market conditions and general investor sentiment.
However, there can be no guarantee that requisite shareholder approvals will be obtained.
Borrowings The Company uses borrowings for investment purposes.
In accordance with the Listing Rules, the extent of each buyWhilst the use of borrowings should enhance the total return back authority which will be sought by the Company from on the shares where the return on the Company's underlying shareholders in general meeting will be limited to 14.99% of assets is rising and exceeds the cost of borrowing, it will have the Company's issued share capital as at the date on which the opposite effect where the underlying return is falling, such authority is granted.
In order to continue purchasing its further reducing the total return on the shares.
As a result, own shares once any such authority has been exhausted, the the use of borrowings by the Company may increase the Company would be required to seek a renewal of such volatility of the Net Asset Value and market price per share.
authority from shareholders in general meeting.
There is no guarantee that any borrowings of the Company The ability of the Company to purchase its own shares will would be refinanced on their maturity either at all or on be subject to the Companies Act 2006 and all other terms that are acceptable to the Company.
applicable legislation, rules and regulations of any government, regulatory body or market applicable to the Foreign Currency Risks Directors or the Company and, in particular, will be The Company's investments are principally in overseas dependent on the availability of distributable reserves.
The Company accounts for its activities and reports its results in sterling.
The Company currently hedges Regulatory Risks most of the foreign currency exposure in respect of the Cessation of Investment Trust Status: The Company liabilities attached to its borrowings.
Where the Company attempts to conduct its business so as to satisfy the does not hedge its currency exposure, which is currently the conditions for approval as an investment trust under Part 24 case with the investment portfolio, the movement of Chapter 4 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
In respect of exchange rates may have a favourable or unfavourable effect each accounting period for which approval is granted, the on the gains and losses experienced on investments and the Company will be exempt from United Kingdom taxation on income derived from investments which are made or realised its capital gains.
Any breach of the tests that a company in currencies other than pounds sterling.
must meet to obtain approval as an investment trust company could lead to the Company being subject to tax on capital gains.
4 Murray International Trust PLC Tax and Accounting: Any change in the Company's tax status Key Performance Indicators KPIs or in taxation legislation or accounting practice could affect At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of the value of the investments held by the Company, affect performance measures to assess the Companys success in the Company's ability to provide returns to shareholders or achieving its objectives.
Below are the main KPIs which have alter the post-tax returns to shareholders.
Representations in been identified by the Board for determining the progress of this document concerning the taxation of investors are based the Company: upon current tax law and practice which are subject to change.
Any change in accounting standards may adversely Net Asset Value affect the value of the Company's assets in its books of Share Price account or restrict the ability of the Company to pay Discount Premium dividends.
Benchmark Dividend The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive: The Level of Gearing Directive will be fully implemented in the UK by July 2014 although the Treasury is intending to amend the supporting A record of these measures is disclosed on page 13.
Regulations to provide that, if a transitional AIFMs application for authorisation or registration is submitted Board Diversity without sufficient time for the FCA to determine the The Board recognises the importance of having a range of application by 22 July 2014 the end of the transitional year, skilled, experienced individuals with the right knowledge in that AIFM will be able to continue managing Alternative order to allow the Board to fulfil its obligations.
At 31 Investment Funds until the FCA has determined the December 2013, there were four male Directors and two application.
The Directive has significant consequences for female Directors.
The Company has no employees.
The the Company and all similar investment companies which Boards statement on diversity is set out on page 31. will increase compliance and regulatory costs.
The Directive may be subject to further implementation guidance, and the Environmental, Social and Human Rights Issues Board will continue to monitor the progress and likely implications of the Directive.
The Company has no employees as it is managed by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
There are therefore no Referendum on Scottish Independence disclosures to be made in respect of employees.
The The Company is registered in Scotland and the Board is Companys socially responsible investment policy is outlined mindful that there is uncertainty arising in relation to the on page 35. referendum on Scottish independence due on 18 September 2014.
The Board considers that a Yes vote, in favour of Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions independence, may prolong this uncertainty until The Company has no greenhouse gas emissions to report implications for the Company, positive or negative, of an from the operations of its business, nor does it have independent Scotland are understood and quantified in responsibility for any other emission producing sources under relation to the legislative and regulatory environment in the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors which the Company operates.
Other Risks Duration Other risks, in addition to the principal ones outlined above The Company does not have a fixed life.
include those associated with: Kevin Carter Dividend Payments by the Company Chairman Investment Objective and Strategy 10 March 2014 Debt Instruments Market Price Risk Charges to Capital Reliance upon the Manager and Other Third Party Service Providers Fluctuations in Operating Results Murray International Trust PLC 5
