Directors Report Introduction Results and Dividends The current Directors, K J Carter, J D Best, P W Dunscombe, A The total gain attributable to equity shareholders for the C Shedden, Lady Balfour of Burleigh and M Campbell held year amounted to 52.2 million.
office throughout the year under review and were the only Directors who served during the year.
A final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2012 of 13.5p per Ordinary share was paid on 16 May 2013.
Interim The Directors present their report and the audited financial dividends of 9.5p each were paid on 16 August 2013, 15 statements for the year ended 31 December 2013.
November 2013 and 18 February 2014 making a total distribution to Ordinary shareholders of 52.2 million.
The The Company and its Objective Directors are recommending a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2013 of 14.5p per Ordinary share The Company is an investment trust and its Ordinary shares payable on 16 May 2014 to holders of Ordinary shares on are listed on the premium segment of the London Stock the register at close of business on 4 April 2014.
The primary aim of the Company is to achieve a total return greater than its benchmark by investing Whenever a cash dividend is paid on the Ordinary shares, a predominantly in equities worldwide.
Within this objective bonus issue of B Ordinary shares is made to the holders of B the Manager will seek to increase the Companys revenues in Ordinary shares.
In connection with the final dividend the order to maintain an above average dividend yield.
Directors will make a corresponding capitalisation issue of B Ordinary shares credited as fully paid.
This capitalisation A review of the Companys activities is given in the Strategic issue will be equivalent in asset value to the final dividend Report on pages 1 to 14.
This includes the overall strategy of now recommended on the Ordinary shares but excluding any the business of the Company and its principal activities, main tax credit thereon.
Subject to the approval of shareholders of risks faced by the Company, likely future developments of the final dividend, definitive certificates in respect of the the business, the recommended dividend and any details of capitalisation issue will be posted on 16 May 2014. acquisition of its own shares by the Company.
Fractional entitlements will be sold for the benefit of B Ordinary shareholders.
The new B Ordinary shares will rank Status equally with the existing B Ordinary shares.
The Company has been approved by HM Revenue & Customs HMRC as an investment trust for the purposes Resolution No.
11 to approve the final dividend will be of Sections 1158 - 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Sections 1158 -1159 for the year ended 31 December 2012.
During the year, the Company was approved by HMRC The Net Asset Value per Ordinary and B Ordinary share at 31 under Sections 1158-1159 and Part 2 Chapter 1 Statutory December 2013 was 981.0p 2012 975.8p.
Instrument 2011 2999 for all financial years commencing on or after 1 January 2012, subject to the Company continuing Management and Secretarial Arrangements to meet the relevant eligibility criteria.
Investment management services are provided to the Company by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
Company The Directors are of the opinion that the Company has secretarial, accounting and administrative services are conducted its affairs for the year ended 31 December 2013 provided by Aberdeen Asset Management PLC.
so as to be able to continue to obtain approval as an investment trust under Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax For the year ended 31 December 2013, the management and Act 2010 for that year.
secretarial fees payable to the Manager were calculated and charged on the following basis: The affairs of the Company were conducted in such a way as to satisfy the requirements as a qualifying security for an investment management fee payable to the Manager, Individual Savings Accounts.
The Directors intend that the Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited, of 0.5% per annum of Company will continue to conduct its affairs in this manner the value of total assets, less unlisted investments and all in the future.
current liabilities excluding monies borrowed to finance the investment objectives of the Company, averaged over the The Company is registered as a public limited company.
A fee of 1.5% per annum is charged Companys registration number is SC014692.
The Company on the value of unlisted investments.
The investment has no employees and the Company makes no political management fee is chargeable 30% against revenue and donations.
24 Murray International Trust PLC Included in the charge of 0.5% above is a secretarial fee of liability incurred in defending proceedings or in connection 100,000 per annum which is chargeable 100% to revenue.
with any application to the Court in which relief is granted.
In addition, the Manager is entitled to a performance fee on Corporate Governance the following basis: The Statement of Corporate Governance forms part of this Directors Report and covers the Companys compliance with a fee of 5% of the first 2% of any outperformance of the The UK Corporate Governance Code and is shown on pages Companys net asset total return over that of its 28 to 35. benchmark: a fee of 10% of any additional outperformance against the Going Concern benchmark.
In accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils guidance on Going Concern and Liquidity Risk issued in The total amount of the fee earned by the Manager in any October 2009 the Directors have undertaken a rigorous one year comprising the basic management fee and the review of the Companys ability to continue as a going performance fee is capped at 0.8% of the average value of concern.
The Companys assets consist of a diverse portfolio the Companys total assets less current liabilities.
Any of listed equity shares and bonds which in most performance fee is paid in equal instalments over a four year circumstances are realisable within a very short timescale.
period with any future underperformance offset against the fee payable.
The Directors are mindful of the principal risks and uncertainties disclosed on pages 3 to 5 and have reviewed No fees are charged in the case of investments managed or forecasts detailing revenue and liabilities and the Directors advised by Aberdeen Asset Management Group.
The believe that the Company has adequate financial resources management agreement may be terminated by either party to continue its operational existence for the foreseeable on the expiry of one years written notice.
On termination future and at least 12 months from the date of this Annual the Manager would be entitled to receive fees which would Report.
Accordingly, the Directors continue to adopt the otherwise have been due up to that date.
going concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
The Board considers the continued appointment of the Accountability and Audit Manager on the terms agreed to be in the interests of the shareholders as a whole because the Aberdeen Asset Each Director confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, Management Group has the investment management, there is no relevant audit information of which the secretarial, marketing and administrative skills required for Companys auditor is unaware, and he or she has taken all the effective operation of the Company.
the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information The Board has agreed in principle to appoint Aberdeen Fund and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that Managers Limited AFML as the Companys Alternative information.
AFML is the appropriately authorised entity within the Aberdeen Group in Independent Auditor accordance with the AIFM Directive which came into force in During the year the Audit Committee conducted a tender for July 2013.
In general terms, the new management audit services.
The Companys policy is to conduct a regular arrangements will be very similar to the existing review of its audit arrangements and the last tender had arrangements with Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited albeit taken place in 2004.
Following a detailed and rigorous they have been updated to reflect current market practice process involving large and medium-sized audit firms which and the regulatory requirements arising as a result of the culminated in presentations from the shortlisted firms, the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 as amended and Board, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee has the AIFM Directive.
It is expected that under the new resolved to recommend to shareholders the reappointment management agreement the Company will appoint AFML as of Ernst & Young LLP at the forthcoming Annual General its AIFM to carry out, in particular, the functions of risk Meeting.
The auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, has expressed its willingness Directors & Officers Insurance to continue in office.
9 to re-appoint Ernst & The Company purchases and maintains liability insurance Young LLP as the Companys auditor will be put to the covering the Directors and officers of the Company.
The forthcoming Annual General Meeting, along with Resolution Companys Articles of Association provide an indemnity to No.
10 to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
the Directors out of the assets of the Company against any Murray International Trust PLC 25 Directors Report continued Details of fees relating to non-audit services are disclosed on premium to net asset value.
When shares are held in pages 31 and 32. treasury, all voting rights are suspended and no distribution either by way of dividend or by way of a winding up is permitted in respect of treasury shares.
If the Directors Annual General Meeting believe that there is no likelihood of re-selling shares bought The Notice of Annual General Meeting is contained on pages back, such shares would be cancelled.
14 in the Notice of Annual General Discount Management Policy and Special Business Meeting will renew the authority to purchase in the market a at Annual General Meeting maximum of 14.99% of shares in issue at the date of the Share Buybacks Annual General Meeting amounting to 18,772,907 Ordinary At the Annual General Meeting held on 11 April 2013, shares and 141,578 B Ordinary shares as at 10 March 2014. shareholders approved the renewal of the authority Such authority will expire on the date of the 2015 Annual permitting the Company to repurchase its Ordinary shares.
General Meeting or on 30 June 2015, whichever is earlier.
This means in effect that the authority will have to be The Directors wish to renew the authority given by renewed at the next Annual General Meeting or earlier if the shareholders at the previous Annual General Meeting.
The authority has been exhausted.
principal aim of a share buyback facility is to enhance shareholder value by acquiring shares at a discount to Net During the year ended 31 December 2013 and up to the date Asset Value, as and when the Directors consider this to be of this Report no share repurchases have taken place and no appropriate.
The purchase of shares, when they are trading at shares are currently held in treasury.
a discount to Net Asset Value per share, should result in an increase in the Net Asset Value per share for the remaining Issue of Shares shareholders.
This authority, if conferred, will only be In terms of the Companies Act 2006 the Act the exercised if to do so would result in an increase in the Net Directors may not allot unissued shares unless so authorised Asset Value per share for the remaining shareholders and if it by the shareholders.
12 in the Notice of is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Any Annual General Meeting which will be proposed as an purchase of shares will be made within guidelines established Ordinary Resolution will, if passed, give the Directors the from time to time by the Board.
It is proposed to seek necessary authority to allot the unissued share capital up to shareholder authority to renew this facility for another year an aggregate nominal amount of 3,154,517 equivalent to at the Annual General Meeting.
12,523,620 Ordinary shares and 94,448 B Ordinary shares or 10% of the Companys existing issued share capital at 10 Under the Listing Rules, the maximum price that may be paid March 2014, the latest practicable date prior to the on the exercise of this authority must not be more than the publication of this Annual Report.
Such authority will expire higher of i an amount equal to 105% of the average of the on the date of the next Annual General Meeting or on 30 middle market quotations for a share taken from the London June 2015, whichever is earlier.
This means that the authority Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the 5 business days will have to be renewed at the next Annual General Meeting.
immediately preceding the day on which the share is purchased: and ii the higher of the last independent trade When shares are to be allotted for cash, Section 561 of the and the current highest independent bid on the trading Companies Act 2006 provides that existing shareholders venue where the purchase is carried out.
The minimum price have pre-emption rights and that the new shares must be which may be paid is 25p per share.
offered first to such shareholders in proportion to their existing holding of shares.
However, shareholders can, by It is currently proposed that any purchase of shares by the special resolution, authorise the Directors to allot shares Company will be made from the capital reserve of the otherwise than by a pro rata issue to existing shareholders.
The purchase price will normally be paid out of Special Resolution No.
13 will, if passed, also give the the cash balances held by the Company from time to time.
Directors power to allot for cash equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,154,517 equivalent to Special Resolution No.
14 will permit the Company to buy 12,523,620 Ordinary shares and 94,448 B Ordinary shares or back shares and any shares bought back by the Company 10% of the Companys existing issued share capital at 10 may be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
The benefit of March 2014, the latest practicable date prior to the the ability to hold treasury shares is that such shares may be publication of this Annual Report, as if Section 561 of the resold.
This should give the Company greater flexibility in Companies Act 2006 does not apply.
This is the same managing its share capital and improve liquidity in its shares.
nominal amount of share capital which the Directors are The Company would only sell on treasury shares at a seeking the authority to allot pursuant to Resolution No.
26 Murray International Trust PLC This authority will also expire on the date of the 2015 Annual There are: no restrictions concerning the transfer of General Meeting or on 30 June 2015, whichever is earlier.
securities in the Company: no special rights with regard to This authority will not be used in connection with a rights control attached to securities: no agreements between issue by the Company.
holders of securities regarding their transfer known to the Company: no agreements which the Company is party to The Directors intend to use the authority given by that might affect its control following a takeover bid: Resolutions No.
12 and 13 to allot shares and disapply preThere are no agreements between the Company and its emption rights only in circumstances where this will be Directors concerning compensation for loss of office.
clearly beneficial to shareholders as a whole.
Accordingly, issues will only be made where shares can be issued at a premium of 0.5% or more to Net Asset Value.
At present, By order of the Board of Murray International Trust PLC shares are available under the savings plans operated by the Manager.
In circumstances where the share price of the Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Company stands at a premium of 0.5% or more to Net Asset Secretary Value, it may be advantageous for the Company to allot new 40 Princes Street, shares directly to participants in the savings plans or to other Edinburgh EH2 2BY prospective purchasers.
Such issues would only be made at 10 March 2014 prices greater than Net Asset Value, and would involve no dilution for existing shareholders.
The issue proceeds would be available for investment in line with the Companys investment policy.
No issue of shares will be made which would effectively alter the control of the Company without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
13 will also disapply pre-emption rights on the sale of treasury shares as envisaged above.
Once again, the pre-emption rights would only be disapplied where the treasury shares are sold at a premium to Net Asset Value of not less than 0.5%.
Recommendation The Directors consider that the authorities granted above are in the best interests of the shareholders taken as a whole and recommend that all shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as the Directors intend to in respect of their own beneficial holdings of Ordinary shares amounting in aggregate to 87,716 shares, representing approximately 0.07% of the Companys issued share capital as at 10 March 2014.
Additional Information The following further information is disclosed in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and DTR 7.2.
6: The Companys capital structure and voting rights are summarised in note 14: Details of the substantial shareholders in the Company are listed on page 34: The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of Association and are summarised on page 33: Amendment of the Companys Articles of Association and powers to issue or buy back the Companys shares requires a special resolution to be passed by shareholders: Murray International Trust PLC 27
