Strategic Report - Managers Review prosperity would follow, equity investors overlooked the harsh realities of declining real incomes and disappointing corporate earnings.
Hope, sentiment and liquidity triumphed over reality for the second consecutive year.
In one further ironic twist, an enormous wave of negative sentiment towards emerging markets began to gather disciples.
As if to justify excessive exuberance towards one asset class another had to be vilified.
So it was with Latin America and Asia being on the receiving end of constant criticism and derision from the financial chattering classes.
Consensus Bruce Stout unequivocally concluded an imminent demise of emerging Senior Investment Manager markets in a world of rising capital costs.
Financial markets were in no mood to argue.
The resulting depreciation in Background equity prices and currencies reflected this rising risk aversion Money: made round to go round and made flat to pile up.
but to suddenly write off the geographical custodians of fifty Such a definition of the global financial system is unlikely to per cent of global GDP appeared somewhat extreme and be found in any economic textbook but it does concisely premature, to say the least.
Call it innate cynicism if you describe the two dominant influences on financial markets like, but such polarised extremes in sentiment are seldom throughout 2013, namely credit and savings.
Under rational accurate and rarely reflective of reality.
Alas, such were the circumstances, credit lubricates the wheels of international dominant influences on financial markets that fundamentals trade and commerce whilst savings provide fuel for accounted for very little during the period under review.
investment and efficient allocation of capital.
In the distorted economic climate that prevailed over the past In 2013, inspired by renewed optimism for developed twelve months, such economic orthodoxy was absent.
markets and uninspiring expectations from alternative asset Credit markets remained slaves to excessive balance sheet classes, investors poured money into equity markets.
expansion by governments throughout the developed world.
Regionally, North America recorded the largest gains in Printing presses pumped out ever-increasing quantities of Sterling terms, led by 30% return from the US.
Somewhat banknotes, layering more debt on top of existing debt in paradoxically this occurred without the support of corporate desperate attempts to numb the pain of increasing economic earnings growth as US companies struggled to deliver midausterity.
Sovereign creditworthiness gripped the attention single digit profit growth despite significant share buybacks.
of investors and rating agencies alike, the former relentlessly Japan also recorded spectacular equity market performance divesting governments bonds, the latter taking a knife to as investors reacted euphorically to political initiatives aimed credit quality status.
For UK sovereign debt it marked an end at ending domestic deflation.
Despite a brutal 24% decline to its coveted triple A status held since 1978.
Seemingly in the Yen, a total return from the Tokyo stock market of oblivious to the dangers of deteriorating debt-dependent 25% in Sterling terms was significant under the dynamics, equity investors positively salivated over excess circumstances.
The same could be said for Europe.
Toiling liquidity sloshing about in the global financial system.
under the economics of austerity with predominantly woeful Traditional judgements on valuation and risk accounted for business conditions, aggregate profitability of European little as funds were channelled into constantly rising stock companies actually fell over the period.
Conversely, prudent savers continued watching deter equity speculators driving the European composite their wealth eroded by inflation, as effectively zero interest index up over 25% with lower quality financials leading the rates compelled banks to pay paltry nominal returns on charge.
Not to be outdone, the UK market managed to deposit accounts.
Compounding the misery for those of a return close to 19%, slightly less than the composite thrifty disposition was a constant erosion of capital in bond benchmark but way in excess of long term averages.
Sensing a distinct attitude change towards the opposite end of the spectrum, widespread scepticism unsustainable practice of quantitative easing, pension funds, towards emerging markets constrained Asian returns to just insurance companies and sovereign wealth funds joined the 3% and sent Latin America 10% lower in Sterling terms.
buying boycott of government treasuries.
Central banks, Solid earnings, dividend growth and robust trading becoming increasingly impotent to dictate the daily direction statements offered little support against deflating confidence of fragile fixed income markets, watched with trepidation as towards this asset class within the global financial bond yields spiked higher.
History will show savers suffered community.
some of the worst bond market losses for close to twenty years.
Faced with such anaemic returns from cash and negative returns from bonds, savers increasingly capitulated to the seductive influences of equity markets.
Convinced global economic growth was gathering momentum and Murray International Trust PLC 9 Strategic Report Managers Review continued investors but proved less than palatable for domestic fixed Performance income markets.
Consequently US bond markets suffered The Net Asset Value total return for the year to 31 some of the worst annual returns for many years.
With the December 2013 with net dividends reinvested was 4.6% drip feed of liquidity no longer favourable, corporate profits compared with a return on the benchmark of 21.2%.
A full must now be delivered in the US if valuations are to be attribution analysis is given on page 19 which details the supported.
Against this evolving backdrop of stuttering various influences on portfolio performance.
In summary of growth and deflationary debt dynamics there remains the 1,580 basis points before expenses of performance enormous scope for disappointment.
Recent portfolio below the benchmark, asset allocation deleted 1,190 basis additions of communications company Verizon and leading points and stock selection deleted 390 basis points.
global healthcare company Baxter International were Structural effects relating to the fixed income portfolio and introduced to maintain the high quality, defensive gearing net of borrowing and hedging costs deleted a further positioning of total exposure.
80 basis points of negative relative performance.
UK USA Living with lower expectations: perhaps reflecting more Choosing to accentuate the positive has long been ingrained realistic expectations of economic developments, recent in the US psyche.
In a year when politics and policy-debate trends witnessed over the past year engendered a mood of dominated the economic backdrop, a constant flow of cautious optimism.
Common sense prevailed as consensus positive rhetoric was required to counteract the reality of welcomed positive increases in production and service lacklustre fundamentals.
In this respect the US did not activity, but cautioned against excessive house price rises disappoint.
The most prominent portrayals of such misallocating precious capital.
Economic growth accelerated imaginative interpretations involved assessment of economic to its fastest pace in three years, a headline number recovery and debt reduction.
Desperate for evidence of welcomed by everyone except the bond market, but economic stabilisation following five years of post credit expectations remained in check.
With the country still crunch disruption, policymakers championed falling experiencing its slowest recovery in a century, having unemployment, rising consumer confidence and expanding recouped less than two thirds of the output lost during the GDP as evidence the US economy had turned the corner.
In financial crisis, progress was solid but unspectacular.
reality, underlying activity remained extremely fragile.
Rising Thankfully persistent talk of economic normalisation and bond yields quickly extinguished signs of recovery in the back to trend growth was absent from most informed housing market: real incomes across the country continued comment.
The possibility of UK GDP growing around 2% to contract: plus subdued revenue growth and margin increasingly became accepted as a realistic pace of economic pressure for corporate America curtailed capital spending and recovery, given deleveraging and deflationary headwinds that long-term investment decisions.
In the presence of anaemic persist for consumers and companies alike.
So far so good, earnings growth eternal optimists extolled the virtues of but not all aspects of economic life succumbed to the stock buybacks, but at ever increasing valuations this was evolving sense of realism.
Policymakers continually paid liphardly in the best interests of existing shareholders.
Such service to the dangers of boom-bust property cycles yet financial engineering of reported profits masked the actively encouraged policy directives destined to ultimately weakness of underlying earnings growth, so much so that distort prices.
Lectures were preached on thrift, abstinence over 75% of equity market returns over the period were due and austerity yet simultaneously the Bank of England kept to pure price earnings multiple expansion.
In essence higher printing bank notes causing further distress to the countrys prices were constantly paid for virtually no improvement in sovereign balance sheet.
More worryingly, Britains desire to profits.
Expectations soared as positive sentiment become an internationally competitive exporter remained suppressed reality, not only with respect towards the thwarted by relentless appreciation of Sterling.
economy and the equity market but also towards debt.
Even Consequently, the net trade deficit constrained growth whilst the most myopic observer must surely have noticed the a ballooning current account deficit rekindled genuine fears ever-expanding debt mountain that continued to haunt the over future financing.
On balance, prevailing economic outlook.
Acknowledging that sovereign balance sheet fundamentals marginally improved but rising bond yields left expansion could not extend into perpetuity proved painful the heavily indebted mortgage owning UK public suffering for US policymakers, but the public face of promoting an end disproportionately and increasingly weakened in terms of to printing money was positively presented.
For an economy so dependent on Reserve proved adept at providing reassurance.
Quantitative consumption for growth this will pose a tough hurdle to easing would gradually decline but only if economic activity negotiate in the coming year, especially once the stimulus of kept expanding, only if unemployment kept falling and only if unsustainable monetary support is eventually withdrawn.
interest rates were kept lower for longer.
Acceptance of such Like most developed equity markets, UK equity returns policy directives was grudgingly given by most equity proved excessive relative to evolving fundamentals so great 10 Murray International Trust PLC caution is warranted.
A new position in BHP Billiton, a Latin America leading international resource company, was established Hostage to constantly changing sentiment towards perceived using capital recycled from more expensive investments risk assets, Latin American financial markets endured a torrid elsewhere.
Conventional logic decreed reduced monetary stimulus in the US must translate into higher Europe borrowing costs for all capital dependent Emerging Market With the past four years of crisis witnessing financial bailouts nations.
Twenty years ago such intellectual reasoning was of five European nations, policymakers continued to struggle unequivocally accurate with widespread evidence of value with practical agendas as opposed to theoretical rhetoric.
Fearful history would repeat itself, Economic dislocation remained rife throughout Europe as investors were quick to withdraw funds from Latin America.
contagion between banks and sovereign debt periodically No one considered the enormous strides made by Mexico threatened to destabilise the financial system.
Progress and Brazil over the intervening years to wean themselves off towards establishing a banking union persistently stalled as US Dollar debt.
Overall sovereign debt levels less than half demands for national discretion repeatedly hindered the the bloated average of Developed nations counted for banking reform process.
Strict rules across twenty seven nothing.
Nor did substantial domestic savings held in long countries was always an ambitious target given the duration domestic bonds, nor indeed significant foreign enormous range of balance sheet exposures, liabilities and exchange reserves.
As investors picked at the scab of the capital ratios that prevail.
Powerful self-interest and 1994 Tequila crisis, structural progress was ignored.
Latin reluctance to yield power ultimately ground the process to American currencies weakened in response, bond yields an effective halt.
Less ambiguous and infinitely more spiked sharply upwards and equity markets declined.
transparent was the evolving state of the Eurozone economy.
Opinion rapidly polarised from previous plaudits over Regional growth flirted with recession throughout most of potential opportunity to persistent pessimism over past the year.
The economics of austerity prevailed in most mistakes.
Yet paradoxically economic trends remained European countries, exerting further downward pressure on essentially positive.
Mexico delivered stable policies, prices.
Emphasising just how fearful the Authorities became controlled inflation, responsible government finances, over potential outright deflation, interest rates were cut to respectable corporate profit growth and commitment to record lows.
While the prospect of negative deposit rates embrace pro-market reforms.
Despite market weakness, were not welcomed by savers, the severity of Europes debtMexican portfolio exposure returned over 10% in Sterling ridden fundamentals arguably gave the European Central terms with above average dividend growth enhancing total Bank little choice.
Plagued by record unemployment and income accrued.
In Brazil, the increasingly fractious rising levels of debt defaults, policy options rapidly ran out Presidential leadership of Dilma Rouseff undoubtedly for Europes decision makers.
Within such a difficult and aggravated economic pressures caused by rising interest distorted economic landscape, the only real bright spot was rates and relatively weak growth.
Invigorated by being pegged to the globally credit growth stayed subdued in line with Central Bank competitive Euro, the German export sector went from objectives, but negative international sentiment arguably strength to strength.
As exports boomed the importance of reflected rising political uncertainty rather than structural the Eurozone to Germany was increasingly evident.
A 32% decline in the value of the Real threat to Euro currency sustainability clearly threatens future against Sterling over the past two years quantifies the German prosperity suggesting vested interests will prevail in magnitude of concern currently discounted in Brazilian preserving the Eurozone as is.
What this ultimately means for assets.
Against relative values and historical norms this companies operating elsewhere across the demandappears excessive.
Such extremes provided periodic depressed continent is more difficult to predict.
Revenue opportunities to add to Vale, Bradesco and Petrobras, growth remains the greatest concern as gross margin companies where long term growth prospects remain contraction exerts enormous pressure to cut costs, attractive.
employment, capital spending, research and development or whatever in pursuit of maintaining profitability.
Current Japan and Asia European portfolio holdings delivered solid operating results The financial and economic landscape in Japan changed but tended to underperform market returns where more markedly over the period but not necessary for the better.
financially leveraged companies incurred most favour.
All areas of society were influenced by the Bank of Japans Whilst disappointing from a relative short-term perspective, radical monetary stimulus.
Headline statistics showed the the emphasis on defensive high quality positions will be largest yearly gain in Japanese equity prices in four decades maintained.
with the Yen declining to its lowest level against the US Dollar in five years.
Whilst Japanese shares finally got the worlds attention, investors clinically examined the Murray International Trust PLC 11 Strategic Report Managers Review continued sustainability of the Great Reflation Plan.
Dramatic currency months witnessed an enormous amount of hope being depreciation immediately translated into rapid rises in food invested in equity markets in expectation that numerous and energy costs.
With prices escalating five times faster challenges will be conquered.
Severely stretched valuations than wages, consumers purchasing power and confidence reflect belief that the developed world can successfully wean were severely constrained.
In the misguided pursuit of itself off its chronic dependency on printing money without generating inflation the government appealed for companies threatening fragile economic recoveries: that savers continue to raise wages.
Such calls, not surprisingly, fell on deaf ears.
subsidising the profligacy of governments and irresponsible Faced with rising costs squeezing profitability there was no bank-bailouts: that deflationary pressures abate enabling appetite within corporate Japan to stomach further corporate profit margins to breathe again: and that earnings competitive erosion through wage hikes.
Structural rigidity will be delivered in sufficient quantity to satisfy high also prevailed in financing terms as the demographically expectations currently baked-in to equity prices.
Any aging nation faced the mammoth task of funding a sovereign rational analysis of current economic conditions would debt burden now more than twice the size of the economy suggest such hopes are very unlikely to be fulfilled.
For a and a deteriorating trade deficit.
Adding to the potentially world recovering from the worst economic crisis since the growth retardant impacts from an imminent consumption Great Depression, progress will be slow.
The enormous debt tax hike there can be no doubt systemic risk to the Japanese legacy remains deflationary by nature, constraining spending bond market has risen significantly.
The safest place to and investment alike.
Essential debt reduction required observe evolving economic events in Japan is from the sideacross the board exerts a significant negative influence on lines so current low exposure will be maintained.
If the challenge twelve months ago was how to preserve capital in an environment of rising bond Capital withdrawal and portfolio outflows constantly stoked yields, the focus is now compounded by how to protect demand for US dollars throughout the rest of Asia.
Currency capital when earnings expectations remain too high.
weakness was the dominant theme all year.
As devaluations Protecting margins becomes of prime importance, so the gathered momentum, inflationary pressures rose, with those portfolio will remain focused on those companies deemed countries particularly dependent on inelastic imports of food well positioned to achieve this.
Unfashionable as it may be, and energy worst affected.
India and Indonesia fell into this most value is still to be found in developing markets where category, suffering a miserable year of rising consumer prices earnings and dividend growth rates remain realistic.
The and deteriorating current account deficits.
Fear and focus on widespread global diversification to achieve capital uncertainty restricted economic activity, causing widespread and income objectives remains core to portfolio positioning.
cyclical slowdowns in growth throughout the region.
South Korea, Thailand and Taiwan could only manage around three Bruce Stout per cent growth rates, and Asian heavyweights India and Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited China slowed to their lowest levels of growth for over a Investment Manager decade.
Consequently Asian equity markets underperformed 10 March 2014 developed markets by the widest margin since 1998, the year of the Asian Crisis.
Not only was this strange, and arguably excessive, fundamentals bore no resemblance to those prevailing fifteen years ago.
Whilst history illustrates the folly of standing in the way of short term capital flows, it also illustrates longer term pricing anomalies that present attractive investment opportunities when such practices persist.
That point is rapidly approaching.
The portfolio remains focused on companies where earnings and dividend prospects are deemed robust regardless of the prevailing macro-economic backdrop.
Further price and currency depreciation will be viewed as an opportunity to add further exposure to the Region should this materialise.
There is nothing intrinsically wrong with investing in hope.
Most decisions regarding the future involve an assessment of the unknown.
The key to success requires matching expectations against reality thus minimising the scope for disappointment.
In the world of financial investment it is no different.
The previous twelve 12 Murray International Trust PLC
