Marketing Strategy Murray International Trust PLC contributes to the Marketing Public Relations Programme run by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited The Manager undertakes to brief journalists, write regularly AAM, on behalf of a number of investment trusts under through placed articles and ensure Company results and any its management.
The Companys contribution which is corporate activity are brought to public attention.
matched by AAM is 553,000 plus VAT for the year ended 31 December 2013.
The marketing arrangements are Shareholder Services reviewed on an annual basis by the Board.
AAM runs an investment help desk for retail enquirers and investors.
Enquirers or investors will be sent any relevant The purpose of the Programme is to communicate effectively literature on request and have queries answered with existing shareholders and gain more new shareholders, immediately.
The Marketing Programme is under the thus improving liquidity and thereby enhancing the value and direction of AAMs Group Head of Brand who has extensive rating of the Companys shares.
AAMs experience has also experience in the marketing and communications of shown that well-targeted marketing of the Companys investment products.
He is supported by a team of marketing investment merits through packaged products, whether professionals.
singly, or in conjunction with other trusts run by AAM, can be a cost-effective way of gaining new investors.
Internet Murray International Trust PLC has a dedicated website: The Marketing Programme includes the following: www.
This allows web users to access information on the Companys share price performance, Investor Relations Programme capital structure, stock exchange announcements and AAM runs an investor relations programme to existing and monthly reports.
The site is continuously being evaluated for prospective institutional investors in investment trusts.
month, institutional investors and prospects receive a Managers report on the Company that includes detailed Investors in the Share Plan and ISA can now use AAMs performance analysis.
secure system to view their valuations and transact on their Plan accounts.
Direct Response Advertising The Manager advertises the packaged product availability of The Board is committed to a close monitoring of the the Company in selected national press as well as the Marketing Programme.
The AAMs Group Head of Brand specialist financial titles.
provides a written summary quarterly to the Board.
Direct Mail If you have any questions about the Company, the Manager or performance, please telephone our Investor Services Periodic mail shots of information packs inviting named Department on 0500 00 00 40 free when dialling from a UK addressees to respond is a low-cost method of building landline.
Alternatively, internet users may e-mail us on awareness and investor databases.
com or write to us at 10 Queens existing holders of other AAM investment trusts as well as Terrace, Aberdeen AB10 1YG.
known buyers of investment trusts.
Newsletter The Bulletin newsletter, an informed commentary on markets and investment trusts managed by AAM, is distributed free of charge.
66 Murray International Trust PLC How to Invest in Murray International Trust PLC suffer the bid-offer spread, which can, on some occasions, be Direct a significant amount.
Lump sum investments start at 250, Investors can buy and sell shares in the Company directly while regular savers may invest from 100 per month.
through a stockbroker or indirectly through a lawyer, Investors simply pay Government Stamp Duty currently accountant or other professional adviser.
There is no can be bought directly through Aberdeens Investment Plan restriction on how long an investor need invest in a Plan, and for Children, Investment Trust Share Plan and Investment regular savers can stop or suspend participation by Trust ISA.
instructing AAM in writing at any time.
In common with other schemes of this type, all investments are held in Suitable for Retail nominee accounts.
Investors have full voting and other rights The Companys securities are intended for investors primarily of share ownership.
in the UK including retail investors, professional-advised private clients and institutional investors who are wanting to Stocks and Shares ISA benefit from the growth prospects of global companies by An investment of up to 11,520 can be made in the tax year investment in a relatively risk averse investment trust and 2013 2014 and 11,880 in the tax year 2014 2015. who understand and are willing to accept the risks of exposure to equities.
Investors should consider consulting a There are no brokerage or initial charges for the ISA, although financial adviser who specialises in advising on the investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can be a acquisition of shares and other securities before acquiring significant amount.
Investors only pay Government Stamp shares.
Investors should be capable of evaluating the risks Duty currently 0.5% on purchases.
Selling costs are 15 and merits of such an investment and should have sufficient VAT.
The annual ISA administration charge is 24 VAT resources to bear any loss that may result.
calculated annually and applied on 31 March or the last business day in March and collected soon thereafter either The Company currently conducts its affairs so that its by direct debit or, if there is no valid direct debit mandate in securities can be recommended by a financial adviser to place, from the available cash in the Plan prior to the ordinary retail investors in accordance with the FCAs rules in distribution or reinvestment of any income, or, where there is relation to non-mainstream investment products and intends insufficient cash in the Plan, from the sale of investments to continue to do so for the foreseeable future.
Under current legislation, investments in ISAs can grow free of capital gains tax.
The Companys shares are excluded from the FCAs restrictions which apply to non-mainstream investment ISA Transfer products because they are shares in an investment trust.
You can choose to transfer previous tax year investments to us which can be invested the Company while retaining your Aberdeens Investment Plan for Children ISA wrapper.
The minimum lump sum for an ISA transfer is Aberdeen Asset Managers AAM runs an Investment Plan 1,000 and is subject to a minimum per investment trust of for Children the Childrens Plan which covers a number of 250. investment companies under its management including the Company.
Anyone can invest in the Childrens Plan, including Note parents, grandparents and family friends.
All investments are free of dealing charges on the initial purchase of shares, Please remember that past performance is not a guide to the although investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can, future.
Stock market and currency movements may cause on some occasions, be a significant amount.
Lump sum the value of shares and the income from them to fall as well investments start at 150 per trust, while regular savers may as rise and investors may not get back the amount they invest from 30 per month.
Investors simply pay originally invested.
Government Stamp Duty currently 0.5% on entry.
There is no restriction on how long an As with all equity investments, the value of investment trusts investor need invest in the Childrens Plan, and regular savers purchased will immediately be reduced by the difference can stop or suspend participation by instructing AAM in between the buying and selling prices of the shares, the writing at any time.
In common with other schemes of this market makers spread.
type, all investments are held in nominee accounts.
Investors should further bear in mind that the value of any tax relief will depend on the individual circumstances of the Aberdeen Investment Trust Share Plan investor and that tax rates and reliefs, as well as the tax AAM runs a Share Plan the Plan through which shares in treatment of ISAs may be changed by future legislation.
the Company can be purchased.
There are no dealing charges on the initial purchase of shares, although investors will Murray International Trust PLC 67 How to Invest in Murray International Trust PLC continued never makes these types of offers and does not cold-call Trust Information investors in this way.
If investors have any doubt over the If investors would like details of the Company or information veracity of a caller, do not offer any personal information, on the Childrens Plan, Share Plan, ISA or ISA transfers please end the call and contact Aberdeens investor services centre telephone 0500 00 00 40, e-mail to inv.
trusts@aberdeenusing the details provided.
com or write to: Details are also available on www.
co. uk Aberdeen Investment Trust Administration PO Box 11020 The above information on pages 66 to 68 has been approved Chelmsford for the purposes of Section 21 of the Financial Services and Essex, CM99 2DB Markets Act 2000 as amended by the Financial Services Act 2012 by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited which is authorised Terms and Conditions for Aberdeen managed savings and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
products can be found under the Literature section at invtrusts.
Keeping You Informed The Companys share price appears under the heading Investment Companies in the Financial Times, and other national newspapers.
For internet users, detailed data on the Company including share price, performance information and a monthly fact sheet is available from the Companys website www.
co. uk and the TrustNet website www.
Alternatively please call 0500 00 00 40 for trust information.
Literature Request Service For literature and application forms for the Managers investment trust products, please contact: Telephone: 0500 00 40 00 Email: aam@lit-request.
com For information on the Investment Plan for Children, Share Plan, ISA or ISA transfer please contact: Aberdeen Investment Trust Administration PO Box 11020 Chelmsford Essex, CM99 2DB Investor Warning Aberdeen is aware that some investors have received telephone calls from people purporting to work for Aberdeen, or third parties, who have offered to buy their investment trust shares.
These may be scams which attempt to gain personal information with which to commit identity fraud or could be boiler room scams where a payment from an investor is required to release the supposed payment for their shares.
These callers do not work for Aberdeen and any third party making such offers has no link with Aberdeen.
Aberdeen 68 Murray International Trust PLC
