STRATEGIC REPORT CONTINUED Principal Risks and Uncertainties continued Level of Discount or Premium A discount or premium to NAV can occur for a variety of reasons, including market conditions or to the extent investors undervalue the management activities of the Investment Manager or discount their valuation methodology and judgment.
While the Directors may seek to mitigate any discount to NAV per Share through the discount management mechanisms set out in the Prospectus, there can be no guarantee that they will do so or that such mechanisms will be successful and the Directors accept no responsibility for any failure of any such strategy to effect a reduction in any discount or premium.
Accounting, Legal and Regulatory The Company must comply with the provisions of The Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 as amended and, since its shares are admitted to listing on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and to trading on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange, the Company is subject to the FCAs Listing, Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
A breach of the legislation could result in the Company and or the Directors being fined or subject to criminal proceedings.
A breach of the Listing Rules could result in the suspension of the Companys shares.
The Board relies on its company secretary and advisers to ensure adherence to the Guernsey legislation and the FCAs rules.
The Investment Manager and the Administrator are contracted to provide investment, company secretarial, administration and accounting services through qualified professionals.
The Board receives regular internal control reports from the Administrator that confirm compliance.
Management, Registrar, Administration, Custody and Company Secretary Arrangements Investment management services are provided to the Company by Neuberger Berman Europe Limited, which has delegated certain of its responsibilities and functions to the Sub-Investment Manager, Neuberger Berman Fixed Income LLC.
The management fee is accrued daily at a stepped rate of 0.65%-0.75% depending on the Companys NAV and is paid quarterly in arrears.
No performance fee is payable by the Company to the Investment Manager.
The Investment Management Agreement may be terminated by either party, but in certain circumstances, the Company would be required to pay compensation to the Investment Manager of six months management charges.
No compensation is payable if notice of termination of more than six months is given.
Administration, custodian and company secretarial services are provided to the Company by BNP Paribas Securities Services S. C. A. Guernsey Branch.
Registrar services are provided by Capita Registrars Guernsey Limited.
Related Party Transactions The contracts with Neuberger Berman Europe Limited and the Directors are the only related party transactions currently in place.
Other than fees payable in the ordinary course of business, there have been no material transactions with these related parties, which have affected the financial position or performance of the Company in the financial year.
Further details on related party transactions can be found under Note 4.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2013 9
