FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present the consolidated financial statements of the Company and their report for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Share Capital The share capital of the Company consists of: a an unlimited number of Shares which upon issue the Directors may classify as U. S. Dollar Shares, Sterling Shares or Euro Shares or as Shares of such other classes as the Directors may determine: b an unlimited number of B Shares which upon issue the Directors may classify as B Shares of such classes denominated in such currencies as the Directors may determine: c an unlimited number of C Shares which upon issue the Directors may classify as C Shares of such classes denominated in such currencies as the Directors may determine.
The number of shares in issue at 31 December 2013 was as follows: U. S. Ordinary Shares 51,280,525 Sterling Ordinary Shares 824,544,205 Sterling C Shares 425,571,132 On 6 January 2014, the Company announced a Conversion ratio for the conversion of Sterling C Shares into Sterling Ordinary Shares.
The conversion ratio, based on the NAV of each share class as at 31 December 2013, [as calculated in accordance with the Companys prospectus dated 30 September 2013 the Prospectus ], was 0.98950222 Sterling Ordinary Shares for every one Sterling C Share held.
On the basis of the Conversion Ratio announced, an application was made to the UK Listing Authority for 421,103,481 Sterling Ordinary Shares the New Shares to be admitted to the Premium Listing segment of the Official List.
An application was also made for the New Shares to be admitted to trading on the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange, which became effective from and the dealings in the New Shares commenced from 21 January 2014.
The Sterling C Shares were permanently removed from trading on the London Stock Exchange with effect from the opening of trading at 8:00 a. m. on 21 January 2014.
Substantial Share Interests Based upon information deemed reliable as provided by the Companys registrar, as at 8 April 2014, the following shareholders owned 5% or more of the issued shares of the Company.
of Dollar Percentage of Share Shareholder Shares Ordinary Shares Class % BBHISL Nominees Limited 129481 ACCT 118,294,402 - 9.49 BNY Mellon Nominees Limited BSDTAGG ACCT 75,153,523 - 6.03 Notifications of Shareholdings In the year to 31 December 2013 the Company had been notified in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR which covers the acquisition and disposal of major shareholdings and voting rights, of the following voting rights as a shareholder of the Company.
When more than one notification has been received from any shareholder, only the latest notification is shown.
For non-UK issuers, the thresholds prescribed under DTR 5.1.
2 for notification of holdings commence at 5%.
Notifications received by the Company below 5% are included here for completeness only.
12 NEUBERGER BERMAN DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Notifications of Shareholdings continued Number of Sterling Percentage of total Ordinary Shares voting rights % BlackRock, Inc 90,392,739 6.97% Rathbone Brothers Plc 20,316,783 5.59% Investec Wealth & Investment Limited 41,070,165 3.00% Baille Gifford & Co - Below 5% Neuberger Berman Group - - There have been no changes notified since the year-end.
The number of shares held was not disclosed by the shareholder as the holding is now under 5% and there is no requirement under the DTR.
Going Concern Going concern refers to the assumption that the Company has the resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
After analysing the following, the Directors believe that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these consolidated financial statements: 1.
Working capital As at 31 December 2013, there was a working capital surplus of approximately $84 million.
The Directors noted that as at 31 December 2013 i the gross investment income for the period from 1 January 2013 to 31 December 2013 was approximately $53m and ii the Company had no borrowings, as such it has sufficient capital in hand to cover all expenses which mainly consist of Investment Managers fees, Administration fees and Professional fees and to meet all of its obligations as they fall due.
Closed-ended Company - The Company has been registered with the Guernsey Financial Services Commission as a Registered Closed-ended Collective Investment Scheme, as such there cannot be any shareholder redemptions, and therefore no cash flows out of the Company in this respect.
Investments - The Company has a tradable portfolio, therefore the investments can be sold for cash.
Based on the above assessments, the Directors are of the opinion that the Company is able to meet its liabilities as they fall due for payment because it has and is expected to maintain adequate cash resources.
Given the nature of the Companys business, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, these consolidated financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The going concern statement required by the Listing Rules and the AIC Code is set out above and in the Directors Responsibilities Statement on page 38.
Life of the Company The Company does not have a fixed life.
However, under Article 51 of the Articles of Incorporation, the Directors have to convene an extraordinary general meeting of the Company at certain anniversaries of Admission and at such Meeting shall propose an Ordinary Resolution that the Company continues its business as a closed-ended investment company.
The first Continuation Resolution, which fell due on or before the third anniversary of Admission, was passed on 19 March 2014.
The Directors are next required to convene an extraordinary general meeting to propose a further Continuation Resolution on or before the sixth anniversary of Admission.
The Directors shall convene a general meeting to propose a further Continuation Resolution every year thereafter.
If a Continuation Resolution is not passed, the Directors shall put proposals to shareholders for the restructuring or reorganisation of the Company.
ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2013 13 FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Discount Controls Also as per the Articles of the Company, under the discount control mechanism, if, as at 31 December 2013, or as at 31 December in any subsequent calendar year, the Shares of a particular class have, on average over the last three calendar months of the relevant calendar year the Discount Calculation Period, traded on the London Stock Exchange at a discount in excess of 5% of the Net Asset Value per Share of that class, the Directors will, subject to any legal or regulatory requirements, implement a redemption offer the Redemption Offer pursuant to which each holder of Shares of the relevant class shall be offered the opportunity to redeem up to 50% of their Shares of such class.
The shares did not trade at a discount on average in excess of 5% of the Net Asset Value per share over the three-month period between 1 October 2013 and 31 December 2013.
Buybacks At the annual general meeting of the Company held in June 2013, the Directors were granted the general authority to purchase in the market up to 14.99% of the Ordinary Shares of each class in issue as at 19 June 2013.
This authority, which has not been used, will expire at the forthcoming AGM.
The Directors intend to seek annual renewal of this authority from the Shareholders.
Pursuant to this authority, and subject to the Companies Guernsey Law, 2008 and the discretion of the Directors, the Company may purchase Ordinary Shares of a particular class in the market on an ongoing basis with a view to addressing any imbalance between the supply of and demand for Ordinary Shares of such class, thereby increasing the Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share of that class and assisting in controlling the discount to Net Asset Value per Ordinary Share of that class in relation to the price at which the Ordinary Shares of such class may be trading.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving this Report are listed on page 67.
Each of those Directors confirms that: to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, there is no information relevant to the preparation of their report of which the Auditors are unaware: and he or she has taken all steps a Director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions The Company has no greenhouse gas emissions to report from its operations for the year to 31 December 2013 2012 none, nor does it have responsibility for any other emissions producing sources.
For and on behalf of the Board Richard Battey Director 14 April 2014 14 NEUBERGER BERMAN
