FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 ANNUAL REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Management Engagement Committee Membership: Sandra Platts - Chairman Independent non-executive Director Richard Battey Independent non-executive Director William Frewen Company Chairman and independent non-executive Director Key Objectives To review performance of all Service Providers including the Investment Manager.
Responsibilities To annually review the performance, relationships and contractual terms of all Service Providers including the Investment Manager : Review and make recommendations on any proposed amendment to the Investment Management Agreement.
To review the performance of, and contractual arrangements with the Investment Manager including: Monitoring and evaluating the Investment Managers investment performance and, if necessary providing appropriate guidance: To consider whether an independent appraisal of the Investment Managers services should be made: To consider requiring the Investment Manager to provide attribution and volatility analyses and considering whether these should be published: Review the level and method of remuneration and the notice period, using peer group comparisons: and To ensure that the Investment Manager has a sound system of risk management and internal controls and that these are maintained to safeguard shareholders' investment and the Companys assets.
Committee Meetings Only members of the Committee have the right to attend Committee meetings.
However, representatives of the Investment Manager and Administrator may be invited by the Committee to attend meetings as and when appropriate.
Main Activities during the Year The Committee met once during the year and considered revised terms of reference for the Committee, and reviewed the performance, relationships and contractual terms of all Service Providers including the Investment Manager.
The revised terms of reference for the Committee incorporate the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 and the AIC Code 2013.
The new terms of reference are available on the Companys website www.
24 NEUBERGER BERMAN CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Management Engagement Committee continued Main Activities during the Year continued The Committee considered that the service from all Service Providers, including the Investment Manager had been good and no problems had been encountered.
Continued Appointment of the Investment Manager The Board reviews investment performance at each Board meeting and a formal review of all service providers is conducted annually by the Management Engagement Committee.
As a result of the 2013 annual review it is the opinion of the Directors that the continued appointment of the current Investment Manager on the terms agreed is in the interest of the Companys shareholders as a whole.
The Investment Manager has extensive investment management resources and wide experience in managing investments.
Sandra Platts On behalf of the Management Engagement Committee 14 April 2014 ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2013 25
