FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 ANNUAL REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration and Nomination Committee Membership: Sandra Platts - Chairman Independent non-executive Director Richard Battey Independent non-executive Director William Frewen Company Chairman and independent non-executive Director Key Objectives To ensure the Board comprises individuals with the necessary skills, knowledge and experience to ensure that it is effective in discharging its responsibilities and oversight of all matters relating to corporate governance, and to review the on-going appropriateness and relevance of the remuneration policy.
Responsibilities Determining the remuneration of the Directors: Preparing an annual report on Directors remuneration: Considers the need to appoint external remuneration consultants: Regularly reviews and makes recommendations in relation to the structure, size and composition of the board including the diversity and balance of skills, knowledge and experience, and the independence of the non-executive Directors: Oversees the performance evaluation of the Board, its committees and individual Directors see page 67 : Reviews the tenure of each of the non-executive Directors: Leads the process for identifying and making recommendations to the Board regarding candidates for appointment as Directors, giving full consideration to succession planning and the leadership needs of the Company: Makes recommendations to the Board on the composition of the Boards committees: and Is responsible for the oversight of all matters relating to corporate governance, bringing any issues to the attention of the Board.
Committee Meetings Only members of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee have the right to attend Committee meetings.
However, representatives of the Investment Manager and Administrator are invited by the Remuneration and Nomination Committee to attend meetings as and when appropriate.
In the event of matters arising concerning either an individuals membership of the Board or their remuneration, they would absent themselves from the meeting as required and another independent non-executive Director would take the chair, if this applied to the Committee Chairman.
22 NEUBERGER BERMAN CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Remuneration and Nomination Committee continued Main Activities during the Year The Committee met once during the year and considered revised terms of reference for the Committee, succession planning, replenishment of the Board, and reviewed Directors remuneration.
The Committee also reviewed the results of the annual board evaluation and considered that the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company was appropriate.
It was agreed that the Board worked very well as a unit and that an additional Director would need to complement the current Directors.
The revised terms of reference for the Committee incorporate the changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 and the AIC Code 2013.
The new terms of reference are available on the Companys website, www.
The Committee leads the process for appointments to the Board.
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors.
Candidates are identified and selected on merit against objective criteria and with due regard to the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
No Directors were appointed during the year.
Following the annual board evaluation, the Board agreed that due to the increased size of the Company and additional workload that it would be desirable to appoint an additional offshore non-executive Director to the Board.
The Board will select suitable candidates with advice from their professional advisers and personal knowledge of the small pool of non-executive Directors in Guernsey.
The decision will be based on merit and will be fair and non-discriminatory.
The Boards diversity policy was agreed in March 2012.
The Board supports the recommendations of the Davies Report and believes in and values the importance of diversity, including gender, to the effective functioning of the Board.
At 31 December 2013 the Board has 33% female representation.
The Board continues to focus on encouraging diversity of business skills and experience, recognising that Directors with diverse skills sets, capabilities and experience gained from different backgrounds enhance the Board.
A detailed Directors remuneration report to shareholders from the Committee on behalf of the Board, is contained on page 33 to 37.
Sandra Platts On behalf of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee 14 April 2014 ANNUAL REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2013 23
