FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2013 ANNUAL REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Performance Evaluation The performance of the Board, its Committees and the Directors was reviewed by the Remuneration and Nomination Committee in November 2013, by means of an internal questionnaire.
The Company Secretary collated the results of the questionnaires and the consolidated results were reviewed and discussed by the Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
In addition, the Remuneration and Nomination Committee reviewed the performance of the Chairman in his role.
The independence of all Directors was considered.
The Chairman reviews each individual Directors contribution.
As a result of the recommendations made in this years Board performance evaluation, the Board has agreed: That all Directors are considered independent: All Directors should be proposed for reappointment at the 2014 AGM: To appoint an additional Director to the Board: and To propose changes to the Companys Articles of Incorporation in relation to operation of Committee meetings that were approved by shareholders at the general meeting held on 19 March 2014: As 2014 will be the third year of operation for the Company, an external facilitator will be engaged to carry out the 2014 board evaluation, details of the appointment of the facilitator and this process will be set out in the 2014 Annual Report.
The Board will continue to review its procedures, its effectiveness and development in the year ahead.
Induction Information and Professional Development Directors are provided, on a regular basis, with key information on the Companys policies, regulatory requirements and its internal controls.
Regulatory and legislative changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise along with changes to best practice from, amongst others, the Company Secretary and the Auditors.
Advisers to the Company also prepare reports for the Board from time to time on relevant topics and issues.
In addition, Directors attend relevant seminars and events to allow them to continually refresh their skills and knowledge and keep up with changes within the investment company industry.
The Chairman reviewed the training and development needs of each Director during the annual Board evaluation process.
He confirmed that all Directors actively kept up to date with industry developments and issues.
When a new Director is appointed to the Board, he she will be provided with all relevant information regarding the Company and his her duties and responsibilities as a Director.
In addition, a new Director will also spend time with representatives of the Investment Manager in order to learn more about their processes and procedures.
Independent Advice The Board recognises that there may be occasions when one or more of the Directors feels it is necessary to take independent legal advice at the Companys expense.
A procedure has been adopted to enable them to do so, which is managed by the Company Secretary.
Indemnities To the extent permitted by Guernsey Law, the Companys Articles of Incorporation provide an indemnity for the Directors against any liability except such if any as they shall incur by or through their own breach of trust, breach of duty or negligence.
During the year, the Company has maintained insurance cover for its Directors and Officers under a Directors and Officers liability insurance policy.
