How We Monitor Performance Key Performance Indicators play a key role in delivering strategy Cairn has in place both financial and non-financial key performance indicators KPIs which are used to monitor progress in delivering the Groups strategy The 2013 KPIs, which were set out on page 29 of The Groups 2013 KPIs were reflective of the early Good progress has been made across the 2013 the Annual Report and Accounts 2012, related to stage in the value creation cycle, rather than the KPIs and a brief update on progress is presented delivering a sustainable business, maintaining a more traditional KPIs for oil and gas E&P companies in the table below.
balanced portfolio and achieving operational excellence.
such as production or operating cost targets, which the Board currently considers are not The final decision on the overall achievement of the relevant as a measure of the Groups performance.
KPIs was made at the Remuneration Committee meeting on 3 December 2013.
2013 KPIs Delivering a Sustainable Business Purpose Preserve cash for investment KPI Remuneration 2013 KPI Measurement 2013 Performance Committee Decision Conclude asset swap or Conclude an asset swap or divestment The Group successfully completed the divestment of Partially divestment of asset s that of the 6% interest in Mariner at a price the Mariner asset during the year with the sale to Dyas.
achieved do not fit with the strategy no less than the acquisition value.
Cairn held a 6% interest in the Mariner asset based in the UK.
The relatively low working interest and the high capital cost of the development project and the expected returns did not make this a core asset.
On disposal, Cairn realised an accounting loss of US$25m.
Consideration received of US$72m, included cash payment of US$43m and a refund of the 2013 exploration costs incurred by Cairn of US$29m.
Discover more: Operational Review 30 P30-37 Maintain access to liquid reserves, Actual and forecast expenditures, The Group continues to closely monitor its liquid Achieved including a contingency at all times, together with expected bank lending resources and during the year maintained the required to meet planned funding for developments, are monitored amounts to meet this KPI.
At appropriate times, Cairn and reported on a monthly basis will look to introduce debt into its liquidity portfolio to to the Management and Executive part-fund planned North Sea developments.
Discover more: Financial Review 38 P38-41 Ensure that overheads remain Actual and forecast expenditures Cairn controls its overhead costs by monitoring gross Achieved within the approved 2013 budget on office related costs are monitored controllable costs against the approved Group budget, and reported on a monthly basis to where controllable costs are all administrative and office the Management and Executive costs excluding depreciation and amortisation, share-based Teams and Board.
payment charges and performance related bonus payments prior to directly attributable costs being recharged to assets.
Performance targets are set at threshold, base and stretch target levels where actual costs are between 110% and 100%, 100% and 90% or less than 90% respectively of the approved budget.
During the year, the Group achieved the base target level.
Discover more: Financial Review 38 P38-41 24 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Maintaining a Balanced Portfolio Purpose Grow the reserves and resources base to provide the funding for future growth and cash-flow KPI Remuneration 2013 KPI Measurement 2013 Performance Committee Decision Progress exploration and appraisal Resources and reserves figures The Group participated in four exploration wells and three Not achieved evaluated by internal technical appraisal wells in the UK Norway region during 2013. activities in the UK and Norway sectors of the North Sea that will specialists and verified by The Bonneville exploration well and its sidetrack in the independent consultants.
Catcher licence discovered oil and the appraisal wells add net 2C resources in excess of 30 mmboe annum were successful in providing information towards delineating the fields.
Although relative performance was good, the absolute performance of adding 30 mmboe discovered resources was not achieved from these wells.
Discover more: Operational Review 30 P30-37 Progress four or more independent The outcome of technical and Mapping of prospects has progressed in 2013 and there Achieved high impact exploration prospects commercial evaluations of exploration are now four drill-ready but subject to final regulatory with overall target risked net resource opportunities are documented in a approval prospects in Senegal, the Republic of Ireland and 100 mmboe, approved for drilling in prospect and lead inventory, which is Morocco which will test 120 mmboe of risked resources.
The first of these prospects will be drilled by the Cajun The potential values of these prospects Express rig in Senegal in Q2 2014. are also included in the Company Discover more: Operational Review valuation reports.
30 P30-37 Work with the operator and other The outcome of Cairns technical and Board sanction and DECC approval were received for the Partially commercial evaluation of development development of the Kraken Field with first oil scheduled JV partners to progress Catcher achieved and Kraken developments to FDPs projects is included in an Investment for H2 2016 H1 2017.
Proposal, an internal document, which thereby moving 2C resources to Development studies on the Premier operated Catcher 2P reserves requires sign-off by appropriate regional, field delayed the FDP submission to DECC until Q1 2014 asset and functional department heads.
Therefore, the KPI was only partially Estimates for the associated reserves achieved.
figures are also verified by independent It is expected that 60 mmboe 2P reserves will be booked consultants.
The potential values of in relation to the two development projects.
these developments are also included in the Company valuation reports.
Discover more: Operational Review 30 P30-37 The outcome of technical and Operated drilling on the Foum Draa prospect in Discover potentially commercial Not applicable as hydrocarbon resources through commercial evaluations of exploration Morocco did not commence until late October 2013 and drilling was still in opportunities are documented in a commercial hydrocarbons were not discovered.
The Foum drilling high potential operated progress when the exploration or appraisal well s prospect and lead inventory, which is Draa well was in the progress of being drilled when the Remuneration verified by independent consultants.
Remuneration Committee reviewed the final KPI results.
in 2013 Committee The KPI, therefore, was deemed not applicable.
reviewed the final The potential value of these prospects KPI results on in the event of success is also included Discover more: Operational Review 30 3 December 2013 P30-37 in the Company valuation reports.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 25 How We Monitor Performance Continued Seeking Operational Excellence Purpose Successfully complete operated 2013 work programmes KPI Remuneration 2013 KPI Measurement 2013 Performance Committee Decision Complete 2013 operational Progress against project plans and Operated activities, for the most part, were successfully Partially activities on schedule, under budgets are closely monitored by completed on budget and on schedule in 2013 in achieved budget, to the desired quality regional management and reported Greenland including the environmental baseline and to the Management and Executive site surveys, Morocco 3D seismic and site surveys and Teams and Board.
There were some slight delays to the permanent abandonment of four exploration wells drilled in Greenland due to unfavourable weather which had a small impact on the budget.
Operated drilling commenced in Q4 2013 with the Cajun Express on the Foum Draa prospect in Morocco and due to delays, the projected budget has increased.
Discover more: Operational Review 30 P30-37 To minimise injuries and HSE performance is monitored through There have been two LTIs and three medical treatment Partially environmental incidents a range of performance measures.
A cases during the 2013 operated activities and as a result the achieved on 2013 operated activities: rigorous approach is taken to identifying, TRIR was 6.3 TRIR million hours which was disappointing reporting and investigating safety given the Companys historical performance in the HSE area.
Total Recordable Injuries Rate and environmental incidents and There were no oil spills to the environment in 2013.
TRIR target of less than the outcomes are recorded in an 2.0 TRI million hours Discover more: Working Responsibly audited database.
50 P50-61 No oil spills Performance is closely monitored by the Management and HSE Leadership Teams and reported regularly to the Executive Team and Board.
An FPSO and flow line 26 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Purpose Continue to enhance the Groups approach to HSE risk identification and management KPI Remuneration 2013 KPI Measurement 2013 Performance Committee Decision Achieve targets for 10 HSE leading Progress made on delivery of the Good progress was made during 2013 on 9 out of 10 of Achieved performance indicators across HSE leading performance indicators the HSE leading performance indicators, which included: the areas of: is regularly monitored by the HSE Roll-out of the updated Group CR Management Leadership Team.
Awareness raising of HSE System and new HSE Culture Framework management systems Implementing new approach to travel risk assessments and procedures Enhancements to the procedures for managing Engagement with contractors contractor HSE through the tender and operational Communication of HSE phases, and increased senior management engagement approach and performance The HSE LPI relating to the completion of lessons learned Risk assessment and management from previous projects was not formally achieved.
However, there is a process which is strictly applied for ensuring lessons from previous projects are considered in future projects.
Therefore, it was agreed that this KPI had been achieved.
Discover more: Working Responsibly 50 P50-61 Case Study Development of the Kraken field The Kraken field received DECC approval at the To progress the project and ensure that all partners Cairn has a 25% WI in the Kraken field, are comfortable with the activity, Cairn and the end of 2013.
When on stream, forecast production with JV partners EnQuest operator, 60% is 50,000 bopd, 12,500 of which is net to Cairn.
other JV partners meet at least once a month.
The Kraken addition, specialist working groups meet to discuss This and other development projects will provide field is located in the UK North Sea and the future free cash flow to deliver Cairns longer and agree specific areas, e. g. well locations.
The is currently under development with first team at Cairn who are working on Kraken involves term exploration programme.
individuals from various departments including oil expected in H2 2016 2017.
Engineering Reservoir and Facilities, Exploration Geologists and Geophysicists, HSE, Legal and Finance.
This ensures that Cairn has the right team with the right experience and skills to review and give input to proposals from the operator regarding the project and ensure that any plans meet with Cairns technical, HSE and commercial standards.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 27 How We Monitor Performance Continued 2014 KPIs The 2014 Group KPIs in the table below have been set by the Board on 3 December 2013 based on the Groups current portfolio and prospects and objectives as set out in the Business Plan and 2014 Work Programme and Budget: Maintaining a Balanced Portfolio Purpose Objective 2014 KPI Risks to the achievement of KPI Grow the reserves Achieve exploration and Mature Basin: Lack of exploration success and resources base appraisal success through Invest in exploration and appraisal activities in the Reliance on JV operators for asset to provide a basis for discovery of commercial UK and Norway sectors of the North Sea which will performance future growth hydrocarbons in 2014 add net 2C resources in excess of 10 mmboe See: How We Manage Risk 42 P42-49 for mitigants Frontier Basin: Lack of exploration success Invest in exploration and appraisal activities in See: How We Manage Risk Morocco, Senegal and Republic of Ireland which 42 P42-49 for mitigants will add net 2C resources in excess of 40 mmboe Mature high impact Mature a minimum of six new independent drillInability to identify or secure prospective exploration prospects ready prospects in each category mature frontier acreage at prices which can generate ready for drilling in basin which meet our investment criteria and which reasonable returns 2015 or 2016 could be considered for drilling in 2015 or 2016 See: How We Manage Risk 42 P42-49 for mitigants Seeking Operational Excellence Purpose Objective 2014 KPI Risks to the achievement of KPI Deliver operational Successfully complete Deliver all operated and non-operated asset projects Operated exploration work programmes excellence in all 2014 operated and nontechnical studies, surveys, seismic and drilling not executed on schedule and budget activities and maintain operated 2014 work programmes on schedule and budget including Reliance on JV operators for licence to operate programmes manpower costs, with full data recovery asset performance See: How We Manage Risk 42 P42-49 for mitigants Progress North Sea development projects, remaining Kraken and Catcher development projects within 10% of capital guidance and first oil dates not executed on schedule and budget scheduled within 6 months of project sanctioned Reliance on JV operators for base case estimates asset performance See: How We Manage Risk 42 P42-49 for mitigants Deliver our activities Minimise injuries and environmental incidents Health, safety, environment and security with a strong focus in 2014 operated activities: incidents on not hurting people TRIR target of less than 2.0 TRIR million hours See: How We Manage Risk or damaging the 42 P42-49 for mitigants No oil spills to the environment environment Continue to enhance the Achieve targets for ten HSES leading performance Health, safety, environment and security Groups HSES culture, indicators across the areas of: incidents behaviours and approach Knowledge of HSES procedures See: How We Manage Risk 42 P42-49 for mitigants Engagement with contractors regarding safety standards Communication of HSES approach and performance HSES risk assessment and management 28 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Delivering a Sustainable Business Purpose Objective 2014 KPI Risks to the achievement of KPI Preserve cash Retain balance Maintain liquid reserves including undrawn Restriction on ability to sell CIL shareholding for investment sheet strength committed banking facilities to meet planned Potential tax liabilities relating to Indian funding commitments plus a cushion at all times Income Tax Department enquiry Cost pressures in the industry Uncertainty in fiscal regimes Operated exploration work programmes not executed on schedule and budget Kraken and Catcher development projects not executed on schedule and budget See: How We Manage Risk 42 P42-49 for mitigants Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 29
