Strategic Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Questions and Answers People We would like to recognise and thank all the effort, hard work and commitment the management, Q&A with CEO employees and contractor teams working for Cairn have put in during the last year.
We have an equal opportunities policy across the Group.
To ensure we deliver our goals and provide What do you think Cairn Energy The multi-well frontier exploration shareholder value we must employ the right people will look like in three years time?
programme commenced with the first in the right roles.
We seek to ensure a diverse Weve done a lot of work over the last 18 in the series of wells offshore Morocco.
For example women currently comprise months to build a balanced portfolio that 20% of our board, 28% of our management and offers multiple exploration opportunities The FDP for the Kraken field in which 50% of our staff across our whole organisation.
as well as providing future cash flow Cairn has an interest received UK DECC through interests in development assets approval during 2013: Catcher FDP is Outlook in the North Sea, thereby providing a targeted by the operator to be submitted The results of this years exploration programme platform to sustain Cairn as an exploration in Q2 2014. and the timing of the resolution of the Indian tax company.
Our portfolio provides us with situation will inevitably shape the Group beyond significant opportunities.
In three years We promised we would maintain suitable 2014.
We believe the executive team, supported time, we would like to see Cairn in the equity levels to frontier exploration by the Board, is well-placed to lead the Group and process of repeating the cycle once more opportunities.
By farming down some continue the strategic focus of delivering significant of developing and realising value.
of our interests offshore Senegal to growth potential as the Group continues to evolve ConocoPhillips, we ensured we maintained in response to changing circumstances.
What do you think makes the appropriate exposure to this acreage.
We look forward to what we hope will be a We are focused yet adaptable.
We are We said we would operate safely: we successful exploration programme in 2014. prepared to make robust decisions quickly.
were therefore disappointed by two We focus on value not scale.
We build Lost Time Incidents LTIs during our lasting partnerships where we believe we operational activity offshore Morocco.
We place an emphasis on We will continue to focus our energy understanding the potential risks and on and resource on avoiding incidents Sir Bill Gammell managing them.
To maintain a sustainable and delivering safe operations.
Chairman business as part of our portfolio we have interests in development assets which offer future free cash flow to sustain Cairn in the long term and fund future exploration activity.
Simon Thomson Chief Executive What did the Company achieve 17 March 2014 last year?
We set objectives which included focusing on exploration-led growth: we have further built the portfolio during 2013 to include additional frontier exploration opportunities which offer potential growth to shareholders.
While we added additional acreage to our portfolio it remained focused on the Atlantic Margin, Mediterranean and North Sea regions.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 07
