Where Cairn Is Focused A targeted portfolio with multiple growth opportunities Illustrative geological reconstruction of the world Our Areas of Focus Cairns exploration strategy is focused on operated 175 million years ago exploration in frontier basins along the Atlantic Margin and in the Mediterranean.
This frontier exploration is complemented by mature basin activity of mainly non-operated interests in the UK and Norway.
Cairns operated exploration drilling programme over the next year targets various passive margin and rift Eurasia basin play types at a number of locations along the Atlantic Margin.
Cairn is focused on high value, appropriate equity and acreage positions in areas which have follow-on potential and good commercial terms in the case of success, whether they be emerging plays in frontier N. America basins or new play concepts in mature areas such as the North Sea.
Why We Focus on These Areas Cairns technical expertise combines experience in passive margin and rift basins with operational capability in frontier areas, including arctic and Africa deepwater capability.
The Atlantic Margin, formed S. America by the break-up of a supercontinent millions of years ago, provides a range of underexplored, but promising opportunities which suit the Companys expertise.
A number of other companies in the industry including Chevron Corporation, Genel Energy and Kosmos Energy are also pursuing exploration programmes in the region.
Atlantic Margin Frontier basins The Atlantic Margin Greenland Republic of Ireland Morocco Mauritania Site survey Preparation for appraisal drilling Exploration seismic Farmed in as non-operator, Preparation for future drilling Site survey assessing existing 3D seismic Plugging and abandonment of wells Exploration drilling Discover more: Operational Review Discover more: Operational Review Discover more: Operational Review Discover more: Operational Review 30 30 30 30 P30-37 P30-37 P30-37 P30-37 14 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Cairns operated exploration drilling programme over the next year targets various passive margin and rift basin play types at a number of locations along the Atlantic Margin.
Present day map of the world UK and GREENLAND Norwegian NORWAY North Sea REPUBLIC UK OF IRELAND Mediterranean The Atlantic Margin SPAIN MOROCCO MALTA MAURITANIA SENEGAL Atlantic Margin Frontier basins Mature basins The Atlantic Margin Mediterranean UK and Norwegian North Sea Senegal Spain Malta UK and Norway Site survey Preparation for exploration 3D seismic Preparation for exploration 2D seismic Non-operator appraisal drilling Preparation for exploration drilling Non-operator exploration drilling Non-operator development projects Discover more: Operational Review Discover more: Operational Review Discover more: Operational Review Discover more: Operational Review 30 30 30 30 P30-37 P30-37 P30-37 P30-37 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 15
