Working Responsibly Operating with integrity 50 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Working Responsibly Mapping our priorities A robust process helps Cairn to identify the topics that matter most to the business and its stakeholders Identifying Cairns Most Important Topics Cairns strategy is to provide investors with exposure In 2013, the prioritisation of Cairns most important to material growth potential alongside mature basin issues was carried out during a materiality workshop development and pre-development assets, all against attended by senior management, facilitated by a a backdrop of balance sheet strength.
So we are third party and monitored by an external CR expert.
continually looking at new business opportunities for The outcomes and their importance to Cairn and which the associated impacts may vary.
It is therefore its stakeholders were mapped onto the materiality essential that CR priorities are assessed at the start matrix shown below.
of reviewing the opportunity and at regular intervals thereafter to reflect this.
Cairn uses a method called Cairns key issues inform CR strategy, a materiality process to identify the issues most objectives, risk management and how important to the Companys stakeholders and we communicate performance business.
The process is based on the AccountAbility Based on the materiality process at the end of 2013, AA1000APS model, an internationally recognised the twelve areas identified to be most significant framework which involves establishing a range of of high importance to our stakeholders and of high relevant existing and emerging topics, which are importance to Cairn are described on the following then assessed and prioritised according to their pages.
Further information on how we identify, significance to the business and to stakeholders.
assess and manage these CR topics as well as the majority of those identified as significant is available in our summary CR report.
More detail is also available on the Cairn website at www.
2013 Year End Materiality Matrix Non-operated JV or investment overseas Preventing major accident event e Exposure through supply Protecting health, chain and contractors Deep water drilling safety, environment Staff recruitment retention and security Succession planning Preventing major spills Political changes Host governments Business ethics Net social and Operating Industry cooperation economic benefits Biodiversity in Arctic Operational effectiveness Sustainable project funding Governance and transparency Strategy and agility New technology Fuel energy efficiency Effluents and waste Corporate governance Equality and diversity Tax Non-operated JV and partnerships Human rights Mature areas Trans-boundary Local community, social enviromental impact and economic investment Remuneration Political changes Home Managing local Noise expectations Climate change Charitable giving Resource use Water use Future field development impacts Product stewardship Ins.
Low Medium Significant High Importance to Cairns Stakeholders Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 51 Importance to Cairn Ins.
Low Medium Significant High Working Responsibly Twelve key CR topics 1.
Preventing a major Protecting health, accident event safety, environment and security Overview people section of this report.
During the year, Overview the HSE Leadership Team has also been raising The prevention of any accident is a key focus HSES awareness both internally and amongst In Cairns business, protecting the health, of the oil and gas industry.
At Cairn, rigorous those we work with by enhancing the contractor safety, security and wellbeing of people and procedures are followed to identify, assess and management process, including engaging the environment is emphasised in all day-to-day manage potential risks and impacts in line with with key contractors at a senior level.
Risks are managed and Further information about how we prevent accidents prevented through safe design, major accidents is available in Responsible In early 2013, a series of workshops were review and assessment of equipment, defined exploration in our CR Summary Report.
held with senior management to refresh their operating procedures, training and performance knowledge of the CRMS.
Contingency plans, equipment and In recognition of the importance given to HSE placed on their role in the delivery of operations trained staff are ready to respond in the unlikely management and performance, the Remuneration that adhere to the Companys HSE standards event of a major accident.
For more information Committee has assigned a 10% weighting in the and procedures.
Cairns safety performance on risk management please see page 44.
Group 2014 KPIs to delivery of steps to further over five years is illustrated in the graphs, and embed our HSE approach and an additional 5% our performance explained, below.
There have HSE leadership weighting to delivery of safety and environmental been no fatalities of Cairn staff or contractors Cairn recognises that systems are not enough performance targets.
during 2013 and for over five years.
and that HSE leadership and culture are also critical.
During 2013 therefore, we rolled out the Health and safety new HSE Culture Framework and trained 79% Over the last year, while there have been a of staff, as described in the How we nurture our number of marine surveys, Cairns main operated activity has been the commencement of the drilling programme in Morocco in Q4 2013.
Given the Companys focus on safety, Cairn was concerned that a number of incidents occurred during early shore base operations for the Morocco drilling programme.
Many of these involved lifting operations.
Together with the contractor companies we undertook detailed investigations of the potential causes of the incidents.
One, which occurred at the Agadir shore base, resulted in a LTI when a contractors employee trapped his finger Lost Time Injury Frequency LTIF Lost time injuries per million hours worked 4.0 3.67 3.2 2.52 2.4 1.6 0.8 0.64 0.60 0.48 0.45 0.42 0.43 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Cairn total for employees and contractors OGP Benchmark Marine risers, on board the Cajun Express, which connect the rig to the BOP during drilling 52 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 0.64 Strategic Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information between the tail and side gates of a truck.
the Cajun Express with senior management from Our CRMS stipulates that environmental aspects Lessons learned from this investigation include the Transocean to re-emphasise the importance of must be managed at every stage of the exploration, importance of a One Task One Talk culture that learning from such incidents and minimising the drilling or development programme.
Possible ensures that staff can concentrate on managing chance of them reoccurring see the case study environmental impacts and their management are the risks for the task in hand rather than being on page 61. evaluated at every decision point in the five-stage overwhelmed by many instructions for a number PDP process.
Environmental Impact Assessments of tasks.
Security EIAs completed by external experts are the main Cairn recorded no security incidents during 2013 means by which these potential environmental As a result of our investigations, additional HSE but recognises that with expansion into new impacts are determined and steps identified to resources were made available, procedures countries, the risks to the security of our people and minimise them.
During 2013, we completed a strengthened and specific training provided for assets have increased.
Following a tender process, we total of three EIAs and a number of other studies local shore base workers, and this provision has been appointed Drum Cussac in March 2013 to provide including an Environmental Baseline survey and included in the preparations for our future shore base external security advice and support to our activities.
an Environmental Area Assessment ahead of operations in Senegal and Republic of Ireland in 2014.
One particular area of concern was the security our operated activities in 2013 and those being of business travellers to these new countries and, planned for 2014.
These play a key role in gaining Regrettably, despite working closely with the to mitigate this risk, an updated travel procedure consents from governments to conduct seismic rig operator, Transocean, ahead of the start of was also issued in May 2013 requiring travel risk surveys and drilling operations.
The permits to operations, there was also a LTI during the early assessments to be completed and travel management proceed with the drilling programme in Senegal stages of the drilling operations offshore Morocco.
plans issued for trips to locations deemed to have and Republic of Ireland are subject to suitable A member of the rig crew was injured whilst carrying heightened health, safety or security risks.
applications and mitigation measures being out planned preventative maintenance to a lift.
Cairn is working to meet these case, a detailed investigation led to the conclusion Environment requirements in early 2014. that improvements to risk assessment processes Governments award exploration and development and work procedures were required.
As a result, opportunities knowing that our licence to operate Climate change Transocean conducted a thorough review and and track record depends on delivering value creation Energy is essential to social and economic progress.
developed a detailed corrective action plan.
for all stakeholders while taking rigorous care for the We recognise that we have a responsibility to take This included specific requirements relating to environment.
Cairn takes a precautionary approach a precautionary approach to the causes of climate the maintenance system and improvements to and avoids, wherever possible, negative impacts change and seek to minimise our own emissions comprehensive risk assessment, job procedures, to the environment and biodiversity and looks to of greenhouse gases.
We reviewed our approach training and communication.
To address Cairns prevent or minimise emissions to air, land and water.
to climate change in 2013 in the light of external safety concerns the CEO, Simon Thomson, visited developments and updated our Business Principles to reflect our findings.
Our approach Total Recordable Injury Rate TRIR Total security incidents Our approach to climate change includes: Total recordable injuries per million hours worked number Measuring, verifying and reporting 12 10 on greenhouse gas emissions: Considering the risks and opportunities 9.6 8 associated with climate change in our projects: 7 Promoting efficient use of energy in our 7.34 6 7.2 6 activities and wherever possible, establishing 5 objectives and targets for energy efficiency: 5.04 4.8 4 Integrating climate change considerations and potential costs into investment decisions: 2.4 2 Engaging with stakeholders, for example, 1.75 1.81 1.68 1.76 1.74 0.64 1 0 0 through participating in industry associations, 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 on mitigation and adaptation to climate change: and Cairn total for employees and contractors Total security incidents Looking to contribute to local programmes OGP Benchmark that address environmental and social impacts of climate change within our sphere of control Notes: OGP is the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers.
Cairn TRIR and LTIF statistics can be higher than the OGP benchmark after only one incident, or a small number of incidents, because our exploration activities often last for only a short time period so there are relatively few hours worked compared with ongoing production and other long term operations.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 53 Tonnes CO e per 1,000 hours worked 2 Working Responsibly Twelve key CR topics Continued 2.
Protecting health, safety, environment and security continued We monitor and manage the greenhouse gases Emissions and level of activity Case Study: GHGs emitted during our activities.
Our report The graph below of our GHG emissions over five covers Cairns global operations from 1 January years show that they are heavily dependent on An invitation to to 31 December each year.
We disclose on an the level of operational activity in any given period.
participate in Senegal operational control basis which means that we In 2010 and 2011 Cairns major drilling programme report on those operated assets over which we offshore Greenland involved drilling eight wells Responding to stakeholders: Cairns have control in terms of CR policies and practices and resulted in higher emissions than in 2012, Environmental and Social Impact Assessment during 2013. when there was a limited amount of survey activity.
As part of our application to carry out exploration Emissions rose in 2013 when we carried out surveys drilling offshore Senegal, we undertook an How we report and commenced drilling offshore Morocco.
Environmental and Social Impact Assessment We disclose our GHG emissions in accordance ESIA.
The aim was to identify the potential impacts with the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting The varying levels of operational activity make it very exploration drilling could have on the local population and Reporting Standard revised edition and use difficult to identify a baseline and set targets for total and habitats.
A consultation process with local emission factors that are appropriate to Cairn for GHG reduction over time.
stakeholders was arranged in accordance with local our scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions.
Scope 1 and our own requirements.
Possible effects on plants emissions arise from fuel combustion during Our GHG emissions intensity is calculated per and animals in marine, coastal and wetland areas were offshore rig, marine vessel and aircraft operations thousand hours worked, as this provides a direct assessed so that we could respond appropriately.
and from the use of land-based vehicles 99.9%, relationship with our activity.
Factors such as the and include the incineration of waste on marine nature of the work in hand i. e. drilling or survey, Identifying stakeholders vessels rigs 0.01%.
Our scope 2 emissions environmental conditions and distances between To help identify stakeholders, we undertook derive from the use of electricity in our offices operations and logistic support bases have further in-country scouting trips, engaged with partners and shore bases.
Scope 3 emissions are emitted significant influences on the intensity of GHG and consultants based in Senegal, used indigenous during business travel, including by air and rail.
and corporate media monitors and internet sources and commissioned an external agency to carry out More information on our GHG accounting and a stakeholder mapping exercise.
Amongst others, reporting methodologies can be found on our Cairn held meetings with national and regional website at www.
com government bodies, industry associations, fishermens organisations, public research centres, supply chain representatives and the NGOs WWF and Oceania.
The engagement helped us Total absolute and normalised GHG emissions scopes 1, 2 and 3 to understand the representative groups key 100 200,000 concerns, consider appropriate responses and 88 gauge the level of support for exploration drilling.
80 160,000 Responsiveness 60 120,000 The reaction of the majority of stakeholders towards 46 exploration during the research and consultation 40 34 80,000 period was positive.
However, a key issue raised 17 8 was a concern over the potential impacts on fishing.
20 40,000 The fishing sector in Senegal is vital both socially and economically, providing a major food source, 63,000 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 jobs and over 12% of the countrys exports by value.
Responding to this stakeholder concern, we were able Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 to present mitigation measures for noise, vibration and tonnes CO2e per 1,000 hours worked all scopes GHG vessel movement, and share study findings showing that exploration drilling activities have a low impact on 1 2012 air travel figures have been re-stated due to miscalculations being identified in the database.
Cairn was also able to address concerns about an oil spill by explaining our Oil Spill Prevention Notes: We use emission factors from the API Compendium 2009 and also from EEMS 2008 UK Environmental and Emissions Monitoring System for the Department of Energy and Climate Change DECC.
For calculating Scope 2 Emissions we use emission factors from the IEA International Energy Agency report CO Emissions from 2 Fuel Combustion Highlights 2013 Edition.
For calculating air travel emissions we use journey type domestic, short haul, long haul, seat class economy, premium economy, business, first, distance, and an uplift factor.
For some flights, where the seat class is not known, or data is not available broken into flight sectors with the associated seat class, applicable average emission factors may be used.
For rail travel emissions we use rail type national rail, eurostar and distance.
We use emission factors from 2012 Guidelines to Defra DECCs GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting.
For further details about our GHG emissions calculations, please see our website.
54 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Tonnes CO e 2 24,891 421 553 151,181 479 602 166,266 269 447 1,589 280 1 720 25,030 420 1,381 Strategic Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 3.
Preventing major spills Overview Case study: A primary focus for the oil and gas industry and A supply of equipment and aircraft for the aerial Oil spill prevention and a material issue for Cairn is prevention of major application of dispersant to the water surface: contingency planning in Morocco accidents and hydrocarbon spills.
Cairn actively The Sub-sea Incident Response Toolkit SIRT, supports the International Association of Oil & which enables dispersant to be applied at a Gas Producers OGP initiatives in these areas.
sub-sea level, subject to government approval.
Most notably, we are participating in the Joint This reduces the amount of oil reaching the Industry Project JIP for enhancing the industrys surface or the shore, and increases its approach to oil spill prevention and response.
amenability to biodegradation: The Global Dispersant Stockpile, which provides a Risk assessment and response planning stockpile of dispersants with the widest worldwide One of the key outcomes from the JIP is a new approvals, large enough to provide for serious Offshore Cairn HSE adviser on board approach to oil spill risk assessment and response incidents: and the Cajun Express drilling unit offshore Morocco planning which includes a structured and detailed The Capping Stack System CSS, which can be analysis of oil spill risk, including development deployed to shut-in the well and prevent oil from of potential spill scenarios, likelihood and Meticulously designed and extensively escaping to sea, at which point subsea dispersant consequence analysis, detailed modelling and examined wells are supported by is no longer needed.
development of credible response capability.
Cairn comprehensive contingency plans has applied this new approach in developing its oil Oil spill prevention in Morocco, and all locations In addition, Cairn has carried out training and spill response plans for the Morocco, Senegal and where Cairn operates, starts with well designs practical exercises to ensure that priority actions Republic of Ireland offshore drilling programmes.
that exceed requirements for the expected are understood, equipment handling is mastered characteristics of the geological formations to be and appropriate logistics are in place.
To complement this initiative we invested heavily in encountered.
Primary and secondary well control securing access to the Capping Stack System, the is built into the design as described on page 59.
In Morocco this specifically included: Subsea Incident Response Toolkit and the Global Oil Spill Contingency Plan and Emergency Dispersant Stockpile, all of which are managed by Tertiary well control Response Procedure completed in August Oil Spill Response Limited OSRL see the case In the very unlikely event that both primary and and October 2013 for the Foum Draa and study adjacent for more information.
As shown secondary well control barriers are breached, tertiary Juby Maritime exploration wells: in the tables below, there were no oil or fuel spills controls to regain well control and collect or disperse Oil Spill Contingency Plan Logistics workshop to the environment in 2013. spilled oil are deployed.
A series of scenarios are held in July 2013: identified which define possible blow-out sizes Oil Spill Response certified training and practical irrespective of their probability.
These are modelled to training in equipment deployment provided by Total spills number identify the worst credible case discharge WCCD.
OSRL in July and October 2013: The WCCD is used for detailed oil spill modelling in A series of desk-top exercises and focused 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 conjunction with information gathered via the EIA to training sessions in Q4 2013: and Oil 0 0 0 0 0 ensure that an appropriate oil spill contingency plan is An emergency response real-time exercise Fuel 1 1 1 0 0 developed.
The plan is based on a widely used three carried out in October 2013. tiered response system.
Tier 1 is the response to a Chemical 0 3 0 1 0 localised spill close to the operation.
Equipment and Waste 1 0 0 0 0 personnel to respond to a localised spill are located on Other 0 0 2 0 0 the rig and support vessels.
Should the incident prove beyond this local capability or affect a larger area, resources for an enhanced response Tier 2 are provided from the shore base.
Tier 3 response Total spills barrels resources are located internationally and can be 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 mobilised through Cairns membership of OSRL.
Oil 0 0 0 0 0 OSRL membership gives Cairn access to: Fuel 0.01 28.3 0.06 0 0 A substantial supply of mechanical equipment Chemical 0 56.85 0 2.20 0 including booms, skimmers and collection equipment for offshore and near shore response: Waste 0.06 0 0 0 0 Specialist fire-resistant booms for application of Other 0 0 9.44 0 0 in-situ burning techniques: Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 55 Working Responsibly Twelve key CR topics Continued 4.
5. Business ethics Net social and economic benefit Overview Activities during 2013 to enhance our approach Overview to anti-bribery and corruption included: Cairns ability to secure licences and deliver Conducting an external review of the In delivering our strategy we regularly operate in operations effectively depends on robust anti-bribery and corruption practices countries with no or relatively little oil and gas business ethics and transparent relationships employed on several transactions.
We use a range of environmental, social and with governments, communities, partners and enhancements to our approach to assessing human rights assessments and baseline surveys to suppliers globally.
potential business partners, which were assess the potential effects of operations, tailoring rolled out to senior management through them to meet government requirements.
ESIAs and Zero tolerance for bribery and corruption a workshop run by an external expert: social baseline studies are designed as participatory Cairn operates with integrity and has a zero Reviewing supply chain anti-bribery and processes in which the research and discussion often tolerance approach to bribery and corruption.
corruption practices with those responsible for include environmental issues, employment and Country and Group level anti-bribery and tendering and evaluating bids for services: and livelihoods, economy, local business participation, corruption risk screening forms an integral part Working with Good Corporation to put in place education and training, community health, of the decision making process when entering local anti-bribery and corruption procedures infrastructure, culture and heritage.
new countries or negotiating with potential for use in Senegal.
If concerns arise, Using local suppliers a third party anti-bribery and corruption review Further information about our approach to Our activities such as surveying and drilling in is undertaken.
The purpose of this research and business ethics can be found in our CR report the exploration phase tend to be short term and assessment is to establish whether potential in Ethical business practices.
temporary with future activity dependent on issues should result in Cairn declining the success.
As such, the Companys procurement policy opportunity or, if concerns are identified, As shown in the graph below, all staff were is an important opportunity to create social and whether they are manageable.
The outcome of trained in our updated anti-corruption policies economic benefit for host communities during the anti-bribery and corruption assessments is and procedures when they were rolled out in these activities: however, these can be limited in included in the investment proposals.
In 2013 new staff were trained.
Cairn encourages the use of local is a legal requirement, we believe it is also critical suppliers wherever the right expertise is available, to our reputation as a well run business.
or can be developed, without compromising the standards and principles required in the industry.
We include local companies with the required competence in bid lists and we ask international contractors to consider the use of local subcontractors where possible.
The graphs below Employees trained in Cairns anti-corruption Contractors that are national policies and procedures % % 20 100 15 80 60 10 40 5 20 0 Greenland Morocco Senegal Cairn Total 0 2011 2012 2013 Percentage of contractors that were national in 2013 % employees trained Note: All Cairn employees have been trained in Cairns anti-corruption policies and procedures.
These are the figures for employees who received training in the reporting year.
56 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 79% 100% 27% 11% 18% 3% 15% Strategic Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information show that an average of 15% of contractors used by Case Study: Cairn in 2013 were national and that the percentage of managers we hired from the local population in Finally an underlying anxiety was identified Giving people time 2013 varied with the expertise available in the about skills development in the area, as it is country of operation.
In preparation for possible drilling, subject to recognised that opportunities for young approvals, Cairn invested in two rounds of people are limited, which is also true of the Cairn is committed to supporting skills development stakeholder engagement in the Baffin Bay small towns nearby.
in local communities as well as using local labour.
By organising seminars, sharing information with Applying outcomes local enterprises and encouraging alliances between Greenlandic regulations require oil companies to The outcomes of this consultation will be included in local contractors and international companies, the carry out a Social Impact Assessment SIA before Cairns future SIA submission which will provide the Company seeks to drive continuous improvement undertaking exploration drilling.
basis for developing an Impact Benefit Agreement of local workforce skills, including skills that are between the Company and the Government of transferable to industries other than the oil and The SIA must be a participatory process and Cairn Greenland in any future operations.
followed up its SIA scoping consultation tour in 2011, Impact Benefit Agreements between Cairn 2012 with a consultation tour in the Baffin Bay and the Government of Greenland provided In Morocco, Cairn is currently working with a area of North West Greenland regarding plans support to education and community development number of local suppliers including the offshore for potential future exploration drilling in the Pitu initiatives: training opportunities within operations: base logistics agent, the port authority, the airport block.
Three key findings emerged: local business opportunities: and institutional authority, helicopter operations handling services, A high proportion of the residents in this North capacity building.
waste management contractors, security services, Western part of Greenland are hunters and accommodation provider, office services and a fishermen, and their central concern was the consultancy offering environmental and social effect drilling could have on marine mammals: impact assessments.
The second major discussion topic was the potential impact of an oil spill on the local For more detail about how Cairn delivers net social environment, upon which they rely for their and economic benefit, please see Engaging for livelihoods: and the long term and Partners in excellence in our CR Summary Report, and our website at www.
In 2011 Cairn established a community development fund in Greenland to support local projects including the building of this activity park in Ilulissat Managers hired from the local population % 100 80 60 40 20 0 Greenland Morocco Norway Spain UK Cairn Total Percentage managerial employees hired from the local population in 2013 Greenlandic regulations require oil companies to carry out a Social Impact Assessment SIA before undertaking exploration drilling.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 57 50% 100% 100% 100% 97% Working Responsibly Twelve key CR topics Continued 6.
Governance Corporate and transparency governance Overview principles of the EITI, a multi-stakeholder Overview initiative aimed at bringing transparency to Cairns reputation for sound governance rests on payments to Governments from mineral or Cairns licence to operate depends on transparent making well informed and carefully considered oil and gas extraction, and we have voluntarily relationships with governments, communities, decisions wherever we operate.
When entering disclosed payments to Governments in annual partners, shareholders and suppliers globally.
into a new country, our due diligence process CR Reports.
The Company strengthened and Therefore commitment to high standards of starts with a thorough country risk assessment.
formalised its commitment to transparency of corporate governance, and living by them, We evaluate the commercial, legal, political, payments by becoming a Participating Company is critical.
regulatory, health, safety, environmental, in the EITI in September 2013. security and human rights issues and how As a Company, Cairn empowers management best to manage these.
In addition, technical In January 2014, Cairn received a request from and teams to make decisions, yet has in place and economic challenges and potential the Indian Income Tax Department to provide policies and procedures to escalate decisions business partners involved in an investment information in relation to the year ended 31 to the Management Team, Executive Team or opportunity are assessed.
The correspondence indicates that Board level as appropriate.
the enquiry stems from amendments introduced Engaging with stakeholders in the 2012 Indian Finance Act with retrospective Risk management is a guiding theme for every The development and maintenance of good effect which seek to tax prior year transactions.
decision we make and is comprehensively applied relationships with Cairns stakeholders is essential While the interactions with the Indian Income Tax across the business.
The Board sets the Group to the success of the business.
We maintain Department continue, Cairn has been restricted Risk Appetite and monitors the effectiveness transparent and open channels to engage from selling its shares in CIL valued at US$1.0bn of our risk management process.
with stakeholders throughout the lifecycle as at 31 December 2013.
This matter is of our business activities.
We communicate addressed further in the Financial Review CR at Board level regularly and transparently on economic, on pages 38 to 41.
The Board takes ultimate responsibility for Cairns social, and environmental impact as well as Group Business Principles and CR management, changes in operations that may affect employees, while the Management Team ensures that all Total payments to governments customers, investors, partners, the environment, work programmes are executed responsibly US$000 the community or other stakeholders.
and that risk management is fully integrated.
CR performance is a standing agenda item at 100% 20,000 We believe it is important to discuss issues affecting of Board meetings and CR considerations through the business with government.
All relations with the due diligence process are integrated into 16,000 public bodies are consistent with the Code of 100% of investment proposals submitted for Business Ethics.
In addition, key or emerging 12,000 issues may merit particular consideration.
Tax transparency In 2013, specific presentations were made to 8,000 Transparency about tax contributions and other the Board regarding Cairns approach to well payments to Governments are two specific areas control, an update on anti-bribery and corruption, 4,000 of interest to stakeholders.
Cairn operates in governance, the OSRL Cap and Secure Services various different territories with diverse tax and the Cajun Express rig acceptance criteria.
0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 obligations and requirements and the Group Findings from the investigation into the ensures that in every territory it is committed to November 2013 lost time injury on the Cajun Payments to central government complying fully with local tax rules and regulations.
Express, the rig engaged for our operated well Payments to state local government Additionally, the Group has adopted a policy to programme in Morocco, were shared.
Senior profit oil and gas Corporation tax Other taxes ensure that any tax planning activity is always management from Transocean, the Cajun aligned with the commercial reality.
We have also Express contractor, presented their approach been explicit since 2005 in our support for the to managing HSE on the rig.
The HSE Leadership Team is chaired by Jann Brown, the Managing Director & CFO.
It provides oversight on our approach and performance on all health, safety, environmental, security and human rights matters.
Its members include a number of senior managers from across the business representing Executive, Corporate and operational responsibilities.
58 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 86915,364 1 4,569 7,544 11,730 3,098 139 5,439 6,103 Strategic Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 8.
Human rights Corporate Deep-water governance drilling Overview Overview Secondary well control Secondary well control is provided by high Cairn supports the principles in the United Cairns reputation for responsible exploration specification blow-out preventers BOPs.
The Nations Global Compact and applies a rights in shallow or deep-water rests upon a rigorous BOP consists of a series of mechanical sealing aware approach to managing human rights approach to well design, well control and devices called rams with associated back-up aligned with the Guiding Principles on blow-out prevention in drilling operations.
If the primary drilling fluid barrier is Business and Human Rights.
Respecting applies the same uncompromising well design lost, the blow-out preventer rams and valves human rights is critical to the development approach, with an emphasis on prevention, to all are operated to close the well, regain control and and maintenance of effective relationships categories of water, whether shallow or deep.
stop any fluid flow to the external environment.
with the communities where we operate.
We recognise that in deep-water wells, the Cairns Human Rights procedures were Well design complexity of these secondary well control updated in 2012, and in March 2013 we Wells are designed to exceed the expected devices increases due to the need to rely upon provided human rights training on these characteristics of the formations to be dynamic positioning systems to keep the drilling policies and procedures to 50% of CR and encountered and are assessed by an independent rig on location.
This updated guidance external expert well examiner who verifies that aims to provide an effective approach to the design complies with the stated standards.
Tertiary well control considering and managing human rights The requirements of the Cairn Well Engineering In the very rare event that both primary and issues that may arise.
and Construction WEC and CR Management secondary well control barriers are breached, Systems are translated into specific well designs, tertiary controls to regain well control and collect Human rights due diligence project plans and procedures.
These are or disperse spilled oil are deployed.
These are Cairn applies human rights screening as part independently verified through a series of reviews described in the case study Oil spill prevention of the due diligence process before entering from an expert, regulators and partners.
An and contingency planning in Morocco on page 55. a new country.
This identifies and checks independent expert assesses critical equipment any human rights issues that arise through and systems before drilling can commence.
the investment proposal due diligence and establishes any risks requiring management Primary well control by the Operator be that Cairn or another In any well design, the primary well control barrier before proceeding.
We also use the results of is provided by the weight of the drilling fluid column human rights screening assessments to decide acting on the hole, or wellbore, created by the drill whether ESIAs require human rights elements.
This barrier is sustained For example in 2013, human rights screening by maintaining a wellbore fluid column with a assessments were carried out to inform the higher pressure inside the wellbore than the ESIAs completed for our drilling programmes fluid pressure in the pore spaces of the rock in Morocco and Senegal.
Prior to farming in formation itself.
to the Cap Boujdour permit we undertook a detailed review of Kosmos Business Principles The Cajun Express drilling unit and the extensive analysis carried out by Kosmos and its advisers of the political, legal and human rights situation.
Kosmos has signed a joint declaration of principles with Moroccos Office National des Hydrocarbures et des Mines ONHYM stating that exploration and production will comply with the principles of the Moroccan constitution and international standards, including the United Nations Charter.
This requires local populations to be involved and consulted and stipulates that they will benefit equitably from exploration and production.
Kosmos also stated its commitment to protecting the environment and complying with sustainable development requirements.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 59 Working Responsibly Twelve key CR topics Continued 10.
Operating Exposure through in the Arctic supply chain and contractors Overview Overview Leading from the top To ensure that key contractors take Cairns Exploration in the wider Arctic region, beyond The majority of man-hours worked in connection HSE expectations on board and put safety first, the High Arctic, is not new and began onshore with Cairns business are contracted out at times a programme of senior management briefings to in the 1920s and offshore in the 1970s, with of significant operational activity.
As shown in contractors on HSE topics has also been a priority a total of 10,000 wells drilled to date.
Choosing the adjacent graph, the number of hours worked in 2013.
This has been supplemented by a senior to realise the value of its potential resources, by contractors rises and falls in line with our management tour of activity, described in the the Government of Greenland has awarded level of activity, while the number worked by adjacent case study.
Cairn and other companies, including Shell, employees remains relatively stable over time.
Statoil ASA, ConocoPhillips and Maersk, For more information about how we work with licences to explore, drill and potentially Cairns relationships with suppliers are crucial.
contractors please read Partners in excellence develop hydrocarbon resources in its Our focus is on selecting the right partners, in our CR Summary Report.
territory for the benefit of its people.
communicating expectations, ensuring effective policies and management processes, monitoring Total hours worked Responsibility performance and sharing lessons learned.
hours Cairn is conscious of its responsibility when operating in frontier areas such as the Arctic Choosing partners carefully 3,500,000 and is highly informed about the risks of drilling Experience, competence and responsibility in all conditions and develops plans to mitigate are some of the key considerations when it 2,800,000 risks accordingly.
comes to choosing the right people to supply the provisions, equipment and services needed to 2,100,000 Cairns track record and experience demonstrate help run Cairns business.
We apply a rigorous that we are well equipped for the task of exploring selection process in choosing contractors, 1,400,000 for oil and gas.
We completed a range of operations including plotting potential partners on an in Greenland since 2008 9, including drilling eight HSE contractor risk evaluation matrix.
This is 700,000 offshore wells, without any serious injuries or embedded in our Contractor Management significant environmental incidents such as spills.
Procedures, updated in 2013, and built into 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 We contributed a total benefit of 186m to the the PDP.
Employees Contractors Focus on HSE Activities in 2013 In a period of increasing activity in new countries, In 2013, Cairn completed a site survey and part of Cairns HSE Leadership Teams drive consultation in preparation for future drilling has been to emphasise the importance of HSE activities.
In addition, four wells from our considerations in 2013, and this has extended previous drilling campaigns offshore Greenland both to our activity and to contractor selection were permanently plugged and abandoned.
During 2013 we put in place Activities in Greenland in 2013 provided a Strategic Contractors Engagement Plan.
We valuable information for future exploration.
engaged pro-actively at the senior management level with 91% of the key contractors identified, Our detailed research into the impact of drilling on and delivered a programme of briefings on the marine environment, described in Monitoring HSE topics.
drilling impacts in our CR Summary Report, has helped to fine-tune modelling used in the preparation of further environmental impact assessments.
To date, our findings show that drilling impacts on the marine environment are not significant, particularly when compared to some other types of marine activity, for instance trawling.
60 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 308,656 1,257,921 365,354 2,946,065 290,392 1,616,750 306,178 39,023 366,232 426,908 Strategic Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information 12.
Non-operated joint venture and investment management overseas Case Study: Overview Due diligence is a key component of Cairns Management visit to Cajun Express, offshore Morocco approach to assessing investment opportunities.
This involves carrying out our own assessments Senior management on board the Cajun Express and checks on all aspects of CR and also commissioning third party and peer reviews where appropriate.
Whether joint venture partners or suppliers are operating on Cairns behalf, we review their CR approach and track record to ensure that they are meeting our criteria.
Assessing CR in JV partners Cairn counts both investments operated by the Company and joint ventures managed by business partners i. e. operated and non-operated investments in its portfolio of assets.
Our acquisition and farm in activity in 2012 13 has given us access as non-operator to opportunities with other companies such as Statoil ASA, Premier Oil, Kosmos Energy, EnQuest and Chariot Oil & Gas.
In addition to assessing partner principles and practices, we regularly assess the HSE standards A senior management tour re-emphasised During the visit, safety was paramount.
Two of contractors selected by our operating partners.
the importance of high HSE standards thorough safety briefings were conducted during Cairn influences its partners by reviewing operator Following a lost time injury onboard the the day: one before transferring by helicopter criteria for the HSE ranking of contractors, making Cajun Express during drilling of the first well to the rig, conducted by Heliconia the helicopter HSE evaluations of development concepts and offshore Morocco in November 2013, senior contractor and one on arrival on the rig from commenting on project risk matrices.
management, led by CEO Simon Thomson, Transocean personnel responsible for day-tovisited the rig to re-emphasise the importance day management onboard the Cajun Express.
Cairn has a minority 10% shareholding in CIL of learning from such incidents and promote This included encouraging the visitors to employ and as a consequence has limited opportunity to practices to help minimise the chance of them the Time Out mechanism if they saw anything influence their strategy or approach to CR matters.
The visit reflected managements of concern at any time.
Time out is designed commitment to ensuring Cairns high standards to transcend language and seniority barriers of HSE management and performance are met on board the rig so that at any time anyone can and consistently maintained by contractors, one halt and question an activity by using the phrase of the Groups 2013 CR objectives.
the visit Simon reiterated the importance, above all else, of safety throughout our operations engaging with management and personnel involved in rig floor activities.
Simon was accompanied by a number of those responsible at Cairn for delivering a safe drilling campaign including the Director of Exploration, the Drilling Manager, the Morocco Asset Manager and the Morocco Country Manager.
We also took this opportunity to invite our partner the Moroccan National Oil Company, ONHYM Office National des Hydrocarbures et des Mines, to participate in the visit.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 61
