Board of Directors Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Simon Thomson Dr Mike Watts Jann Brown Sir Bill Gammell Todd Hunt Chief Executive 49 Deputy Chief Executive Managing Director Non-Executive Non-Executive 58 & CFO 58 Chairman 61 Director 61 Simon Thomson was appointed Mike Watts is Deputy CEO and Jann Brown holds an MA from Sir Bill Gammell holds a BA in Todd Hunt has 40 years Chief Executive in July 2011. has over 32 years experience in Edinburgh University and a Economics and Accountancy experience in the oil and gas Prior to becoming Chief Executive, the oil industry.
He was formerly diploma in accounting from from Stirling University and has industry.
He is President and joint he had been Legal and Commercial the CEO and Managing Director Heriot-Watt University.
Jann over 30 years experience in the owner of Atropos Exploration Director since 2006.
Simon of the Amsterdam listed Holland joined Cairn in 1998 after a career international oil and gas industry.
Company and Atropos Production originally joined Cairn in 1995 Sea Search, which was acquired in the accountancy profession.
In 2006, he was awarded a Company based in Dallas, Texas.
and holds an LLB Hons from by Cairn in 1995, and where he Jann is Vice President of knighthood for services to Aberdeen University and was the architect of the South the Institute of Chartered industry in Scotland.
a Diploma in Legal Practice Asia strategy.
Mike previously Accountants of Scotland and from Glasgow University.
held senior technical and a member of the Chartered management roles with Institute of Taxation.
Term of Office Simon was appointed to the Board Mike was appointed to the Board Jann was appointed to the Board Sir Bill founded Cairn and was Todd was appointed as an in November 2006 as Legal and in 1997 and became Deputy in November 2006 as Finance appointed to the Board as Chief independent non-executive Commercial Director and became Chief Executive in March 2009.
Director and became Managing Executive on its initial listing in director in May 2003, however Chief Executive in July 2011.
In July 2011, he stood given his length of tenure he down from that role and became is no longer considered to non-executive Chairman, be independent.
He does not intend to seek re-election at the AGM.
Independent Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable No External Appointments Simon is a non-executive Mike is a non-executive director Jann was appointed a nonSir Bill is a director of Glasgow Todd is President and joint director of Grahams of SOCO International plc.
executive director and chair of 2014 Limited and was appointed owner of Atropos Exploration The Family Dairy Limited.
the Audit Committee of Troy chairman of Genius Foods Limited Company and Atropos Income & Growth Trust plc in in March 2012.
She is also a member of the 30% Executive Pipeline Action Group.
Committee Membership Simon is a member of the Mike is a member of the Group Jann is a member of the Sir Bill is chair of the Nomination Todd is a member of the Nomination Committee and Risk Management Committee.
Governance Committee and Committee, and a member of the Remuneration Committee, attends meetings of the attends meetings of the Audit Governance Committee, and the Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee by Committee by invitation.
attends the Remuneration the Governance Committee.
He is also a member She is also chair of the Group Committee by invitation.
of the Group Risk Management Risk Management Committee.
62 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Non-Executive Directors Simon Thomson Dr Mike Watts Jann Brown Sir Bill Gammell Todd Hunt Iain McLaren Dr James Buckee M. Jacqueline Alexander Berger Ian Tyler Sheppard QC Chief Executive 49 Deputy Chief Executive Managing Director Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive Non-Executive 58 & CFO 58 Chairman 61 Director 61 Director 63 Director 68 Director 58 Director 48 Director 53 Simon Thomson was appointed Mike Watts is Deputy CEO and Jann Brown holds an MA from Sir Bill Gammell holds a BA in Todd Hunt has 40 years Iain McLaren has significant Dr James Buckee Jim Buckee has M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC Alexander Berger is Chief Ian Tyler was Chief Executive of Chief Executive in July 2011. has over 32 years experience in Edinburgh University and a Economics and Accountancy experience in the oil and gas experience in the oil and gas more than 40 years experience Jackie Sheppard was previously Executive Officer of Balfour Beatty plc from 2005 Prior to becoming Chief Executive, the oil industry.
He is President and joint sector.
He is a Chartered in the oil and gas industry, having Executive Vice President, Oranje-Nassau Energie B. V. until March 2013.
During this time he had been Legal and Commercial the CEO and Managing Director Heriot-Watt University.
Jann over 30 years experience in the owner of Atropos Exploration Accountant and was formerly gained extensive international Corporate and Legal at Talisman a private Dutch exploration he took the company from being Director since 2006.
Company and Atropos Production Senior Partner for KPMG experience with Shell, Burmah Energy Inc. a post she held for and production company primarily a UK construction originally joined Cairn in 1995 Sea Search, which was acquired in the accountancy profession.
He was appointed 15 years from 1993 to 2008. based in Amsterdam.
business, to a global infrastructure and holds an LLB Hons from by Cairn in 1995, and where he Jann is Vice President of knighthood for services to President of Talisman Energy Inc She holds a BA from the Memorial Alexander holds a Masters services business.
Ian graduated Aberdeen University and was the architect of the South the Institute of Chartered industry in Scotland.
in 1991 and CEO in 1993 and held University of Newfoundland, BA degree in Petroleum with a first class degree in a Diploma in Legal Practice Asia strategy.
Mike previously Accountants of Scotland and both posts until retiring from and MA in Jurisprudence from Engineering from Delft Commerce from Birmingham from Glasgow University.
held senior technical and a member of the Chartered Talisman in 2007.
Oxford University and LLB from University and an MBA University.
He then qualified management roles with Institute of Taxation.
Jackie was from Rotterdam School as a Chartered Accountant with Premier, Burmah and Shell.
admitted to the Law Society of of Management.
Ian Alberta Canada in 1982 and was subsequently held a number of appointed Queens Counsel for senior finance and operational the Province of Alberta in 2008. positions within listed companies.
Term of Office Term of Office Simon was appointed to the Board Mike was appointed to the Board Jann was appointed to the Board Sir Bill founded Cairn and was Todd was appointed as an Iain was appointed as an Jim was appointed as an Jackie was appointed as an Alexander was appointed as an Ian was appointed as an in November 2006 as Legal and in 1997 and became Deputy in November 2006 as Finance appointed to the Board as Chief independent non-executive independent non-executive independent non-executive independent non-executive independent non-executive independent non-executive Commercial Director and became Chief Executive in March 2009.
Director and became Managing Executive on its initial listing in director in May 2003, however director in July 2008. director in January 2009. director in May 2010. director in May 2010. director in June 2013.
Ian will Chief Executive in July 2011.
In July 2011, he stood given his length of tenure he He does not intend to seek succeed Sir Bill as non-executive down from that role and became is no longer considered to re-election at the AGM.
Independent Independent Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable No External Appointments External Appointments Simon is a non-executive Mike is a non-executive director Jann was appointed a nonSir Bill is a director of Glasgow Todd is President and joint Iain is chairman of Investors Jim is non-executive chairman of Jackie is a non-executive director Alexander is Chief Executive Ian is non-executive chairman director of Grahams of SOCO International plc.
executive director and chair of 2014 Limited and was appointed owner of Atropos Exploration Capital Trust plc and a director EnQuest PLC.
He is also a director and has been named as the Officer of Oranje-Nassau of Al Noor Hospitals Group plc, The Family Dairy Limited.
the Audit Committee of Troy chairman of Genius Foods Limited Company and Atropos of Baillie Gifford Shin Nippon plc, of Rodinia Oil Corp. PetroFrontier successor chairperson of Emera Energie B. V. a non-executive director Income & Growth Trust plc in in March 2012.
Scottish Enterprise and Mitra Corp. Black Swan Energy Inc. Inc, a public Canada-based and chairman of the Audit January 2013.
She is also a Energy Limited.
He is also Magma Global Limited and international energy generation, Committee of Cable & member of the 30% Executive a past President of the Institute KERN Partners Limited.
transportation and distribution Wireless Communications plc, Pipeline Action Group.
She is also a director a non-executive director of BAE of Scotland.
of the general partner of Pacific Systems plc and non-executive NorthWest LNG LP, which Chairman of Bovis Homes was formed for the purpose Group PLC.
of constructing, owning and operating an LNG facility in British Colombia.
She is a founder and director of two privately financed upstream oil and gas exploration companies.
Committee Membership Committee Membership Simon is a member of the Mike is a member of the Group Jann is a member of the Sir Bill is chair of the Nomination Todd is a member of the Iain is the chair of the Audit Jim is a member of the Jackie is chair of both the Alexander is a member of the Ian is a member of the Nomination Committee and Risk Management Committee.
Governance Committee and Committee, and a member of the Remuneration Committee, Committee and a member of Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee, the Nomination Audit Committee and the attends meetings of the attends meetings of the Audit Governance Committee, and the Nomination Committee and the Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Committee and the Governance Remuneration Committee.
Remuneration Committee by Committee by invitation.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 63
