How We Work Responsibly Cairn Energys approach to managing Corporate Responsibility links its core values to everyday practice Our goal is to contribute towards meeting the Cairns Business Principles and CR policies, which corruption.
These Business Principles and CR worlds energy needs responsibly which means are based on our core values of building respect, Policies were updated most recently in September protecting the health, safety, security and nurturing relationships and acting responsibly 2013 to reflect the expectations of our stakeholders wellbeing of people and the environment takes the 3Rs, define the Companys approach towards and to strengthen the Companys commitments priority.
We have comprehensive systems in people, the environment, local communities and to anti-bribery and corruption, biodiversity and place to manage our activities responsibly, known wider society.
Our Business Principles spell out our climate change management.
Cairn also became a as Corporate Responsibility CR.
It is against this commitment to the UN Global Compact through Participatory Company to the Extractive Industries backdrop that we look to deliver value for our which we align our operations and strategies with Transparency Initiative EITI in September 2013. shareholders from within a balanced and the ten universally accepted principles in the areas Our Business Principles and CR policies are available sustainable portfolio.
of human rights, labour, environment and antion our website at www.
Responsibility PLC Board PLC Board PLC Board Management Management Team Team Core Values Business CR Policies HSE Management Principles Culture Systems and Framework Corporate Building Health, Procedures Respect Safety & Security Policy Corporate Responsibility Management System Nurturing Environmental Relationships Policy Business Risk Management System Acting Corporate Responsibly Social Anti Bribery Responsibility & Corruption Policy Management System Executive Team Executive Executive Team HSE Audit Committee Team Leadership Risk Management Team Committee Assurance provision 20 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The graphic below shows how the Companys values, Our Project Delivery Process PDP ensures that the Our Business Principles and CR principles and management system embed good Companys Business Model and Business Principles policies define the Companys business practices to deliver safe and responsible work on the ground in our projects and activities.
It also identifies responsibilities for each It comprises a five stage gated approach in which, approach towards people, the element and for assurance that the processes have at each stage, the progress of a project is assessed environment, local communities been applied effectively.
This approach helps equip and, if set criteria are met, a decision is made whether us to respond to developing our business, while to move on to the next stage.
In common with Cairns and wider society.
looking to meet expectations of our stakeholders entire CR Management System CRMS, the PDP is for sustainable development.
designed to reduce risks to acceptable levels.
In 2012, Cairn adopted an HSE Culture Framework, Reflecting our commitment to prioritise HSE which defines the types of behaviours to be adopted throughout the business, the HSE Leadership Team by everyone to ensure a healthy and safe working chaired by Jann Brown, the Managing Director & environment.
During 2013, it was rolled out to staff Chief Financial Officer CFO, and comprising key in the Edinburgh, Stavanger and London offices managers continued to provide oversight on the through a series of 15 interactive workshops, Companys approach and performance on all health, through which each team identified their plans safety, environmental, security and human rights for further strengthening their approach to matters during 2013.
Management Management Team Asset Management Asset Asset Team Management Management Functional Department Heads Project Project Training and Monitoring Delivery Deliverables Awareness & Reporting Why Procedures Process Corporate How Responsibility Management Risk and System impact assessments Ready Business Risk Management System Management plans Finished Anti Bribery & Corruption Management Emergency System response Learn plans HSE Leadership Team Project Gatekeepers Functional Department Heads Management Functional Team Department Corporate Team Functional Department Heads Risk Management Committee Heads Corporate Team External report and assurance Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 21
