What Cairn Did In 2013 A year of progress Quarter One Quarter Two January to March 2013 April to June 2013 Q1: Building Q2: Developing a Platform the Business Seismic survey vessel Cajun Express drilling unit Cairn farmed-in to the Aragon prospect 30% WI in the In April, Cairn secured a year-long contract with Transocean for UK in January.
Furthermore, Cairn was awarded interests in the Cajun Express drilling unit for use on its multi-well frontier two further licences in Norway in the Awards in Predefined exploration drilling campaign in North West Africa in Q4 2013 Areas APA licence round.
In March, drilling operations and 2014.
The Cajun Express is a deepwater, 5th generation, completed on the Timon exploration well located in the UK dynamically positioned, semi-submersible drilling rig with Cairn 25% WI, as non-operator.
The well reached a total shallow mooring capabilities and a 15,000 psi blow out depth of 10,787 feet but did not encounter hydrocarbons preventer BOP stack.
and was plugged and abandoned.
In March, Cairn added to its Atlantic Margin portfolio focus by farming-in In May, Cairn added further opportunities to its Atlantic Margin as Operator to three blocks offshore Senegal with a WI of 65%.
The three programme with new acreage in the Republic of Ireland following the contiguous blocks Rufisque Offshore, Sangomar Offshore and Sangomar farm-in, as Operator, to two licences in the Porcupine Basin which contain 2 Deep cover an area of approximately 7,490km in the Senegalese portion the undeveloped Spanish Point gas condensate and Burren oil discoveries, of the productive  Basin.
Subject to the and six adjacent licensing option blocks.
Cairn and its JV partners will necessary approvals, Cairn and its JV partners will begin their two well commence an appraisal well on the Spanish Point discovery in Q2 Q3 2 2 exploration programme in H1 2014.
The acreage covers an area of 2,753km with more than 500km covered by 3D seismic data.
2 During this period, Cairn also completed 680km of 3D seismic acquisition over the Juby Maritime block, offshore Morocco.
During this period the Group had success through its non-operated interests in the UK and Norwegian sectors of the North Sea: the appraisal well on the Skarfjell discovery Cairn 20% WI, and the Bonneville exploration well and its side track on the Catcher licence Cairn 30% WI all discovered oil.
Discover more: Operational Review Discover more: Operational Review 30 P30-37 30 P30-37 02 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information Quarter Three Quarter Four July to September 2013 October to December 2013 Q3: Shaping Q4: Commencing the Portfolio Exploration Blackford Dolphin drilling unit Cajun Express drilling unit In July, Cairn entered into a contract to secure the drilling rig In October 2013, Cairn began operations on the FD-I frontier Blackford Dolphin for the Spanish Point appraisal well in exploration well offshore Morocco the first well in its frontier the Republic of Ireland in 2014.
The rig, which underwent exploration drilling programme using the Cajun Express.
The a US$400m deepwater upgrade in 2006, is targeted primary target of the well was a Late Jurassic Early Cretaceous to begin operations on this well in Q2 Q3 2014. deepwater turbidite slope fan and channel complex.
Although the well penetrated the oldest stratigraphic section of any deepwater exploration well along the Moroccan margin it did not encounter sandstone reservoirs.
Gas shows and gas composition ratios encountered in the well have confirmed an active thermogenic petroleum system.
The well has been plugged and abandoned.
The shaping of the Atlantic Margin portfolio continued with ConocoPhillips Cairn also entered into a farm-in agreement, subject to government farming in to a 25% WI in the three contiguous blocks located offshore approval, with Kosmos Energy for a 20% non-operated WI in an Senegal acquired by Cairn in Q1 2013.
Cairn retained operatorship and exploration block offshore Morocco which is scheduled for drilling in H2 a 40% WI.
In the event of commercial success, ConocoPhillips will have 2014.
The farm-in to the Cap Boujdour exploration permit enables Cairn the option to operate any future development.
to access frontier acreage with significant potential containing a range of exploration play types.
In the event of success, the area has significant In August, Cairn farmed-in to a 35% WI in an exploration block offshore follow-up potential.
Mauritania, operated by Chariot Oil & Gas Investments Mauritania Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Chariot Oil & Gas Limited.
In line with the Companys disciplined approach to managing its balance sheet, in October, following the announcement of the sale of the Companys In the North Sea, Cairn carried out a series of asset swaps and exchanges 6% WI in the Mariner Asset in the North Sea, Cairn announced it would as well as an agreement to dispose of Cairns 6% WI in the Mariner field repurchase up to US$300m of ordinary shares in the company to be to Dyas UK Limited.
reviewed by the Board on a quarterly basis.
As at 31 December 2013, 8,217,615 ordinary shares have been repurchased for $36,293,629.63.
In addition, Cairn became a participating company of the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative EITI launched in 2002 to strengthen In November, the FDP for Kraken was approved by DECC meaning governance by improving transparency and accountability.
30 mmboe has been converted into 2P reserves.
Discover more: Operational Review Discover more: Operational Review 30 P30-37 30 P30-37 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 03
