Who Our Regional Team Is Our Regional Team Chief Operating Cairn is structured for Officer Paul Mayland effective delivery of its Paul has been COO at Cairn Energy since January 2013 and has 24 years industry experience.
Paul rejoined the regional portfolios Group in August 2010 as Director of Business Development and Planning and played a key part in re-shaping Cairns portfolio during 2011 2012 including the acquisitions of Agora Cairn is led by Simon Thomson, CEO.
Simon is joined Reflecting the Companys focus on frontier Oil and Gas AS and Nautical on the executive team by Deputy Chief Executive and mature basins in the Atlantic Margin, the Petroleum Plc.
Dr Mike Watts, who has responsibility for exploration Mediterranean, and the UK and Norwegian North and new ventures, and Managing Director and Chief Sea, while recognising the different geographies and Paul originally joined Cairn in Financial Officer, Jann Brown, whose responsibilities synergies within those areas, Cairns organisational 1996 from British Gas as Senior include the finance, human resources, corporate structure is divided into three regions North Petroleum Engineer.
Paul was responsibility, corporate affairs and company Atlantic Margin and Mediterranean, Africa, UK involved in all the key projects secretariat functions.
Jann is also the Director and Norway.
Each of these three regions is led in Asia including Rajasthan.
by individuals with the appropriate skills to deliver efficient and safe operations.
They in turn are From September 2006 Paul Also reporting directly to Simon are Paul Mayland, supported by teams with the relevant experience worked as Petroleum Engineering Cairns Chief Operating Officer COO, with required, whether it be geo-science, engineering, Manager for BG Canada before responsibility for regional operations as well as the drilling or HSE.
In each region Cairn takes care joining Vermilion Energy as a commercial and legal functions within the Group to consider the needs locally and, where it is Senior Advisor in Corporate and Phil Dolan, Cairns Director of Operations, appropriate and possible, the Group hires teams Business Development from 2008 with responsibility for engineering, drilling and based in the country to help deliver projects.
to 2010, working on a number of the Groups operational health, safety, security asset and corporate acquisitions and environmental function.
Richard Heaton, before returning to Cairn.
who reports to Mike is focused on new venture opportunities and exploration in his role as Exploration Director.
The senior management works with established teams made up of experts in their various fields.
Executive Team led by Simon Thomson North Atlantic Margin and Africa: Mediterranean: Mauritania, UK & Exploration & Greenland, Republic Morocco, Norway New Ventures of Ireland, Malta, Senegal Spain HSE, Engineering & Operations Functional Support 16 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information The senior management works with carefully established teams made up of experts in their field.
UK and Norwegian Each of Cairns three regions North Sea North Atlantic Margin and Mediterranean, Africa, UK and Norway are led by individuals with the Atlantic Margin appropriate skills to deliver efficient and safe operations.
Mediterranean Africa Regional Director Regional Director Regional Director UK and Norway North Atlantic Margin Africa Brita Holstad and Mediterranean Robert JE Jones Ian Watt Brita joined Cairn as Regional Director of Ian Watt has been a Regional Director Rob is the Regional Director of Assets Assets UK and Norway in 2013.
Prior to of Assets since Cairns operations Africa at Cairn: he has worked with this Brita worked at Hess Norge AS where commenced in Greenland in 2008 and Cairn for 15 years having formerly been she was the Managing Director, leading he is responsible for the North Atlantic Cairns Business Development Director Hess business activities in Norway.
Ian has in India and Managing Director in Brita, who holds an MSc in Petroleum had wide-ranging experience in project Bangladesh.
Rob has a Masters degree Geology from the Norwegian Institute planning, operations and risk management, from Kingston University and has been in of Technology, has over 20 years of including the preparation and evaluation of the oil and gas industry since graduating experience in the industry, primarily in corporate contingency plans, operations in 1977, having worked for Phillips the Norwegian Continental Shelf with management and political risk assessment.
Petroleum, Norsk Hydro and Natwest a number of years spent in France, He has designed and implemented crisis Markets in Egypt, Norway, the Far East, working on fields offshore Congo.
management plans and carried out Sub-Saharan Africa, US and Vietnam.
She has worked for a number of large operational reviews for numerous During his time in the industry Rob has and mid-sized independents, new starter multi-national companies.
been involved in a number of multi-billion and consultancy organisations, including barrel discoveries.
Elf, Aker Kvaerner, Revus Energy ASA, Wintershall Norge AS and finally Hess.
Since 2009, Brita held a number of senior leadership roles in Hess Norge AS, which encompassed responsibility for managing the asset base including Valhall, the largest Hess production base outside of the USA.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 17
