Alan Gillespie 64 Irish 66 British 63 British M. Sc.
D. Chairman of the Board since January 2010.
Independent non-executive director since Senior Independent Director since May 2011, Also chairs the Nomination Committee September 2009.
Chairman of the Board having joined the Board as an independent Risk Committee and a member of the Group non-executive director in November 2010.
Prior relevant experience Audit Committee Also Chairman of the Remuneration Vice Chairman of Zurich Financial Services Committee and a member of the from 2007 2009, where he had specific Prior relevant experience Nomination Committee responsibility for its international businesses Principal Consulting Actuary and Head of Life including those in South Africa.
Prior to that, practice at the consulting actuarial firm Prior relevant experience he had been CFO of the ZFS Group and CEO, Milliman from 2002 2009.
Prior to that, he Partner at Goldman Sachs from 1990, with General Insurance and Banking, of its UKISA had been the senior partner at the practice responsibility for corporate finance and division.
He has also held positions at Bank of from 1995.
He is a past Member of Council mergers and acquisitions in the UK and America, Goldman Sachs, Financial Guaranty and Vice Chairman of the Institute of Ireland.
He jointly led the firms financial Insurance Company a subsidiary of GE Actuaries, past Chairman of the International services practice in Europe and in 1996 Capital, Barclays BZW and Eagle Star Association of Consulting Actuaries and past established Goldman Sachs presence in Insurance Company.
member of the Board of Actuarial Standards.
After retiring from Goldman Sachs in 1999, he became Chief Executive of External positions held External positions held the Commonwealth Development Corporation Chairman of the Shareholder Executive in the Non-executive director of Financial in the UK.
From 2001 2008 he was UK, Deputy Governor of the Bank of Ireland Information Technology Limited and of Chairman of Ulster Bank, a subsidiary and Chairman of Equity Syndicate Scottish Equitable Policyholders Trust Limited.
of Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
Zoe Cruz Senior Independent Director of United 2.
Julian Roberts Business Media plc and Chairman of the 59 US Economic & Social Research Council.
A. F. C. A. M. C. T. Independent non-executive director since Group Chief Executive January 2014.
Also a member of the Board 7.
Danuta Gray Risk and Remuneration Committees Please see details of the Group Executive 55 British Committee on pages 36-37 of this Report for Prior relevant experience B. Sc.
Co-President for Institutional Securities and Independent non-executive director since Wealth Management at Morgan Stanley from March 2013.
Also a member of the Group Audit, 2005 2007, where she was responsible for 3.
Philip Broadley Nomination and Remuneration Committees running major revenue-generating businesses, including overseeing their securities risk Prior relevant experience 53 British management and information technology.
Chairman of Telefnica O2 in Ireland until M. A. F. C. A.
From 2009 2012, she was involved in December 2012, having previously been its Group Finance Director founding and running her own investment Chief Executive from 2001 2010, and she Please see details of the Group Executive management firm, Voras Capital Management.
remains a member of the Advisory Board of Committee on pages 36-37 of this Report for Prior to becoming Co-President of Morgan Wayra, which is a part of Telefnica involved further information.
Stanley, she had been its Global Head of Fixed in new ventures.
Prior to that, she was a Senior Income, Commodities and Foreign Exchange Vice President for BT Europe in Germany, from 2001 until 2005.
She joined Morgan where she gained experience in sales, Stanley in 1982 and was the third founding marketing, customer service and technology member of the foreign exchange group.
and in leading and changing large businesses.
She previously served for seven years on the External positions held board of Irish Life and Permanent plc and was None.
also a director of Business in the Community.
External positions held Non-executive director of Michael Page International plc and of Paddy Power PLC.
Old Mutual plc 88 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance 7 8 9 10 11 12 8.
Nku Nyembezi-Heita 50 British 65 British 53 South African LL.
Independent non-executive director since Independent non-executive director of Independent non-executive director of the January 2014.
Also a member of the the Company and Chairman of the Group Company since March 2012.
Also a member Group Audit Committee Audit Committee since August 2010. of the Board Risk and Nomination Committees Also a member of the Board Risk and Prior relevant experience Prior relevant experience Remuneration Committees Joined the Commonwealth Development Non-executive director of Old Mutual Life Corporation CDC in 1991, first in London, Prior relevant experience Assurance Company South Africa Limited and later in Lagos, with a remit to establish Former audit partner in , from 2010 2012, a position she relinquished CDCs Nigerian business.
In 1995, her focus where he led the audit of a number of major upon taking up her role at plc level.
Former moved to the Caribbean as a Senior groups, including Zurich Financial Services Chief Officer of Mergers & Acquisitions for Investment Executive and Investment Manager, and Lloyds TSB.
the Vodacom Group and Chief Executive helping to obtain investment for and dispose Officer of Alliance Capital.
Chief Executive External positions held of some of CDCs interests in Africa and the Officer of ArcelorMittal South Africa from Chairman of the Accounting Council, a Caribbean.
Later she became CDCs Country 2008 until February 2014.
Director of the Financial Reporting Council Manager for Nigeria.
She also became Head and a non-executive director of Genworth External positions held of West Africa, with responsibility for building Financials European insurance companies.
Independent non-executive Chairman the investment business of Actis across the designate of the JSE Limited.
Actis was spun out of CDC in 2004, resulting in her role changing primarily to 11.
Nkosana Moyo raising capital for Actiss private equity energy 62 Zimbabwean and real estate funds which have $5 billion Ph.
A. of funds under management.
Independent non-executive director since External positions held September 2013.
Also a member of the Partner with Actis.
Group Audit and Remuneration Committees Prior relevant experience 9.
Reuel Khoza Founder and Executive Chairman of the Mandela Institute for Development Studies 64 South African MINDS.
Vice President and Chief Operating Eng.
D. h. c. Officer of the African Development Bank from Non-executive director of the Company since 2009 2011.
From 2004 2009 Managing January 2006 and Chairman of Nedbank Partner for the African Business of Actis Group since May 2006.
Also a member of Capital LLP.
with responsibility for its African the Board Risk and Nomination Committees businesses.
Associate Director of the Prior relevant experience International Finance Corporation of the His previous appointments include World Bank, with responsibility for all SME Chairmanships of Eskom Holdings Limited and operations in Africa, from 2001 2004.
Glaxo Wellcome SA and non-executive During 2000, he served as Minister of Industry directorships of IBM SA, Vodacom, the JSE, and International Trade in the Cabinet of the JCI, Standard Bank Group and Liberty Life.
He worked for Standard Chartered Bank from 1990 1995 External positions held as Managing Director of Standard Chartered Chairman of Aka Capital, which is 25% Bank Zimbabwe, and later as African owned by Old Mutual South Africa.
Regional Head for Corporate Banking, based Non-executive director of Nampak Limited, in London, with responsibility for operations in Protea Hospitality Holdings Limited and 14 African countries.
Fellow and President NOTE: of the Institute of Directors of South Africa.
External positions held Further details of the directors and the Member of the boards of the Investment basis upon which they are recommended Climate Facility ICF and of the Africa for election or re-election at the Companys Leadership Institute.
Annual General Meeting on 15 May 2014 are contained in the Explanatory Notes in the AGM circular, which is available on the Companys website.
