GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE 1 2 3 4 5 The Group Executive 1.
Peter Bain 55 Committee comprises Group Chief Executive President and Chief Also a member of the Nomination Committee the Group Chief Executive Officer, and a non-executive director of Nedbank Executive, the Group US Asset Management Group Limited, Nedbank Limited and Old Mutual Life Assurance Company Peter Bain is President and Chief Executive Finance Director and South Africa Limited.
Officer of US Asset Management, the nine other members US-based international asset management Julian Roberts joined Old Mutual in 2000 as business of Old Mutual plc.
He has more than Group Finance Director, moving on to become of senior executive two decades of experience leading and CEO of Skandia following its purchase by management of advising firms in the investment management Old Mutual in 2006.
He was appointed as industry.
Previously he was a Senior Executive Group Chief Executive in September 2008. the Group.
Vice President at Legg Mason, Inc. where he Before joining Old Mutual, he was Group held leadership positions from 2000 2009.
Finance Director of Sun Life & Provincial Most recently he served as Head of Affiliate Holdings plc and, before that, Chief Financial Management and Corporate Strategy there, Officer of Aon UK Holdings Limited.
with responsibility for overseeing the firms investment managers.
Philip Broadley 53 Chief Administrative Officer, responsible for the firms overall administration and operations.
Group Finance Director Also a non-executive director of Old Mutual Wealth Management Limited, Old Mutual 4.
Mike Brown 47 Bermuda Limited and Old Mutual US Chief Executive, Holdings Inc. the parent company of US Asset Management.
Nedbank Group Philip Broadley joined Old Mutual as Group Mike Brown has been Chief Executive of Finance Director in November 2008.
Prior to Nedbank Group Limited since March 2010. that, he had been Group Finance Director of He was previously the Chief Financial Officer Prudential plc from 2000 2008, having of Nedbank Group and of Nedbank Limited previously been a partner in Arthur Andersen from June 2004.
Prior to that, he headed from 1993 2000.
He has been Chairman of Property Finance at Nedbank and before that the 100 Group of Finance Directors, was a he was an executive director of BoE Limited.
founding member and trustee of the CFO Forum of European Insurance Company 5.
Paul Feeney 50 Finance Directors, and was a member of the IASBs Insurance Working Group.
He is a Chief Executive, member of the Code Committee of the UK Old Mutual Wealth Takeover Panel and of the Oxford University Audit and Scrutiny Committee.
Paul Feeney has been Chief Executive of Old Mutual Wealth, incorporating Skandia Investment Group and Old Mutual Global Investors, since July 2012.
He joined Old Mutual in January 2012 as CEO of Asset Management within the Long-Term Savings Division before moving into his present position.
Prior to joining Old Mutual, he was Executive Director and Global Head of Distribution for BNY Mellon Asset Management and before that Group Managing Director of Gartmore Investment Management and CEO of Natwest Private Banking.
Old Mutual plc 36 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report 6 7 8 9 10 11 6.
Ralph Mupita 41 Group Strategy Director Group Customer Director CEO, Old Mutual Ian Gladman has been Group Strategy Carlton Hood became Group Customer Emerging Markets Director since January 2012.
He previously Director in April 2013, having rejoined Ralph Mupita has been CEO of OMEM since worked at UBS Investment Bank for 16 years, Old Mutual in 2011 as Strategic Marketing February 2012.
He joined Old Mutual in 2001, most recently as Co-Head of Financial Director for the Long-Term Savings Division.
became Managing Director of Old Mutual Institutions, EMEA, covering a wide range Prior to that, he had been CEO of Unit Trusts in 2004 and OMSAs Strategy of UK and European insurance companies, Confused.
com, an online price comparison Director in 2006.
In 2008 he was appointed banks and asset managers.
From 2000 2008 he held a number Managing Director of OMSAs Retail Affluent Head of Corporate Finance, South Africa for of positions with the Old Mutual Group in division and in April 2011 he became CEO of UBS from 1998 to 2001, during which time he Cape Town, including the role of GM Strategy Old Mutual Life and Savings.
He is a director led the local UBS team advising Old Mutual and Marketing for OMSA.
He started his of OMEM, OMLACSA and Old Mutual Africa on its demutualisation and original listing.
career in strategy consulting, working for Holdings and serves on various external He also advised Nedbank on a number of the Boston Consulting Group in London boards such as the Association for Savings & assignments and BoE on its acquisition by for seven years.
Investments SA, Business Leadership South Nedbank.
Prior to joining UBS, he worked Africa, Brand SA and the University of Cape at Goldman Sachs and at JP Morgan.
Sue Kean 51 Chief Risk Officer 7.
Don Schneider 56 Sue Kean has been Chief Risk Officer since Group Operating Officer January 2012, having joined Old Mutual in Group Human Paul Hanratty has been Group Operating July 2010 as Head of Governance & Regulatory Resources Director Officer since March 2013.
He is a fellow of the Compliance.
She has over 25 years experience Institute of Actuaries and has held a number of in insurance and financial services.
She Don Schneider has been Group Human roles at Old Mutual, including CEO of Old previously worked at Friends Provident and Resources Director since May 2009.
He is Mutual South Africa and CEO of Long-Term Aviva in a variety of risk and regulatory roles.
also a non-executive director of Old Mutual Savings businesses.
She also spent time at the Financial Services US Holdings Inc. the parent company of Authority, and held positions in relation to Old Mutual US Asset Management.
He was Solvency II on industry bodies such as the previously at Merrill Lynch, where he was Chief Risk Officer Forum and the European Senior Vice President, Head of Human insurance trade body, the Comit Europen Resources for their Global Wealth des Assurances CEA.
Management Division based in New York.
Prior to that, he headed HR for their Global Markets and Investment Banking Division and originally joined Merrill Lynch in 1997 as Head of International Human Resources based in London.
Previously, he worked for Morgan Stanley for 13 years, where he held a variety of senior HR roles in both New York and London.
He started his career as a consultant in human resources.
NOTE: The nine members of the senior executive management are listed alphabetically.
