OUR VISION, STRATEGY AND VALUES TO BECOME OUR CUSTOMERS MOST TRUSTED PARTNER OUR PASSIONATE ABOUT HELPING THEM ACHIEVE THEIR VISION LIFETIME FINANCIAL GOALS GROWING AND TRANSFORMING OUR BUSINESSES OUR TO LEAD IN A RESPONSIBLE AND SUSTAINABLE WAY STRATEGY In South Africa align OMSA, Nedbank and Mutual & Federal to become the leading and most trusted financial services group 1 In Africa build an African financial services champion, while continuing to grow in other emerging markets 2 Old Mutual Wealth transform to build the best retail investment business in the UK 3 US Asset Management continue to improve and grow our multi-boutique asset management business 4 Responsible business in each of our markets become the recognised financial services leader in responsible business 5 ACCOUNTABILITY, INTEGRITY, RESPECT, OUR PUSHING BEYOND BOUNDARIES VALUES Old Mutual plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report IN SOUTH AFRICA ALIGN OMSA, NEDBANK AND MUTUAL & FEDERAL TO BECOME THE LEADING AND MOST TRUSTED FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP 1 In South Africa we will Building on Priorities for 2014: be the leading and a strong base accelerate most trusted financial A large customer base OMSA, Nedbank alignment services group through and Mutual & Federal have a combined base Drive greater strategic alignment of 11 million retail customers and are best driving increased between our South African businesses, positioned to benefit from the rapid growth in for greater operational and customerSouth Africas retail mass market.
alignment between facing co-operation and co-ordination.
Strong brands and extensive our strong and Increase cross-selling through jointly distribution Our South African businesses complementary serving the OMSA, Nedbank and have strong, longstanding and trusted brands Mutual & Federal customer bases with and have access to powerful, extensive and businesses.
innovative propositions, and tailored fast growing distribution engines.
Synergistic world class competencies Leverage our combined distribution Nedbank brings world-class competencies power through jointly developing our digital in progressive digital and mobile technologies capability and increasing the degree to which and capital management, while OMSA our businesses leverage each others brings leading capabilities in serving the distribution channels.
retail mass market and in alternative asset management.
Increase efforts to share skills and experience between our businesses, An engaged workforce Our businesses particularly OMSAs expertise in insurance, have healthy organisational cultures and asset management and serving the retail mass high levels of employee engagement, with market, Nedbanks expertise in banking, OMSA being the top-ranked large company capital management, digital channels and in the esteemed 2013 Deloitte Best Large approach to sustainability, and Mutual & Company to Work For Survey.
Federals capability in general insurance.
Key focus area A recognised leader in social Drive further efficiency improvements transformation OMSA and Nedbank leveraging our through increasing joint procurement, and are the most socially transformed financial sharing of assets, resources and technology services companies in South Africa, with combined customer among our South African businesses.
Nedbank also seen as leading in environment management.
Nedbank and OMSA both base to realise Lead in Responsible Business by achieved Level 2 DTI transformation status co-ordinating OMSA, Nedbank and for the fourth consecutive year, and both synergies Mutual & Federals sustainability efforts businesses are recognised by the NGO to create South Africas most responsible community as leaders in community financial services group.
Progress towards identifying and realising synergies of circa R1.0 billion through tapping into the opportunities outlined above.
Nedbank OMSA 15% Mutual & Federal Percentage of OMSA and Mutual & Federal customers with a Nedbank account 11 IN AFRICA BUILD AN AFRICAN FINANCIAL SERVICES CHAMPION, WHILE CONTINUING TO GROW IN OTHER EMERGING MARKETS 2 In Africa we will The African Priorities for 2014: continue towards opportunity building the becoming an African High and robust economic growth framework Financial Services For the past 10 years, the African economy In SADC We will grow our business through has grown 5% to 7% per annum, consistently Champion focusing greater collaboration, new products and above world average growth rates.
This is distribution channels and, where appropriate, anticipated to continue for some time given on SADC, East Africa greater integration on a local level.
Africas favourable demographics, momentum and West Africa, while towards becoming the worlds largest In East Africa We plan to integrate workforce, abundant natural resources, growing our other our recent acquisition of Faula and to including 60% of the worlds uncultivated embed our presence through appropriate emerging market arable land, rapidly expanding mobile partnerships.
connectivity, increasingly stable political businesses in India, environment, rapidly growing intra-Africa In West Africa We will continue to develop China and Latin trade and increased investment in education.
our recently acquired businesses and examine further inorganic opportunities, including America.
The opportunity in financial services subscription rights to buy 20% of Ecobank.
is compelling African banks and insurers are highly profitable compared to global Lead in Responsible Business We will peers.
The market is still at early stages of share our Responsible Business skills, expertise development with low banking and insurance and experience in South Africa across the penetration, high market fragmentation and African continent.
Revenue pools in In other Emerging Markets In India Africa are already large and growing and we will continue to grow through our joint are concentrated in a few key countries, venture with Kotak Mahindra and in China most of which we have a presence in.
In Latin The operating environment is America we will continue to build on our increasingly favourable Over the past strong business in Colombia and Mexico ten years, there has been increased regional and leverage the strengths of our AIVA stability and favourable improvements in platform business in Uruguay.
transparency and rule of law.
In addition, African governments are welcoming international players with strong balance Southern Africa Development Community including sheets and reputations and are paving the Botswana, Lesotho, Malawi, Mozambique, Namibia, South Africa, Swaziland and Zimbabwe.
way to increase the ease of doing business.
1 Size of the working-age population billion people 1.5 1.4 Africa Latin America 1.3 India Europe China North America 1.2 Southeast Asia Japan 1.1 By 2015, 15% of 1.0 OMSAs profits 0.9 0.8 from Africa 0.7 0.6 0.5 OMSA profits % 0.4 0.3 2015 15.0 0.2 2013 11.1 0.1 2012 10.8 0.0 Profit from sub-Saharan Africa excl.
South Africa targeted to reach 15% of OMSAs profits by 2015.
Calculated on a pre-tax, post MI basis 1 Population ages 15-64.
2015 target Source: United Nations World Population Prospect Old Mutual plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 1960 1965 1970 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050 Strategic report OLD MUTUAL WEALTH TRANSFORM TO BUILD THE BEST RETAIL INVESTMENT BUSINESS IN THE UK 3 We are transforming Making good Priorities for 2014: Old Mutual Wealth progress transformation by building a modern, We have simplified our business Build one business With a shared vision retail investment and and continue to focus on our core markets.
of becoming the UKs best retail investment As a result, we have agreed the sale of our business, and move to one brand in 2014. asset management business in Poland.
Move to profitable platforms 2014 will business.
We have launched the OMGI brand be a critical year in building our new UK IT and significantly strengthened our asset platform which will improve our proposition management capability including key and continue to reduce operating costs.
also migrate our International business onto its completed IT platform, improving flexibility and We have become fully RDR compliant service for advisers and end clients.
and simplified our charging structures.
Build an outstanding asset We have improved platform management business We will continue profitability by reducing costs in the to build on the strong momentum of 2013, business.
2 in net retail asset management flows in the UK.
We have revitalised our protection range, with positive industry reviews and Expand our offering of investment and strong early sales.
protection products We have launched WealthSelect in February 2014 and expect to see significant uptake as it provides clients access to top funds at best prices.
We are making strong Enhance multi-channel distribution We will build upon our acquisition of Intrinsic progress towards our and continue to build a strong digital capability, to introduce new functionality both for advisers 2015 profit target of and clients.
300 million Improve profitability and maintain service levels in heritage books We will continue to drive strong performance from our Profit m heritage books.
2015 300 Lead in Responsible Business 2013 217 Particularly with respect to Responsible Pre-tax adjusted operating profit investment.
CASE STUDY in 2012, utilises employee champions to deliver a response and resolution time of Innovative Customer 24 hours to deal with customer issues.
In its first year, the approach had an 83% success Solutions rate, and in 2013 was shortlisted under the Customer Satisfaction Innovation of the This year, the annual Group Customer Year category in the UK Customer Conference focused on senior Customer Satisfaction Awards by the Institute of Champions, with each business unit discussing Customer Service.
The initiative empowers their approaches to customer service.
Short employees who act as CaSanoVas to sessions on progress and challenges were develop their own approach to dealing shared across the Group, with Anthony with issues.
Scammell, Head of Customer Experience for Old Mutual Wealth UK pictured, discussing Customer CaSanoVas.
This project, launched 13 US ASSET MANAGEMENT CONTINUE TO IMPROVE AND GROW OUR MULTIBOUTIQUE ASSET MANAGEMENT BUSINESS 4 In the US we will We have built Priorities for 2014: continue to improve strong momentum continue to and grow our multisince 2010 improve and grow boutique asset Rationalised our portfolio We have Drive organic growth in our affiliates.
completed a significant affiliate portfolio Generate collaborative growth through restructuring, launched several affiliate new product and channel initiatives and seed growth initiatives and are building out the capital.
Enhance growth through complementary Positive net flows We achieved sustained international distribution.
positive net client cash flows and strong long-term investment performance.
Continue to seek selective acquisitions to augment the portfolio and fill product and Improved profitability Adjusted asset class gaps.
Operating Profit AOP and operating margin are both continuing to grow strongly.
We have Continue to consider Responsible achieved margin expansion from our profit Business practices in each element of share model and from lower expense growth.
Established a portfolio of leading affiliates which gives us a diversified and attractive product portfolio.
Annual target: net client cash inflows of 3% to 5% of opening FUM CASE STUDY Responsible investment workshops During 2013, US Asset Management conducted a number of training and education sessions with our Affiliates on Responsible investment initiatives, led by Jon Duncan from Old Mutual Investment Group pictured.
These sessions included a workshop with a particular focus on the United Nations supported Principles for Responsible Investing, linking to Old Mutual Group activities, who were the main sponsor for this event in 2013.
The workshops were attended by a range of individuals from across the US and beyond and reflect the growing interest in the topic from clients and competitors alike.
Old Mutual plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS IN EACH OF OUR MARKETS BECOME THE RECOGNISED FINANCIAL SERVICES LEADER IN RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS 5 In each of our We are already Priorities for 2014: markets we will leading in five pillars of increasingly position South Africa Responsible and differentiate In South Africa, OMSA and Nedbank are the Business ourselves as the recognised leaders in community investment and Nedbank in environmental management, leader in Responsible Responsible to our customers with OMSA having been voted the most Putting the customer first in Business, making trustworthy name in the life assurance everything we do.
category and Nedbank the leader in Corporate explicit a way of Responsible investment Social Investment Sunday Times Top 100.
Systematic incorporation behaving that flows of material environmental, naturally from our Being a Responsible social and governance criteria in our investment core values.
Business is core to and ownership decisions.
our values Responsible to our employees Our annual Culture Survey results show that Building a culture of excellence our employees ranked accountability as which our employees are proud the number one current as well as desired to be part of.
organisational value and also as their top Responsible to our personal value in every one of our core communities businesses.
It was also ranked as the top value Providing sustainable, tailored across our Old Mutual Leadership Group.
Gender diversity and meaningful support to the Accountability Personal Current Desired communities in which we operate.
targets ranking value values values Responsible environmental Old Mutual Leadership Group #1 #1 #1 management Gender diversity across the Group Helping to monitor, manage and Women in 2013 Actual 2018 Target reduce our direct and indirect environmental impacts.
33% More than Board at Jan 2014 30% Key Roles 15% 30% Key Roles are approximately the top 120 executive positions around the Group In conclusion By growing and transforming our businesses, Our long-term competitive advantage is business and our integral value of we are confident that we will continue to reinforced by our unique positioning in key accountability.
Building on this, we are deliver attractive earnings growth, a return growth markets, our clear and focused confident that Old Mutual will continue on equity in the range of 12% to 15% and strategy to access these opportunities and to deliver value to all our stakeholders a strong balance sheet, as well as continue our group-wide and proven culture of delivery.
employees, customers, communities, the our progressive dividend policy for We are further differentiated by our environment and shareholders now and the period 2014 2016. responsible and sustainable approach to in the long-term future.
15 OUR BIG 5 PRIORITIES FROM 2009 TO 2013 HAVE CONSISTENTLY GUIDED OUR EFFORTS TOWARDS SIMPLIFICATION AND FOCUSED LONG-TERM GROWTH Progress on our 2009 2013 strategy in 2013 Key metric Launch of new Wealth proposition in OMSA NCCF FUM % Develop Expansion of Old Mutual Finance branch footprint to over 2013 5.9 200 branches the customer 2012 1.9 RDR compliant platform established in the UK 2011 -3.9 Improved, more flexible investment platform for cross-border proposition 2010 -2.5 business in Singapore and UK Wealth Interactive Launch of Nedbank appsuite and approve-it mobile solution 2009 -0.7 and experience Acquisition of Faulu micro-lending capability in Kenya Roll out of I-invest mobile investment solution in Kenya Customer feedback loops established in every geography with improved Customer insight and a steady improvement in NPS net promoter score in most business units Continued strong growth in Nedbank with strong improvement in NIR AOP Earnings per Share p Deliver high Continued strong growth in Emerging Markets from Retail and 2013 18.4 Corporate, supplemented by substantial progress in Africa and performance in 2012 17.5 Latin America 2011 15.7 Strong increase in profitability and gross sales in Old Mutual Wealth, all business units successfully adapted to Retail Distribution Review RDR, continued 2010 14.3 to build asset management capabilities and managed costs down 2009 11.6 Sustained improvement in USAM with NCCF very strong across a broad range of asset classes driven by continued strong long-term investment performance Joint telecoms infrastructure procurement by OMSA, Nedbank UK Platform sales managed Increase and Mutual & Federal, resulting in significant savings by OMGI % Rolled out the South African mass market offering into Mexico 2013 16 collaboration and commenced roll-out in Swaziland, and used South African 2012 14 back-office to support product launches across emerging markets among key 2011 13 Grew iWYZE through collaboration between OMSA and Mutual & Federal, and launched Nedbank direct offering businesses UK Platform sales into OMGI improved to 16% Reinforced the agreed ACT NOW!
leadership behaviours Cultural entropy % Build a Conducted the third annual culture survey for the Group 2013 11.7 Engagement scores improved group-wide culture 2012 11.4 Old Mutual Emerging Markets OMEM ranked Top Employer and 2011 12.2 number one Best Company to Work For in local surveys of excellence Increased accountability through the introduction of an improved This is a measure from the Culture Survey: performance management process for senior leaders the lower the score, the healthier the Focused on development of current and next generation of leaders culture, scores below 19% indicating a well-functioning organisation.
OMSA and Nedbank retained their Level 2 B-BBEE transformation Nedbank named the most transformed company of the top 100 listed on the JSE Restructured our South African businesses under a common Group RoE % Continue to simplify holding company for the purpose of managing risk, capital 2013 13.6 and strategy our structure to 2012 13.0 Continued to manage and substantially reduced residual 2011 14.6 exposures in Old Mutual Bermuda unlock value Further simplifying the Group through the proposed sale 2010 14.2 of our Polish business 2009 9.1 Completed the transfer of our Colombian and Mexican businesses to OMEM Includes the results of the Nordic business, Closed down and divested non-core US Asset Management which was disposed of in 2011.
Results for 2010 and 2011 have been restated.
affiliates for increased focus on our high performers Old Mutual plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report OUR BIG 5 PRIORITIES 2014 AND BEYOND GROWING AND TRANSFORMING OUR BUSINESSES TO LEAD IN A RESPONSIBLE AND SUSTAINABLE WAY 2014 and beyond Key management actions 2014 2016 In South Africa, drive increased collaboration and alignment among OMSA, Nedbank and Mutual In South Africa & Federal align OMSA, Nedbank In OMSA, capture growth in the Mass Foundation and Retail Affluent segments and improve and Mutual & Federal profitability in Corporate segment to become the leading Grow Nedbank by: growing transactional banking, client-centred innovation, grow a pan-African and most trusted banking network and tilt the portfolio to maximise economic profit growth 1 financial services group Target pre-tax value of synergies of circa R1.0 billion across OMSA, Nedbank and Mutual & Federal on a run rate basis.
In Africa build an Grow existing businesses in SADC, expand into East Africa, in West Africa build on Oceanic acquisition in Nigeria, and leverage Ecobanks pan-African banking footprint African financial Increase collaboration among Old Mutual, Nedbank and Mutual & Federal in African markets services champion, Continue to selectively invest and grow in Latin America and Asia while continuing By 2015, 15% of Old Mutuals profits from Africa excl.
South Africa to grow in other 2016 LTIP target: customer growth in Africa excluding banking of 15% excl.
2 emerging markets Build the best Retail Investment business in the UK focus on cost reduction, expanding product Old Mutual Wealth proposition, diversifying distribution and increasing share of AUM through building its asset transform to build management capability the best retail Continue to deliver operational efficiency investment business Further simplification by disposing of non-core or sub-scale businesses, where appropriate in the UK Execute the manage-for-value strategy in Continental Europe 3 2015 target: Adjusted Operating profit pre-tax of 300 million.
US Asset Management Continue to improve USAM performance develop investment capabilities of core affiliates and complement with centre-led distribution and selective acquisitions continue to improve Continue to deliver operational efficiency and grow our multiAnnual target: net client cash inflows of 3% to 5% of opening FUM boutique asset Further derisking at Old Mutual Bermuda.
management business 4 Responsible business in each of our markets become the recognised Responsible to our customers Responsible investment financial services leader Fulfil on the four elements of our customer Incorporate material environmental, social and in responsible business promise: to be most accessible: to provide governance criteria into our investment and 5 best financial education and advice: to offer ownership decision-making process, and solutions most certain to deliver on customer develop sustainable and future-proof savings promises: and to be most supportive of the and investment products for our customers communities we serve Responsible to our employees Responsible to our communities Continue to build a culture of excellence Continue to focus on financial education and and embed ACT NOW!
Leadership inclusion, and sustainable enterprise and skills behaviours across the Group, to develop development in each of our markets, through our leadership and talent pipeline, business as usual and community investment, particularly in key growth markets, as well as through employee volunteering and and to promote diversity and inclusion giving programmes Responsible environmental management Continue to reduce our direct and indirect environmental impact across the Group, and help shape environmental management and climate change policy 17
