OUR MARKETS A high-level overview of the drivers in our key markets in Africa, the UK, the US and across the globe.
Gross sales: Lower interest rates and slower growth in the Demographics European and US markets mean people will Demographic trends in our largest markets have to save more to meet their target levels inform our business and our strategy.
Our capabilities in Populations are growing in all our markets long-term savings products position us well and, in most cases, also living longer.
spread of population within age bands varies significantly, so we design our product offerings Funding of customer needs to suit the different demand dynamics.
Ageing populations and rising health The sub-Saharan Africa population increased expectations are reducing the extent to which 1 by 27% to 911 million between 2003 and governments can afford to meet their social 1 2012.
South Africas population grew by commitments, specifically on pensions and 1 11% to 51 million over the same period.
Increasingly, individuals will need The proportion of the working-age population to fund their own provision.
also increased over this period.
In western Emerging Markets 43% Regulatory development Europe the number of retirees continued to UK 50% Financial services have faced increased increase, with the over-65 population of the Europe 7% regulatory intervention over the past few European Union rising from 16.3% in 2003 1 years and we expect this to continue.
We have anticipated and prepared for many The UK average life expectancy was 72 years APE sales split: 1 1 of the regulatory changes ahead, including in 1970, had risen to 81 years by 2011 and Solvency II in Europe and Solvency Assessment continues to rise.
In sub-Saharan Africa, average and Management in South Africa, the life expectancy increased from 44 years in 1 1 introduction of Basel III and the changes in 1970 to 56 years in 2011, while in South Africa the structure of the industry and the products average life expectancy increased from 53 1 1 it sells in the UK arising from the Retail years in 1970 to 55 years in 2011.
At the same time, living standards and Regulatory timetables have generally expectations have also increased.
In our more extended as consultations have taken place mature markets people will spend longer in with stakeholders.
This has led to changes retirement and, as a result, will need a higher in our implementation plans and inevitably level of pension savings to fund their desired some increase in costs and diversion of standard of living and healthcare costs.
management resource from other activities.
In emerging markets, growing economic Emerging Markets 48% empowerment is driving demand for a Impact on Old Mutual UK 40% broad range of protection, savings and These themes all provide opportunities for Europe 12% investment products.
We are well positioned in our markets, have the products that consumers Economic trends need, and have built effective distribution Emerging economies have been achieving channels for them.
higher GDP growth rates than developed Assets under management: economies for some years.
GDP per capita in both South Africa and sub-Saharan Africa 1 more than doubled between 2003 and 2012, and annual GDP growth in sub-Saharan 1 Africa exceeded 4% in eight of the nine years.
As emerging markets develop, average incomes rise and the requirement for financial services evolves from simple funding and transactional products to more sophisticated protection and savings products.
Our strategy is to shape our offering to fit the wider macro marketplace.
Emerging Markets 20% UK 23% Europe 4% US 53% 1 World Bank Development indicators Old Mutual plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report a holistic range of financial services solutions Sub-Saharan Africas GDP to reach Our African operations to a broad range of customer segments, US$2.3 trillion by 2020 South Africa and Africa across all their life stages.
Our range of There are around 200 million households in 1 solutions includes long-term savings, Growth in Africas GDP sub-Saharan Africa, which are becoming protection, investment, banking, unsecured increasingly urbanised, much like Asia in 2020F lending, and property & casualty also known the recent past.
2010 The IMF has forecast that sub-Saharan Africas We are the biggest life assurer in South Africa, GDP will reach US$2.3 trillion by 2020.
2005 with a significant overall market share in both McKinsey has forecast that by 2020 more 2000 total sales and value of new business.
Our than half of African households will have 1995 Mass Foundation business is a market leader discretionary income, rising from 85 million 1990 in this growth segment, and we are well households to almost 130 million in 2020.
1985 positioned to grow our presence further as This represents a considerable opportunity, the market expands.
We have strong market 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 and we aim to attract a proportion of that shares in our Retail Affluent and Corporate US$bn discretionary income into savings.
Our work franchises, and remain the countrys biggest on financial education and literacy in the region Source: IMF Regional Economic Outlook 2012 asset manager.
1 supports the development of this new market.
Includes South Africa South Africa has a well-established banking Our South African operations industry, maintaining sound and traditional Old Mutual continues to be a leading financial banking practices within a well managed services provider in South Africa with more and regulated environment.
Nedbank is than 5.5 million customers across its retail and positioned as a bank for all, providing retail corporate businesses.
Together with Nedbank, and wholesale banking services as well as Mutual & Federal and Old Mutual Finance JV, insurance and asset and wealth management Old Mutual South Africa is able to offer Insurance markets in Africa which are nascent and under-penetrated Namibia Mauritius Morocco Swaziland Mozambique Kenya Malawi Tunisia Ghana Zimbabwe Cameroon Tanzania Botswana Egypt Algeria Nigeria Angola Uganda Zambia Rwanda Gross Domestic Product per capita Trend line of insurance penetration and GDP growth Other African markets New entry in 2013 Markets in which Old Mutual insurance businesses operate Note: Based on Life and Property & Casualty insurance GWP Size of circles represent the relative size of population 23 Index of insurance penetration OUR MARKETS continued through five clusters: Nedbank Capital, Operationally, our businesses face a number of management is in Namibia, followed closely Nedbank Corporate, Nedbank Business regulatory initiatives, such as Treating Customers by Zimbabwe.
We have recently acquired life Banking, Nedbank Retail and Nedbank Fairly, Retirement Fund Reform and a review licences in Nigeria and Ghana, where we see Wealth.
Nedbank is the fourth largest bank by of adviser remuneration models similar to the significant growth potential.
way of both deposits and advances.
These will increase the cost and Nedbank currently operates in five countries the year, Nedbank Retail added a further five complexity of doing business.
Competition is across Southern Africa and is exploring staffed outlets and 334 ATMs, while increasing also intensifying, with greater pressure from further expansion in the Southern African its client base by 9%.
Nedbank Business non-traditional players such as banks, mobile Development Community and East Africa.
Banking gained 440 new transactional operators and direct providers.
However, we Its strategic alliance with Ecobank, focused banking clients and Nedbank Wealth are making good progress in transforming our on Central and West Africa, gives customers increased assets under management by 26%.
businesses in response to these challenges.
access to the largest pan-African banking The other clusters continued to deepen client Our operations in Africa network, with more than 2,000 staffed relationships and raise cross-sell levels.
In the mediumto long-term we have a outlets in 37 countries.
We have created an The countrys property and casualty market client-focused, risk-mitigated and capitalopportunity for shareholders to participate experienced a marked softening in rates for efficient growth strategy.
In Africa, our long-term in our Africa growth story through our personal lines of business and a significant savings operations are based in countries with right to acquire 20% in Ecobank level of catastrophe losses.
To reduce the urban populations that have high per-capita Transnational Incorporated.
impact of rate softening on its underwriting GDP albeit at levels well below those of Our Property & Casualty operations in Africa margin at this stage of the underwriting cycle, Europe, the US and developed Asian markets are broadly aligned to Old Mutuals long-term Mutual & Federal focused on claims but as yet relatively low spend on insurance.
This allows both businesses management and expense containment.
We currently have more than 1.9 million to leverage each others distribution networks It introduced enhanced management of the customers in eight countries Namibia, and creates cost and revenue synergies.
We see quality of new business written and up for Swaziland, Zimbabwe, Malawi, Kenya, Nigeria, increasing scope for property and casualty, life renewal, particularly through its direct channel Ghana and Botswana and are the market and savings and banking businesses to work iWyze and underwriting management agencies.
We believe these together more closely.
For example, we have markets offer significant growth opportunities The South African macro-economic acquired a property and casualty business in which we are well placed to capture.
Our environment presented tough operating Nigeria which will be integrated in the newly largest business by profits and funds under conditions for our businesses during 2013, acquired life business there.
with GDP slowing to a four-year low of 1.9%.
Growth over 2014 2016 is forecast to be between 2.7% and 3.5%.
Socio-political There is a growing demographic dividend in Africa challenges including ongoing labour unrest 1 Size of the working-age population billion people and widening political divisions continue to hinder the countrys growth prospects.
The 1.5 rand fell significantly over the period, partly 1.4 because moves by the US to reduce monetary 1.3 stimulus reduced appetite for emerging market 1.2 currencies.
These effects, coupled with low 1.1 employment growth and growing levels of personal debt, have put pressure on consumers 1.0 disposable incomes and ability to save.
0.9 0.8 On the positive side, South Africas emerging 0.7 middle class is growing rapidly, and this is 0.6 forecast to continue over the medium term.
0.5 We are increasingly well positioned in these 0.4 segments as we collaborate as a Group, 0.3 placing our customers at the centre of what we 0.2 do and delivering innovative financial solutions to meet their evolving financial services needs.
0.1 Examples include XtraMax in our Affluent 0.0 business and severe illness protection for people with HIV AIDS.
Africa China Latin America North America India Southeast Asia Europe Japan 1 Population ages 15-64.
Source: United Nations World Population Prospect Old Mutual plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 1960 1965 1970 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050 Strategic report UK & International Insurance growth will follow Old Mutual Wealth serves affluent and high net worth clients in the UK and a number of Total African Insurance Premiums Growth Scenarios: Total SSA international markets in the Far East, Middle US$bn Insurance Revenue Pools US$bn East, Latin America, South Africa and Europe.
80 CAGR 2020 2030 2040 Our strategy in these markets is to develop 69.3 70 our business as a vertically integrated wealth 8% 133 274 564 management and asset management 10% 163 424 1,099 60 55.2 22.4 company, delivering high quality investment solutions that meet real client needs.
We are 13% 200 650 2,109 50 17.0 42.9 doing this by combining the market-leading 15% 244 986 3,990 position of our Skandia platform and products 40 12.9 with the asset management strength of Old 18% 296 1,484 7,444 Mutual Global Investors.
30 25.7 46.9 7.3 Total Premiums 38.2 Research from the Investment Management 20 CAGR 13% 30.0 Association suggests that UK retail investors 18.4 10 focus on a set of objectives relating to income, Equal to the Equal to the 2011 GWP of Japan 2011 GWP of capital preservation and asset allocation.
2011 GWP of UK US UK France 2002 2005 2008 2011 Germany Russia Germany In the UK, the implementation of the RDR at Life Premiums CAGR Property and Casualty the start of the year and the regulatory review 12% premiums CAGR 15% of platforms in April has had a significant At current growth rates, African insurance premiums are forecast to grow from $70bn in 2011 to $200bn in 2020 impact on the distribution landscape.
It is Total African Insurance Premiums as a % of Total Global Premiums 1.6% becoming clearer to customers that providing SSA sub-Saharan Africa advice is quite distinct from the product.
Source: Oliver Wyman Over the long-term we expect this to have a positive effect on the value of advice, whether independent or restricted.
In addition, the RDR has removed many of the differences that previously existed Sub-Saharan Africa Banking revenue growth between platforms, most noticeably in relation to charging structures.
This will result in an Total SSA Banking Revenue Pools Growth Scenarios: Total SSA evolution in the type and quality of client SSA excl.
SA US$bn Banking Revenue Pools US$bn propositions as platforms seek to differentiate 100 themselves in the market.
They will need to offer 87 CAGR 2020 2030 not only great service and clarity of charges, 80 32 but also outstanding digital support and 60 8% 73 158 access to investment propositions that focus 60 21 on client outcomes and reduce advisers costs 36 10% 87 223 in delivering service to their customers.
We are 40 12 55 ideally placed to offer that combination with 39 20 great value by harnessing our market leading 24 15% 128 520 platform and asset management capabilities.
2011 2016 2020 Our business in the UK is primarily distributed McKinsey Global Banking Pools Wholesale Retail through financial advisers but we will offer implied compound annual growth rate customers a growing choice of ways to meet At current growth rates, SSA revenues are forecast to grow from $36bn in 2011 to $87bn in 2020 a wide range of needs.
Through our platform SSA sub-Saharan Africa we offer a broad choice of funds from both Source: McKinsey Global Banking Pools Old Mutual Global Investors and external fund groups.
We continue to strengthen our asset management capability and now have market-leading capabilities in UK and European equity, fixed income, alternative and multi-asset solutions.
Old Mutual Global Investors funds are also offered on third-party platforms and through other large distributors.
25 OUR MARKETS continued as measured by the MSCI Emerging Markets around the world.
The international markets Retail sales last 10 years index.
The impact of the Fed tapering may we serve, particularly the emerging markets, Net retail sales of UK funds unit trusts also continue to challenge Developed and show good potential for further growth.
and OEICs Emerging markets in 2014.
We aim to increase our capabilities and the 2012 strength of our offering in all our international Not withstanding this volatility, our business markets.
We have continued to roll out our maintained its growth momentum in 2013 2011 new-generation, e-enabled investment with increased profit and operating margin, 2010 platform, Wealth Interactive, and new products sustained positive net client cash flow NCCF, 2009 launched in key markets during 2013 included and strong long-term investment performance.
2008 a high death benefit product in Latin America We continued to expand USAMs non-US 2007 and a revitalised investment portfolio product client base as the Centre-led Global 2006 in South Africa.
Distribution initiative raised $4.5 billion in total 2005 assets and $15.5 billion of gross inflows came Our International business model allows us 2004 from non-US clients accounts during the to generate attractive revenue flows from the period.
Non-US clients accounted for 36% of 2003 assets we manage without taking capital risk.
funds under management FUM at the end of 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 This results in attractive profitability and 2013 31 December 2012: 35%.
International bn returns on equity.
Although operating in equity, emerging markets, global equity, multiple regulatory environments is more Source: Investment Trends Survey 2012 global fixed income and currency products complex than single-market onshore operations, accounted for 52% 31 December 2012: 52%.
we believe that the international proposition There is growing demand for packaged will remain an attractive part of our overall FUM increased 23% driven by market investment solutions from financial advisers business proposition.
Enhancing this business appreciation 16.3% and continued positive who want to outsource part or all of their through product innovation, technology NCCF 7.8%.
US equity markets measured by investment process to us.
We already offer two enablement and diversifying our distribution to the S&P 500 were up 32.4% in 2013, fully packaged investment solutions: Spectrum capture the emergence of local wealth in our compared to 22.8% for non-US developed for customers focused on controlling risk and markets is a core part of our strategy.
markets measured by the EAFE index.
The US Generation for those focused on income.
outperformance led to an increase in the US United States share of assets held, but global fixed income To build on this growing demand, we have Our US Asset Management USAM business products, emerging market equities, and been developing WealthSelect, a researched offers a diverse range of investment strategies international equities continued to account range of some of the best investment strategies and products to institutional investors around for the largest share of NCCF.
Real estate in the market.
Financial advisers will be able to the world through its multi-boutique model, and timber assets account for $30 billion of use the range to build portfolios themselves, or consisting of eight core affiliates.
USAM FUM at 31 December 2013. they can use our own managed portfolio Institutional investors, from public and private service and outsource the management of Asia and Latin America pension plans to foundations, endowments the portfolios to our multi-asset team.
From Our Latin America operations and sovereign wealth funds, are showing Q1 2014 this will give us one of the most We have strong savings and investment significant signs of divergence when it comes comprehensive investment propositions in the franchises in Colombia and Mexico.
Certain corporate pension market, offering advisers a range of options Colombia we are No.
2 in the voluntary plans are significantly fide-risking and moving to meet differing client needs.
pensions market, with more than 30% market into liability-driven investments whereas share and 60 years experience: and in Mexico In our international markets we offer a market others are moving further up the risk spectrum.
we are one of the main players in managing leading range of portfolio bonds under the Institutions have been buffeted by significant defined contribution pension plans for Skandia brand, enabling customers to invest volatility in equity markets in recent years companies.
Our recent acquisition of AIVA, under Irish or Isle of Man offshore jurisdictions.
although equity markets have rebounded a Uruguay-based business which operates Depending on where customers are domiciled, in 2013. in many other countries in the region, gives us this gives them tax efficiency, portability or a strong platform for distribution of wealth Despite overall favourable markets and investment security while the open architecture products.
We are building a retail mass lessened volatility in 2013, US markets faced nature of the products maintains investment business in Mexico, leveraging the experience political uncertainties over the US debt ceiling choice and flexibility.
we have gained in this market segment in and budget debate.
Coupled with the US We are differentiated from competitors by the South Africa.
We have more than 385,000 Federal Reserves tapering of its quantitative geographic extent of our footprint and our customers in the region, accounting for easing QE, which has continued in 2014, related client base.
We distribute our products some 14% to the total Emerging Markets these factors created concerns for investors.
through intermediaries and our own salesforces business FUM.
Emerging market equities were particularly in Latin America and Africa.
Accessing a wide impacted in 2013, declining 2.6% for the year Our historical focus has been on products range of international markets, including and down 2.1% annually on average for the without a life insurance wrapper, offering emerging markets, allows us to take full three year period ended 31 December 2013 customers unit trusts and institutional asset advantage of shifting economic dynamics Old Mutual plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report We believe incorporating Responsible investment into the investment process aligns with our pursuit of long-term returns and broader interests of society.
Roger Birt, Head, Mandate Management, Old Mutual South Africa management solutions.
However, we also see promising opportunities in life insurance as the regions GDP per capita has been steadily improving and life insurance premiums have been growing strongly over the last few years.
We have robust strategies to continue serving our market niches despite challenges to our Mexican and Colombian businesses from tax reforms as governments strive to accelerate structural economic reforms.
These reforms would constrain demand for our voluntary pensions businesses by diminishing the tax incentives to save, particularly among our affluent customers.
Our Asian operations In Asia we operate with joint venture partners in both India and China, where we have life insurance licences offering protection, savings and investment products across various customer segments.
CASE STUDY In India we have a successful 74:26 joint venture with Kotak Mahindra Bank.
Together we have Strengthening diversity been able to create one of the few insurers that continue to operate profitably in Indian life The Clothing Bank is one of the Enterprise aims to equip and empower unemployed insurance, and we were voted Most Respected Development projects funded by the mothers with the vital skills and resources JV Insurance Company in India by Business Old Mutual Foundation.
We have funded they need to start small, sustainable clothing World magazine in 2013.
Regulation of them since 2012 and the 2013 funding trading businesses.
insurance distribution in India has significantly went towards expanding the project into weakened salesforce morale and slowed the By helping them to sell surplus and waste the Gauteng province.
pace of sales growth recently.
In China, Old clothing merchandise donated by major Mutual Guodian Life Insurance is our 50:50 The Clothing Bank is an innovative NGO South African retailers, The Clothing Bank partnership with the Guodian Group, a well with a passionate mission to empower teaches unemployed women valuable skills respected state-owned enterprise.
We are unemployed single mothers through and business acumen.
growing rapidly, broadening our distribution enterprise development so that they can and well positioned in the fast-growing The women earn, on average, R3,500 become financially and socially independent.
high-end affluent segment, where we have over per month and over the past three years It was founded in 2010 in response to the 40,000 customers.
The Clothing Bank has successfully trained rapidly increasing rate of unemployment 330 women who have collectively made among single mothers and the lack of While India faces a number of macroa profit of over R10 million.
With this money, support they receive from the fathers of economic and political challenges over the they have been able to improve their their children.
short-term, GDP growth is expected to recover lives, settle debts and embrace a culture in 2014.
In China the government favours The main focus of The Clothing Banks of independence and saving, while further development of the life insurance enterprise development initiative is a simultaneously stimulating other communityindustry but the key question remains whether two-year holistic training programme that based small businesses.
the country can sustain economic growth as it has over the past 30 years.
China and India have a combined population of 2.6 billion, with a rapidly growing middle class currently estimated at some 200 million individuals.
This, coupled with low levels of insurance penetration, should drive demand for insurance and long-term savings over time.
Our operational priority remains to grow the value of our Asian joint ventures, principally by diversifying our product and channel offerings to existing and new customer segments.
