S E I R A I D E M P R A E Y T N M BUSINESS MODEL IN OUTLINE We generate value for all our stakeholders.
We are focused on by providing a range of becoming our customers products to help them achieve most trusted partner... their lifetime financial goals... Investment Savings Insurance Banking INFLOWS OUTFLOWS OF CASH 16m 294bn Retail, Institutional, Funds under Government and management Corporate Customers and 33bn in loans and advances Annuities, claims, interest Fees, underwriting income, and investment gains interest and investment gains Our business model is delivered through our commitment to Old Mutual plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 I E T N C T E S R I D S E L A S Strategic report delivered through five enabling us to business units... generate value for all our stakeholders 13.6% ROE Emerging Markets AOP 590m 336m returns to Nedbank shareholders and 272m 2 AOP 797m returns to bondholders 16m investment Property & Casualty 3 in communities AOP 4m Over 1,914m development and reward of employees Old Mutual Wealth 1,477m taxes to AOP 217m 4 governments US Asset Management 327m reinvestment 5 AOP 111m in future growth 1 1,612m AOP REINVESTMENT the development of our skills, resources and relationships.
1 Pre-tax, pre NCI and includes Group interest expense and central costs 2 Interest and principal repaid on our debt in the period 3 Corporate donations made through our foundations and other community investment projects excludes employee donations through workplace fundraising 4 Taxes paid or collected 5 Includes capital investment and new business strain on covered business 19 BUSINESS MODEL IN DETAIL We generate value by focusing on our customers lifetime financial goals.
Customers Products We focus on our customers long-term needs.
Our skills and resources enable our business units to excel in their respective markets.
Creating trusted relationships with customers is at the heart of everything we do.
We aim to help them achieve their lifetime financial Investment goals through our investment, savings, insurance and banking.
We provide appropriate and tax-efficient investment products to our customers as they accumulate assets to safeguard their futures.
Despite volatility in the world economy and the equity and currency markets, the basic needs of consumers around the world do not Savings change.
People want to protect themselves and their families against We provide goal-orientated savings products, for example, helping critical life events and to provide for expenses such as education, customers to save towards their childrens education.
healthcare and retirement particularly against a backdrop of Insurance reduced government and employer capacity to provide these services.
Our protection business provides life assurance products that offer financial security against single or multiple risks such as death or disability.
For example, in South Africa we provide products to help our customers save for funerals.
This has significant cultural importance.
Our Property & Casualty business protects individuals, commercial and corporate customers from losses due to damage, theft or other financial claims.
Inflows outflows We generate cash flow and profits from the Banking Our banking services include retail and corporate lending, products we sell.
transactional banking and savings current accounts.
The timing of cash flows and recording of profits varies depending on Funds under management the products.
For example, a life insurance policy creates profits over The cash generated from the sale of products results in funds under a long-term and annual car insurance policy over a short-term.
management on which we earn performance and management fees Customers buy our products either directly or through an intermediary and generate investment returns.
Customers funds and their value can such as a financial adviser.
In due course rise or fall with the underlying markets.
So the value of our profits from we make payments to our customers, in line with our promise.
these products varies with the movements in markets.
Our aim is that in any period our net flow inflows less outflows will be positive.
This increases our overall funds under management.
Skills and expertise Resources We are committed to developing our employees skills and expertise.
This promotes efficiency, good morale and a positive work environment.
To deliver our business model we draw on our strong pool of resources.
Strategy We drive growth by leveraging on the capabilities of our people People and values and by accelerating collaboration between our businesses.
A strong values-driven culture is embedded across the Group.
Our five strategic priorities are: We have our geographic and cultural diversity and we expect 1.
In South Africa we will be the leading and most trusted financial all our employees to live and be judged by the following values: services group through driving increased alignment between OMSA, Nedbank and Mutual & Federal Accountability 2.
In Africa we will continue towards becoming an African Financial Integrity Services Champion, while continuing to grow our other emerging Respect market businesses Pushing beyond boundaries 3.
In the UK we will build the best retail investment business through growing and transforming Old Mutual Wealth 4.
In the US we will continue to improve and grow our multi-boutique asset management business Old Mutual plc 20 5.
Across the Group we will become the leader in Responsible Business Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Customers Products Business units Stakeholders Inflows Outflows Resources Business units Stakeholders We offer a wide range of financial Cash generated is used both to reward various services and products.
stakeholders and to invest in future growth.
Emerging Markets Returns to shareholders Old Mutual Emerging Markets operates in 13 countries across Asia, We pay out a portion of our annual profits to shareholders and Africa and Latin America, providing long-term savings, protection on occasions will make additional payments out of surplus capital.
and investment solutions to individuals, businesses, corporates Returns to bond holders and institutions.
We service the interest on our debt and expect to repay the principal Nedbank on our debt as it falls due.
Interest rates payable vary in some cases We own a majority share in Nedbank Group, one of the four largest due to wider market conditions.
banking groups in South Africa.
Nedbank provides retail and Returns to communities wholesale banking services as well as insurance, asset management Our support for communities is not just about giving money to good and wealth management.
causes, but about making real and sustainable positive impacts.
It is Property & Casualty in our interest to build a stronger society by supporting communities Mutual & Federal is Southern Africas oldest property and casualty effectively, especially in the emerging markets where we operate.
insurer, with a history dating back more than 180 years.
It has an At Group level we have policies that encourage engagement with our extensive range of products to meet personal, commercial and communities and employee volunteering.
At local level there is flexibility corporate needs.
to focus on the issues that are most appropriate to that business.
We Old Mutual Wealth support and invest in a range of areas, but the three focus areas that Old Mutual Wealth provides advice-driven investment solutions are common across the Group are financial education, enterprise and through independent intermediaries to affluent and high net worth skills development, and community development.
clients in the UK and a number of markets in the Far East, Middle East, Returns to governments Latin America, South Africa and Europe.
We are a substantial payer of taxation, levies and fees to governments US Asset Management where we operate.
We also collect other taxes such as payroll The US Asset Management business is headquartered in Boston deduction.
Our investment activities also generate economic activity and has a global distribution footprint.
It offers institutional investors which further raises revenues for governments.
a diverse range of investment strategies and products through Returns to employees a well-diversified multi-boutique framework.
We employ a substantial number of people across our Group and believe in paying appropriate compensation for the effort and contribution made in our business operations.
Treating our employees well is one of our most important priorities.
Reinvestment into our businesses for future growth We reinvest in our employees and businesses to allow us to build a sustainable long-term environment in which we can continue to grow and adapt to new opportunities and challenges.
Governance and risk management Responsibility We have invested significantly over the past five years in creating We are committed to operating responsibly, making decisions that take a robust and deeply embedded governance and risk management account of our impact on those around us.
Our transparent processes for managing, monitoring For more about our stakeholder engagement and Responsible Business and controlling risks support sound business decisions.
activities, please see the Responsible Business Report.
Relationships We deliver value in its wider sense.
Our international operations generate employment, investment and tax revenues around the world.
The relationships we form with our customers, our employees, governments, regulators and community groups are vital to the success of our business.
