Business review BUSINESS REVIEW PROPERTY & CASUALTY Tough operating conditions whilst business changes are being implemented Rm 1 Highlights 2013 2012 % Change Underwriting margin 4.9 % 1.7 % Underwriting result 437 132 231 % Long-term investment return LTIR 472 608 22 % Income from associate Zimbabwe 40 19 111% AOP IFRS basis, pre-tax 58 475 88 % Gross written premiums 11,315 9,706 17% Net earned premiums 8,856 7,573 17% Claims ratio 75.5% 72.4% Combined ratio 104.9% 101.7% International solvency ratio 54.1% 64.0% Return on equity 0.6% 7.1% 1 Comparatives have been restated to reflect 100% of the iWYZE results Overview and operating environment Business development A disappointing underwriting loss of R437 million can largely be Management have clear action plans to address challenges over the attributed to severe weather-related losses in the fourth quarter, current business planning period.
The focus will be on: drought conditions leading to poor Agriculture results in the first half Remediating rates and improving risk selection in Personal lines and a continuing soft market in the South African property and casualty We will continue introducing price increases across the Personal sector.
The underwriting loss deteriorated from the prior year with the book, with the impact expected at renewal margin worsening by 3.2% to a loss of 4.9%.
Flood and hail damage We will incorporate improved risk selection on new business caused an increase in both claims frequency and severity.
The South African property and casualty industry has seen combined ratios Our pricing initiatives will be supported by a greater degree of deteriorate significantly during 2013. automation in the underwriting process, which will allow for tighter control and more effective validation Gross written premium grew 17% year on year, reflecting strong growth of 36.7% in the Corporate & Niche segment including Improving claims efficiency and effectiveness while combating CGIC which delivered gross written premiums of R3,527 million claims fraud 2012: R2,581 million.
Much of the growth in premiums was due to We will implement a new claims operating model which will inwards reinsurance business, which primarily consist of open market improve efficiencies in Personal lines by adopting a segmented and strategic attritional losses treaty business.
Credit Guarantee approach to claims handling CGIC grew 10.8% to R860 million.
The Personal segment grew 5.9% We will focus on improved procurement of claims-related to R3,065 million and Commercial by 12.1% to R3,935 million with expenditure to reduce the average claims cost Agriculture contributing R145 million and Africa excl.
SA by 9.3% to Reducing operating expenses R788 million.
The Personal lines quote to acceptance conversion rate fell, reflecting the implementation of tougher underwriting criteria.
We will keep the annual increase in payroll costs in line with inflation We will reduce IT costs following our migration off a mainframe iWYZE, our joint venture with the Old Mutual Mass Foundation based system business, achieved solid growth in gross written premium of 10.8%, and Improving the operating model a significant improvement in the claims ratio.
Reflecting the early stage We will be reviewing our current operating model in key segments in the life cycle of the business, the underwriting margin on iWYZE is and will be introducing improvements aimed at customer 42.1 %, an improvement compared to the previous year 54.6 %.
In satisfaction and operational efficiency 2014, premium in iWYZE is expected to grow through substantial collaboration with Old Mutual.
The retention rate will be improved Improving broker distribution capabilities through a combination of accurate customer segmentation, careful We will provide a single point of contact for each broker with a analysis of renewal lapse rates and appropriate renewal moderation, focus on key account management and through the introduction of product innovations aimed at We will improve broker experience by creating continuous improving longevity.
We will also work on diversifying the types of risks feedback loops to business underwritten in the iWYZE book.
Creating a high performance culture The company remains well capitalised with a 54.1% international solvency ratio net assets: net premiums.
We will align performance scorecards to the strategy and business plan by providing clear and concise messaging on targets and introducing robust performance measurement 61 BUSINESS REVIEW PROPERTY & CASUALTY continued Africa excluding SA The new organisational structure, consisting of Personal, Commercial, In Africa excl.
SA, the claims ratio deteriorated to 62.9% 2012: 54.2% Corporate & Niche and Africa excl.
SA has been bedded down over mainly due to three large corporate claims in Namibia of R20.5 million the last quarter where executive appointments have been completed and two large commercial claims in Botswana of R6.3 million which for our underwriting segments in South Africa.
We expect improved together contributed 5.5% to the claims ratio.
An increase in the results as operational efficiencies and strategic objectives begin to Incurred But Not Reported IBNR provision added a further 0.8%.
A 7.3% increase in the Personal lines claims ratio in Namibia from Underwriting and IFRS AOP results 74.6% to 81.9% was due to premium rate reductions in an attempt to The deterioration of the underwriting result was materially affected grow the book.
Remediation plans have already been implemented by weather-related claims specifically in the fourth quarter with and we will continue to monitor their progress.
R176 million of net losses from flooding in Western Cape and hail storms in and around Johannesburg.
By segment, Corporate & Niche Outlook and Commercial lines suffered the most significant reduction in the In the latter part of the year, whilst there has been some tentative underwriting result by R157 million and R156 million respectively.
impact from remedial action taken in our Personal lines division as the The decrease in the underwriting result led to an 88% reduction in policy count begins to stabilise, the continued depreciation of the rand AOP and a reduction in RoE from 7.1% to 0.6%.
has led to increased motor related claims costs on imported parts.
The deterioration in the overall claims ratio to 75.5% 2012: 72.4% Despite challenging market conditions experienced in 2013, we expect was primarily due to higher claims severity in both the Personal and competitors to also increase premiums in response to the rising claims Commercial motor classes.
However, with re-pricing and other cost pressures.
We anticipate a hardening of the market in 2014.
Our remedial actions taking place we are starting to see positive trends.
primary focus is on restoring the profitability of the business in 2014 There was a higher incidence of fire claims in the Corporate & Niche rather than on premium growth.
In our Personal segment, greater segment, which experienced a claims ratio of 73.4% and droughtcollaboration within the Old Mutual Group will be the driving force related Agriculture claims.
behind future growth prospects as well as the expansion into Africa.
In the longer term, the management team is focused on delivering CGIC generated strong premium growth of 10.8%.
However, challenging the plan to improve return on equity to 15% to 20% by 2016 through economic conditions have adversely affected its claims and expense ratios, the management of claims costs, capital management and resulting in a lower underwriting result compared to the previous year.
Overall, the expense ratio improved by 1% due to a combination of the premium growth and a continued focus on expense management.
Whilst we are confident that our management actions will have a positive impact in achieving our stated targets, we acknowledge that The net commission ratio was 16.6% for 2013 with a 1.1% increase an increase in the frequency and severity of weather-related claims year on year due to changes in business mix and the commencement increases our earnings volatility, given the current business risk profile.
of binder fee regulations, whereby intermediaries provide claims handling and policy administration services.
Old Mutual plc 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2013
