Directors report The directors of The Paragon Group of Companies PLC registered number 2336032 submit their Report prepared in accordance with Schedule 7 to the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 Schedule 7, which also includes additional disclosures made in accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Directors and their interests The directors of the Company during the year were: R G Dench N S Terrington N Keen J A Heron R J Woodman E A Tilly A K Fletcher P J N Hartill F J Clutterbuck Non-executive directors.
The directors interests in the shares of the Company are disclosed in the Directors remuneration report in section B3.
There have been no changes in the directors interests in the share capital of the Company since 30 September 2013.
At 30 September 2013 Mr N Keen held 100,000 of the Companys 6% Sterling Notes due 2020, issued on 5 March 2013 2012: nil.
Other than as stated above the directors had no interests in securities issued by the Company.
The directors have no interests in the shares or debentures of the Companys subsidiary companies.
The appointment and replacement of the Companys directors is governed by its Articles of Association, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation and the individual service contracts and terms of appointment of the directors.
The powers of the directors, and their service contracts and terms of appointment, are described in the Corporate Governance section, Section B2.
The Articles of Association may only be amended by the Companys shareholders in general meeting.
Under article 143 of the Companys Articles of Association, the Company has qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the bene t of its directors which were in place throughout the year and which remain in force at the date of this report, in the form of directors and of cers liability insurance.
The UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that all directors should be subject to re-appointment annually and therefore all of the directors, Mr R G Dench, Mr N S Terrington, Mr N Keen, Mr J A Heron, Mr R J Woodman, Mr E A Tilly, Mr A K Fletcher, Mr P J N Hartill and Ms F J Clutterbuck, have agreed to voluntarily retire from the Board at the end of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re election.
None of the directors has a service contract with the Company requiring more than 12 months notice of termination to be given.
From 1 October 2008, a director has had a statutory duty to avoid a situation in which he or she has, or can have, an interest that con icts or possibly may con ict with the interests of the Company.
A director will not be in breach of that duty if the relevant matter has been authorised in accordance with the Articles of Association by the other directors.
The Articles of Association include the relevant authorisation for directors to approve such con icts.
None of the directors had, either during or at the end of the year, any material interest in any contract of signi cance with the Company or its subsidiaries.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 69 B Corporate governance B4 Directors report continued Capital structure Details of the issued share capital of the Company, together with details of movements in its issued share capital in the year, are given in note 38 to the accounts.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carries no right to xed income.
Each ordinary share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
The rights and obligations attaching to ordinary shares are set out in the Articles of Association of the Company.
There are no speci c restrictions on the size of a members holding or on the transfer of shares.
Both of these matters are governed by the general provisions of the Companys Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares in respect of voting rights or which might result in restrictions on the transfer of securities.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 15 to the accounts.
Votes attaching to shares held by employee bene t trusts are not exercised at general meetings of the Company.
The Company presently has the authority to issue ordinary shares up to a value of 99,600,000 and to make market purchases of up to 29,900,000 1 ordinary shares, granted at the Annual General Meeting on 7 February 2013.
These authorities expire at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on 6 February 2014.
Purchase of own shares At 30 September 2007 the Company had, as part of a 40.0 million repurchase programme, repurchased 6,689,000 10p ordinary shares having an aggregate nominal value of 668,900.
The reasons for the repurchase programme were set out in an announcement made by the Company through RNS on 25 May 2005.
On 29 January 2008 these shares were consolidated into 668,900 1 ordinary shares.
All of these shares were held as at 30 September 2013 and 30 September 2012 as treasury shares, representing 0.2% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares, and this holding represents the maximum number of its own 1 ordinary shares held by the Company at any time during the past year.
Dividends The directors recommend a final dividend of 4.8p per share 2012: 4.5p per share which, taken with the interim dividend of 2.4p per share 2012: 1.5p per share paid on 26 July 2013, would give a total dividend for the year of 7.2p per share 2012: 6.0p per share.
Substantial shareholdings As at 31 October 2013, being a date not more than one month before the date of the notice convening the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the Company had been noti ed of the following interests of more than 3% in the nominal value of the ordinary share capital of the Company: Ordinary shares % Held BlackRock 39,722,803 13.00% M & G Investment Management 16,307,925 5.34% Legal & General Investment Management 11,750,016 3.85% Ignis Asset Management 10,717,836 3.51% Standard Life Investments 9,971,442 3.26% Henderson Global Investors 9,380,101 3.07% The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 70 B Corporate governance Political expenditure Company law requires the disclosure of political donations and political expenditure by any Group company.
During the year ended 30 September 2013 no such payments were made 2012: nil.
Auditors The directors have taken all reasonable steps to make themselves and the Companys auditors aware of any information needed in preparing the audit of the Annual Report and Financial Statements for the year, and, as far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware.
A resolution for the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as the auditors of the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will take place on 6 February 2014 in London.
A notice convening the Annual General Meeting is being circulated to shareholders with this Annual Report and Accounts.
Information presented in other sections Certain information required to be included in a directors report by Schedule 7 can be found in the other sections of the Annual Report, as described below.
All of the information presented in these sections is incorporated by reference into this Directors report and is deemed to form part of this report.
Commentary on the likely future developments in the business of the Group is included in the Strategic report Section A.
A description of the Groups financial risk management objectives and policies, and its exposure to risks arising from its use of financial instruments are set out in note 6 to the accounts.
Particulars of events occurring after the balance sheet date are described in notes 25 and 31 to the accounts, and discussed in the Strategic report section A.
Information concerning directors contractual arrangements and entitlements under share based remuneration arrangements is given in section B3, the Directors remuneration report.
Information concerning the employment of disabled persons and the involvement of employees in the business is given in section A5.1 Employees Disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions are given in Section A5.2 Environmental policy Rule DTR7.2.
1 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules requires the Groups disclosures on Corporate governance to be included in the Directors report.
This information is presented in sections B2, B2.1 and B2.2 and the information in these sections is incorporated by reference into this Directors report and is deemed to form part of this report.
Section B4 of this Annual Report, together with the other sections of the Annual Report incorporated by reference, comprise a Directors report for the Group which has been drawn up and presented in accordance with, and in reliance upon, applicable English company law and the liabilities of the directors in connection with this report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf of the Board.
JOHN G GEMMELL Company Secretary 26 November 2013 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 71 B Corporate governance
