NEW BUSINESS ACTIVITIES The Group has applied to the Prudential Regulatory Authority PRA and the Financial Conduct Authority FCA for authority to establish a banking subsidiary.
Subject to regulatory approval, the proposed bank will take deposits and make, initially, car and second mortgage loans, with other product lines to be established in due course.
Operational preparations, including executive appointments, management structures and system developments, are all at an advanced stage.
Our expectation, subject to approval, will be to launch the bank during the first quarter of 2014.
Further progress information will be provided to shareholders in due course.
REGULATION The proposed European Directive on credit agreements relating to residential property, which may impose additional disclosure and other requirements for all mortgage lending to consumers secured on residential property, has yet to be concluded.
It has been reported that the UK Government has negotiated an exemption from the Directive for buy-to-let lending but this has yet to be formally rati ed.
We will continue to maintain an active dialogue with the UK and European regulatory authorities as these proposals develop.
In the UK the PRA, FCA and Bank of England have now variously assumed the functions of the Financial Services Authority and will, subject to approval, regulate our proposed banking subsidiary.
With effect from April 2014, responsibility for the regulation of consumer credit, including second charge mortgage lending, passes from the Of ce of Fair Trading to the FCA, which has recently published draft conduct of business rules for the sector.
These rules will apply not only to the Groups proposed consumer lending operations, but also to our third party servicing activities and closed consumer finance books.
A3.3 Funding review BORROWINGS On 5 March 2013 the Group issued 60.0 million of 6.0% sterling bonds due December 2020.
The bonds, listed on the London Stock Exchange Order Book for Retail Bonds, were issued to provide additional working capital for the Group.
This was the initial transaction under a 1.0 billion Euro Medium Term Note Programme announced in January 2013.
The bonds allow us to diversify our funding base and extend the tenor of our borrowings.
On 25 October 2012, the Group completed a 200.0 million securitisation of buy-to-let loans, through Paragon Mortgages No.
PM 17 comprises 175.0 million of AAA rated notes, 10.5 million of AA rated notes and 10.0 million of A rated notes at margins of 135, 190 and 290 basis points over three month LIBOR respectively.
4.5 million of subordinated notes were retained by the Group, which also invested 6.0 million in the first loss fund, bringing the Groups total investment in PM 17 to 10.5 million, or 5.25% of the issue amount.
On 23 September 2013, the Group completed a 273.0 million securitisation of buy-to-let loans, through Paragon Mortgages No.
PM 18 comprises 238.1 million of AAA rated notes, 15.7 million of AA rated notes and 13.7 million of A rated notes at margins of 115, 170 and 240 basis points over three month LIBOR respectively.
5.5 million of subordinated notes were retained by the Group, which also invested 8.19 million in the first loss fund, bringing the Groups total investment in PM 18 to 13.69 million, or 5.0% of the issue amount.
The pricing of the PM 17 and PM 18 transactions re ected the strong credit pro le of the Groups buy-to-let assets and our experience as an issuer of high quality bonds in the mortgage backed securities market.
PM 17 was the first buy-to-let securitisation to offer single A rated bonds since 2008 and these deals were only the second and third securitisations of buy-to-let loans since the credit crunch.
They were also the Groups 55th and 56th securitisations since pioneering the methodology in 1987.
We plan to return to the securitisation markets regularly as business volumes increase.
The Group uses two warehouse facilities to originate mortgage loans prior to arranging term funding in the securitisation markets.
The 200.0 million revolving warehouse provided by Macquarie Bank was renewed and extended for a further two years in November 2012 and the amount available for drawing increased to 250.0 million, while an additional 200.0 million revolving warehouse facility, provided by the wholesale division of Lloyds Bank, was utilised for the first time in April 2013.
Dependant on market conditions and our expectations for mortgage volumes, additional warehousing capacity may be sought in due course.
Strategic report A3.3 Funding review continued CAPITAL MANAGEMENT The Group has continued to enjoy strong cash generation during the year.
Free cash balances were 170.8 million at the year-end 30 September 2012: 127.7 million after investments to support new buy-to-let originations and acquisitions by Idem Capital.
The Company sees opportunities going forward to deploy capital for new lending activities, which should continue to increase, and to invest further amounts in loan portfolios through Idem Capital as banks and other financial institutions continue to dispose of assets.
These cash balances, together with future operational cash ow, will support the Groups growth through investment in these areas as well as providing returns to shareholders through dividends.
The Board keeps under review the appropriate level of capital for the business to meet its operational requirements and strategic development objectives and in 2012 announced a new progressive dividend policy so that, by 2016 and thereafter, dividend cover will be maintained in the range 3.0 to 3.5 times.
In pursuance of this policy, and in view of the strong position of the Group and its con dence in the prospects for the business, the Board proposes subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on 6 February 2014, a final dividend of 4.8p per share which, when added to the interim dividend of 2.4p, gives a dividend of 7.2p per share for the year, an increase of 20.0% from 2012.
In accordance with our usual practice, we will be proposing at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting a special resolution seeking authority from shareholders for the Company to purchase up to 30.5 million of its own shares 10% of the issued share capital.
It is customary for companies to seek such authority but we would not expect to utilise the authority unless, in the light of market conditions prevailing at the time, we consider that to do so would enhance earnings per share and would be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Given the operational and strategic opportunities described above and the enhanced dividend policy, the Board has no current intention of using this authority.
CONCLUSION Paragon has made signi cant progress in 2013 delivering record pro ts, whilst also laying the foundations for further sustainable growth in the future.
Buy-to-let lending volumes have grown by over 90% as landlords feel increasingly optimistic about the housing market and the prospects for the private rental sector.
At the same time, the Group has continued to build on its highly regarded expertise in the debt purchase market, making further signi cant investments through Idem Capital.
The Groups actions to increase its warehouse facilities, its successful securitisations and the new retail bond programme all combine to provide substantial capacity to support further growth in our existing business areas.
With our banking licence application making good progress and our plans for a return to consumer finance lending now well advanced, the Group is well positioned for further growth in the year ahead.
NIGEL S TERRINGTON Chief Executive 26 November 2013 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 16 A.
