Business model and strategy A2.1 The Groups business The Group is a listed FTSE-350 company, specialising in consumer finance and operating only in the United Kingdom.
It is the UKs leading specialist lender of buy-to-let mortgages to professional landlords and residential property investors as well as an active acquirer of loan assets and portfolios and a loan servicing provider for third party clients.
It operates on a centralised basis with most of the employees based in its of ces in Solihull, West Midlands.
The Groups income The Groups income is derived from interest, fees and similar charges arising from its investments in first mortgages and consumer loans and fees charged to third parties for administering similar loans on their behalf.
The Groups servicing capabilities are organised to re ect the differing operational requirements of these two classes of assets and therefore these are the segments used by the Group to describe its business in this Annual Report.
Generation of assets The Group currently generates new assets through two operations: Paragon Mortgages, which originates new buy-to-let mortgage loans, focussing on professional landlords, through its Paragon Mortgages and Mortgage Trust brands: and Idem Capital, which purchases UK debt portfolios from other lenders and invests in similar arrangements led by third parties.
In the past the Group was an active lender in other consumer credit markets, notably residential mortgages, car finance and second charge lending and the Groups assets still include some balances generated by these operations.
The Group is currently making preparations to re-enter the car finance and second charge markets under the Paragon Car Finance and Paragon Personal Finance brands.
The Group continues to keep the consumer finance market as a whole under review to consider whether lending in any new product areas should be introduced.
Funding the business The Groups main source of funding for its originated assets is through securitisation, which provides long term matched funding for the book at LIBOR linked interest rates.
The Group pioneered this technique in the UK in 1987 and has issued 56 securitisation deals since that time.
Before securitisation assets are funded through committed bank facilities.
The Groups intention is to fund its new consumer lending primarily through retail deposits to be accepted through a banking subsidiary, and the necessary regulatory authorities for this are being sought.
The working capital of the Group is provided by equity, corporate and retail bonds.
The Groups funding mix is kept under review, bearing in mind the cost and availability of appropriate sources of finance.
Pro tability of the business The pro tability of the business relies on: careful management of loan accounts to increase retention and reduce levels of delinquency: vigilance in the underwriting and loan acquisition processes to mitigate losses: The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 8 A.
Strategic report appropriate pricing of new advances or purchased loans: arranging appropriate funding sources to sustain the business: and maintaining control of operating costs.
A2.2 Principal risks and uncertainties There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties which could have a material impact on the Groups performance and could cause actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results.
The Groups system of risk management, which includes the Credit Committee and Asset and Liabilities Committee ALCO, a dedicated Group Risk function, risk review and an active internal audit function, is monitored by the Audit and Compliance Committee as described in the Corporate governance section of this Annual Report section B2.
The principal risks inherent in the Groups business model, described in section A2.1, include the following: Economic environment A further deterioration in the general economy may adversely affect all aspects of the Groups business.
Adverse economic conditions might increase the number of borrowers that default on their loans or adversely affect funding structures, which may in turn increase the Groups costs and could result in losses on some of the Groups assets, or restrict the ability of the Group to develop in the future.
The general economic factors affecting the Group in the period going forward, together with the steps taken by the Groups management to address these issues are described in more detail in the Chairmans statement in section A1 and the Chief Executives review in section A3.
Changes in interest rates may adversely affect the Groups net income and pro tability.
The steps taken by the Group to mitigate against the long term effects of interest rate movements, through the structuring of its products and the use of hedging procedures are described in note 6 to the accounts.
Credit risk As a primary lender the Group faces credit risk as an inherent component of its lending and asset purchase activities.
Adverse changes in the credit quality of the Groups borrowers, a general deterioration in UK economic conditions or adverse changes arising from systematic risks in UK and global financial systems could reduce the recoverability and value of the Groups assets.
The Groups approach to the management of credit risk and the systems in place to mitigate that risk on both originated and purchased assets are described in the section of note 6 to the accounts entitled Credit risk.
Funding risk The Group relies on its access to sources of funding to finance the origination of new business, portfolio acquisitions and working capital.
If access to funding became restricted, either through market movements or regulatory or governmental action, this might result in the scaling back or cessation of some business lines.
The Group, through ALCO, seeks to mitigate this risk by investigating alternative sources of finance which are, or might become, available to the Group and by keeping its funding and working capital position under review.
The Groups capital position and its policies in respect of capital management are described in note 5 to the accounts.
These policies and their application are described more fully in the section of the Chief Executives review headed Capital management within section A3.3.
Strategic report A2.2 Principal risks and uncertainties continued Operational risk The activities of the Group subject it to operational risks relating to its ability to implement and maintain effective systems to process the high volume of transactions with customers.
A signi cant breakdown of the IT systems of the Group might adversely impact the ability of the Group to operate its business effectively.
To address these risks, the Groups internal audit function carries out targeted reviews of critical systems to ensure that they remain adequate for their purpose.
The Group has a business continuity plan, accredited under the International Standard ISO 22301, which is kept under regular review and is designed to ensure that any breakdown in systems would not cause signi cant disruption to the business.
Competitor risk The Group faces strong competition in all of the core markets in which it operates.
There is a danger that its pro tability and or market share may be impaired.
To mitigate this risk the Group maintains relationships with its customers, business introducers and other signi cant participants in the markets in which it is active, as well as being active in industry-wide organisations and initiatives.
This enables market trends to be identi ed and addressed within the relevant business strategy.
Governmental, legislative and regulatory risk The market sectors to which the Group supplies products, and the capital markets from which it obtains much of its funding, have been subject to intervention by United Kingdom Government, European Union and other regulatory bodies.
Current regulatory developments are discussed in the section of the Chief Executives review headed Regulation in section A3.2.
To the extent that such actions disadvantage the Group, when compared to other market participants, they present a risk to the Group.
In order to mitigate this risk the Group has been active in explaining its position to the authorities in order that it is not inadvertently disadvantaged.
In order to ensure compliance with the various regulatory regimes it is, or may become, subject to, the Group maintains a compliance function which reviews procedures, examines compliance with them and evaluates knowledge levels across relevant functions.
Management The success of the Group is dependent on recruiting and retaining skilled senior management and personnel and failure to do so would put the Groups ability to successfully carry out its plans at risk.
The Groups employment policies, which are designed to mitigate this exposure and ensure that an appropriately skilled workforce is, and remains, in place are described within section A5.1.
Other financial risks The Groups exposure to other financial risks, including liquidity risk and foreign currency risk, and the procedures in place to mitigate those risks are described in detail in note 6 to the accounts.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 10 A.
