Board of directors Nigel S Terrington Chief Executive Age 53 Nigel Terrington joined the Group in 1987 and became Chief Executive in June 1995, having previously held the positions of Treasurer and Finance Director.
Prior to joining the Group, he worked in investment banking.
He is chairman of the Council of Mortgage Lenders and is also a member of HM Treasurys Home Finance Forum.
He has previously held the positions of Chairman of the Intermediary Mortgage Lenders Association IMLA, Chairman of the Finance and Leasing Association FLA Consumer Finance Division and a Board member of the FLA.
He is an associate of Robert G Dench the Chartered Institute of Bankers.
Chairman Age 63 Bob Dench joined the Group as a non-executive director in September 2004 and was appointed Chairman in February 2007.
During an extended career with Barclays he held a number of senior positions in the UK and overseas, leaving in 2004.
He is also a non-executive director of AXA UK plc, where he chairs the Audit Committee, and Chairman of AXA Ireland Limited.
Nicholas Keen Finance Director Age 55 Nick Keen joined the Group in May 1991 and became Finance Director in June 1995 having previously held the position of Treasurer.
Prior to joining the Group he worked in Corporate Banking, Treasury and Capital Markets.
He is Chairman of the Paragon Credit Committee.
Richard J Woodman John A Heron Director - Corporate Development Managing Director Paragon Mortgages Age 48 Age 54 Richard Woodman was appointed to the Board as Director John Heron joined the Group in January - Corporate Development in February 2012.
He was appointed as Marketing appointed Managing Director of Idem Capital Limited.
Director in 1990 and in 1994 played a He joined the Group in 1989 and he has held various pivotal role in re-establishing the Groups senior strategic and financial roles, latterly as Director of mortgage lending operations as Managing Business Analysis and Planning.
More recently he has Director of Paragon Mortgages.
He joined taken a lead role in the Groups strategic development the Board in 2003 and is responsible for and, in particular, in the portfolio acquisition programme the Groups buy-to-let mortgage business.
He is a member of the Chartered He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Institute of Management Accountants.
Bankers, Chair of the CML buy-to-let panel and a member of the IMLA board.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 28 B Corporate governance Edward A Tilly Non-executive director Age 70 Ted Tilly was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 April 2008.
He was the senior independent director of Retail Decisions PLC from January 2000 until January 2007.
He Alan K Fletcher has held a number of directorships including Non-executive director Chairman of Barclays Life Assurance Age 63 Company Ltd from 1999 to 2003.
Prior to this Alan Fletcher was appointed as a non-executive director on Mr Tilly was Chairman and Chief Executive of 25 February 2009.
He has considerable experience in financial GE Capitals European insurance division.
He services, including pension fund trusteeship and investment was with the Legal & General Group for nearly fund management.
He was Chairman of Neville James thirty years where he held a number of senior Holdings prior to its acquisition by Challenger International of positions including Director Life and Pensions Australia, following which he was Sales and Marketing Director and Director International.
He is the Senior of Challenger Group Services and a director of Challenger Life Independent Director.
He was Chairman of the professional training company, Fresh Professional Development, from 2003 to 2010.
He was a member of the General Synod of the Church of England between 2007 and 2010.
He has been a member of the Church of England Pensions Board since 2009 and is also a member of its Investment Committee and Chairman of the Housing Committee.
He is Chairman of the Paragon Remuneration Committee.
Fiona J Clutterbuck Non-executive director Age 55 Peter J N Hartill Fiona Clutterbuck was appointed Non-executive director as a non-executive director on Age 64 12 September 2012.
She is currently Peter Hartill was appointed as a non-executive director the Head of Strategy and Corporate on 11 February 2011.
A Chartered Accountant, he is Development at the Phoenix Group currently non-executive Chairman of Deeley Group and a and is also senior independent non-executive director of Scott Bader Limited.
Previously, director of WS Atkins plc and brings he spent forty years with Deloitte, becoming a senior audit to the Board a substantial level partner and a business advisor with experience across a of corporate finance experience, wide range of industries and business issues.
Speci cally he having previously held the positions has considerable experience in acquisitions and disposals, of Managing Director and Head capital raising, risk control and corporate governance in the of Financial Institutions Advisory financial services sector.
He is Chairman of the Paragon at ABN AMRO Investment Bank, Audit and Compliance Committee.
Managing Director and Global CoHead of Financial Institutions Group at HSBC Investment Bank and Director at Hill Samuel Bank Limited.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 29 B Corporate governance
