1 Application of policy The information provided in this part of the Directors Remuneration Report is not subject to audit Consideration by directors of matters relating to directors remuneration Remuneration Committee During the year, the Committee consisted of Alan Fletcher who chaired the Committee, Fiona Clutterbuck, Peter Hartill and Edward Tilly, all of whom were independent non-executive directors, and the Chairman of the Company, Robert Dench.
None of the non-executive directors who sit on the Committee has any personal financial interest other than as a shareholder, con ict of interest arising from cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The Chairman of the Company does not participate in discussions on his own remuneration.
The Committee determines the Companys policy on executive remuneration and speci c compensation packages for each of the executive directors and the Chairman.
No director contributes to any discussion about his own remuneration.
The Committee also reviews the level and structure of remuneration of senior management.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available on request from the Company Secretary.
In determining the directors remuneration for the year, the Committee consulted Mr N S Terrington Chief Executive about its proposals.
The Committee has appointed New Bridge Street NBS, a brand of AON plc, as its independent advisor on remuneration matters and retained their services throughout the year.
NBS is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and has signed up to its Code of Conduct.
NBS also advised the Company on various sundry remuneration matters during the year, which did not con ict with its advice to the Committee.
In evaluating the independence of NBS the Committee considered the following: other services provided to the Company and the fees paid by it to the advisors wider group, Aon Hewitt: fees paid to NBS as a percentage of their wider groups total revenues in the year: the policy of NBS to prevent con icts of interest: whether there were any relationships between NBS and any member of the Committee: whether there were any shares in the Company owned by the NBS or their wider group: and any business or personal relationships between the NBS or their wider group and any senior executive of the Company.
Aon Hewitt provided administration services to the corporate Trustee of the Group Retirement Bene ts Plan during the year but given the independence of the Trustee this is not considered to be advice to the Board.
NBS have written to the Committee Chairman to con rm their position on these matters.
Its total fees for the year ended 30 September 2013 were 109,000 2012: 98,000, which were charged on the basis of the work carried out by them.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 51 B Corporate governance B3.3 Annual report on remuneration continued Application of remuneration policy for the year ending 30 September 2014 Salary The Chairmans fees and executive directors salaries are determined by the Committee at the beginning of each year.
In deciding appropriate levels, the Committee considers remuneration levels within the Group as a whole, individual and business performance during the year and in the past has relied on periodic objective research which gives up-to-date information on comparable FTSE-250 companies.
In view of the progress made by the Group during the year, the Committee has agreed that the Chairmans fee and executive directors salaries will be increased by 2.0% from 1 October 2013.
This is in line with increases for the Groups wider workforce.
The current salaries of the Chairman and the executive directors with effect from 1 October 2013 are as follows: R G Dench 207,000 N S Terrington 443,450 N Keen 332,000 J A Heron 236,400 R J Woodman 236,400 The non-executive directors fees have remained unchanged since 1 October 2012 and are as follows: Base fee 45,000 Additional fee for Senior Independent Director 15,000 Additional fee for chairmen of committees 15,000 The additional fee for chairmen of committees is currently payable to the Chairmen of the Remuneration and Audit and Compliance Committees, but would be payable for the chairmanship of such additional Committees as should be authorised by the Board.
The total fees payable to non-executive directors are restricted to 250,000 by the Companys Articles of Association.
During the year the Board reviewed this level and concluded that it may not be adequate to meet the Companys future needs.
Accordingly a resolution to increase this limit to 400,000 will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
In addition to fees earned as a non-executive director, Mr A K Fletcher serves as a director of the Trustee board of the Paragon Pension Plan and receives 10,000 per annum in respect of that appointment from Paragon Finance plc, the sponsoring company of the Plan and a subsidiary of the Company.
Pension contributions The executive directors are members of the Group Retirement Bene ts Plan the Plan, to which the Company contributes at the same rate as for all members.
Dependants of executive directors who are members of the Plan are eligible for a dependants pension and the payment of a lump sum in the event of death in service.
The pension arrangements provide for a pension of 1 37.5 of basic annual salary to a maximum of 2 3 for every year of eligible service.
Where pension contributions are capped, additional payments are made to enable further provision.
As described below the executive directors have each ceased pension accrual in return for a cash supplement calculated to equate to the cost of the Companys contributions towards future service bene ts had each individual stayed within the Plan for his future service accrual.
There are no unfunded promises or similar arrangements for directors.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 52 B Corporate governance Bene ts Executives are entitled to family cover private medical health cover, life insurance cover of up to four times their salary and a car allowance of up to 12,000 per annum.
Performance bonuses The purpose of the bonus is to provide a meaningful cash incentive focused on improving the performance of the Company through the achievement of a number of predetermined objectives.
The annual bonus is non-pensionable.
The bonus payable to executive directors under the bonus scheme is capped at 200% of salary.
A target level of 100% of salary is awarded for delivery of the base business plan and agreed objectives, with achievement of the planned pro t level forming a major element.
For the year ending 30 September 2014, the annual bonus will be based on performance against the following performance measures: 1 operational pro t, 2 future value of new business and 3 risk, each with equal weightings together with each directors performance against strategic and personal objectives, which will determine the level of a scale factor of between 0.5 and 1.5 times.
The Committee has chosen not to disclose, in advance, the performance targets for the forthcoming year as these are felt to be commercially sensitive.
Retrospective disclosure of the targets and performance against them will be set out in next years Annual Report on Remuneration except to the extent that any measure target remains commercially sensitive.
25% of amounts awarded in excess of 50,000 are deferred, to be payable in shares together with the aggregate amount of accrued dividend thereon, after three years, net of any clawback applied see below.
The Committee may require higher levels of deferment.
A clawback mechanism applies to all participants in the event of misconduct or a material misstatement of the Groups accounts.
Share awards Executive directors are eligible for awards under the PSP and are entitled to participate in the Paragon UK Sharesave Plan 2009, on the same terms as other employees.
Paragon Performance Share Plan PSP The PSP has an annual award limit to an individual of shares worth 200% of salary.
Awards over shares with a market value of 200% of salary will be granted to the executive directors in the year to 30 September 2014.
50% of awards are subject to the TSR test and 50% are subject to an EPS test.
The TSR test compares the rank of the Companys TSR against a comparator group of companies comprising the constituents of the FTSE-250 Index, excluding investment trusts, on the date of grant over the three years commencing on the date of grant.
25% of awards vest for median performance, increasing on a straight line basis to full vesting for upper quartile performance.
The FTSE-250 has been chosen because it is a broad-based index and because of the lack of comparable listed financial services organisations at the current time.
The Committee believes that TSR usefully aligns the long-term performance conditions with the best interests of the shareholders.
The EPS test provides that 25% of EPS tested awards will vest where EPS growth is equal to the increase in the retail price index plus 3%, increasing on a straight line basis to full vesting for EPS growth equal to the increase in the retail price index plus 7% or more.
In addition, prior to any awards vesting, the Committee must be satis ed that the requirements of a financial underpin test have been met.
Paragon Matching Share Plan MSP The Committee does not intend to grant any awards in the year ending 30 September 2014.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 53 B Corporate governance
