Going concern The business activities of the Group, its current operations and those factors likely to affect its future results and development, together with a description of its financial position and funding position, are described in the Chairmans statement in section A1 and Chief Executives review in section A3.
The principal risks and uncertainties affecting the Group, and the steps taken to mitigate these risks are described in section A2.2.
Note 5 to the accounts includes an analysis of the Groups working capital position and policies, while note 6 includes a detailed description of its funding structures, its use of financial instruments, its financial risk management objectives and policies and its exposure to credit, interest rate and liquidity risk.
Critical accounting estimates affecting the results and financial position disclosed in this annual report are discussed in note 4.
As described under Accountability in section B2, the Group has a formalised process of budgeting, reporting and review, which provides information to the directors which is used to ensure the adequacy of resources available for the Group to meet its business objectives.
The securitisation funding structures described in note 6 ensure that a substantial proportion of the Groups originated loan portfolio is match-funded to maturity.
Repayment of the securitisation borrowings is restricted to funds generated by the underlying assets and there is limited recourse to the Groups general funds.
Recent and current loan originations utilising the Groups available warehouse facilities described in note 6 are re nanced through securitisation from time to time.
None of the Groups debt matures before 2017, when the 110.0 million corporate bond is repayable.
During the year the Group raised a further 60.0 million of working capital though the issue of retail bonds and at 30 September 2013 had available free cash balances of 170.8 million.
As a consequence the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
