The marketplace context Long-term structural growth expected innon-standard annuities The UK Government has also promoted Increasing pressure to exercise A growing market greater access to and use of DC schemes, openmarketoption Annuities currently represent a significant including stakeholder pensions, in order to There continues to be regulatory and and growing proportion of the atincrease pension saving.
In 2012, the UK consumer group pressure, most recently in retirement market in the UK, accounting Government further encouraged pension the findings of the FCAs Thematic Review for 11.9bn in premiums in 2013 on a savings into DC pension funds through the of the UK annuity market, for more people single premium equivalent SPE basis, introduction of auto-enrolment, requiring to explore the annuity rates available to anincrease of 138% since 2000. all employers over a certain size to enrol all them from companies other than their employees into a DC pension savings plan, We believe the total annuity market will pension savings company when they retire.
unless the employees actively request grow strongly in the near future, with the The majority of people will secure a better non-participation.
market growth underpinned by several retirement income if they shop around for structural growth drivers as set out below.
Whilst progress has been Government activity and made in this area, with 49% of people in regulatorypressure Changing demographics 2013 exercising their open market option The UK Government is progressively OMO, there remains scope for more The UK population is living longer, with seeking to reduce reliance on state-funded people to do so.
the number of people in the population pensions by implementing plans such as who are age 65 and over forecast to increasing the age at which an individual Market size annual m grow froman estimated 10.5m in 2011 is entitled to receive a state pension and to18.7min 2041 source: Office for Total external annuity sales promoting personal retirement saving National Statistics ONS.
through schemes such as the National 2013 6,880 Employment Savings Trust NEST, Switching from dened benefit 2012 8,470 participation in which is expected to todened contribution pensions 2011 6,337 grow substantially over the next decade In recent years, there has been a shift 2010 5,986 source:Oliver Wyman.
from dened benefit DB scheme 2009 5,438 membership to dened contribution DC Pension funding gap scheme membership as DB schemes The significant pension funding gap close to new members.
This shift is Total NSA market which represents the difference expected to continue, so that DC and DB 2013 3,832 between the income needed to live assets represent equal proportions by comfortably in retirement and the actual 2012 4,523 2019, with DC schemes representing an income individuals can currently expect estimated 96% of total pension assets 2011 3,079 from existing savings levels in the UK under management by 2030 source: 2010 2,423 estimated at approximately 318bn p. a. Oliver Wyman.
2009 1,735 as of 2010 source: Aviva and government Various factors have driven this trend, encouragement for individuals to save Source: Association of British Insurers including DB scheme members living for retirement should act as a catalyst for longer and the closure of DB schemes.
The number of private sector DB schemes Finally, the size of the annuity market is in the UK that are open to new members is also driven by income growth, contribution decreasing and most DB schemes are not changes and investment returns on accruing further benets and are in run-off.
Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 17 The marketplace context continued The core market of self-funded care Increasing penetration of enhanced t #VML SJTL USBOTGFS TPMVUJPOT XIJDI JOWPMWF residents is a market estimated by annuities in the open market option the substitution of annuities provided Partnership at circa 7bn per year, but the market by a third-party insurer which replicate provision of financial advice and take-up of some or all of the sponsors payment Over the past few years, the proportion Immediate Needs Annuities INA product obligations under its DB scheme.
ofenhanced annuities sold as a proportion remains low.
These risk transfer solutions are designed of all OMO business has increased rapidly, to provide an equivalent guaranteed driven by the growth of specialist providers, Based on the most recent market data, the retirement income to scheme members including Partnership.
The market underlying trend and demographic drivers whilst removing or reducing future disruption we have experienced in 2013 would indicate that the outlook for INA pension liabilities and uncertainty for has resulted in OMO business decreasing sales in the UK remains positive.
The core thecorporate sponsor: and in the year as a proportion of the total demographic of 85 year olds is projected market.
The non-standard annuity market t. FNCFS MFWFM SJTL USBOTGFS TPMVUJPOT by the ONS to be the fastest-growing has been similarly affected, with around include the Total Pension Income segment of UK population in coming years, 32% of all annuities sold being nonExchange TPIE process, whereby a and underlying its projections is an annual standard, the same proportion as 2012. population of scheme members is offered average growth in this segment of the In 2010, this proportion was 22%.
the opportunity to purchase an annuity in population of circa 3% per year.
The cost exchange for the transfer to the annuity of care, a key driver of the level of INA We welcome the adoption of the provider of the cash equivalent transfer premium, has also shown above ination Association of British Insurers Code of value of their DB schemes.
Because such levels of growth historically.
Conduct on Retirement Choices in 2013 processes allow an analysis of individual Offsetting this is the impact of continued and the findings of the FCA Annuity scheme member longevity, we are able uncertainty over government care policy Review in 2014, both of which should help to offer a non-standard annuity product and continuing disruption caused by the to ensure that all customers are aware of to some scheme members, potentially introduction of the RDR.
and have considered an enhanced annuity.
increasing the attractions of the TPIE We believe that these factors should result solution for both scheme members and Protection in a continued increase in the proportion corporate sponsors.
of people exercising the OMO and increase The protection market in the UK is mature We believe that the market opportunity penetration of enhanced annuities and, for standard and mildly impaired from DB liability management exercises going forward.
lives, well-served by providers with well has the potential for significant growth, established medical underwriting capability.
The corporate market particularly bulk transactions.
However, there are customers for whom There are a number of annuity-based Care the mainstream providers do not provide initiatives being considered by trustees a price for protection.
Our proprietary of DB schemes in response to the The market for sales of annuity funding Intellectual Property IP on impaired challenge of managing increasing liabilities.
solutions for long-term care remains a lives means that we are able to provide This remains a significant and long-term relatively small one in the UK, and, as a protection insurance where other providers challenge for corporate sponsors and has result, our strategy continues to focus cannot and this represents a small but led to an increasing focus on active deficit on ways in which the substantial number significant market in which Partnership management strategies.
There are two of privately funded individuals entering currently takes a small share.
strategies currently undertaken at the residential and nursing care in the UK can scheme level and at the member-level, both access these annuity products.
of which replace DB scheme liabilities with annuity purchases: Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 18
