Our place in the market A market leader in enhanced and careannuities Individual annuities Care annuities The majority of annuities sold by us are During 2013 we were one of only two impaired annuities designed for customers providers of care immediate needs with reduced life expectancy as a result of annuities in the UK.
Whilst we have health conditions such as cancer.
had success in this market, growth is constrained by a lack of advice to selfWe also provide lifestyle annuities, PA Lite funding entrants into care.
To help address and Smoker annuities, where underwriting this issue, we have established Paying is more straightforward.
For Care a not-for-profit organisation Since 2010 our growth in this part of that is designed to provide information theannuity market has been significant, and enable self-funding care entrants to with our market share in 2013 at 31%.
The sales recorded in 2013 put us in a We are also actively engaged with local leading position in this market.
authorities and care homes to help ensure people are obtaining appropriate advice Corporate dened benefit and tohelp drive market growth.
We participate in the DB market through an enhanced buy-in buy-out proposition Protection which involves a bulk transfer of annuity We also write a limited amount of nonliability from pension schemes.
standard life protection business for We focus on smaller DB schemes where individuals who are unable to obtain cover our individual underwriting of members elsewhere.
Protection products pay out with medical conditions can offer a pre-determined amount on death of scheme trustees an attractive liability the policyholder in exchange forregular transfer price.
premium payments over the life of the policy.
We have been successful in developing these new markets, establishing a leading Whilst not a large component of our position in 2013, and see significant business, the non-standard life protection opportunities for future growth.
market is attractive to us because it serves an important customer need and there are opportunities for growth in the future.
Brilliant company to deal with and I am so happy that I made the right choice about my annuity.
Partnership customer Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 19
