Critical accounting estimates The preparation of financial information in conformity with IFRS listed market prices in active markets by reference to quoted market requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the bid prices for assets and offer prices for liabilities.
These are reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent categorised as Level 1 financial instruments and do not involve assets and liabilities at the date of the financial information and the estimates.
If prices are not readily available, fair value is determined reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting using valuation techniques including pricing models, discounted cash period.
Although these estimates are based on managements best flow techniques or broker quotes.
Financial instruments valued where knowledge of current events and actions, actual results ultimately may valuation techniques are based on observable market data at the differ from those estimates.
period end are categorised as Level 2.
Financial instruments valued where valuation techniques are based on non-observable inputs are Critical accounting estimates are those which involve the most categorised as Level 3 financial instruments.
Level 2 and Level 3 complex or subjective judgements or assessments.
The areas of the financial instruments therefore involve the use of estimates.
Further Groups business that typically require such estimates are insurance details are included in note 26. contracts, determination of the fair value of financial assets and liabilities, impairment tests for intangible assets and income tax assets Intangible assets are subject to regular impairment reviews as detailed and liabilities.
Impairments are measured as the difference between the carrying value of a particular asset and its recoverable amount.
The accounting for insurance contract liabilities, including liabilities Impairments are recognised in the consolidated statement of relating to defined benefit transactions, is discussed below with comprehensive income.
Further details are included in note 11. further detail of the key assumptions made in determining insurance contract liabilities included in note 20.
The estimation process used in Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that they are determining insurance liabilities involves projecting future annuity regarded as recoverable, that is to the extent that, on the basis of all payments and the costs of maintaining the contracts.
For non-annuity the available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that contracts, the long-term business provision is determined as the sum there will be suitable taxable profits against which the losses can be of the discounted value of future benefit payments and future relieved.
The UK taxation regime applies separate rules to trading and administration expenses less the expected value of premiums payable capital profits and losses.
The distinction between temporary under the contract.
The key sensitivities are the assumed level of differences that arise from items of either a capital or trading nature interest rates and the mortality experience.
may affect the recognition of deferred tax assets.
Any judgements made, and uncertainties considered, in arriving at the carrying value The classification and accounting for the fair values of financial assets of deferred tax in the financial statements are discussed in notes 7 and liabilities, including equity release assets, is discussed below.
Where possible financial assets and liabilities are valued on the basis of Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 73
