Our strategic objectives We have a clear plan in place to move our business forward Leverage Partnerships proprietary intellectual property We will: 1: Derive additional value from our growing understanding of individual and combinations of conditions to improve terms being offered to customers Continue designing new products Dedicate resources to evaluate a potential international strategy Improve access forcustomers to non-standard and care annuities We will: 2: Develop new access routes for potential customers toour products Improve the penetration of Non-Standard Annuities for customers of distributors with whom Partnership has long-term relationships Increase Partnerships footprint with Employee benefit Consultants Use regulatory and political changes to improve relationships with corporate partners Maximise risk-adjusted returns on capital to shareholders We will: 3: Maintain an efficient capital position and monitor capital through internal capital management tools Develop new pricing methodologies and more capital-efficient asset strategies Maintain a group of A rated or better global reinsurers 92% of our customers Maintain a conservative investment strategy run by rated our service as specialist third-party asset managers Good or Excellent.
May 2013 Partnership survey of all retirementcustomers Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 12 Our strategic objectives Leverage Partnerships proprietary intellectual property 2013 Dened benefit sales SPE by quarter m Our proprietary intellectual Plans for the future property is a core strength Q4 49 We intend to continue to grow our of the business proprietary IP to deepen our understanding Q3 23 of future longevity trends amongst those Q2 10 Why this objective matters retiring with medical conditions.
Q1 2 Our non-standard annuity products are As we grow, we enrich our proprietary priced using our proprietary medical IP, collecting and analysing information We were able to achieve and mortality data which has been on a growing number of customers and collected over 19 years.
We also apply potential customers.
a competitive price by our experience, underwriting processes, selecting Partnership We will leverage this growing methods and our systems to interpret and understanding of individual and Assurance and we apply this data.
This data and our ability to combinations of medical conditions to use it to price our products competitively are pleased with how identify areas where we can improve the and profitably represent critical streamlined the process terms being offered to customers.
components of our competitive advantage.
The continued We will also use this information to help We apply our proprietary IP to estimate fide-risking of our pension identify pricing inefficiencies in parts of future mortality rates of individuals with scheme is an important the market to improve customer rates and reduced life expectancy compared to product margins.
goal and ensures the those of healthy individuals.
With this information, we are typically able to offer a long-term security for Our proprietary IP has become higher annuity to customers with medical increasingly extensive and high quality.
or lifestyle issues than a standard annuity To fully utilise this to our benefit, we have provider can achieve.
established a research and development Graham Wardle function to continue to develop and BESTrustees Using this IP to develop new, innovative, Chairmanof the Trustees enhance our IP and consolidate our products and propositions in our existing corecompetitive advantage.
markets, and in new markets, will help us tocontinue to grow.
We have committed resources to developing our international strategy further with a view to launching an international business in the future.
Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 13 Our strategic objectives Improve access for customers to non-standard and careannuities We aim to improve the quotation and Why this objective matters The findings are conclusive: take-up rates of NSAs amongst the shopping around and Currently, approximately half of the people customers of those distributors with potentially eligible for Non-Standard switching gets a better whom Partnership has long-term Annuities NSA are not purchasing one, relationships.
We will, through on-going deal far more often than and as a result are potentially obtaining a education of intermediaries, increase their not, particularly for people lower retirement income than a NSA could understanding of the product offering purchasing an enhanced offer to them.
Better access to NSA and care annuities is We will increase our footprint with EBCs, both good for customers and provides an where we believe that a significant market FCA Annuity Thematic Review increased market size for NSA providers opportunity remains untapped.
We intend to leverage supportive regulatory and political developments to Number of Partnership Annuity Policies Plans for the future develop further our relationships with 2013 108,814 With only approximately half of those corporate partners, assisting them in who may be eligible for NSA currently discharging their responsibilities to treat 2012 87,926 purchasing these products, we intend customers fairly and or provide better 2011 50,065 to develop new routes for potential value to customers by informing them 2010 33,012 customers to access our products.
about the potential benets of NSAs.
Our multi-channel distribution model aims We will fully support government and to raise awareness and improve access regulatory initiatives that are aimed at through all major channels of distribution improving customer outcomes.
including specialist Financial Advisers FAs, FAnetworks, banks, Employee benefit Consultants EBCs andcorporate channels.
Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 14 Our strategic objectives Maximise risk-adjusted returns on capital to shareholders We will continue to develop new pricing Partnership assets by credit rating Why this objective matters i at 31 December 2013 m methodologies and more capital efficient As a regulated insurance company, we have asset strategies.
This will help to ensure a rigorous approach to risk management that we can aim to write capital generative Cash Equity AAA 78 and a strategy to maximise risk-adjusted Release new business and therefore continue to 611 840 returns to shareholders, subject to self-fund our growth, which is a critical remaining within clearly dened, prudent Commodity AA component of ourstrategic objectives.
Finance We will maintain a diversied group of 12 We are required to hold sufficient capital to global reinsurers with ratings or collateral ensure that we can satisfy our obligations structures equivalent to a rating of A or to policyholders under stressed conditions.
This will assist in the management of our capital, transfer longevity risk and BBB A Delivering an appropriate return on the 1,057 1,193 support our pricing competitiveness.
capital invested in our business enables us We intend to continue to improve these to price our products competitively, invest arrangements by strengthening our for the future, and support our intended i Total assets 4,052m including accrued interest relationships with current and potential progressive dividend to shareholders.
Partnership assets by category Plans for the future i We will maintain a prudent investment at 31 December 2013 m strategy focused on delivering a We will continue to maintain a strong competitive risk-adjusted yield in a capital capital position within the business Equity Release efficient manner and by duration matching and monitor it through internal capital 840 its liabilities with cash ows from a Commodity management tools to ensure that Trade diversied asset base.
Finance appropriate buffers are maintained above 12 our risk-based capital requirements.
Cash 78 Bonds 3,122 i Figures include accrued interest Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 15 OUR BUSINESS In this section: 17 The marketplace context 19 Our place in the market 20 Our business model 22 Our resources and relationships 28 How we manage our risks 30 Our principal risks and uncertainties 36 Corporate responsibility Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 16
