Our business model We have a robust, differentiated business model We deploy our unique and capitalise on our key resources and skills relationships Intellectual property Customers Underwriting and pricing expertise Distributors Investment management Reinsurers Capital management Government Reputation and brand Suppliers See page 22 for more detail Our people See page 23 for more detail across our value chain Product and proposition Distribution Underwriting and pricing We leverage our proprietary Our products are sold through We have our own proprietary intellectual property, cultivated intermediaries.
These intermediaries underwriting manuals which, when over 19 years, and our deep experience do business with us because we offer combined with our mortality data and within our chosen markets to formulate market leading products to our customers: ourunderwriting and actuarial expertise, products and propositions that serve a products with benets that they can allowus to assess an individual customers need for our customers people whose market effectively.
But we also make likely life expectancy rather than simply health or lifestyle means their life sure that we build the very strongest taking theaverage and so we can then expectancy is likely to be reduced that relationships possible with our partners usually offer better benets than a generally represent better value than our and provide them with the efficient mainstream insurer can.
competitors standard offerings, and that service that they need to manage Associated principal risks: enable us to make a profit.
Underwriting and pricing risk see page 31 : We offer three key products: retirement Our ability to develop and leverage these insurance risk see page 31. annuities, which provide an income relationships hasunderpinned strong inretirement, care annuities, which fund sales growth.
long-term care in old age and life insurance.
Associated principal risks: We also use our IP to provide equity Distribution risk: see page 34: regulatory, release mortgages.
legal and political environmental risk Associated principal risks: seepage 35.
Underwriting, pricing and reserving risk see page 31 : distribution risk see page 34 : regulatory, legal and political environment risk see page 35.
Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 20 which enables us to deliver value to all of our stakeholders.
The effective operation of our business modelmeans that we can offer our customers a better retirement and peace of mind.
We can offer our people fullling, challengingcareers.
We can offer our shareholders a meaningful, and growing, return on their investment, and we can give back to our community.
Investment Administration As our assets under management Our back office processes and grow, we are able to take advantage of operating platform have been different asset strategies to diversify the developed to offer consistently high levels asset risk we take which also reduces our of service, both for customers and for our capital costs and improve the return that distributors.
Industry awards are testament we make on investments.
to the high service levels we have achieved.
Associated principal risks: Associated principal risks: Interest rate risk see page 32 : market Operational risk see page 34. credit risk see page 32 : property risk seepage 33 : liquidity risk see page 33 : regulatory, legal and political environment risk see page 35.
Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 21
