An interview with our Chief Executive Officer Steve Groves shares his thoughts on the progress made during the year and whats next for Partnership The successful completion of a number expected, the shape of changes we are 2013 saw Partnership list on of Dened benefit scheme buy-in and seeing is not surprising.
There remains the public markets.
How has buy-outs has proved particularly satisfying.
uncertainty over whether people deferring that experience been?
Here we have again demonstrated how retirement is having an impact on levels of Since 2005 we have developed an our expertise in longevity for impaired lives market activity.
Our strategy for accessing extremely successful business based on can bring benets to scheme trustees and customers takes into account those our strategy and our experienced and company sponsors, as well as the individual changes, and our relative performance expert management team.
Developing new sources of against others in the market suggests we positioned to serve our customers and we distribution, such as the Virgin Money made the right calls.
Unfortunately the will continue to focus on developing our arrangement, is also an important step overall market impact has been greater business and growing its market share.
in our strategy of diversifying access to than anyone anticipated, but the long-term more customers.
drivers of growth in the UK remain rmly We look forward to working closely with in place.
investors in our Company to ensure that Operationally we continue to excel, with they have clear sight of the challenges more awards for our products, and our What are the annuity market and opportunities facing the sector and service delivery.
As we continue to grow, challenges and opportunities our business.
we continue to recruit, and total headcount for 2014?
in the Group at the end of 2013 was 580 Bringing Partnership to the public markets employees.
This included a number of Opportunities in the underwritten Dened was the natural next step for the Group.
senior hires to meet the new requirements benefit market remain very exciting.
The increase in prole that our listing of being a listed company as well as key We established a market-leading position gives us will be increasingly important commercial positions so that we are well during 2013 and are now in a position to as we grow and develop our business positioned to capitalise when the market really drive hard to expand our sales to this and our relationships with distributors returns to growth.
and corporate partners, both in the UK and internationally.
For me, and many The Care market, which is a smaller part As the macro-economy returns to growth, of our employees who have helped of our business, has been difficult this and as our asset base continues to grow, Partnership grow since 2005, becoming year.
While we welcome clarity around we also have plans to further expand our a public company is an exciting next government policy on long-term care investment strategy to help improve the stage.
The listing process itself was hard funding, a lack of understanding of what returns we can give to customers and work, but very successful, although I do, the policy means in practice has resulted diversify investment risk.
of course recognise that the period since in a reduced appetite from customers to But the biggest challenge for 2014 is to welisted has proved challenging.
work with our existing and new distribution We did anticipate an impact on consumer partners in both the retirement and care How has the business sentiment and we remain in a great markets to ensure that customers coming position to capture market growth when actually performed in 2013?
to retirement, or entering long-term care, itcomes as I believe it will.
The business has performed well in get the best deal that they can.
For the the context of challenging markets.
majority that means exercising their Open Have there been any We continue to increase our market share Market Option.
Our core focus right now is changes to strategy or in the core retirement annuity market, to make sure we are positioned to win as direction as a result of with support from strong distribution and when the annuity market returns to themarket disruption?
One of our core objectives is growth, but the current lack of visibility in to improve customer access to the benets this market continues to be a challenge, Not really.
We were expecting some ofour products, and, in a year where we and means the guidance we can provide disruption to the distribution landscape have seen the level of customers exercising to investors on near term performance will from the Retail Distribution Review and their Open Market Option theright to shop be limited.
following the increased activity that the around to buy the bestannuity actually introduction of gender neutral pricing fall for the first time in a long time, I am drove at the end of 2012 and into early particularly pleased with our efforts to 2013.
Whilst the disruption has been more access customers in new ways.
significant and for longer than we Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 6 The truth is, working in a business that And in the longer term?
has grown as quickly and as strongly as We are continuing our work on Partnership over the last five years means international opportunities, which so far it is always very busy, not just for me, but look promising though, as I have said for all our employees.
I am very proud of before, the development time may be long, the achievements we have made and the as this is something we need to get right.
benets we have brought, to employees, shareholders, and most importantly, But there are still significant growth our customers.
opportunities in the UK, and therefore Iwillcontinue to focus on making sure that our proprietary Intellectual Property IP remains up to date and of the highest quality, as this is at the heart of our Steve Groves business.
During 2013 we have seen a Chief Executive Officer number of new entrants into the non- 18 March 2014 standard annuity market at the lifestyle end of the market which typically includes people who smoke or are overweight.
I would expect to see other annuity writers introduce products which reect customers lifestyles, where more market data is accessible and the risks associated with inaccurate underwriting are less extreme.
Ultimately, I expect the whole market to move toward risk-scoring for all annuitants, as the concept of a standard annuity falls away.
Our IP puts us in a very strong position to maintain market share in this scenario, despite new entrants.
Our IP is continually updated and improved, as our dataset grows each year and underlying longevity drivers evolve.
For example, in 2013 we conducted a comprehensive review of our retirement mortality basis and carried out four updates to our automated underwriting system over thecourse of the year.
2013 was an incredibly busy period for the Company, but also for you personally.
Running the London marathon with other colleagues from Partnership was particularly memorable.
Together we raised funds for our corporate charity, Dogs for the Disabled, which supports children and adults living with disability.
Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 7 OUR PERFORMANCE AND OUR PLAN In this section: 09 How we are performing 09 Key performance indicators 10 Performance review 12 Our strategic objectives 13 1: Leverage Partnerships proprietary intellectual property 14 2: Improve access for customersto non-standard andcare annuities 15 3: Maximise risk-adjusted returns on capital to shareholders Partnership Assurance Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 8
