PIGIT pp14 33 PIGIT pp14 33 06 06 2013 15:07 Page 14 14 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2013 The Directors have pleasure in presenting their Report for the year ended 31 March 2013, which incorporates the Business Review and Corporate Governance Statement.
BUSINESS REVIEW Business and Status The Company was incorporated and registered in England and Wales on 2 February 1996 as a public limited company under the Companies Act 2006 the Act registered number 3156676.
It is an investment company as defined by section 833 of the Act and operates as an investment trust and was approved as an investment trust under section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 and the Investment Trusts Approved Company Tax Regulations 2011.
Approval under the new investment trust regulations, which apply to the Company from 1 April 2012, was granted on 22 August 2012.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has subsequently conducted its affairs so as to enable it to maintain such approval.
Life of the Company The Companys Articles of Association require that with effect from 2006 and every five years thereafter, the Company will propose an ordinary resolution to approve the continuation of the Company as an investment trust.
The next occasion on which the Company must propose a similar ordinary resolution will be at the 2016 AGM.
Investment Objective The Companys investment objective is to provide shareholders with capital growth and real growth in dividends over the medium to longer term from a portfolio of securities listed mainly in the UK equity and fixed interest markets.
Investment Policy The Company invests mainly in UK equities and equity-related securities of UK-listed companies.
The Manager seeks to identify and invest in companies that offer a combination of good capital growth prospects with the ability to increase dividends over time.
The Manager may also invest up to 10% of gross assets in fixed income securities and up to 20% of gross assets in non-UK listed securities.
Market exposure may also be gained through warrants and derivatives up to 5% of the value of the Companys equity portfolio, the purpose of which would be to achieve changes to the portfolios economic exposure.
The Manager manages a portfolio that reflects his convictions and best ideas.
The Manager does not set out to manage the risk characteristics of the portfolio relative to the FTSE All-Share Index benchmark index and the investment process may result in potentially very significant over or underweight positions in individual sectors versus the benchmark index.
The size of weightings will reflect the Managers view of the attractiveness of a security and the degree of conviction.
If a security is not considered to be a good investment, then the Company will not own it, irrespective of its weight in the benchmark index.
The Manager controls the stock-specific risk of individual securities by ensuring that the portfolio is always appropriately diversified.
In-depth and continual analysis of the fundamentals of investee companies allows the Manager to assess the financial risks associated with any particular security.
The Directors believe that the use of borrowings gearing can enhance returns to shareholders and the Company will use borrowings in pursuing its investment objective.
The Company may hedge exposure to changes in foreign currency rates in respect of its overseas investments.
Investment Limits The Board has prescribed limits on the Investment Policy, the most significant of which are the following: the Company will not invest more than 12% of its gross assets in any single investment: the Company will not invest more than 15% of its gross assets in other listed investment companies: the Company will not invest more than 20% of its gross assets in non-UK listed securities: the Company will not invest more than 10% of its gross assets in fixed interest securities: and PIGIT pp14 33 PIGIT pp14 33 06 06 2013 15:07 Page 15 PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 15 borrowings may be used to raise equity exposure up to a maximum of 25% of net assets at the time of purchase where it is appropriate.
All of the above investment limits are taken at the time of acquisition.
Results and Dividends On 31 March 2013, the mid-market price and the diluted net asset value NAV per ordinary share were 322.0p and 332.3p respectively.
The comparable figures at 31 March 2012 were 267.7p and 267.4p.
For the year ended 31 March 2013, three interim dividends of 2.55p each per share were paid on 28 September 2012, 28 December 2012 and 28 March 2013 respectively.
A fourth interim dividend of 3.55p per share has been declared for payment on 28 June 2013, giving a total dividend for the year of 11.2p 2012: 10.4p.
This represents an increaseof 7.7% on the previous year.
Performance The Board reviews performance by reference to a number of Key Performance Indicators which include the following: Asset Performance Peer Group Performance Dividend Policy Premium Discount Ongoing Charges Asset Performance During the course of the year the NAV total return of the Company roseby 28.9% compared with a riseof 16.8% by the FTSE All-Share Index total return.
In reviewing the performance of the assets of the Company, the Board monitors the diluted NAV in relation to the FTSE All-Share Index.
However, the Managers aim is to achieve absolute return through a genuinely active investment management approach.
It is not the investment management teams philosophy to regard the FTSE All-Share Index as a benchmark for portfolio construction for the Company.
This approach can therefore result in a portfolio that is from time to time substantially different from the FTSE All-Share Index but has historically achieved significant outperformance of that index.
Peer Group Performance There were 21 investment trusts in the UK Growth and Income sector at 31 March 2013.
This group, however, is quite diverse in its investment policies and structures.
The Board monitors the performance of the Company in relation to both the sector as a whole and to those companies within it which the Board consider to be the peer group that most closely match its investment policy and structure.
As at 31 March 2013, within those companies ranked within the UK Growth and Income sector, the Company was ranked 4th over one year and 3rd over three and five years respectively by NAV performance source: JPMorgan Cazenove.
Dividend Policy It remains the Directors intention to distribute, by way of dividend, substantially all of the Companys net income after expenses and taxation.
The Manager aims to maximise total return from the portfolio.
The Manager believes in strong earnings growth and in the importance of dividends to total return.
The portfolio will typically command a yield premium to the market.
However, the pursuit of income is not a prime objective and dividend yields are not permitted to constrain investment decisions.
The Directors intend to maintain their existing policy of providing ordinary shareholders with real growth in dividends over the medium to longer term.
Premium Discount The Board monitors the premium discount at which the Companys ordinary shares trade in relation to the assets and how this compares to other investment trusts in the peer group.
During the year the PIGIT pp14 33 PIGIT pp14 33 06 06 2013 15:07 Page 16 16 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Companys ordinary shares traded at both a discount and a premium.
The highest premium was 3.0% and the widest discount was 4.4%.
At the year end the discount was 3.1% 2012: 0.1% premium.
As at 31 March 2013, the average discount of the 22 investment trusts in the UK Growth and Income sector was 2.1% 2012: 2.4% source: JPMorgan Cazenove.
The Board and Manager closely monitor movements in the Companys share price and dealings in the Companys shares.
In order to avoid significant overhang or shortage of ordinary shares in the market the Board asks shareholders to approve resolutions every year which allow for the repurchase of ordinary shares for cancellation or to be held as treasury shares and also their issuance.
This may assist in the management of the diluted discount.
The Company does not currently hold any shares in treasury.
However, should the Board consider it to be in shareholders interests to do so, then it is the Boards policy to sell shares held as treasury shares on terms that are in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
Ongoing Charges Ratio The expenses of managing the Company are carefully monitored by the Board and the ongoing charges ratio provides a guide to the effect on performance of the annual operating costs.
The Board reviews expenditure using an annual budgetary process.
The ongoing charges ratio for the year was 0.99% 2012: 1.00% based on management fees excluding the performance fee and other expenses of 6,169,000 2012: 5,533,000.
Borrowings and Debt Gearing policy is under the control of the Board.
The maximum limit for gearing is 25% of total net assets measured at the time new borrowings are incurred for investment in companies where there are stock-specific opportunities.
The gearing is not an expression of confidence in the performance of the overall UK stock market, but rather an endorsement of the potential for selected securities.
In this respect both the Board and the Manager are content that the flexibility which the overdraft facility provides offers the most appropriate means of gearing, supplementing the longer-term gearing of the debenture stock.
The debenture was issued in July 1999, is secured by a floating charge over all the Companys assets and has a fixed rate of 6.125%.
Interest is payable on 8 January and 8 July.
It is redeemable on 8 July 2014 and the Board is currently considering if, and if so how, it will replace this financing.
Future Trends Details of the main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the Companys business can be found in the Investment Managers Report on pages6 and7.
Further details as to the risks affecting the Company are set out below Principal Risks and Uncertainties.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties Investment Objective There can be no guarantee that the Company will meet its investment objective.
Market Risk As at 31 March 2013, a majority of the Companys investments were traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The prices of securities and the income derived from them are influenced by many factors such as general economic conditions, interest rates, inflation, political events, and government policies as well as by supply and demand reflecting investor sentiment.
In addition, there continues to be a risk that European policy makers fail to implement an effective and lasting solution to the Eurozone crisis.
Such factors are outside the control of the Board and Manager and may give rise to high levels of volatility in the prices of investments held by the Company.
Investment Risk Bad performance of individual portfolio investments is mitigated as the Board has established guidelines to ensure that the Investment Policy of the Company is pursued by the portfolio manager who undertakes continual analysis of the fundamentals of all holdings and ensures that the Companys portfolio of investments is appropriately diversified.
The performance of the portfolio manager is carefully monitored by the Board and the continuation of the management contract is PIGIT pp14 33 PIGIT pp14 33 06 06 2013 15:07 Page 17 PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 17 reviewed each year.
Past performance of the Company is not necessarily indicative of future performance.
A fuller discussion of the economic and market conditions facing the Company and the current and future performance of the portfolio of the Company are included in the Investment Managers Report on pages6 and7.
Foreign Exchange Risk The movement of exchange rates may have unfavourable or favourable effect on returns for those assets that are non-sterling denominated.
This risk can be mitigated by hedging, specifically by the use of foreign currency contracts, although none were in place at the year end.
The foreign currency exposure of the Company is monitored by the Manager on a daily basis and reviewed at Board meetings.
Shares The market value of the shares in the Company may not reflect their underlying net asset value NAV and may trade at a discount to it.
The Board and the Manager maintain an active dialogue with the aim of ensuring that the market rating of the Companys shares reflects the underlying NAV and there are in place both share repurchase and issuance facilities to help the management of this process.
As at 31 March 2013 shares in the Company traded at a discount of 3.1% 2012: 0.1% premium.
The value of an investment in the Company and the income derived from that investment may go down as well as up and an investor may not get back the amount invested.
While it is the intention of the Directors to pay dividends to shareholders quarterly, the ability to do so will depend upon the level of income received from securities and the timing of receipt of such income by the Company.
Accordingly, the amount of quarterly dividends paid to shareholders may fluctuate.
Any change in the tax or accounting treatment of dividends or other investment income received by the Company may also affect the level of dividend paid on the shares in future years.
Gearing Risk Whilst the use of borrowings by the Company should enhance the total return on the ordinary shares where the return on the Companys underlying securities is rising and exceeds the cost of borrowing, it will have the opposite effect where the underlying return is falling.
The Company also has a new secondary risk concerning its ability to replace the 30 million debenture stock which matures in July 2014 with a form of gearing that is acceptable, both in type and cost, to the Company and the Manager.
The Companys performance could be adversely affected if this was not successfully replaced.
Regulatory Risk The Company is subject to various laws and regulations by virtue of its status as a public limited company registered under section 833 of the Act, its status as an investment trust, and its listing on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority.
Loss of investment trust status for tax purposes could lead to the Company being subject to tax on the realised capital profits on the sale of its investments.
A serious breach of other regulatory rules could lead to suspension from the Official List, a fine or qualified audit report.
Other control failures, either by the Manager or any other of the Companys service providers, could result in operational or reputational problems, erroneous disclosures or loss of assets through fraud, as well as breaches of regulations.
The Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive will impose obligations on the Company and the Manager which may have significant consequences for the Company and may increase its compliance and regulatory costs.
Failure to meet these obligations may impair the Managers ability to manage the investments of the Company, which may materially adversely affect the Companys ability to implement its investment strategy and achieve its investment objective.
The Manager reviews compliance with tax and other financial regulatory requirements on a daily basis.
All transactions, income and expenditure are reported to the Board.
The Board regularly considers all perceived risks and the measures in place to control them.
The Board ensures that satisfactory assurances are received from service providers.
The Managers Compliance and internal Audit Officers produce reports regularly for review by the Companys Audit Committee.
PIGIT pp14 33 PIGIT pp14 33 06 06 2013 15:07 Page 18 18 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Reliance on Third Party Service Providers The Company has no employees and the Directors have all been appointed on a non-executive basis.
The Company is reliant upon the performance of third party service providers for its executive function.
The Companys most significant contract is with the Manager, to whom responsibility both for the Companys portfolio and for the provision of company secretarial and administrative services are delegated.
The Company has other contractual arrangements with third parties to act as Auditor, Registrar, Custodian and Broker.
Failure by any service provider to carry out its obligations to the Company in accordance with the terms of its appointment could have a materially detrimental impact on the operation of the Company and could affect the ability of the Company to successfully pursue its investment policy and expose the Company to reputational risk.
In particular, the Manager performs services which are integral to the operation of the Company.
The Manager may be exposed to the risk that litigation, misconduct, operational failures, negative publicity and press speculation, whether or not it is valid, will harm its reputation.
Any damage to the reputation of the Manager could result in counterparties and third parties being unwilling to deal with the Manager and by extension the Company.
This could have an adverse impact on the ability of the Company to pursue its investment policy.
The Board seeks to manage these risks in a number of ways: The Manager monitors the performance of all third party providers in relation to agreed service standards on a regular basis, and any issues and concerns are dealt with promptly and reported to the Board.
The Manager formally reviews the performance of all third party providers and reports to the Board on an annual basis.
The Board reviews the performance of the Manager at every board meeting and otherwise as appropriate.
The Board has the power to replace the Manager and reviews the management contract formally once a year.
The day-to-day management of the portfolio is the responsibility of Mark Barnett, who has worked in equity markets since 1992 and has been the portfolio manager of the Company since 1999.
The Board has adopted guidelines within which the portfolio manager is permitted wide discretion.
Any proposed variation outside these guidelines is referred to the Board and the guidelines themselves are reviewed at every board meeting.
The risk that the portfolio manager might be incapacitated or otherwise unavailable is mitigated by the fact that he works within, and is supported by, the wider Invesco Perpetual UK Equity team.
Other Risks The Company may be exposed to other business and strategic risks in the future, including fiscal, legal or regulatory changes, and the perceived impact of the designated Investment Manager ceasing to be involved with the Company.
The instruments in which the Companys cash positions are invested are reviewed by the Board to ensure liquidity and concentration risks are adequately managed.
Where an Invesco Group vehicle is utilised, it is assessed for suitability against other similar investment options.
There is an ongoing process for the Board to consider these other risks.
In addition, the composition of the Board is regularly reviewed to ensure the membership offers sufficient knowledge and experience to, as far as possible, assess and anticipate these risks.
Audit Information The Directors who held office at the date of the approval of the Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware, and each Director has taken steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
PIGIT pp14 33 PIGIT pp14 33 06 06 2013 15:07 Page 19 PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 19 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Corporate Governance Principles The UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules require listed companies to disclose how they have applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, as issued by the Financial Reporting Council in 2010, were applicable in the year under review.
The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards of Corporate Governance and is accountable to shareholders for the governance of the Companys affairs.
The Board of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance 2010 AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide 2010 for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010, will provide better information to shareholders.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the incorporated relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010, except as set out below.
The UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 includes provisions relating to: the role of the chief executive: executive directors remuneration: the need for an internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the position of Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc, being an externally managed investment company.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
The terms of reference for the Board and the Audit Committee are reviewed and updated periodically to bring them in line with latest best practice and to ensure compliance with the AIC Code.
The Companys Corporate Governance procedures are considered regularly by the Board and amended as necessary.
The Board The Board comprises six non-executive Directors, five of whom are considered independent.
Bob Yerbury was a Senior Managing Director of Invesco Ltd and a Director of IAML until his retirement on 27 March 2013.
In accordance with the AIC Code, as a recent employee, he is not considered independent.
The Board has considered the continued appointment of Sir Martyn Arbib and Antony Hardy in light of their having served on the Board for over nine years and has concluded that they continue, both collectively and individually, to be effective and make valuable contributions to the Board.
Notwithstanding their length of service, the Board consider that they each remain independent, a view which has been demonstrated by their actions on behalf of the Company and their other business interests.
Chairman The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of the role.
The Chairman is Bill Alexander, a non-executive and independent Director who has no conflicting relationships.
Senior Independent Director In his role as Senior Independent Director, Antony Hardy provides a sounding board for the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for the other Directors if necessary.
He also provides a channel of communication for shareholders where contact through the Chairman or Company Secretary have failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
PIGIT pp14 33 PIGIT pp14 33 06 06 2013 15:07 Page 20 20 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Board Balance Directors have a range of business, financial and asset management skills and experience relevant to the direction and control of the Company.
Brief biographical details are shown on page 11.
Appointment, Re-election and Tenure of Directors The Directors are responsible for reviewing the size, structure and skills of the Board and considering any necessary changes or new appointments.
No Director has a formal contract of employment with the Company.
Directors terms and conditions of appointment are set out in letters of appointment which are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company, on the Managers website and will be available at the AGM.
The Board has formulated a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the selection and appointment of any new Director to the Board.
In order that the Board continues to have a balance of skills, experience, length of service and knowledge of the Company, it was decided that a new Director be appointed.
The Board carried out this process taking into consideration the above requirements as well as the diversity of the Board and the ability of a new Director to devote sufficient time to the Company to carry out his or her duties effectively.
The Board was pleased that this process successfully identified a number of strong candidates and, after due consideration, the Board appointed Richard Laing a Director of the Company with effect from 20 November 2012.
The Board considers that, with his considerable knowledge and experience, Richard will make a valuable contribution to the Board and recommends that shareholders approve his election as a Director by supporting resolution 7 at the Companys AGM.
In accordance with the UK Code of Corporate Governance, at every AGM all Directors shall retire and offer themselves for re-election.
The Board confirms that the performance of the Directors continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
The Board therefore recommends to shareholders their support for resolutions2 through to7 relating to the Directors.
The Articles will be available at the AGM and can be inspected at the registered office address of the Company.
Board, Committee and Directors Performance Appraisal The Company has in place a system of performance evaluation which is undertaken by the Board annually.
The appropriateness and benefits of externally facilitated Board evaluation were considered by the Board during the year and information was sought from service providers in this regard.
The Board intends to consider the use of external evaluation again next year.
Since the year end, the Directors have undergone an appraisal process to evaluate the performance of the Board as a whole, of the respective Committees of the Board and of individual Directors.
The results of the appraisal process were deemed fully satisfactory and the Board confirms that the performance of the Directors continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role and responsibilities.
Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings All the Directors are considered to have an excellent attendance record at Board and Committee Meetings of the Company.
The following table sets out the number of scheduled meetings held during the year and the number of meetings attended by each Director or member of each Committee.
In addition, Directors also attended a number of ad-hoc meetings as required between scheduled meetings.
MANAGEMENT AUDIT ENGAGEMENT BOARD COMMITTEE COMMITTEE MEETINGS MEETINGS MEETINGS Number of meetings:6 3 1 Meetings attended: Bill Alexander 63 1 Sir Martyn Arbib 6 n a n a Vivian Bazalgette 63 1 Antony Hardy 63 1 Richard Laing 1 1 n a Bob Yerbury 6 n a n a Only one Board meeting and one Audit Committee meeting held since appointment.
PIGIT pp14 33 PIGIT pp14 33 06 06 2013 15:07 Page 21 PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 21 Directors Remuneration The Board as a whole reviews Directors remuneration on a regular basis.
Details of the Companys policy on Directors remuneration and of payments to Directors are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 30 and31.
Board Responsibilities The Directors have a duty to promote the success of the Company taking into consideration the likely consequences of any decision in the long-term, the need to foster the Companys business relationships with its Manager and advisers, the impact of the Companys operations on the community and the environment, the desirability of the Company maintaining a reputation for high standards of business conduct and the need to act fairly as between stakeholders of the Company.
In order to promote the success of the Company, the Board directs and supervises its affairs within a framework of effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
A formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board has been established.
The schedule is reviewed annually to ensure compliance with the latest regulatory requirements, best practice and the AIC Code and is available for inspection at the AGM, at the registered office of the Company and on the Managers website.
The main responsibilities of the Board include: setting policies and standards, ensuring that the Companys obligations to shareholders and others are understood and complied with, approving accounting and dividend policies, managing the capital structure, setting long-term objectives and strategy, assessing risk, reviewing investment performance, approving loans and borrowing, approving recommendations presented by the Companys respective Board Committees, controlling risks and the ongoing assessment of the Manager.
The Board also seeks to ensure that shareholders are provided with sufficient information in order to understand the risk reward balance to which they are exposed by holding their shares, through the portfolio details given in the annual and half-yearly financial reports, interim management statements, fact sheets and daily NAV disclosures.
The Board is committed to the prevention of corruption in the conduct of the Companys affairs and, taking account of the nature of the Companys business and operations, has put in place procedures that the Board considers adequate to prevent persons associated with it from engaging in bribery for and on behalf of the Company.
Supply of Information To enable the Directors of the Board to fulfil their roles, the Manager ensures that all Directors have timely access to all relevant management, financial and regulatory information.
On being appointed to the Board, Directors are fully briefed as to their responsibilities and are continually updated throughout their term in office on industry and regulatory matters.
The Manager and the Board have formulated a programme of induction training for newly appointed Directors.
They have also put arrangements in place to address ongoing training requirements of Directors which include briefings from key members of the Managers staff and which ensure that Directors can keep up to date with new legislation and changing risks.
The Board meets on a regular basis at least four times each year.
Additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Regular contact is maintained between the Manager, the Company Secretary and the Board between formal meetings.
Board meetings follow a formal agenda, which includes a review of the investment portfolio with reports from the Manager on the current investment position and outlook, strategic direction, performance against stock market indices and the Companys peer group, asset allocation, gearing policy, cash management, revenue forecasts for the financial year, marketing and shareholder relations, corporate governance, regulatory changes and industry and other issues.
There is an agreed procedure for the Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take legal advice at the Companys expense up to an initial cost of 10,000 having first consulted with the Chairman.
Company Secretary The Board has direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, Invesco Asset Management Limited, which is responsible for ensuring that the Board and Committee procedures are followed, that applicable rules and regulations are complied with and is responsible for advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance matters.
The Company Secretary is also responsible to the Board for ensuring timely delivery of information and reports, that the statutory PIGIT pp14 33 PIGIT pp14 33 06 06 2013 15:07 Page 22 22 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued obligations of the Company are met and acts as a contact for all shareholders.
The appointment and ongoing assessment and review of the Company Secretary are matters for the Board as a whole.
Internal Controls and Risk Management The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for the Companys systems of internal financial and non-financial controls designed to safeguard shareholders investments and the Companys assets, which have been in place throughout the year and up to the date of this report.
The Companys internal controls and risk management systems have been reviewed with the Manager against risk parameters approved by the Board.
The Board reviews financial reports and performance against forecasts, stock market indices and the Companys peer group.
In addition, the Manager and Custodian maintain their own systems of internal controls and the Board and Audit Committee receive regular reports from the Internal Audit and Compliance teams of the Manager.
Formal reports are also produced on the internal controls and procedures in place for custodial, company secretarial, investment management and accounting activities, and these are reviewed annually by the Board.
The control systems are designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss and to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
The Directors consider that these procedures enable the Company to comply with the Financial Reporting Councils Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
Accountability and Audit The Directors responsibilities for the Companys accounting records and financial statements are set out on page 29.
The Independent Auditors Report appears on pages 32 and 33.
Going Concern The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The Directors consider this is the appropriate basis as they have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, being taken as 12 months after the signing of the balance sheet.
In considering this, the Directors took into account the diversified portfolio of readily realisable securities which can be used to meet funding commitments, and the ability of the Company to meet all of its liabilities including maturity of the debenture stock in 2014 and ongoing expenses from its assets.
The Directors also considered the revenue forecasts for the forthcoming year and future dividend payments in concluding on the going concern basis.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee is composed of Antony Hardy, Bill Alexander, Vivian Bazalgette and Richard Laing, all of whom are independent Directors.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee is Antony Hardy.
Audit Committee members consider that collectively they are appropriately experienced to fulfil the role required.
The Audit Committee has written terms of reference which are reviewed as and when appropriate and clearly define its responsibilities.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, including its role and authority, are available for inspection at the AGM, at the registered office of the Company and on the Managers website.
The Audit Committee is responsible to the Board for reviewing each aspect of the financial reporting process: the systems of internal control and management of financial risks: the audit process: relationships with the Auditor: the Companys processes for monitoring compliance with laws and regulations: its code of business conduct: and for making recommendations to the Board.
It is responsible for making recommendations to the Board in respect of the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the auditor and for the terms of their audit engagement.
The committee is also responsible for reviewing the Managers whistleblowing arrangements.
The Audit Committee meets at least twice each year to review the internal financial and non-financial controls, to approve the contents of the draft annual and half-yearly financial reports and to review the Companys accounting policies.
In addition, the Audit Committee reviews the Auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness, the quality of the services of all the service providers to the Company and, together with the Manager, reviews the Companys compliance with financial PIGIT pp14 33 PIGIT pp14 33 06 06 2013 15:07 Page 23 PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 23 reporting and regulatory requirements.
The Audit Committee considers the likelihood of a withdrawal of the Auditor from the market and noted that there are no contractual obligations to restrict the choice of external auditor.
At each meeting, representatives of the Managers Internal Audit and Compliance teams are present.
Representatives of Deloitte LLP, the Companys Auditor, attend the Audit Committee meeting at which the draft annual financial report is reviewed.
The Companys internal financial controls and risk management systems have been reviewed with the Manager against risk parameters approved by the Board.
The Audit Committee has also received a satisfactory report on the Managers internal operations from the Managers Compliance and Internal Audit Officers.
The Committee has reviewed and accepted the Managers Whistleblowing policy under which staff can, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties or irregularities in relation to the Company.
The Committee has reviewed the recent changes to the FRCs UK Corporate Governance Code and AIC Code both of which include the provision for FTSE 350 companies to put the external audit contract out to tender at least every ten years.
Having considered the FRCs guidance on aligning the timing of such tenders with the audit engagement partner five year rotation cycle and following the satisfactory outcome to the Committees regular review of auditor effectiveness, performance and independence, the Committee recommends to the Board a resolution proposing the reappointment of Deloitte LLP at the forthcoming AGM for the year ending 31 March 2014.
The Committee currently intends to initiate a tender process to coincide with audit partner rotation in time for the 2016 annual audit appointment.
The Committee has reviewed the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2013 with the Manager and Auditor at the conclusion of the audit process.
The Committee has recommended approval by the Board of an audit fee of 25,000 2012: 25,000, exclusive of expenses and VAT.
The committee has considered and is satisfied with the objectivity and the independence of the Auditor.
Non-audit fees for the year to 31 March 2013 were 4,000 2012: 4,000 and related to compliance with the debenture covenants and the debenture trust deed.
The Committee does not believe that this has impaired the Auditors independence and objectivity.
Stewardship The Board considers that the Company has a responsibility as a shareholder towards ensuring that high standards of Corporate Governance are maintained in the companies in which it invests.
To achieve this, the Board does not seek to intervene in daily management decisions, but aims to support high standards of governance and, where necessary, will take the initiative to ensure those standards are met.
The principal means of putting shareholder responsibility into practice is through the exercise of voting rights.
The Companys voting rights are exercised on an informed and independent basis.
The Companys stewardship functions have been delegated to the Manager.
The Manager has adopted a clear and considered policy towards its responsibility as a shareholder on behalf of the Company.
As part of this policy, the Manager takes steps to satisfy itself about the extent to which the companies in which it invests look after shareholders value and comply with local recommendations and practices, such as the UK Corporate Governance Code.
A copy of the Managers Policy on Corporate Governance and Stewardship can be found at www.
Relations with Shareholders Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the Board and the Manager.
The prime medium by which the Company communicates with shareholders is through the annual and half-yearly financial reports, which aim to provide shareholders with a full understanding of the Companys activities and its results.
This information is supplemented by the publication of interim management statements, monthly factsheets and the NAV of the Companys ordinary shares, which is published daily via the London Stock Exchange and the Managers website.
A presentation is made by the Manager following the main business of the AGM each year.
Shareholders have the opportunity to communicate directly with the Directors at the AGM.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM.
It is the intention of the Board that the annual financial report and the notice of the AGM be issued to shareholders so as to provide twenty working days notice of the AGM.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance of the AGM are invited to do so, either on the reverse of the proxy card, PIGIT pp14 33 PIGIT pp14 33 06 06 2013 15:07 Page 24 24 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued via the Managers website or in writing to the Company Secretary at the address given on page 12.
At other times the Company responds to queries from shareholders on a range of issues.
There is a regular dialogue with individual major shareholders to discuss aspects of investment performance, governance and strategy and to listen to shareholder views in order to develop a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns.
General presentations to both institutional shareholders and analysts follow the publication of the annual financial results.
All meetings between the Manager and major shareholders are reported to the Board.
Shareholders can visit the Managers website in order to contact the Directors, Manager and Company Secretary, access copies of annual and half-yearly financial reports, interim management statements, shareholder circulars, factsheets, Stock Exchange announcements, schedule of matters reserved for the Board, terms of reference of Board Committees, Directors letters of appointment, the Companys share price and any proxy voting results.
Conflicts of Interest A Director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or has the potential to conflict, with the Companys interests.
The Articles of Association the Articles of the Company give the Directors authority to authorise potential conflicts of interest and there are safeguards in place which will apply when Directors decide whether to do so.
First, only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered are able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Directors can impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
The Directors have declared any potential conflicts of interest to the Company.
Any potential conflicts of interest are entered into the Companys register of potential conflicts, which is reviewed regularly by the Board.
The register of potential conflicts of interest is kept at the Registered Office of the Company.
The Directors will advise the Company Secretary as soon as they become aware of any potential conflicts of interest.
The Manager Investment Management Agreement Invesco Asset Management Limited IAML is appointed Manager, Administrator and Company Secretary under an agreement dated 20 February 1996 and subsequently amended on 27 December 2001.
This agreement is terminable by either party giving not less than one years notice.
Under the agreement, the Manager receives a management fee of 0.1875% per quarter of the Companys funds under management.
A performance-related fee is payable to the Manager annually in arrears if the Companys performance exceeds that of the FTSE All-Share Index, including any brought forward underperformance.
The performance-related fee is equal to 10% of the value of any outperformance, but may not exceed 0.75% of the value of the Companys funds under management, prior to deduction of current periods performance fee, at the relevant performance fee calculation date which is usually the Companys balance sheet date.
The Managers Responsibilities The Manager is generally responsible for the day-to-day investment management activities of the Company, seeking and evaluating investment opportunities and analysing the results of investee companies.
The Manager has full discretion to manage the assets of the Company in accordance with the Companys stated Investment Policy as determined from time to time by the Board and approved by shareholders.
The Manager also advises on currency and borrowings.
The Manager provides full company secretarial and administration services ensuring that the Company complies with all legal, regulatory and corporate governance requirements and attending on the Directors at Board meetings and shareholders meetings.
The Manager also maintains records of the Companys investment transactions and portfolio and all monetary transactions, from which the Manager prepares annual and half-yearly financial statements and interim management statements on behalf of the Company and various statistical reports and information throughout the year.
PIGIT pp14 33 PIGIT pp14 33 06 06 2013 15:07 Page 25 PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 25 Assessment of the Investment Manager The performance of the Manager in the roles of investment manager, company secretary and administrator is subject to continual review by the Board and an annual review of the management contract is undertaken by the Management Engagement Committee.
The Board has formally reviewed the Managers performance and, taking into account the long-term performance of the portfolio, the other services provided by the Manager and the risk and corporate governance environment in which the Company operates, the Board considers that the continuation of the management contract is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
The Management Engagement Committee The Management Engagement Committee comprises Antony Hardy, Bill Alexander, Vivian Bazalgette and Richard Laing, all of whom are independent Directors.
The Chairman of the Management Engagement Committee is Bill Alexander.
The Management Engagement Committee has written terms of reference which clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
The terms of reference are reviewed as and when appropriate to ensure compliance with the latest regulatory requirements, best practice and the AIC Code.
They will be available for inspection at the AGM, the registered office of the Company and on the Managers website.
The Management Engagement Committee meets annually to review the investment management agreement with the Companys Manager and to review the services provided by the Manager and Company Secretary.
A statement of IAMLs responsibilities as Manager, Administrator and Company Secretary of the Company and the assessment of the Manager and Company Secretary by the Management Engagement Committee can be found on pages 24 and 25.
Social and Environmental Policies As an investment trust company with no employees, property or activities outside investment, environmental matters, employees and social and community issues have limited application.
The Manager considers various factors when evaluating potential investments.
Some are financial ratios and measures, such as free cash flow, earnings per share and price to book value.
Others are more subjective indicators which rely on first hand research: for example, quality of management, innovation and product strength.
While a companys policy towards the environment and social responsibility is considered as part of the overall assessment of risk and the suitability of the company for the portfolio, the Manager does not necessarily preclude an investment being made on environmental and social grounds alone.
The Company is able to supply documents or information to shareholders in electronic form e. g. by email or by means of a website.
This delivers environmental benefits through the reduced use of paper and of the energy required for its production and distribution.
Directors Directors Disclosable Interests The interests of the Directors in the ordinary share capital of the Company at 31 March 2013 follow.
2013 2012 ORDINARY SUBSCRIPTION ORDINARY SUBSCRIPTION ORDINARY SHARES SHARES SHARES SHARES SHARES Bill Alexander 10,000 10,000 Sir Martyn Arbib 12,000 1,000 12,000 1,000 Vivian Bazalgette 10,000 10,000 Antony Hardy 11,000 1,000 11,000 1,000 Richard Laing 10,000 Bob Yerbury 10,000 10,000 There were no changes in the above interests between 31 March 2013 and4 June 2013.
PIGIT pp14 33 PIGIT pp14 33 06 06 2013 15:07 Page 26 26 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Deed of Indemnity Under the terms of a Deed of Indemnity between the Directors and the Company, a Director may be indemnified out of the assets of the Company against all costs, charges, expenses, losses and liabilities which he may sustain or incur in or about the discharge of his duties or the exercise of his powers or discretions as a Director of the Company.
This includes any liability incurred by a Director in disputing, defending, investigating or providing evidence in connection with any actual or threatened or alleged claims, demands, investigations or proceedings whether civil or criminal, and any settlement thereof.
A Director may also receive funding of any expenditure incurred in connection with any such liability.
A Director will continue to be indemnified under the terms of the indemnity notwithstanding that he may have ceased to be a Director of the Company.
However, a Director will not be entitled to be indemnified for any liability to the Company, for fines payable to regulatory authorities, for defending any criminal proceedings in which he is convicted or in defending any civil proceedings bought by the Company in which judgment is given against him.
The indemnity does not apply to the extent that a liability is recoverable from any insurers, if it is prohibited by the Act or otherwise prohibited by law, if it relates to tax payable on remuneration or other benefits received, or if a liability arises from an act or omission of the Director which is shown to have been in bad faith.
The Deed of Indemnity is available for inspection at the AGM and at the registered office at any time.
Share Capital Capital Structure At the year end the Companys share capital included 219,228,060 ordinary shares and 12,914,737 subscription shares.
During the year 4,072,885 ordinary shares were issued at 218.94p each following an exercise of subscription shares and 1,338,325 ordinary shares were issued for cash at an average price of280.30p.
There were no further issues or repurchases of ordinary shares since the year end.
No shares were bought back during the year and no shares were held in treasury during the year or at the year end.
The Companys Articles of Association allow an issue of B shares to take place should conditions permit.
There are no B shares in issue.
Restrictions There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of ordinary and subscription shares in the Company, no special rights with regard to control attached to said securities, no agreements between holders regarding their transfer known to the Company, and no agreements which the Company is part to that might affect its control following a successful takeover bid.
There are restrictions on the transfer of B shares by shareholders located in the US, which make it more difficult for a US person to resell B shares in many instances.
Subscription Shares Subscription shareholders are reminded that on 31 August 2013 the final subscription date, they will have the final right to convert all or any of their subscription shares into fully paid ordinary shares of 10p each on the basis of one ordinary share for every subscription share so converted at a price of 218.94p per share.
Not earlier than 56 days or later than 28 days before the final subscription date, the Company will give notice in writing to subscription shareholders reminding them of the final opportunity to exercise their subscription rights and provide them with appropriate information required for conversion.
Those subscription shareholders that do not exercise their rights will automatically receive any value for their shares in cash.
The procedure in respect of any unexercised subscription shares is described on page 13.
The holders of the subscription shares are not entitled to any right of participation in the profits of the Company but, in the event of a corporate action such as a takeover offer on a winding up resolution, will normally be treated as though subscription rights have been exercised.
On a return of capital on liquidation or otherwise the assets of the Company shall be applied, pari passu with any payment to the holders of the ordinary shares, in repaying to the holders of the subscription shares a sum equal to the nominal capital paid up or credited as paid up on the subscription shares held by them respectively.
The holders of the subscription shares are not entitled to any further right of participation in the assets of the Company.
PIGIT pp14 33 PIGIT pp14 33 06 06 2013 15:07 Page 27 PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 27 Voting At a general meeting of the Company every ordinary shareholder has one vote on a show of hands and on a poll one vote for each ordinary share held.
Subscription shareholders have the right to receive notices of general meetings and to attend, speak and vote at a general meeting only if a resolution is to be proposed abrogating, varying or modifying any of the rights or privileges of the subscription shares and then only on such resolution.
Wherever the holders of the subscription shares are entitled to vote at a general meeting, every subscription shareholder has one vote on a show of hands and on a poll one vote for each subscription share held.
The notice of general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either by proxy or present in person in relation to resolutions to be passed at a general meeting.
Repurchase Powers The Boards current powers to repurchase shares and proposals for their renewal are shown in the section titled Special Business at the Annual General Meeting.
Substantial Shareholders The Company had been notified of the following holdings of 3% and over of the Companys ordinary share capital: AS AT AS AT 30 APRIL 2013 31 MARCH 2013 HOLDINGS % HOLDINGS % Invesco Perpetual Savings Scheme and ISA 55,886,626 25.5 55,931,184 25.5 Brewin Dolphin, stockbrokers 14,783,198 6.7 14,502,723 6.6 Hargreaves Lansdown, stockbrokers ND 14,389,492 6.6 14,086,582 6.4 Rathbones 11,333,720 5.2 11,029,591 5.0 Charles Stanley, stockbrokers 10,379,514 4.7 10,279,229 4.7 Alliance Trust Savings 8,522,881 3.9 8,401,683 3.8 Investec Wealth & Investment 7,217,163 3.3 7,178,570 3.3 Legal & General Investment Management 6,855,353 3.1 6,855,353 3.1 F&C Asset Management 6,848,661 3.1 6,841,455 3.1 Special Business at the Annual General Meeting The notice of the Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company is on pages 52 to 55.
In addition to the ordinary business, four resolutions are proposed as special business, one as an ordinary resolution and three as special resolutions.
Share Issuance The Directors are seeking the authority to issue up to an aggregate nominal amount of 7,307,602 a third of the Companys issued share capital as at4 June 2013 in new ordinary shares.
This will allow Directors to issue shares within the prescribed limits should any favourable opportunities arise to the advantage of shareholders.
This authority will expire at the AGM in 2014 or the date 15 months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier.
The Directors are also seeking the usual authority to issue new ordinary shares pursuant to a rights issue or otherwise than in accordance with a rights issue of up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,192,281 10% of the Companys issued share capital as at4 June 2013 of new ordinary shares disapplying pre-emption rights.
This authority will not be exercised at a price below NAV so that the interests of existing shareholders are not diluted and will expire at the AGM in 2014 or the date 15 months after the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier.
Share Buy Backs and Treasury Shares The Directors are seeking to renew the authority to buy back up to 32,862,286 shares 14.99% of the Companys issued share capital as at4 June 2013, subject to the restrictions referred to in the Notice of Meeting of the AGM.
The Directors are proposing that shares repurchased by the Company be either cancelled or, alternatively, held as treasury shares with a view PIGIT pp14 33 PIGIT pp14 33 06 06 2013 15:07 Page 28 28 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued to their resale if appropriate or cancellation.
The holding of treasury shares is restricted to 10% of the Companys issued share capital and any resale of them will only take place on terms that are in the best interests of shareholders.
Notice Period for General Meetings The EU Shareholder Rights Directive increased the notice period for general meetings of companies to 21 days unless certain conditions are met in which case it may be 14 days notice.
A shareholders resolution is required to ensure that the Companys general meetings other than Annual General Meetings may be held on 14 days notice.
Accordingly, Special Resolution 13 will propose that the period of notice for general meetings of the Company other than AGMs shall not be less than 14 days notice.
The Directors recommend that shareholders vote in favour of all the resolutions.
Independent Auditor The Audit Committee has considered the independence of the Auditor and the objectivity of the audit process and is satisfied that Deloitte LLP have fulfilled their obligations to shareholders.
Deloitte LLP are willing to continue in office and a resolution, in accordance with Section 489 of the Act, to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
A separate resolution for the Directors to be authorised to set the Auditors remuneration will also be proposed at the AGM.
Individual Savings Account ISA The ordinary shares and subscription shares of the Company are qualifying investments under applicable ISA regulations.
Supplier Payment Policy It is the Companys policy to obtain the best terms for all business, including purchases of investments, and to abide by those agreed terms.
The Company had no trade creditors at 31 March 2013 2012: nil.
Donations The Company made no political or charitable donations during the year 2012: nil.
By order of the Board Invesco Asset Management Limited Company Secretary 30 Finsbury Square London EC2A 1AG 4June 2013
