PIGIT pp01 10 PIGIT pp01 10 06 06 2013 14:55 Page 06 06 INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT Market Review After a nervous start, the UK stock market rose in the first half of the year despite concerns over the outlook for global economic growth and the on-going Eurozone crisis.
As President of the European Central Bank, Mario Draghis key statement in July that he would do whatever it takes to save the euro marked the major turning point for the market.
Ever increasing amounts of monetary stimulus propelled both the FTSE 100 and FTSE All-Share indices to deliver positive returns for 10 straight months, achieving a five year high towards the end of the year.
With further bail outs of Eurozone banking systems, continuing profit downgrades from companies and disappointing news on the UK economy, the macro-economic backdrop remained difficult overall.
In March 2013 the Chancellors George Osborne latest budget saw additional downgrades to 2013 GDP forecasts.
However, a modest recovery in the US economy was the main bright spot for the global economy.
Portfolio Strategy and Review The Companys diluted net asset value, including reinvested dividends, rose by 28.9% during the 12 months to the end of March 2013.
This compares to a total return of 16.8% from the FTSE All-Share Index.
There were some significant contributions to the Companys performance from a broad spread of its holdings, notably some of the mid-cap stocks in the portfolio.
The largest individual positive impact came from the new holding in Thomas Cook.
The stock market has become persuaded in the scope for new management to turn around this previously ailing business, which retains a strong brand and market position, customer loyalty and pan European distribution.
Shares in TalkTalk Telecom rose strongly over the year, with a number of highlights, including a much improved operating performance and successful launches of next-generation broadband and telephony services, as well as plans to launch a new TV service.
The portfolio remains heavily invested in the pharmaceutical sector, which benefited performance.
The holding in Roche again delivered exceptional returns, as the company confirmed its ability to lead the industry in terms of drug discovery and innovation.
The holding in AstraZeneca, which had delivered a relatively disappointing performance the previous year, also contributed positively.
The company appointed a new chief executive, Pascal Soriot, who outlined a strategy to return the company to growth which has been very well received.
News from BT underlined why this company is expected to continue to deliver good profit and dividend growth.
Headline profits came in slightly ahead of expectations and also confirmed a faster than expected roll-out of the companys fibre broadband business.
The company announced a new group-wide restructuring programme the current management team has very effectively reduced the cost-base in recent years and the latest announcement opens a path for the next wave of efficiencies.
News of the companys move into broadcast tv including the launch of a new sports channel, aiming to benefit from on-going digital media convergence and the expansion of the companys fibre network, was also well received by the stock market.
Shares in BAE Systems performed strongly over the period.
Negotiations last year over a possible merger with EADS were terminated.
The company confirmed the strength of its position as an independent entity with an improved level of operating cash flow and strengthened balance sheet, along with an increase in its dividend pay-out.
Concerns also waned over the possible impact of US defence spending cuts.
The portfolios performance also benefited, relative to the FTSE All-Share Index, by minimal exposure to mining sector.
This is a sector which has performed well in previous market rallies, but has underperformed during this one as a combination of falling metal prices and rising production costs has led to sharp downgrades to profit forecasts across the sector.
There were relatively few detractors from performance.
BG Groups shares fell sharply on the news last October that it had reduced production growth forecasts.
Subsequently the holding in the company was sold.
Shares in Imperial Tobacco fell following confirmation of tough trading conditions in southern Europe and growing concerns that the UK may follow Australia in introducing plain PIGIT pp01 10 PIGIT pp01 10 06 06 2013 14:55 Page 07 PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 07 packaging for cigarettes.
The company remains well positioned, while the introduction of plain packaging still faces significant hurdles before implementation.
Taking advantage of the share price weakness, additional investment has been made in the company.
Vodafone reduced its forecasts for revenue growth on the back of on-going weakness in its core European markets.
The companys ability to generate pricing power from data services is not assured, while the cash flow cover of the dividend has fallen to uncomfortably low levels, and the Companys holdings in the shares have been sold.
There was also disappointing news from Chemring.
Carlyle Group called off its discussions about a possible takeover of the company and Chemring issued a significant profit warning and a decline in its order book.
With a new management team now in place, long-term value should now be realised from the high quality businesses within the company.
In terms of portfolio activity, as outlined above the holdings in BG Group and Vodafone were disposed of, along with the investments in Filtrona, International Power, Pennon Group, Wm.
Morrison, Regus and Tate & Lyle.
New investments were made in Carnival, Legal & General, London Stock Exchange, Reed Elsevier, Thomas Cook and Sherborne Investors.
Outlook The continued strong performance of the UK stock market has created a sense of optimism towards an imminent economic recovery and a growing belief in a multi-year equity bull market.
However, this market rise has been notable for several important characteristics, namely significant increases in monetary stimulus and liquidity along with steadily declining profit expectations.
The markets rise is not underpinned by fundamental corporate profit growth and hence the multiple of earnings which the buyers have been prepared to pay has risen over the past year.
The current price to earnings multiple for the UK market is now in line with the average of the past 40 years, signifying that the market on average is fairly valued.
However, a scenario in which rising prices driven by quantitative easing accompanied by weaker fundamentals as a result of lower profit forecasts should prompt a pause for thought, if not concern.
Given this combination, and in the absence of improving fundamentals, the market may struggle to see further significant gains.
Concerns remain about the challenging macro-economic outlook and ability for companies to grow revenues consistently and the fund strategy therefore remains largely unchanged from the recent past.
The strong preference is for companies that have proven ability to grow revenues, profits and free cash flow in this low growth world, coupled with management teams that are fully cognisant of the need to deliver sustainable long term dividend growth.
It is this type of investment opportunity that forms the majority of the portfolio and will continue to offer the best combination to deliver good risk adjusted returns over the long term.
Mark Barnett Investment Manager 4 June 2013
