PIGIT pp11 13 PIGIT pp11 13 06 06 2013 14:55 Page 11 PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 11 DIRECTORS Bill Alexander CBE, Chairman of the also a non-executive Director of Camelot.
He Main Board and of the Management previously worked in agribusiness in developing countries and at  and Engagement Committee Marks & Spencer.
He has had a number of Bill Alexander was appointed to the Board on non-executive positions across a range of sectors, 28 March 2006 and as Chairman on 19 July mainly overseas.
He is currently non-executive Chairman include: a Director of the Overseas Development of Wigborough Ltd.
He was previously Institute, the UKs leading independent Chairman of Xansa plc and Chief Executive think-tank on international development: a of RWE Thames Water plc, and also held Trustee of Plan UK, the international childrens non-executive appointments at RMC plc, charity: and a Director of Miro Forestry, which GB Airways Ltd and Laporte plc.
Bill is a operates in Ghana and Sierra Leone.
He obtained Chartered Engineer and a Fellow of the Royal an MA from Cambridge University in Engineering Academy of Engineers.
and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales FCA.
Sir Martyn Arbib Sir Martyn was appointed to the Board on Antony Hardy Chairman of the Audit 6 February 1996.
He was the founder and Committee and Senior Independent Director Chairman of Perpetual plc, which became part of Antony Hardy was appointed to the Board on the Invesco group on 7 December 2000, and left 2 February 1996.
He has held the position of the company in 2002.
He is a Fellow of the Investment Adviser to Essex County Council Institute of Chartered Accountants in England Pension Fund and South Yorkshire Pension Fund.
He is adviser to a number of endowed charities and trusts, a Director of Sableknight Limited and Vivian Bazalgette was previously Investment Manager of the Vivian Bazalgette was appointed to the Board on Church Commissioners for England.
He is a non-executive Director of Bob Yerbury Henderson High Income Investment Trust plc Bob Yerbury was appointed to the Board on and Brunner Investment Trust plc.
His investment career spans non-executive Director of St. James Place plc and over 40 years, having led the North American Chairman of its Investment Committee and is team at Invesco Perpetual for 14 years, becoming also an adviser to BAE Systems Pension Fund and Chief Investment Officer in 1997 and Chief to the Nuffield Foundation.
He is currently a Executive Officer in 2004.
He handed over his Governor of Dulwich College and a member of CEO and CIO responsibilities in September 2008 the advisory Board of Greenwich Hospital.
He previously held the position of Chief Investment and June 2010 respectively, continuing as a Officer of M&G between 1996 and 2000 and, Senior Managing Director of Invesco Ltd until his following the takeover of M&G by Prudential, retirement on 27 March 2013.
He holds an MA was Chief Investment Officer of Prudential from in Mathematics from Cambridge University and 2000 to 2002. qualified as an Actuary at Equity & Law Life Assurance Society.
He is a Fellow of the Institute Richard Laing of Actuaries FIA.
Mr Laing was appointed to the Board on 20 November 2012.
He was previously Chief Executive of CDC Group plc, formerly the Commonwealth Development Corporation, from 2004 to 2011, having joined the organisation in All Directors are non-executive.
Prior to CDC, he spent 15 years at fide La Rue where he held a number All Directors are considered independent except of positions both in the UK and internationally, for Bob Yerbury, as he was employed by Invesco latterly as the Group Finance Director.
He was Perpetual until 27 March 2013.
Member of the Audit Committee.
Member of the Management Engagement Committee.
