INVESTMENT ADVISERS REPORT As demonstrated by the chart on page 3 to which the Chairman refers, Personal Assets investment style tends to lead us to outperform in falling markets and lag in sharply rising ones, and the last year has been no exception.
Over the year to 30 April 2013 our net asset value per share NAV rose by 4.8%, while our comparator, the FTSE All-Share Index, rose by 13.6%.
Stock markets are riding high on a wave of momentum buying.
Weary of earning nothing on their money, savers are herding further up the risk curve in search of any sort of return.
Since government bonds offer negative real yields, investors are being lured into junk bonds, emerging market debt and equities.
If the benchmark for risk-free assets i. e. high-grade sovereign debt is bid up to levels at which future nominal returns are next to nothing, riskier assets will be bid up too.
It is the failing of the financial industry that too much is made of relative rather than absolute value.
We have now reached the point at which few assets have the ability to protect investors from the opposing threats of deflation leading to default risk or inflation which should lead to higher interest rates.
Valuations are now not dissimilar to those that prevailed at the previous peak, in the summer of 2007.
At less than 5%, junk bonds offer their lowest yield in history High Yield, the alternative description of these bonds, no longer seems appropriate.
The list of countries recently tapping international capital markets at similar, unprecedentedly low, yields reads like a list of Foreign Office travel advisory no-go areas, including Albania, Bolivia, Mongolia and even Rwanda.
Bond fund managers are also straying off-piste.
According to the Wall Street Journal, funds that usually invest exclusively in bonds have the highest exposure to stocks for 18 years.
Alas, bond investors moving into equities can be like bridge players trying their luck at roulette.
Calling time on this yield bubble, reminiscent of 2006 and 2007, is tricky: but such a search for yield almost always ends in tears.
David Rosenberg, an economist and strategist at Gluskin Sheff & Associates, claims that government and central bank action accounts for at least 500 points of the S&P 500 indexs 1600 points.
We would hesitate to be so specific, but there can be no doubt that the result of quantitative easing has been a huge disconnect between markets and the wider economy and a feeling that there is no longer any downside in markets.
But since when have stocks been a one way bet?
Barrons, the US financial newspaper, published its Big Money Survey on 22 April which found that 74% of large portfolio managers were bullish the highest percentage ever, exceeding previous peaks in 2000 and 2007.
Unlike us, these are people who view themselves as managing other peoples money, not their own.
Even if they see the risks, they are not positioned accordingly.
We may not be at a peak just yet, but we are getting closer.
While high quality equities were safe havens a few years ago when prices and valuations were much lower, today they offer an ever shrinking margin of safety.
Complacency is hiding in plain view.
Our portfolio continues to have four pillars: blue chip stocks, index linked bonds, gold bullion including gold mining shares and cash.
Over the past year we made very few changes to the portfolio.
Turnover was characteristically low at 6.4% as we further reduced exposure to equities, selling holdings in Centrica and Vodafone and cutting back Diageo, and adding to Becton Dickinson, Imperial Oil, Microsoft, Sage Group and our gold mining exposure.
The last of these is, we believe, our most contrarian investment, but it has yet to pay off satisfactorily.
Following the recent fall in the price of gold we also added to the Companys holding of gold bullion.
Our liquidity has risen to 56.5%.
Markets today favour the brave or the foolish but they do not favour Personal Assets shareholders as they seek to preserve their capital.
These are uncomfortable times for investors with an eye on value.
It is periods like these, when investment seems so easy and obvious to all and sundry, that are the most challenging for us and during which our performance may suffer in relative terms.
We have sympathy with Jean-Marie Eveillard, legendary Wall Street fund manager, who said, I would rather lose half of my shareholders than half of my shareholders money.
Sebastian Lyon Annual Report and Accounts 2013 5
