The Boards recommendations following the review were overwhelmingly approved by shareholders at an Extraordinary General Meeting EGM held on 21 December 2012 and the updated descriptions of our investment and dividend policies are to be found in the Business Review on pages 9 to 11.
Over the three years to 30 April 2013 our traditional time span for measuring performance our share price rose by 23.3%, outperforming our comparator, the FTSE All-Share Index All-Share, by 4.1%.
However, we no longer single this out as our headline reporting period but instead look at a range of periods, including the one, three, five and ten years shown in the Key Features on page 2.
Our policy review has had two other consequences for how we view performance, both of which differentiate us from many other investment trusts.
Firstly, since our investment policy is to protect and increase in that order the value of shareholders funds per share over the long term, we focus on capital performance rather than on total return and it is on capital performance that we judge ourselves.
Second, our definition of risk differs fundamentally from that commonly used by other global growth investment trusts and the industry at large, ours being risk of losing money rather than merely volatility of returns relative to an index.
While we use the All-Share as our comparator for monitoring performance and risk, its composition has no influence on the structure of our portfolio.
Our success in preventing serious capital loss is seen in the second chart on page 3, which shows how, since April 2000, our net asset value NAV has risen in nine financial years out of thirteen compared to the AllShares seven, and also how, when it did fall, it did so in each case by significantly less than the All-Share.
Between 30 April 2000 and 30 April 2013 admittedly an arbitrary period, but nevertheless a lengthy one our NAV rose by 76.1% compared to the All-Shares 12.9%, so our investment style succeeded not only in reducing risk but also in increasing long-term reward.
Again in line with making capital protection our priority, shareholders at the EGM overwhelmingly supported the Boards proposal to remove any specific commitment to maintain or grow the dividend.
We are, however, mindful of the importance to some shareholders of dividend payouts during this time of transition, and I am glad to be able to report that we expect, without compromising the way we invest, to be able to maintain the dividend for the year to 30 April 2014 at four quarterly payments of 1.40 each, totalling 5.60 for the year.
Thereafter, the Board will review the level of dividend from year to year in the light of the investment conditions prevailing at the time.
For those shareholders who wish to draw a cash income from their investment in Personal Assets through the quarterly sale of a portion of their holding we have simplified the Cash Income Option in our Investment Plan.
The minimum quarterly withdrawal has been reduced from 1,000 to 500 and, rather than specifying a percentage return, all that Planholders need do is specify the quarterly sum they want to withdraw.
This facility is also available to holders of Personal Assets ISAs.
During the year we issued 305,242 new shares, raising 107 million of new capital.
For those who find the ratio useful, this helped our ongoing charges formerly known as the Total Expense Ratio, or TER to fall to 0.89% of shareholders funds compared to 0.95% last year.
Also contributing to our cost efficiency has been our subsidiary, Personal Assets Trust Administration Company PATAC, which continues to see its business grow.
On the subject of costs, the Board, along with its advisers, has spent much time during the year considering the implications of the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive AIFMD and o. we touch on this unhelpful piece of legislation in Quarterly N 68.
Finally, Martin Hamilton-Sharp will be retiring from the Board at the end of the AGM after 23 years of service to the Company.
His energy, commitment and willingness to challenge accepted notions have made him an ideal independent non-executive Director.
He has been a valued friend and colleague to us all and we wish him a long and happy retirement.
Hamish Buchan 4 Personal Assets Trust PLC
