The Company has made arrangements for investors Statement of Compliance through the Alliance Savings Scheme to receive all The AIC Code comprises 21 principles.
The Board Company communications and have the ability to direct consider for the year under review the Directors, Board the casting of their votes.
The Company has also made and Company has complied with the recommendations arrangements with its registrar for shareholders, who of the AIC Code in so far as they apply to the Companys own their shares direct rather than through a nominee or business and with the relevant provisions of the UK share scheme, to view their account over the Internet at Code except as noted below: www.
Other services are also available via this service.
as all Directors are non-executive and day to day management has been contracted to third parties the The Board monitors the share register of the Company: it Company does not have a separate role for a Chief also reviews correspondence from shareholders at each Executive from that of Chairman of the Board: meeting and maintains regular contact with major shareholders.
Shareholders who wish to raise matters as there are no executive Directors it does not comply with a Director may do so by writing to them at the with the UK Code in respect of executive directors registered office of the Company.
remuneration: and Corporate Responsibility and voting the Company does not have an internal audit function Socially responsible investing and exercise as it relies on the systems of control operated by of voting powers third party suppliers in particular those of the The Board has instructed the Investment Manager to take Investment Manager.
The Board monitors into account the published corporate governance policy these systems of internal control to provide and the environmental practices and policies of the assurance that they operate as intended.
companies in which they invest on behalf of the Company.
The Company has delegated responsibility for voting to the Investment Manager.
By order of the Board In the year under review, the Manager has voted at N P Taylor FCIS 134 Company meetings in each case following the Polar Capital Secretarial Services Limited recommendations of the management of that company Company Secretary on the casting of votes.
15 July 2013 The Board has considered the Investment Managers Stewardship Code and Proxy Voting Policy and the Investment Manager reports to the Board, on the application of the Stewardship Code and Voting Policy.
The Investment Managers Stewardship Code and Voting Policy can be found on the Investment Mangers website in the corporate information section.
Environment The Companys core activities are undertaken by its Investment Manager which seeks to limit the use of non-renewable resources and reducing waste where possible.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 63
