Directors Report 3 Investment Manager Team Ben Rogoff Nick Evans Fatima Iu Director, Technology Senior Fund Manager Fund Manager The portfolio is managed by Ben Nick joined Polar Capital in Fatima joined Polar Capital in April Rogoff.
Ben has been a technology September 2007 and has fourteen 2006 after working as an analyst with specialist for fifteen years having years experience as a technology Citigroup Asset Management for begun his career in fund management specialist.
She focuses on European at CMI, as a global technology manager of the Polar Capital Global technology stocks and has analyst.
He moved to Aberdeen Fund Technology Fund since January 2008. responsibility for coverage of the Managers in 1998 where he spent Prior to joining Polar he was Head global medical technology subfour years as a senior technology of Technology at AXA Framlington.
Fatima graduated from manager prior to joining Polar Capital He also spent three years as a Pan Imperial College London in 2002 with in May 2003.
He is also joint manager European Investment Manager and a degree in Medicinal Chemistry.
of Polar Capital Global Technology Technology Analyst at Hill Samuel Fund.
Ben graduated from St Asset Management.
Nick graduated Catherines College, Oxford with a from Hull University with a degree degree in modern history in 1995. in economics.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 44 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 Colin Moar Xuesong Zhao Paul Johnson Fund Manager Fund Manager Junior Analyst Colin joined Polar Capital in January Xuesong joined Polar Capital in May Paul joined Polar Capital in March 2011, having spent 13 years covering 2012, having spent most of the 2012 as a Junior Analyst.
Prior to pan-European and then Global Equity previous four years working as an joining, Paul helped manage a private markets with the Technology sector investment analyst within the investment fund between 2010 and as his main focus.
He started his Emerging Market & Asia team in Aviva 2012.
Paul graduated from Keele career and spent more than a decade Investors, where he was responsible University in 2007 with a BA in at Morley Fund Management in 1997 for the Technology, Media and Telecom History and Politics, and then with initially covering UK European sectors.
Prior to that, he worked as a a Masters in History in 2008. equities before moving to their global quantitative analyst and risk manager equity team.
In January 2010 Colin at Pictet Asset Management.
He joined HSBC Asset Managements started his career as a Financial Global Equity team as a Senior Fund Engineer at Algorithmics, an IBM Manager.
Colin Graduated from the company, in 2005.
He holds an MSc in University of Edinburgh with a degree Finance from Imperial College Science in Business Studies.
& Technology and a BA Hons in Economics from Peking University and is a CFA charter holder.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 45
