Managers Report and Portfolio Analysis 2 Managers Report continued For now we have dipped our investment commenced.
As such we expect to 10% toe back into this exciting subsector via a remain fairly fully invested given the holding in Impax Environmental Markets improved backdrop, undemanding equity Estimated penetration acquired in late 2012 augmented by a valuations relative to cash and bonds and of LED lighting number of smaller positions with direct reflecting the fact that markets remained exposure to LED, solar and smart grid overbought for extended periods during end markets.
Turning to technology, our view that Conclusions the new cycle would become more With recent global equity markets at or disruptive has so far been exemplified just below all-time highs, we are hopeful by the weakest PC market on record that the so-called wall of worry will and downward revisions to IT budgets at prove a less formidable obstacle to least in part due to new cycle deflation.
returns over the coming year.
However, This belief drove our decision to begin given the fragility of the recovery moving more significantly away from investors are likely to have to contend our underlying benchmark to at least with more growth scares and associated so far mixed effect.
echoes of the prior crisis.
As previously, sentiment and therefore While it has been right to reduce our market resilience will depend heavily on Apple and overall smartphone the action of policymakers.
While exposure, PE expansion support will inevitably have to be tapered in the broader market has at some point, we are confident that this disproportionately benefited cheap, will not occur meaningfully until large-caps that have further helped economies can return to a selftheir cause by returning more of their sustaining growth trajectory unlikely excess cash to shareholders.
While it to prove a 2013 event, in our view.
may be at odds with the current market Although returns have been driven concentration on defensives and yield, primarily by PE expansion over the past Our view that the new we remain focused on identifying key year, equity valuations can continue to cycle would become beneficiaries of technologies and drift higher as new buyers enter the fray.
more disruptive themes that are taking hold.
We also While markets may experience set backs drove our decision to remain convinced that value investing over the year, as at present, we expect begin moving more within technology is a dangerous pursuit the setbacks are likely to prove more significantly away due to the sectors relative lack of modest than in the past given our view from our underlying corporate longevity.
This feels that a new secular bull market has benchmark Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 20 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 We are hopeful that the so-called wall of worry will prove a less formidable obstacle to returns over the coming year particularly true today given that cloud 2% penetration has reached a point often associated with rapid subsequent Estimated penetration adoption.
If so, the new cycle is likely to of solar energy begin to impact incumbents that have hitherto co-existed with next generation technologies and vendors.
Unfortunately for us at least recently this finesse has been overwhelmed by investors reallocating to equity markets looking for cash flow generative, dividend paying alternatives to their money market or bond funds.
This has resulted in some of the poorest positioned technology companies at least as we perceive them generating some of the strongest recent performances, a dynamic likely exacerbated by hedge The new cycle is fund repositioning.
While we cannot likely to begin to know when this odd and so far impact incumbents uncomfortable set of events will play that have hitherto out, we remain convinced that a less co-existed with benchmark sensitive approach is next generation required now that disruption technologies associated with the new technology and vendors cycle is becoming apparent.
Ben Rogoff Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 21 Unprecedented Volume ITS HAPPENING AGAIN.
Just as the ability to process low-grade ore from open pits has transformed mining so big data and the potential automation of knowledge may transform the economics of many industries over the coming years.
The mining industry has been engaged in a continuous Every two days we generate 5 quintillion byes of data battle to extract value from ever diminishing ore grades about the same amount it took from the dawn of civilisation through more efficient mineral processing and the use of until 2003 to create.
This explosion of data aptly labelled larger scale equipment.
A key breakthrough in this battle big data has been substantially driven by Internet and was the advent of heap leaching which made open-cut smartphone usage, augmented by machine-generated mining economically viable.
The worlds first open pit mine, data and the so-called Internet of Things IoT.
shown above, established at Bingham Canyon, Utah in 1906 demonstrated that by processing vast quantities of 21 rock it was possible to extract value from low-grade ore. 10  To date, the Kennecott mine as it is now known has yielded Bytes of data expected to be created in 2013 more than 18.1m tons of copper from 6bn tons of rock extracted and at 2 miles wide and more than of a mile deep, is one of only two man-made objects distinctly visible 46bn from space.
Today, open-pit mining dominates the industry, Estimated number of webpages in Googles index accounting for C. two-thirds of current gold production and Photo: Bingham Canyon, open pit copper mine, Utah, USA together with placer operations C. 85% of total tonneage.
P Po ol la ar C r Ca ap pi it ta al T l Te ec ch hn no ol lo og gy T y Tr ru us st p t pl lc c 22 22 A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt & F t & Fiin na an nc ciia al S l St ta at te em me en nt ts f s fo or t r th he y e ye ea ar e r en nd fide ed 3 d 30 A 0 Ap pr riil 2 l 20 01 13 3
