Directors Report 3 Directors Michael Moule Brian Ashford-Russell Sarah Bates # Peter Dicks # Independent nonNon-executive Independent nonIndependent nonexecutive Chairman.
director, appointed to executive director, executive director, Appointed the Board in 1996. appointed to the Board appointed to the Board to the Board in 2007 in 2011. in 1996 and elected Skills and experience and was elected Senior Independent Brian Ashford-Russell is Skills and experience Chairman in August Director in 2004.
He a director and founder of Sarah Bates is the 2011.
He is also is Chairman of the Polar Capital Partners.
immediate past Chairman chairman of the Remuneration He was previously head of the Association of Management Committee.
of the technology team Investment Companies and Engagement at Henderson Global has been involved in the UK Skills and experience and Nomination Investors.
He managed savings and investment Peter Dicks has been Committees.
the Company from launch industry in different roles involved with the venture until 30 April 2006. for over 30 Years.
capital industry since Skills and experience 1974 when he co-founded Other Appointments Michael Moule was a Other Appointments Abingworth plc.
Since 1992 He is a non-executive director of investment Sarah Bates holds non He has served chairman director of Polar Capital trusts at Henderson Global executive directorships or non-executive director Holdings plc.
Investors, where he had at St. Jamess Place Plc, on a number of investment been the investment Development Securities As Brian Ashford-Russell vehicles as well as manager for The Bankers Plc, New India Investment is connected to the commercial enterprises Investment Trust plc Trust Plc, Witan Pacific investment manager, such as Sportingbet plc and and Law Debenture Investment Trust Plc, he stands for annual Standard Microsystems Inc.
Corporation plc until JP Morgan American re-election.
Investment Trust Plc and Other Appointments Worldwide Health Trust plc.
He is the Chairman of Other Appointments She is also Chairman of the Private Equity Investor plc He is a director of The Stena UK pension fund and and a director of several European Investment Trust Chairman of the Cancer other companies including plc and Montanaro UK Research UK pension funds Graphite Enterprise Trust plc.
Smaller Companies investment committee as Investment Trust plc.
well as being a member of Peter Dicks retires at the He is a member of the a number of other haritable conclusion of the AGM on investment committee of and pension fund 2 September 2013. the British Heart Foundation investment committees.
and a member of the investment committee of The Open University.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 42 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 David Gamble Peter Hames Rupert Montagu # Independent nonIndependent nonIndependent nonexecutive director, executive director, executive director, appointed to the appointed to the appointed to the Board in 2002 and to Board in 2011.
Board in 2007. the chair of the Audit Skills and experience Skills and experience Committee in 2011.
Peter Hames spent 18 Rupert Montagu years of his investment co-founded Montagu Skills and experience career in Singapore, Newhall Associates now David Gamble was chief where in 1992 he coGreenspring Associates executive of British Airways founded Aberdeen Asset in 2000, a specialist Pension Investment Managements Asian investor in technology and Management Ltd. until operation and as director healthcare venture capital his retirement in 2004. of Asian equities he industries where he was a Other Appointments oversaw regional fund partner until 2010.
He is Chairman of management teams Other Appointments Montanaro UK Smaller responsible for running a None Companies Investment number of top-rated and Trust plc.
David Gamble is award winning funds.
Becomes Senior a director of IBM Pension Independent Director Other Appointments Trustees Limited, Vencap and Chairman of He is a director of MMIP International plc and Remuneration Committee Investment Management Chairman of Dunedin on 2 September 2013.
Limited, BACIT Limited Enterprise Investment and independent member Trust plc.
He is also an of the Operating advisor to the Investment Committee of Genesis Committee of the BBC Asset Managers LLP.
Member of Audit Committee Member of Management Engagement Committee Member of Nomination Committee # Member of Remuneration Committee The Board considers that the majority of the Directors including Peter Dicks and David Gamble, who have both served more than nine years, are independent in character and there were no relationships or circumstances which were likely to affect or could appear to affect their judgement.
In the case of Brian Ashford-Russell the Board has concluded that he should not be considered as independent due to his relationship with the investment manager.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 43
