Weaker than anticipated capital spending negatively impacted a number of our favoured infrastructure stocks perform strongly while semiconductor equipment stocks as hopes for improved 5.1% capital equipment companies benefited service provider capex proved overly from increased capital spending plans optimistic, equipment spending Growth in NAV at Intel as it attempted to outmuscle contracting during 2012 as carriers over the year ARM and its foundry partners such as postponed purchases.
Consolidation and supply-side In terms of positives, the Trust was discipline resulted in better than aided by its overweight exposure to expected pricing and strong stock price off-benchmark Internet companies performances from hard-drive HDD such as Amazon 14%, eBay 33% and memory vendors such as Seagate, and LinkedIn 85% that benefited Hynix, Micron and SanDisk.
Weakest from growth in e-commerce and online performance was reserved for telecom advertising, in part due to smartphonevendors as service provider spending related usage.
Relative performance remained lacklustre while enterprisewas also generated by an underweight orientated hardware and software position in Apple, which was reduced companies fared poorly due to further following the iPhone 5 cautious capital spending trends.
launch and subsequent earnings disappointments.
The Trust continued Our Performance to benefit from its underweight PC Weaker than anticipated capital spending exposure as tablet substitution and a negatively impacted a number of our poor reception to Windows 8 weighed favoured infrastructure stocks which The Trust was aided on companies such as Hewlett-Packard left the Trust modestly trailing its by its overweight and Intel.
Relative performance was benchmark during the year, our own net exposure to offalso generated by M&A activity with five asset value rising 5%.
Companies such benchmark Internet of our holdings Acme Packet, Kenexa, as Citrix -24%, F5 Networks -40% and companies such as OPNET, Pervasive Software and Springsoft VMware -34% that had previously been Amazon, eBay and being acquired during the year at strong contributors to performance were LinkedIn that premiums that ranged from 2456%.
all caught up in the capital spending benefitted from hiatus resulting in sharp share price growth in e-commerce Economic Outlook corrections as investors questioned and online advertising Despite recent economic deceleration whether they remained secular growth related to US fiscal consolidation and companies.
Relative performance was associated uncertainty, we remain also hindered by a pronounced rotation Relative performance hopeful that the global economy in favour of value during the second was also generated by forecast to grow 3.3% will continue to half of the fiscal year assisting M&A activity with five muddle through in 2013 once again led incumbents such as Microsoft 11%, of our holdings being by emerging economies with modest Symantec 53% and Yahoo 66%.
acquired during the contribution from advanced markets The Trust was also negatively impacted year at premiums that given ongoing Eurozone weakness.
by its exposure to communication ranged from 2456% Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 11 Managers Report and Portfolio Analysis 2 Managers Report continued Critical to our long-held sanguine view In contrast to last year, risks to this 1.6% is the fact that inflation continues to constructive economic outlook have look well contained, at least in developed diminished due to decisive action taken Japans expected economies, due to slack labour markets by policymakers to defuse the two most growth rate in 2013 and well-anchored inflation expectations significant threats to the global economy which with policymakers focused on a Eurozone break-up and a severe downside risk should ensure monetary fiscal contraction associated with the US policy in developed economies remains fiscal cliff.
However another systemic remarkably accommodative.
challenge could emerge during the coming year, a possibility that increases While the US economy is expected to commensurate with the duration of the decelerate modestly in 2013, current current economic soft patch.
Europe is GDP forecasts of 1.9% capture the impact likely to remain a focus given that its of fiscal withdrawal, estimated at 1.25% structural issues remain largely of GDP, obscuring likely underlying Inflation continues to unresolved while prolonged stagnation improvement in both labour and housing look well contained may lead to more social unrest and markets.
Ongoing fiscal adjustment will which should ensure electoral setbacks that could force likely see the Eurozone economy contract monetary policy in governments to reverse course on by a further 0.3% in 2013 although this developed economies austerity.
While the January fiscal cliff modest recession belies deeper remains remarkably deal was a significant step in the right contractions in Italy and Spain offset by accommodative direction, the US fiscal consolidation growth in Germany.
Fortunately, Asia process is far from complete with looks likely to accelerate over the coming negotiations over spending cuts and year with China and India expected to the debt ceiling set to take place over grow at 8.0% and 5.7% respectively.
Risks to this our Although recent Chinese data has been constructive economic more mixed, the absence of inflation Although these battles are likely to be outlook have diminished should afford the new government hard fought, we are hopeful that there due to decisive action sufficient monetary and fiscal firepower will be a little less drama during the taken by policymakers to stimulate growth if required.
Japan next round of political negotiations.
the worlds third largest economy is Another systemic challenge could come also likely to provide a positive impetus in from currency wars should countries 2013 due to Yen weakness and improving look to target exchange rates for external demand.
While growth is competitive purposes, a risk brought into Although talk of currently pegged at 1.6%, estimates focus by recent Yen weakness.
Although a currency war remain highly dependent on where the talk of a currency war appears appears premature, Yen settles given that about half of premature, the risk of one developing the risk of one Japans GDP growth comes increases with every year of sub-trend developing increases from export industries.
Additional risks include inflation with every year of sub-trend growth Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 12 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013
