Directors Report 3 Directors Report including the Business Review and the Report on Corporate Governance continued The changes in the share price, net asset value and weighting is in North America, 9% in Europe and 20% benchmark over the financial year are shown on page 34. in Asia Pacific.
By market capitalisation 78% is represented by large companies, 20% by mid-caps A review and commentary on the investment activities this and 2% by smaller companies.
year and the Investment Managers comments and the outlook for technology shares are given in the Chairmans Although the Company has a benchmark, this is neither a Statement on pages 6 and 7 and the Investment Managers target nor an ideal investment strategy.
The purpose of the Report on pages 8 to 21. benchmark is to set a reasonable return for shareholders above which the Investment Manager is entitled to a share Assets of the extra performance it has delivered.
At 30 April 2013 the total net assets of the Group Business Risks amounted to 528,845,000 compared with 503,292,000 at 30 April 2012.
The Net Asset Value per share rose by In delivering long-term returns to shareholders the 5.1% from 392.56p to 412.41p.
identification and monitoring of risk is crucial.
In addition to the detailed internal controls set out in the Corporate Revenue and Dividends Governance Report the Board seeks to identify, assess and monitor risks to the business.
The gross revenue return for the year was 5,617,000 2012: 3,568,000 and the net revenue loss after taxation These relate primarily to economic uncertainties and amounted to 1,687,000 2012: Loss 3,367,000.
The total its particular sphere of activity of investing in worldwide return for the year amounted to a profit after tax of stock markets.
The appropriateness of the investment mandate and The Companys revenue varies from year to year and the strategy is considered as this may lead to a depressed Board considers the dividend position in each year in share price as investors seek alternative investments order to maintain the Companys status as an investment or lower risk strategies.
However, due to the level of accumulated revenue losses the Company does not expect to pay a As the Companys assets comprise mainly of listed dividend for the foreseeable future and Directors do not equities the principal risks to the performance of the recommend the payment of a dividend.
The ongoing charges ratio shown on page 5 has been While the portfolio is diversified across a number of calculated in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC stock markets worldwide, the investment mandate is and constitutes the management fee in note 8 and the focused on technology and thus the portfolio will be other administrative expenses as a percentage of average more sensitive to investor sentiment and the daily net assets over the year.
commercial acceptance of technological developments than a general investment portfolio.
Benchmark Technology stocks also have greater relative price The Company has a benchmark of the Dow Jones World volatility and are subject to the risks of developing Technology Index total return, Sterling adjusted against technologies, competitive pressures and other which NAV performance is measured for the purpose of factors including the acceptance of new technologies assessing performance fees.
The Board, as explained in the Chairmans Statement on Many companies in the technology sector are page 6, has decided that with effect from 1 May 2013 the smaller companies and are therefore subject benchmark index should be adjusted to use the same to the risks attendant on investing in smaller technology index but adjusted for withholding taxes to more capitalisation businesses.
accurately reflect the income from the companies within that index which would be available to a UK investor.
There is significant exposure to the economic cycles of Europe, Asia and the US as these are the major As at 30 April 2013 the Dow Jones World Technology Index investment markets for technology stocks and there was calculated as a market capitalisation based index of is exposure to currency risk of those markets.
71% of the index Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 50 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013
