A very small element of the investment portfolio is The Board receives regular monthly reports containing invested into unlisted securities.
These investments financial information on the Company including gearing are made where they offer specialist management or and cash balances.
investment opportunities which would otherwise not At each Board meeting there is an administration report be available.
At the year-end this amounted to less which provides details on corporate matters including than 0.1% of NAV.
substantial changes in individual shareholders and the The Board has regard to the degree of risk which the share register, and share price performance.
Investment Manager incurs in order to generate the Information and guidance on the second group of risks investment returns and the effect of gearing on the is managed by the use of the Investment Manager portfolio by borrowed funds which can magnify the or professional advisers where necessary and the portfolio returns per share positively or negatively.
submission of reports to the Board for discussion and, There is a second group of business risks in the form of if required, any remedial action or changes considered financial, operational including accounting and taxation, necessary.
Considerable time and resource has been and legal and regulatory requirements.
directed at preparing to meet the new legislative requirements which will impact the Company over The financial risks which arise from the investment the next two years.
activities expose the Company to risks such as market price, credit, liquidity, foreign currency and interest rates.
The policies for managing the risks posed by exposure to market prices, interest rates, foreign currency The operational and accounting risks cover disruption exchange rates, credit and liquidity are set out in to, or failure of, systems and processes provided by the note 29 to the financial statements.
Investment Manager including any sub contractors to which the Investment Manager has delegated the task.
Management Company and Including the keeping of safe custody records and Management of the Portfolio systems provided by the custodian or sub custodians.
As the Company is an investment vehicle for shareholders Suppliers may deliver sub standard services which the Directors have sought to ensure that the business of impact on the Company or its customers.
The taxation the Company is managed by a leading specialist risk that the Company may fail to continue as an investment management team and that the investment investment trust or recover withholding taxes on strategy remains attractive to shareholders.
The Directors believe that a strong working relationship Legal and regulatory risks include: compliance with the with the investment management team will achieve the FCAs Listing Rules and Transparency and Disclosure optimum return for shareholders and to this end value Rules: meeting the provisions of the Companies Act the inclusion on the Board of Brian Ashford-Russell.
2006 and other legislation affecting UK companies and compliance with accounting standards.
Investment team The Investment Manager is Polar Capital LLP Polar Management of risks Capital, which is authorised and regulated by the The Board sets aside a day a year to conduct an annual Financial Conduct Authority.
review of the investment strategy and markets which is used as framework to assess portfolio construction Under the terms of the investment management and performance across the remained of the year.
agreement Polar Capital provides investment management, accounting, company secretarial and Other business risks are managed through regular administrative services.
reporting to the Board on the diversification of the portfolio, market and sector views, the investment Polar Capital provides a team of technology specialists led decisions including analytical performance data and by Ben Rogoff.
Each member focuses on specific areas attribution presented by the Investment Manager.
Any while Ben has overall responsibility for the portfolio and investment in unquoted companies or funds is approved looks after the US investments.
Polar Capital also has by the Directors before the investment is made.
other specialist and geographically focused investment teams which contribute to idea generation.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 51
