Managers Report and Portfolio Analysis 2 Managers Report continued Given that bond funds captured 75% or as BoE Governor Mark Carney 10% and 85% of net fund inflows in the US described it, until economies have and UK in 2012 we are hopeful that achieved escape velocity.
While there Capital spending equity allocations will continue to may be headline risk associated with as a percentage improve this year, particularly now loss of support, investors should be of GDP that the Federal Reserve appears able to stomach the eventual loss of to have begun the long process of the so-called Fed put in exchange for disentanglement by articulating what a real recovery.
A further risk relates they are targeting employment while to corporate tax reform with the legal even a modest uptick in inflation is likely exploitation of tax loopholes appearing to eliminate real returns given low increasingly anachronistic given nominal yields, a point unlikely to be widespread belt tightening.
While we lost on asset allocators.
believe that wholesale and therefore effective tax reform will prove While we are confident that a new We are confident that impossible, the issue has become highly secular bull market has commenced, a new secular bull politicised with PM David Cameron in there are a number of potential market has commenced a thinly veiled reference to Starbucks headwinds that could challenge this warning those that pay no tax in Britain prognosis.
Having enjoyed a strong run to wake up and smell the coffee.
from their late 2012 lows, equity markets appear a little extended versus their Technology Outlook Extremely longer-term moving averages making Given that a number of the systemic accommodative them more susceptible to profit taking, challenges that acted as spending policy is likely to particularly given strong seasonal headwinds last year have diminished, prevail until growth tendencies sell in May....
Although we expect to see some recovery in is deemed to have investor sentiment remains well below capital spending which, at 10% of GDP, become self-sustaining levels associated with complacency, is at the lower end of the 914% range other contrarian indicators such as IPO that has prevailed since 1947.
With activity and mutual fund cash levels point C. 60% of industry revenues coming to modestly elevated risk of a pullback.
from business spending, the technology While forecast IT A more significant risk relates to loss sector should be a prime beneficiary budget growth of 3% of policymaker support given that of any rebound in capex.
However, represents welcome our bullish prognosis since 2009 has while forecast IT budget growth of acceleration, absolute depended heavily on the unusual 3% represents welcome acceleration, levels of spending are alignment of interests between absolute levels of spending are likely likely to remain policymakers and investors equally keen to remain depressed due to lingering depressed due to to hold deflationary forces at bay.
Our uncertainty a function of the fragility lingering uncertainty sense is that extremely accommodative of the recovery and the deflationary and the deflationary policy is likely to prevail until growth is impact of a new technology cycle.
With impact of a new deemed to have become self-sustaining, low-single digit IT spending growth technology cycle Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 14 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 The past year has left the new cycle looking increasingly pernicious as technology alternatives begin to substitute, rather than complement, existing solutions entirely at odds with computing coming year inline with our expectations 12.9x needs that continue to grow inexorably for the broader market, the sectors we are likely to see further reallocation increased economic sensitivity and Forecast forward of IT budgets in favour of cheaper slowing growth trajectory make it P E of the US technologies and vendors at the difficult to argue for a significant relative technology sector expense of incumbents.
That said, a number of incumbents have at least begun Rapid adoption of key technologies such to acknowledge their slower growth as smartphones and tablets over the past profiles, evident from increased year has left the new cycle looking buybacks that reduced technology increasingly pernicious as technology shares outstanding by 4% in 2012 and alternatives begin to substitute, rather dividends such that our benchmark today than complement, existing solutions.
We sports a C. 1.8% gross dividend yield.
This expect this headwind to strengthen over positive trend looks set to continue given the coming year as the basis of computing sector margins, bloated balance sheets shifts further from the enterprise in favour ISI estimate the top tech companies of the Cloud.
This is likely to result in more had $512bn of cash in 3Q12 and with uneven value creation and elevated and more than $1tr of technology shares expensive M&A activity as incumbents available for purchase under announced attempt to ameliorate the deflationary buyback plans.
A number of incumbents While we have been pleasantly have at least begun to Although the technology sector surprised by this trend of incumbents acknowledge their participated in the overall re-rating of returning capital to shareholders, it slower growth profiles, equities, it continues to look inexpensive has done little to alter our view that a evident from increased with US technology stocks currently number of them are likely to look buybacks and dividends trading on 12.9x forecast next twelve anachronistic as enterprises more fully month earnings.
This not only continues adopt public cloud computing.
To date, to look favourable versus history the new cycle deflation has largely been median forward PE post 1976 has averaged limited to hardware commoditisation C. 15.3x but once the sectors superlative but as units of computing workloads To date, new cycle balance sheet is considered, cash-adjusted continue to move beyond the enterprise deflation has largely PEs look more attractive still.
Although this is likely to impact the broader been limited to hardware aggregate valuations continue to be enterprise IT market.
For instance, commoditisation but flattered by a number of inexpensive Hadoop may already be impacting as units of computing large-caps, this appears to be well demand for existing data tools such continue to move beyond understood by investors given that the as ETL while Amazons cloud data the enterprise this is sector is currently trading at a rare warehouse offering RedShift is likely to impact the discount to the market.
While absolute said to cost 1 10th of an equivalent broader enterprise valuations may drift higher over the enterprise system.
IT market Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 15
