Although markets have got off to a strong start in 2013, we are optimistic that equities can add to their gains over the remainder of the fiscal year that could jeopardise record low cash flow, resulting in share counts in $51bn interest rates and limit policy options the S&P 500 reaching their lowest level particularly in developing economies since 2008.
Excess corporate cash is Net flows into US and renewed focus on high fiscal also likely to continue to fuel additional equity mutual deficits and debt in both the US and M&A activity with more than $285bn of funds in January Japan.
As in previous years, political deals announced during the first six risk remains the most potent exogenous weeks of 2013 alone.
The return of factor particularly in the Middle East private equity and mega-LBOs such as where prospects of an oil shock the $24bn management buyout of Dell remain heightened.
and the $23bn acquisition of Heinz should further support equity valuations.
Market Outlook As we move further from the 2008 9 Although markets have got off to a crisis and echoes become more strong start in 2013, we are optimistic muted, lower volatility may see equity that equities can add to their gains over valuations drift higher by allowing for the remainder of the fiscal year.
The more rational comparison of risk and recovery in investor sentiment and risk risk-free assets.
This process appears appetite that has driven the revaluation to be already underway with investors of risk assets has seen equity valuations pouring a record $51bn into equity expand materially over the past twelve mutual funds in January which may months, the forward PE on the S&P prove a key turning point given that increasing from 12x to C. 14.6x today.
While absolute investors are said to be holding C. $10tr While absolute valuations are therefore valuations are of cash at a time when household less compelling today than they were a less compelling today ownership of equities has fallen year ago, they reflect an outlook that than they were a dramatically from 2000 levels.
With has become significantly less uncertain.
year ago, they reflect spreads having essentially normalised, In the US, stocks appear well supported an outlook that has bond markets look increasingly by a 1.9% dividend yield that has become significantly susceptible to further economic and or historically grown at a C. 5% CAGR less uncertain sentiment improvement.
As such talk 19942012 helping them look more of a so-called great rotation from attractive than risk free alternatives bonds into equities recently derided where negative real returns appear all as evidence of complacency may be but guaranteed.
Having generated more We are hopeful that better understood as a rallying cry than $570bn in free cash flow during the equity allocations will similar to the speech given by Imperial past year US non-financial companies continue to improve Tobacco fund manager George Ross are today sitting on more than $1.7tr in this year, particularly Goobey in 1956 that reminded investors cash.
This is likely to be deployed on now that the Federal that it is possible to lose capital in further buybacks, which totaled $375bn Reserve appears to have gilts and that equities should yield over the trailing twelve months to 3Q12 begun the long process less than bonds.
representing 65% of aggregate free of disentanglement Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 13
