About Your Company 1 business models.
This includes areas as diverse as Objective information, media, communications, environmental, The investment objective is to maximise long-term healthcare and renewable energy, as well as the capital growth through investing in a diversified more obvious applications such as computing and portfolio of technology companies around the world.
The investment policy is set out in full in the Investment Approach Directors Report.
Stocks are selected for their potential shareholder returns, not on the basis of technology for its own sake.
Rationale The Investment Manager believes in rigorous Over the last three decades the technology industry fundamental analysis and focuses on: has been one of the most vibrant, dynamic and rapidly growing segments of the global economy.
Technology management quality companies offer the potential for substantially faster earnings growth than the broad market, reflecting the the identification of new growth markets long-term secular uptrend in technology spending.
the globalisation of major technology trends Technology may be defined as the application of exploiting international valuation anomalies scientific knowledge for practical purposes and and sector volatility.
technology companies are defined accordingly.
Benchmark While this offers a very broad and dynamic investing universe and covers many different companies, the The Company has a benchmark of the Dow Jones portfolio will be focused on technology companies World Technology Index total return, Sterling which use technology or which develop and supply adjusted against which NAV performance is measured technological solutions as a core part of their for the purpose of assessing performance fees.
Please see Chairmans Statement for more information about the Benchmark from April 2013 Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 02 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 The mid-market price of the ordinary shares is Management published daily in the Financial Times in the The Group is led by an experienced Board of directors Companies and Markets section under the with extensive knowledge of investment matters and heading Investment Companies.
the regulatory framework in which such activity is undertaken.
The Directors are all non-executive and Share price information is also available have appointed various third party suppliers to provide from The London Stock Exchange Website a range of services including investment management, www.
co. uk PCT, Bloomberg custody and administrative services to the Group.
LN, Datastream PCT, Lipper 71000395 and Reuters PCT.
L. The role of the Board is to provide oversight of the Groups activities and to ensure the appropriate The SEDOL code for the ordinary shares is 0422002 financial resources and controls are in place to deliver and the ISIN is GB004220025.
Details of the Directors are given on page 42.
The SEDOL code for the subscription shares is B615W32 and the ISIN is GB00B615W327.
Polar Capital LLP has been the appointed Investment Manager throughout the year.
Mr Ben Rogoff, the Portfolio Details appointed fund manager, has been responsible Portfolio information is provided to the AIC for the Companys portfolio since 1 May 2006 and is for its monthly statistical information service supported by a team of technology specialists.
co. uk and monthly fact sheets, as of the investment team are given on page 44. well as previous copies of annual report and financial statements, are available on the Companys As at 30 June 2013 Polar Capital LLP managed $9.2bn website www.
across a range of funds and strategies including three investment trusts.
Polar Capital LLP is authorised A full portfolio listing is given in the annual, half year and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Fees Gearing The Company pays both a basic management fee The Company uses gearing in the form of bank loans of 1% of total assets as well as a performance fee if which are used on a tactical basis by the Investment performance is above a predetermined level.
Further Manager, when considered appropriate.
The overall details are given in the Directors Report.
level of net gearing is controlled by the Board and all bank facilities are subject to Board approval.
Any Net Share Price and Net Asset Value borrowings over 15% of the Companys net assets at The Companys Net Asset Value NAV, diluted the time of draw down will only be made after approval when applicable, is released daily, on the next working of the Board.
day, following the calculation date, to the London Stock Exchange.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 03
