Directors Report 3 Directors Report including the Business Review and the Report on Corporate Governance continued Termination arrangements High water mark the performance fee will only be The investment management agreement may be payable if, and to the extent that, the Adjusted NAV terminated by either party by giving 12 months notice, per share exceeds the highest of: but under certain circumstances the Company may be the NAV per share on the last day of the previous required to pay up to one years management charges performance period: if immediate notice is given and compensation will be on a sliding scale if less than 12 months notice is given.
the Adjusted NAV per share on the last day of a performance period in respect of which a Continued appointment performance fee was last paid: The Board, through the Management Engagement Committee, has reviewed the performance of the Any performance fee accrual will be included in the Investment Manager in managing the portfolio over the Net Asset Value calculated in accordance with the longer-term.
The review also considered the quality of AIC guidelines.
the other services provided by the Investment Manager, including the strength of the investment team, the depth The performance fee which can be paid by the of the other services provided by the Investment Manager Company in any one performance period is capped and their resources available to provide such services, at 2% of net assets.
which includes the organisation on the Companys In the event of a termination of the investment behalf of third party suppliers, and the quality of the management agreement, the date the agreement is shareholder communications.
terminated will be deemed to be the end of the relevant The Board, on the recommendation of the Management performance period and any performance fee payable Engagement Committee, has concluded that on the basis shall be calculated as at that date.
of longer-term performance it is in the best interests of Management fees of 5,234,000 2012: 4,885,000 shareholders as a whole that the appointment of Polar have been paid for the year to 30 April 2013.
Capital LLP as Investment Manager is continued on the existing terms.
No performance fee has been earned for the year to 30 April 2013.
A high water mark of 368.74 p per ordinary Fee arrangements share was established as at 30 April 2011 which will be Management fee used for the payment of any future performance fee.
The management fee is 1% based on Net Asset Value plus borrowings, on a per share basis, payable quarterly in Capital Structure arrears.
Any investments in funds managed by Polar Capital are wholly excluded from the base management Issued fee calculation.
The Companys share capital is divided into ordinary shares of 25p each and subscription shares of 1p each.
Performance fee At the year-end there were 128,231,742 ordinary shares Performance periods will coincide with the Companys in issue representing 83.8% of the total issued shares accounting periods.
2012: 128,208,023 and 24,774,460 subscription Annual performance fee equal to 15% of the amount by shares representing 16.2% of the total issued which the increase in the adjusted Net Asset Value per shares 2012: 24,798,179. share exceeds the total return on the Dow Jones World Technology Index total return, Sterling adjusted As at the date of this report there are 128,233,796 ordinary multiplied by the time weighted average of the number shares in issue and 24,772,406 subscription shares of shares in issue during that period, subject to a high in issue.
Subscription shares The Net Asset Value per share Adjusted NAV per Each subscription share carries the right to subscribe share is adjusted for the purposes of the performance for one ordinary share at 478p per ordinary share from fee calculation by adding back any accruals for unpaid 1 April 2012 to the last business day of March 2014. performance fees, any dividends paid or payable by After the last business day of March 2014 the right to reference to the performance period and the removal convert the subscription shares will lapse.
If 75% or more of any benefit of share issuance or buy backs.
of the original issue of subscription shares have been Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 52 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 converted or cancelled then the Company may give notice by the relevant share certificate and such other evidence to all outstanding subscription shareholders that a final of the right to transfer as the Board may reasonably subscription date will take place earlier than March 2014. require: ii is in respect of only one class of share: and iii if joint transferees, are in favour of not more than Further information on the subscription shares can be four such transferees.
The Board may decline to register a transfer of any of the Changes during the year Companys certificated shares by a person with a 0.25% In the year ended 30 April 2013 the Company has issued interest as defined in the Articles if such a person has 23,719 ordinary shares at 478p per ordinary share on been served with a restriction notice as defined in the conversion on subscription share rights and since Articles after failure to provide the Company with 30 April 2013 and up to the date of this report a further information concerning interests in those shares required 2,054 ordinary shares at 478p per ordinary share have to be provided under the Companies Act 2006, unless the been issued as the result of the 2,054 subscription shares transfer is shown to the Board to be pursuant to an arms have been converted.
length sale as defined in the Articles.
No ordinary shares or subscription shares were The Company is not aware of arrangements to restrict purchased for cancellation or to be held in treasury during the votes or transferability of its shares.
Powers to issues ordinary shares and Voting rights make market purchases of ordinary and Ordinary shares carry voting rights which are exercised subscription purchases on a show of hands at a meeting, or on a poll, where each The Board was granted by shareholders at the AGM in share has one vote.
2012 the power to allot equity securities up to a nominal value of 3,205,200 and to issue those shares for cash Subscription shares do not carry any rights to attend or without offering those shares to shareholders in vote at meetings of shareholders of the Company but accordance with their statutory pre-emption rights.
the rights attached to the subscription shares may only be altered or abrogated with the sanction of the New ordinary shares will not be allotted and issued at subscription shareholders.
below the Net Asset Value.
These powers will expire at the AGM in 2013.
These powers have not been used.
Details for the lodging of proxy votes are given when a Renewal of the authorities will be sought at the AGM notice of meeting is given.
Transferability The Board obtained shareholder authority at the AGM Any shares in the Company may be held in uncertificated in 2012 to make market purchases of up to 19,218,390 form and, subject to the Articles, title to uncertificated ordinary shares and 3,717,260 subscription shares of the shares may be transferred by means of a relevant system.
Company for cancellation in accordance with the terms and conditions set out in the two shareholder resolutions.
Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or Both of these authorities expire at the AGM in 2013 and any of his certificated shares by an instrument of transfer renewal of the authorities will be sought at the AGM in any usual form or in any other form which the Board in 2013. may approve.
The instrument of transfer must be executed by or on behalf of the transferor and in the case During the financial year to 30 April 2013 no ordinary of a partly-paid share the transferee.
shares were purchased and no subscription shares were purchased for cancellation.
The Board may, in its absolute discretion and without giving any reason, decline to register any transfer of any The level of the ordinary share price discount or premium share which is not a fully paid share.
The Board may also to the Net Asset Value together with policies for the decline to register a transfer of a certificated share repurchase or issuance of new ordinary shares are unless the instrument of transfer: i is duly stamped or kept under review by the Board.
certified or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the Board to be exempt from stamp duty and is accompanied Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 53
