Managers Report and Portfolio Analysis 2 Managers Report continued With adoption of  companies have virtualised their 70% likely to accelerate now that market workloads 60% penetrated today and penetration has reached C. 12%, legacy have become more comfortable with Percentage of software vendors are also likely to feel the risks associated with public clouds.
enterprises expected the impact of the new cycle more fully.
This process began a few years ago as to pursue a hybrid As such we expect to take advantage of enterprises built out so-called private cloud strategy by 2015 the recent revaluation of legacy assets by clouds that aped the purer form of cloud continuing to reposition the portfolio in computing already deployed by Internet favour of next-generation companies companies such as Google.
Not only with much to gain and little to lose from did this drive the fortunes of direct the new cycle.
While this may be at odds beneficiaries such as VMware but it with the present investor appetite for also helped a myriad of infrastructure yield and value, we remain deeply vendors as enterprises refreshed suspicious of the efficacy of this their datacentres.
We expect to take approach within the technology sector However, enterprise focus appears to advantage of the recent given the empirical lack of corporate have shifted to so-called hybrid clouds, revaluation of legacy longevity.
In terms of key sector risks, Gartner predicting that 70% of assets by continuing to IT budgets remain highly sensitive to enterprises will pursue a hybrid cloud reposition the portfolio the state of the global economy and strategy by 2015.
In this approach in favour of nextassociated business confidence.
internal IT generates the baseload, generation companies Effective tax reform represents an which they augment with the public additional threat to technology earnings cloud own the base, rent the spike.
given that the sector has benefitted The new technology cycle The hybrid approach will require disproportionately from global tax continues to be driven by computing to become increasingly arbitrage, evidenced by low effective tax three core themes: cloud automated and software driven which rates and large overseas cash balances.
computing, Internet should benefit next-generation IT applications and mobility, operations vendors like ServiceNow, as New Cycle Update with big data likely to well as companies like Infoblox who help join this list in the future The new technology cycle continues to be automate DNS, DHCP and IP address driven by three core themes: cloud management.
It also helps explain the computing, Internet applications and Traditional enterprise excitement over software-defined mobility, with big data likely to join this vendors are likely to networks epitomised by VMwares list in the future.
This view was once again fare less well because $1.3bn acquisition of Nicira.
However, well supported by a recent Gartner CIO marginal capacity is traditional enterprise vendors are likely survey that revealed the top three IT likely to gravitate to fare less well because marginal priorities were business analytics, cloud towards cheap, mass capacity is likely to gravitate towards computing and mobile technologies, produced computing cheap, mass produced computing unchanged from last year.
With cloud delivered by the likes delivered by the likes of Amazons penetration estimated at 10%, adoption of Amazons Elastic Elastic Compute Cloud that not only appears to be ready to inflect now that Compute Cloud Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 16 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 The explosion in new ways to access the Internet should remain a key positive for e-commerce companies such as Amazon, eBay and Priceline.
com exemplifies the on-demand computing Increased smartphone usage is also 42% utility model but is also setting the continuing to fuel remarkable growth in pace for the rest of the IT world by new applications made possible by the Global smartphone dramatically lowering the marginal Cloud that are reinventing markets as penetration cost of computing.
diverse as messaging WhatsApp, in Q412 Snapchat, music Spotify, SoundCloud, Internet applications are also likely recruitment LinkedIn, storage Dropbox to enjoy strong growth over the coming and video YouTube, Netflix.
The need to year as penetration rates remain support mobile devices bought by unproblematic in key categories such employees bring your own device as online advertising, e-commerce, and appears to be accelerating broader  SaaS.
The application migration to the Cloud as a way explosion in new ways to access the to secure networks that no longer have a Internet has driven user engagement, formal perimeter.
This should continue to which should remain a key positive for benefit SaaS vendors at the expense of e-commerce companies such as incumbents threatened by share loss and Amazon, eBay and Priceline.
or the shift to a rental model, which is Although online advertising companies likely to fuel additional M&A activity.
such as Facebook and Google benefit from greater smartphone and tablet Although we expect mobility to remain usage helping Facebook increase its a key industry driver over the coming monthly active users by 25% y y in year, we have materially reduced our Q412 the shift from desktop to mobile smartphone exposure as penetration The need to support is less unequivocally positive given has reached a stage where unit growth mobile devices bought lower monetisation today, Kleiner is likely to slow and competition may by employees appears to Perkins recently suggesting that the intensify.
With smartphone penetration be accelerating broader effective CPM cost per impression for reaching 42% in Q412 and significantly application migration desktop Internet remains 4x greater higher in markets and demographic to the Cloud than on mobile.
Over time local and or groups that matter most 2013 may more targeted adverts could command well prove to be the last year where new a premium but for now the mismatch users rather than replacement demand between mobile usage and advertising are the main driver of growth.
Pricing spend 10% vs. 1% respectively looks trends are also likely to deteriorate given We have materially likely to persist.
Despite this, Google higher penetration rates and the slower reduced our continues to look well positioned due to pace of innovation evidenced by the smartphone exposure its higher share of mobile search C. 90% iPhone 5 which also opens the door as penetration has while the proliferation of Android-based to new competition from the likes of reached a stage where devices should further reduce its traffic Amazon who are already disrupting unit growth is likely to acquisition costs TAC.
the tablet market with good enough slow and competition devices sold at near breakeven prices.
may intensify Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 17 Managers Report and Portfolio Analysis 2 Managers Report continued Slower smartphone growth and a shift of the DRAM as a PC by 2016 and at least 42% towards cheaper devices has already three times as many units.
Given that the caught up with Apple given its industry has consolidated down to three Forecast growth dominance of the high-end $600 major players, pricing should remain rate of mobile devices evidenced by declining market relatively benign which should help payment market share and downward pressure on gross companies such as Micron and SK Hynix.
While a lower-end device Smartphone growth, together with expected later this year will help technology innovation and a strong push address the mass market, it might prove by innovation leaders such as eBay and cannibalistic and could introduce risk to Starbucks is also likely to advance the Apples luxury brand.
As such we have cause of mobile payments which are continued to reduce our Apple holding forecast to grow at a 42% CAGR reaching such that today it is our largest $617bn by 2016.
This should continue to underweight position versus the benefit eBay via its PayPal offering, We have continued to benchmark.
That said it continues to technology enablers such as Gemalto reduce our Apple represent a C. 6% of net assets which not and Ingenico and the card networks as holding such that today only reflects our benchmark awareness the $11tr cash payment market is it is our largest but also the companys remarkable disrupted.
We also remain hopeful that underweight position balance sheet that will fund $100bn of continued data traffic growth, forecast to versus the benchmark capital return over the next three years, increase thirteen fold between 2012 and a large and valuable customer base and 2017, together with the adoption of 4G optionality associated with new product LTE devices that today generate 19x releases that could either expand the more traffic than non 4G connections While we have pared market TV, watch or obsolete the should eventually translate into improved our overall smartphone installed base.
spending on next-generation wireless and tablet exposure, networks and the network core 100G.
we continue to favour While we have pared our overall the mobility theme smartphone and tablet exposure, we In addition to our core exposure, there and this remains well continue to favour the mobility theme and are a number of additional themes that represented across this remains well represented across the are well represented within the the portfolio portfolio.
Within devices, we are focused portfolio.
One of the more significant of on faster growing segments such as these is security as cloud computing, Traffic growth, forecast China which should favour Taiwanese device proliferation and bring your own to increase thirteen fold chipmaker Mediatek and 4G LTE where device BYOD have made traditional between 2012 and 2017 handsets are forecast to grow to 243m security techniques focused on the should eventually units this year, an increase of 180% year network perimeter look increasingly translate into improved over year.
While the cyber threat is spending on nextlook to be unlikely beneficiaries of the already significant today, it is likely to generation wireless next wave of smartphone growth as only increase as more and more devices networks and the higher-end devices may have two-thirds become connected to the Internet the network core 100G Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 18 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 Another fascinating theme relates to Moores Stress, a term used to describe the growing difficulty faced by the semiconductor industry in keeping to Moores Law so-called Internet of Things.
As Within the portfolio we also have 9% electrical systems, industrial plant exposure to a number of exciting, and payment systems become Internetemerging themes such as 3D printing, Growth rate of IT enabled so they become targetable or additive manufacturing that enable security market by criminals countries, evidenced the creation of physical objects from by Russias attack on Estonias three-dimensional digital designs using infrastructure in 2007 and Israels additive processes as opposed to use of cyber-worms to frustrate Irans traditional subtractive production nuclear efforts.
This threat, together methods such as CNC machining and with growing evidence of Chinese state injection moulding.
While 3D printers sponsored cyber-espionage, is driving have traditionally been used in increased political and regulatory focus prototyping helping accelerate the on security helping the overall market design process the real excitement grow at a 9% CAGR with smaller vendors involves their use in making end such as Imperva, Proofpoint and products direct digital manufacturing Sourcefire growing significantly faster.
that account for C. 20% of printers today which is forecast to reach 50% by 2020.
Another unrelated though equally Whether or not 3D printing can fascinating theme relates to Moores genuinely revive the US manufacturing Stress, a term used to describe the industry according to President growing difficulty faced by the Obama remains to be seen, but as semiconductor industry in keeping to the technology improves it looks Moores Law, the observation made in increasingly likely that parts and Within the portfolio we 1965 by Intel co-founder Gordon Moore products will be stored and delivered also have exposure to that transistor count on semiconductor digitally and manufactured locally.
a number of exciting circuits would double every two years.
emerging themes While this dynamic may hinder We have also reinitiated modest such as 3D printing companies whose success has been exposure to the renewable reliant on leading edge foundry environmental theme due to renewed manufacturing, greater manufacturing interest in clean energy initiatives complexity has induced supply discipline from governments and investors alike.
and more rational pricing elsewhere, for Having gone through their own boom It is not hard to instance in the memory market.
Moores and bust cycles, it is not hard to understand why Stress is also likely to continue to benefit understand why we are excited about we are excited the semiconductor capital equipment investment opportunities in clean about investment industry given that increased capital energy given large addressable opportunities in clean intensity is unlikely to reverse ahead of markets and low penetration of both energy given large the introduction of Extreme Ultraviolet solar 2% of global generation addressable markets Lithography EUV and 450mm wafers.
and low penetration of both solar and LED Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 19
