Weaker than anticipated capital spending negatively impacted a number of our favoured infrastructure stocks perform strongly while semiconductor equipment stocks as hopes for improved 5.1% capital equipment companies benefited service provider capex proved overly from increased capital spending plans optimistic, equipment spending Growth in NAV at Intel as it attempted to outmuscle contracting during 2012 as carriers over the year ARM and its foundry partners such as postponed purchases.
Consolidation and supply-side In terms of positives, the Trust was discipline resulted in better than aided by its overweight exposure to expected pricing and strong stock price off-benchmark Internet companies performances from hard-drive HDD such as Amazon 14%, eBay 33% and memory vendors such as Seagate, and LinkedIn 85% that benefited Hynix, Micron and SanDisk.
Weakest from growth in e-commerce and online performance was reserved for telecom advertising, in part due to smartphonevendors as service provider spending related usage.
Relative performance remained lacklustre while enterprisewas also generated by an underweight orientated hardware and software position in Apple, which was reduced companies fared poorly due to further following the iPhone 5 cautious capital spending trends.
launch and subsequent earnings disappointments.
The Trust continued Our Performance to benefit from its underweight PC Weaker than anticipated capital spending exposure as tablet substitution and a negatively impacted a number of our poor reception to Windows 8 weighed favoured infrastructure stocks which The Trust was aided on companies such as Hewlett-Packard left the Trust modestly trailing its by its overweight and Intel.
Relative performance was benchmark during the year, our own net exposure to offalso generated by M&A activity with five asset value rising 5%.
Companies such benchmark Internet of our holdings Acme Packet, Kenexa, as Citrix -24%, F5 Networks -40% and companies such as OPNET, Pervasive Software and Springsoft VMware -34% that had previously been Amazon, eBay and being acquired during the year at strong contributors to performance were LinkedIn that premiums that ranged from 2456%.
all caught up in the capital spending benefitted from hiatus resulting in sharp share price growth in e-commerce Economic Outlook corrections as investors questioned and online advertising Despite recent economic deceleration whether they remained secular growth related to US fiscal consolidation and companies.
Relative performance was associated uncertainty, we remain also hindered by a pronounced rotation Relative performance hopeful that the global economy in favour of value during the second was also generated by forecast to grow 3.3% will continue to half of the fiscal year assisting M&A activity with five muddle through in 2013 once again led incumbents such as Microsoft 11%, of our holdings being by emerging economies with modest Symantec 53% and Yahoo 66%.
acquired during the contribution from advanced markets The Trust was also negatively impacted year at premiums that given ongoing Eurozone weakness.
by its exposure to communication ranged from 2456% Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 11
