Directors Report 3 Directors Report including the Business Review and the Report on Corporate Governance The Directors present their Directors Report including Investment Manager to pursue the investment objective, the Business Review and the Report on Corporate given the dynamic and rapid changes in the field of Governance together with the Audited Financial technology, while maintaining a spread of investments.
Statements for the Company and Group prepared under The Company has a benchmark of the Dow Jones World International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted Technology Index total return, Sterling adjusted against by the European Union IFRS for the year ended which net asset value performance of the Company is 30 April 2013. measured for the purpose of assessing performance fees the Benchmark.
From 1 May 2013 the Benchmark Investment Objective, Policy and Strategy will be calculated using a net basis which adjusts the Objective Benchmark income element to reflect withholding taxes The Companys investment objective has since formation which would be suffered by a UK based investor.
been, and will continue to be, to maximise long-term capital growth by investing in a diversified portfolio of However, the Benchmark is neither a target nor an ideal technology companies around the world.
The purpose of the Benchmark is to set a reasonable return for shareholders of the Policy Company above which the Investment Manager is entitled At the Annual General Meeting in 2012 shareholder to a share of the extra performance it has delivered.
approval was obtained to a simplified investment policy.
This did not change the investment objective but provides Risk Diversification a clear and appropriate set of up to date investment The Company will at all times invest and manage its restrictions in line with the Financial Conduct Authority assets in a manner that is consistent with spreading and HM Revenue and Customs current requirements.
investment risk and invests in a Portfolio comprised primarily of international quoted equities which is The portfolio was managed under and in accordance with diversified across both regions and sectors.
the old policy and restrictions in the year to 30 April 2012 and up to 4 September 2012 when the change was The Company will satisfy the following approved by shareholders.
investment restrictions: Asset Allocation The Companys interest in any one company will Technology may be defined as the application of scientific not exceed 10 per cent.
of the gross assets of the knowledge for practical purposes and technology Company from time to time, save where the Benchmark companies are defined accordingly.
While this offers a weighting of any investee company in the Companys very broad and dynamic investing universe and covers portfolio exceeds this level, in which case the Company many different companies, the portfolio of the Company will be permitted to increase its exposure to such the Portfolio is focused on technology companies investee company up to the Benchmark neutral which use technology or which develop and supply weighting of that company or, if lower, 20 per cent.
technological solutions as a core part of their business of the Companys gross assets.
This includes areas as diverse as information, The Company will have a maximum exposure to media, communications, environmental, healthcare and companies listed on emerging markets as defined renewable energy, as well as the more obvious by the MSCI Emerging Markets Index of 25 per cent.
applications such as computing and associated industries.
of its gross assets from time to time.
The Portfolio is constructed without specific reference to The Company may invest in unquoted companies any individual market, index or benchmark and the from time to time, subject to prior Board approval.
Directors regularly discusses asset allocation.
The Board Investments in unquoted companies in aggregate has agreed a set of parameters which are based upon will not exceed 10 per cent.
of the gross assets of current market conditions and provides a range which the Company measured at the time of acquisition guides the Investment Manager depending on market of the relevant investment and whenever the conditions and future expectations.
The Board believes Company increases the relevant holding.
that this provides the necessary flexibility for the Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 46 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 In addition to the restrictions set out above, the Strategy Company is subject to Chapter 15 of the UK Listing The Board monitors the portfolios exposure to different Authoritys Listing Rules which apply to closed ended geographical markets, sub-sectors within technology and investment companies with a premium listing on the the spread of investments across different market Official List of the London Stock Exchange.
Cyclical changes in markets and new comply with the current Listing Rules, the Company will technologies will bring certain sub-sectors or companies of not invest more than 10 per cent.
of its total assets at a particular size or market capitalisation into or out of favour.
the time of acquisition in other listed closed ended Market parameters investment funds, whether managed by the Investment Notwithstanding the ability to invest up to 100% of the Manager or not.
This restriction does not apply to portfolio in any one market, with current and foreseeable investments in closed ended investment funds which investment conditions the Portfolio will be invested in themselves have published investment policies to invest accordance with the objective across worldwide markets no more than 15 per cent.
of their total assets in other within the following geographical and market parameters: listed closed ended investment funds.
However, the Company will not in any case invest more than 15 per North America up to 85% of the Portfolio cent.
of its total assets in other closed ended Europe up to 40% of the Portfolio investment funds.
The Company must not conduct any trading activity which is significant in the context of its Japan and Asia up to 55% of the Portfolio group as a whole.
Rest of the world up to 10% of the Portfolio Borrowing, Cash and Derivatives The Board has set specific upper exposure limits for The Company may borrow money to invest in the Portfolio certain countries.
over both the long and short term.
Any commitment to Cash borrow funds is agreed by the Board.
From time to time the Company may hold cash or The Companys articles of association permit borrowings near cash equivalents if the Investment Manager feels up to the amount of its paid up share capital plus capital that these will at a particular time or over a period and revenue reserves but any net borrowings in excess enhance the performance of the Portfolio.
of the Companys net assets at the time of management of cash is through the purchase of drawdown will only be made with the approval of the Board.
appropriate government bonds, money market funds or bank deposits depending on the Investment Managers The Investment Manager may also use from time to view of the investment opportunities.
time derivative instruments as approved by the Board such as financial futures, options, contracts-forGearing difference and currency hedges.
These are used for the The Company has loan facilities with ING Bank NV for a purpose of efficient portfolio management.
Any such total of 30m divided between a 10m facility drawn on use of derivatives will be made in accordance with the 2August 2011 and repayable on 2 August 2012 in the Companys policies on spreading investment risk as set amount of Japanese Yen 375,000,000 and US Dollar out in this investment policy and any leverage resulting 11,500,000, and a 20m facility drawn on 2 August 2011 from the use of such derivatives will be subject to the and repayable on 2 August 2013 in the amount of Japanese restrictions on borrowings set out above.
Changes to investment policy The 10m facility was repaid on 2 August 2012.
Any material change to the investment policy will require In respect of the 20m facility the Company entered into the approval of the Shareholders by way of an ordinary two fixed floating interest rate swap transactions which resolution at a general meeting.
The Company will will terminate on 2 August 2013.
Details of the loans are promptly issue an announcement to inform Shareholders set out in note 18 to the financial statements.
and the public of any change of its investment policy.
As at 30 April 2013, using the exchange rates prevailing at that date, the Sterling amount of the total facility was 19.7m 2012: 29.9m.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 47 Directors Report 3 Directors Report including the Business Review and the Report on Corporate Governance continued Key Performance Objectives The Board appraises the performance of the Company and the Investment Manager as the key supplier of services to the Company against key performance indicators KPIs.
The objectives comprise both specific financial and shareholder related measures.
KPI Control process Outcome The provision of investment The Board reviews at each meeting the The Companys NAV has, over the year to returns to ordinary performance of the portfolio and the 30 April 2013 underperformed the benchmark.
shareholders measured views of the Investment Manager.
The NAV per share rose by 5.1% while the by long-term NAV growth benchmark rose 6.0% over the same period.
and relative performance against the benchmark.
The reasons are explained in the Chairmans Statement and the Investment Managers Report.
Over the longer term, as shown by the historic performance data shown on page 35, growth in the NAV has exceeded the benchmark.
Monitoring and reacting to The Board receives regular information The discount premium of the ordinary share issues created by the on the composition of the share register price to NAV per ordinary share diluted when discount or premium of the including trading patterns and discount appropriate over the year has ranged from ordinary share price to the premium levels of the Companys ordinary a maximum discount of 6.6% to a premium NAV per ordinary share shares.
The Board discusses and of 2.3%.
with the aim of reduced authorises the issue or buy back of shares The Company has not bought back any shares in discount volatility for when appropriate.
the year to 30 April 2013 and in the same period shareholders.
A daily NAV per share, diluted when it has issued a total of 23,719 ordinary shares in appropriate, calculated in accordance with satisfaction of the exercise of subscription share the AIC guidelines, is issued to the London conversion rights at 478p per ordinary share.
To qualify and continue to The Board receives regular financial This has been achieved for every year since meet the requirements for information which discloses the current launch in 1996.
Sections 1158 and 1159 of and projected financial position of the Approval has been received in respect of the the Corporation Tax Act Company against each of the tests set financial year ended 30 April 2012.
Application 2010. investment trust out in Sections 1158 and 1159. was made to HMRC for investment trust status status in respect of the financial year ended 30 April 2013 and subsequent years subject to the Company continuing to meet the relevant eligibility conditions and ongoing requirements.
Efficient operation of the The Board annually considers the services The Board has received and considered Company with appropriate provided by the Investment Manager, satisfactory the internal controls report of the investment management both investment and administration and Investment Manager and other key suppliers resources and services reviews on a cycle the provision of services including contingency arrangements to facilitate from third party suppliers from third parties including the costs of the ongoing operations of the Company in the within a stable and risk their services.
event of withdrawal or failure of services.
The annual operating expenses are The ongoing costs of the Company for reviewed and any non-recurring project the year ended 30 April 2013 was 1.19% related expenditure sanctioned.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 48 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013
