Principal Activities and Status Life of the Company The Company is incorporated in England and Wales as The Articles of Association of the Company provide that a public limited company and domiciled in the United at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be Kingdom.
It is an investment company as defined in held in 2015, and at every fifth Annual General Meeting Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 and its ordinary thereafter, a vote on whether the Company should and subscription shares are listed and traded on the continue will be proposed as an ordinary resolution.
Business Review The Company has no employees or premises and the The Company is required by the Companies Act 2006 Board is comprised of non-executive Directors.
The day to set out a business review for shareholders to provide to day operations and functions of the Company have a fair review of the business of the Group during the been delegated to third parties.
financial year to 30 April 2013, the position of the Group at the end of the year and a description of the principal The close company provisions do not apply.
The business of the Company is to provide shareholders Full details of the Investment Managers activities and with access to a managed portfolio of technology stocks its views are given in the Investment Managers Report.
and shares selected on a worldwide basis.
The Companys investment portfolio is a long-only fund which means The Board considers that the Chairmans Statement that it buys and holds shares to seek appreciation in their and the Investment Managers Report when read in value and consequently in the Net Asset Value NAV of conjunction with the information provided in the Directors the Company.
Report fulfils the requirements of the business review and gives a comprehensive analysis of the development and The Company seeks to manage its portfolio in such a way performance of the business of the Group and the position as to meet the tests set down in Section 1158 and 1159 of of the Group at the end of the financial year.
the Corporation Tax Act 2010 as amended by Section 49 2 of the Finance Act 2011 and continue to qualify as an Future Developments investment trust.
This qualification permits the The Board remains positive on the longer-term outlook accumulation of capital within the portfolio without for technology and the Company will continue to pursue any liability to UK Capital Gains Tax.
The outlook for the future HM Revenue & Customs has approved the Companys performance is dependent to a significant degree on the application for status as an investment trust in respect worlds financial markets and their reactions to economic of the year ended 30 April 2012 subject to matters that events and other geo-political forces.
The Chairmans may arise from any subsequent enquiry into the Statement and the Investment Managers Report Companys tax return.
With effect from 1 January 2012 comment on the outlook.
the conditions and process for approval as an investment trust have been simplified.
An application may be made Performance by a company for investment trust status in respect of all At the year end the portfolio comprised of 130 investments subsequent financial years subject to it continuing to with the single largest investment being Google 7.3% satisfy the conditions.
Application for investment trust 2012: Apple 12.1.
status in respect of the year ended 30 April 2013 and subsequent years was made by the Company and was The top investments each being over 1% of the portfolio accepted by HMRC subject to the Company continuing to at 30 April 2013 are described on pages 38 to 41.
The Directors expect the affairs of listing of all investments in the portfolio is given on the Company to continue to satisfy the conditions.
The Company has one subsidiary, PCT Finance Limited The portfolio has been analysed on pages 36 and 37 to a wholly owned dealing company whose results are disclose details on the distribution of investments by consolidated with those of the Company.
It is the intention market capitalisation and by the different sectors in of the Directors to put this subsidiary in to liquidation the different principal geographies.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 49
