Improvement in sentiment was evident from equity mutual fund flows that in January registered their largest monthly inflow $51bn since February 2000 Congress agreed to a compromise that 22% and 25% respectively while 6.0% averted automatic spending cuts saw the Asian equity markets underperformed Dow Jones Industrial index deliver its best reflecting heightened tension on the Dow Jones World January performance since 1989.
Korean peninsula, market share Technology Index concerns as a result of Yen depreciation total return in sterling The growing recognition that and technology underperformance.
over the year policymakers were likely to avert extreme outcomes allowed investor Technology Review sentiment to recover dramatically from In a reversal of last years fortunes its 2012 nadir, despite the actual technology shares materially trailed the recovery remaining muted evidenced by broader market, the Dow Jones World ten year US Treasury yields that fell by Technology index rising 6% in Sterling C. 0.25% during the fiscal year, ending the terms only the second time the sector period at just 1.68%.
This improvement in has underperformed over a fiscal year sentiment was evident from equity since the 2008 9 market lows.
The sector mutual fund flows that in January did manage to outperform during the registered their largest monthly inflow weak start to the year, aided by large- $51bn since February 2000, while M&A caps including Apple, Samsung and activity rebounded sharply in early 2013 TSMC with strong supporting roles with private equity buyers announcing played by so-called bond proxies such deals to acquire both Dell and Heinz in as IBM.
While the poor debut and January alone.
Companies also played subsequent performance of Facebook their part via accelerated buybacks and following its much anticipated IPO in May Equity markets were increased dividends, the return of capital was unhelpful to sector progress, Mario largely impervious to to shareholders proving a key micro Draghis July speech that buttressed negative developments development during the year.
This potent investor sentiment proved a more during the final third of combination left equity markets largely significant turning point as broader the fiscal year when impervious to negative developments as market participation diminished the neither the Cypriot and when they occurred, a dynamic most technology sectors relative lustre.
banking crisis nor US apparent during the final third of the sequestration had more fiscal year when neither the Cypriot This healthy if adverse rotation became than an ephemeral banking crisis nor US sequestration had more fundamentally driven in September impact on risk appetite more than an ephemeral impact on risk following the release of the iPhone 5 that appetite.
During the year, the strongest concurrently marked the peak of Apples regional returns taking into account the share price.
This rather evolutionary new Technology shares impact of foreign exchange movements handset was followed by two disappointing materially trailed the were generated by Japanese stocks quarterly earnings reports from the broader market, the 28% following the LDPs decisive company with gross margins pressured Dow Jones World election victory in December.
European by demand shifting in favour of lower Technology index rising and US stocks performed broadly in line priced products such as the iPad mini.
6% in Sterling terms Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013 09 Managers Report and Portfolio Analysis 2 Managers Report continued As the largest constituent of market-cap This trend was epitomised by Apples $100bn weighted indices and accounting for announcement in April that it would C. 18% of our benchmark at its zenith return $100bn to shareholders via Cash Apple will return the 37% decline in Apples share price dividends and buybacks over the next to shareholders over post its September high and the three years.
This new found capital the next three years associated impact this had on its supply discipline, together with news in January chain and other smartphone-related that private equity investors Silver Lake stocks weighed heavily on the overall intended to take Dell private in a $24bn technology sector.
transaction, resulted in strong secondhalf performances from a number of In addition to Apple-related weakness, value-orientated incumbents including the sectors relative progress was Cisco, Hewlett Packard, Microsoft hampered by cautious capital spending and Symantec.
trends due to mixed macroeconomic conditions and uncertainty associated While 2012 proved a quieter year for The 37% decline in with Europe, US Presidential elections, M&A within the technology sector and Apples share price fiscal consolidation and the Chinese the broader market there were a post its September leadership transition.
This uncertainty number of thesis affirming transactions high weighed heavily resulted in overall IT budgets such as IBMs acquisition of softwareon the overall increasing by just 1.2% during 2012 as as-a-service vendor Kenexa and technology sector compared to early expectations of Oracles curious purchase of two C. 3.7%, creating a significant growth telecom-related assets, Acme Packet headwind made all too apparent by and Tekelec.
The healthy take-out The sectors relative challenging Q312 and Q113 reporting premiums associated with these and progress was hampered seasons.
As is the norm, weaker IT other M&A transactions helped by cautious capital spending disproportionately impacted technology small-caps outperform their spending trends legacy technologies such as servers larger peers by C. 9% as measured by and personal computers PC that also the Russell 2000 and 1000 technology had to contend with tablet substitution, indices respectively.
However, just as IDC reporting that PC units shipped large-cap outperformance in FY2012 New found capital fell 14% year over year in 1Q13 the was exaggerated by Apples ascent, so discipline, together industrys worst quarterly performance its 23% decline this year flattered the with news in January on record.
However, PC-related stocks magnitude of small-cap outperformance that private equity and a number of other mega-cap the average large-cap performing investors Silver Lake incumbents such as Cisco performed materially better than headlines suggest intended to take Dell materially better than their underlying the MLO an unweighted index of large private resulted in markets by delivering earnings growth and mid-cap companies actually strong second-half via restructuring and or significantly outpacing small-caps over the fiscal performances from a increasing their payout ratios via year.
At the sector level, smartphonenumber of valuebuybacks and dividends.
related growth helped Internet stocks orientated incumbents Polar Capital Technology Trust plc 10 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2013
