Strategic report Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Our business model, tailor-made for the non-standard marketplace The group is successful in lending to customers whom Non-standard others find it customers difficult to serve because of the way we manage See pages 85-91 for more detail the customer Better risk relationship and the management solid foundations that we have built forour business.
Selective, Responsibility gradual and Simple, and Individual flexible transparent compliance relationships approach products built in For more detail on how our business model operates at a divisional level see Resilient, conservative page 43 for Vanquis Bank and flexible business page 53 for fundamentals Consumer Credit Division Our key differentiators Small sums High customer contact We begin all our customer We start our customers with relationships with a far higher access to small amounts level of customer contact of credit, only slowly and than mainstream lenders, gradually increasing amounts either face-to-face or over the responsibly and sustainably phone, and maintain this closer over time.
Our largest credit and more frequent contact lines are still well below throughout the relationship.
08 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Strategic report Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued We lend to non-standard customers whom others find it hard to serve We specialise in non-standard credit: our business model benefits from 1 130 years of experience.
We manage the inherent risk of non-standard lending better thanothers 2 Our approach is highly adapted to our marketplace We pay close attention to lending and collecting activities, ensuring that we maintain high levels of contact.
3 We offer simple, flexible products which underpin our responsible lending approach.
We underpin our business with solid financial foundations We focus on organic growth through high return on equity businesses which are cashand capital-generative.
4 We have a diverse range of funding sources and borrow long and lend short.
We adopt prudent, appropriate accounting policies.
Forbearance Being a flexibility responsible lender Our products and approach We have built a reputation have the forbearance and for responsible lending flexibility that non-standard over many years through customers value highly, built our continued presence in in from the outset.
communities nationwide, helping non-standard customers to stay in control and use credit sustainably.
