Governance Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Our directors and officers Peter Crook 50 Andrew Fisher 56 Manjit Wolstenholme 49 Finance Director Independent non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Appointed to the board: 2006 Appointed to the board: 2006 Appointed to the board: 2007 Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Chairman: executive committee and group Member: executive committee and group Chairman: nomination committee.
Member: audit committee and executive committee.
Key achievements: Key achievements: Repositioning of the CCD business and Renewing the groups 382.5m syndicated Key strengths: bank facility through to May 2017.
Extensive experience of corporate finance developing a revised strategy with the new managing director and the new matters, having spent 13 years in investment Realigning the roles and responsibilities banking, enabling her to make a significant managementteam.
of internal audit and risk following the contribution to the corporate and financial Developing a relationship with the new publication of the guidance: Effective Internal structure of the group.
Audit in the Financial Services Sector issued regulator and overseeing the preparations for the group to transition to the FCA.
by the Chartered Institute of Internal Auditors.
Previous board and management experience: Co-head of investment banking at Dresdner Developing a detailed succession plan for the Previous board and management experience: Kleinwort Wasserstein and Partner at Finance Director of Premier Farnell plc and level of management below board level with GleacherShacklock.
the assistance of external advisors.
partner at Price Waterhouse LLP.
Current external appointments: Current external appointments: Providing strategic direction in the Non-executive director of Future plc, The Unite development of the Vanquis Bank None.
Group plc and Aviva Investors Holdings Limited.
Appointment to the FCA Practitioner Panel from 1 January 2014.
Previous board and management experience: UK Managing Director, Barclaycard.
Current external appointments: Non-executive director of Cabot Group Holdings Limited.
76 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Governance Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Malcolm Le May 56 Alison Halsey 58 Stuart Sinclair 60 Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Senior Independent Director Appointed to the board: 2014 Appointed to the board: 2012 Appointed to the board: 2014 Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Member: audit committee, Chairman: audit committee.
remuneration committee, risk advisory Member: remuneration committee, Member: audit committee, risk advisory committee and nomination committee.
risk advisory committee and committee and nomination committee.
Key strengths: Key strengths: 34 years with KPMG specialising in financial Key strengths: Over 30 years experience in banking, asset services with audit and advisory responsibilities Extensive experience in financial services management andinsurance.
for UK and international banks.
in the UK and overseas, enabling effective challenge and significant contribution to Previous board and management experience: Previous board and management experience: board discussions.
10 years in US-based Co-head of banking for Barclays in New York: Partner: KPMG.
Advised a number of UK management consulting, 14 years as CEO or head of investment banking, Europe at UBS charities and was a board member of the equivalent in retail banking organisations and and global head of corporate and investment National Autistic Society for five years.
sevenyears on financial services boards.
Also Deputy CEO Current external appointments: at Morley Fund Management now Aviva Previous board and management experience: Non-executive director of Teachers Assurance Investors, and President of JER Europe.
Chairman of GE Capital China and GE Capital and an Ambassador for Alzheimers Society.
Bank UK, Chief Executive Officer of Tesco Current external appointments: Personal Finance, Director of Virgin Direct: Senior advisor to Ernst & Young, Senior Director of Retail Banking at The Royal Bank Independent Non-executive director of Pendragon of Scotland and non-executive director at plc, Non-executive director of RSA Insurance Liverpool Victoria.
Group plc and Chairman of Juno Capital LLP.
Current external appointments: Director of Pru Health, Non-executive director of Platinum Bank Kiev, Senior Independent Non-executive Director of Swinton Group Limited: Non-executive director of QBE Insurance Europe Limited and QBE Underwriting Limited: and Council Member of the Royal Institute for International Affairs Chatham House.
Rob Anderson 55 Ken Mullen 55 Independent non-executive director General Counsel and Company Secretary Appointed to the board: 2009 Appointed to the board: 2007 Committee membership: Committee membership: Chairman: risk advisory committee.
Member: remuneration committee, audit Secretary to executive committee, committee and nomination committee.
audit committee, remuneration committee, risk advisory committee Key strengths: and nomination committee.
Extensive retail experience and knowledge of the type of consumer served by the group.
Key achievements: As a recently serving Chief Executive he has Winding up the groups defined benefit current operational business experience which pension schemes in the Republic of Ireland.
is relevant to the groups businesses.
Provision of legal advice to the management Previous board and management experience: of CCD on the implementation and execution Director of childrenswear business unit of of its recent redundancy programmes.
Key Marks & Spencer and Chief Executive of Signet Previous board and management experience: Executive directors Jewelers Limiteds UK Division.
Company Secretary and General Counsel Non-executive directors Current external appointments: forPremier Farnell plc, Silentnight plc and None.
Company Secretary Current external appointments: Chairman of Rexel UK Limited Pension Scheme.
