Strategic report Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Our key differentiators Small sums People in the non-standard credit market tend to have relatively low incomes or have had trouble with credit in the past, so it makes sense for them to borrow smaller sums.
This means borrowing the few hundred pounds they can afford on a Vanquis Bank credit card, a home credit loan, or a Satsuma loan, rather than the few thousand they cant afford from a mainstream lender.
When I tell customers we are allowing them the relatively low level of a 250 credit limit initially, rather than being disappointed, they often thank me for not putting them in a position where they might spend more than they could afford.
Vanquis Bank contact centre representative Home credit Satsuma Vanquis Bank loans start loans for new credit limits aslow as customers up to as low as 50 300 250 12 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information tailor-made advances 13 Strategic report Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Our key differentiators High customer contact Those with little leeway in their income have to budget much more carefully than those with greater leeway.
Weve found that staying in close contact with customers to discuss at an early stage the inevitable bumps in the road that come along, helps our customers to stay in control of their credit.
It also helps us keep bad debt in check, which may allow usto lend to the customer again.
I really appreciate having a named person in the contact centre who is handling my Satsuma loan that I can speak with to iron out any problems.
Other online lenders Ive used dont do this.
Satsuma loans customer Home credit agents call at customers' homes every week.
Satsuma loans customers have a named person they can call to discuss any issues.
Vanquis Bank has a welcome call and contacts customers by SMS text and telephone.
14 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information tailor-made relationships 15 Strategic report Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Our key differentiators Forbearance flexibility Over 130 years of serving the non-standard credit market has taught us that customers on relatively low incomes will occasionally have trouble in making repayments.
In the mainstream market, the likelihood is that the customer would have to pay default charges and additional interest at the time they can least afford to.
Our home credit and Satsuma loans have no extra charges whatsoever when this occurs and Vanquis Bank offers a product which allows extra flexibility.
As a home credit agent, if the customer is experiencing difficulty I am able to reduce their weekly repayments or stop them altogether for a while.
And this is done at no extra cost to the customer whatsoever.
Provident Personal Credit agent Home credit agents can stop repayments atnoextra cost to the customer.
Satsuma loans representatives can stop repayments atno extra cost to the customer.
Vanquis Bank customers have the option to take out aplan which gives them extra flexibility and freezes their account when they get into difficulty.
16 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information tailor-made solutions 17 Strategic report Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Our key differentiators Being a responsible lender Small sums advanced, high levels of customer contact, forbearance and flexibility, together with good regulatory compliance, add up to lending responsibly in the non-standard credit market.
Our high levels of customer satisfaction and low levels of customer complaints go some way to showing that we have tailor-made our products to ensure they meet the particular needs of our customers.
My Provi agent has always acted responsibly when giving me loans.
She will sometimes suggest I borrow a bit less than Ive asked for which usually works out for the best in the end.
And shes allowed me to miss repayments from time to time when Ive been under particular financial pressure.
I feel shes always got my interests in mind as well as her own.
Provident Personal Credit customer Products that meet customers' needs.
High levels of customer satisfaction.
18 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information tailor-made for customer satisfaction 19
