Governance Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Effectiveness 1.
Consider restructuring the strategic away days to cut down on presentation What does effectiveness mean time and allow more time for debate, big picture issues and less formal time to the company?
The Chairman manages the board and oversees 2.
Consider opportunities throughout the year for the senior management the operation of its committees with the aim of team to spend more time with ensuring that they operate effectively by fully board members.
utilising the diverse range of skills and experience 3.
Consider ways in which non-executive directors can spend of the various board members.
The board and more time in the business to increase its committees are annually assessed to ensure their knowledge and so increase the visibility of the non-executive directors their effectiveness is maintained and that they within the operations.
remain fit for purpose, as it is only possible to 4.
Consider putting in place a process create value by having the right people in place to encourage more informal contact between the senior management team operating within an environment that encourages and board members.
Consider holding board meetings in that the board and its committees evolve and different locations around the country and build on opportunities to meet develop, to address the ever-changing regulatory senior management teams.
environment in which the group operates.
Consider increasing the number Evaluating the boards performance can lead to of non-executive director meetings outside board meetings to provide an fresh insights into the functioning of the board opportunity to talk informally and to whilst potentially identifying areas that might need get to know new board members in due course.
to be strengthened and developed.
Consider creating development plans for board members which focus The evaluation included a review of the Board evaluation on individual roles and encourage collective and individual performance board members to concentrate on one Following the internal board of the members of the board and aspect of the business in more detail.
evaluations in 2011 and 2012, the committees, the quality and timeliness eleventh evaluation of the performance 8.
Bring committee membership into of the information supplied to it, a of the board and that of its committees line with best practice.
peer group comparison and a best and individual directors was carried practice review.
Consider ways of ensuring that out by Independent Board Evaluation board papers are sent out in a more The results of the evaluation, which during the period October to timely manner to allow non-executive were discussed by the board as a December 2013.
The process was directors more time to prepare whole at its meetings in December carried out by means of one to one for meetings.
2013 and January 2014, confirmed discussions between Independent that the board was well balanced in Board Evaluation and all executive and The evaluation confirmed that the terms of public company experience, non-executive directors, one to one board was strong on shareholder both present and past.
However, discussions with board and committee accountability and relationship and the following recommendations attendees as well as observation was very focused on governance were made by Independent Board of the conduct of the board and and compliance.
Evaluation with a view to enhancing its committees at their meetings in In accordance with the requirements the performance of the board: and October 2013. of the Code, an external evaluation will an action plan to implement the continue to be carried out every three recommendations was reviewed and years.
The next such evaluation will approved by the board.
therefore be carried out in 2016.
82 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Governance Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Induction of new director On appointment, each director undertakes a comprehensive induction programme which involves time with the executive directors, the Company Secretary, members of the divisional boards and visits to the key operations.
During 2014, Malcolm Le May and Alison Halsey, our new non-executive directors will: have individual meetings with the executive directors and the Company Secretary: meet with the divisional boards and senior management team in each division: visit a Vanquis Bank contact centre and meet with key staff: spend a day at one of the CCD branches: accompany a CCD agent on their customer round: and meet with the audit partner from Deloitte LLP.
Non-executive directors are currently Training Reappointment of directors appointed for fixed periods of three Appropriate training and briefing Under the companys articles of years, subject to confirmation by is provided to all directors on association, each director should retire, shareholders at the AGM following appointment to the board, taking into but may be reappointed, at least at appointment.
The initial threeaccount their individual qualifications every third AGM, as well as at the first year period may be extended and experience.
Ongoing training is AGM following appointment.
Also, for one further three-year period arranged to suit their individual needs after nine years, a director must offer and, in exceptional cases, further including environmental, social and themself for reappointment annually.
extended, subject always to annual governance training as appropriate reappointment by shareholders.
Notwithstanding the articles, in and the Chairman regularly reviews Their letters of appointment may be accordance with the recommendations and agrees with each director their inspected at the companys registered of the Code, all directors offered training and development needs.
office or can be obtained on request themselves for reappointment at the Following the 2013 board evaluation, from the Company Secretary.
2013 AGM and biographical details the Chairman is in the process of Malcolm Le May was appointed as of the directors were supplied in the creating individual development plans the SID with effect from 1 January shareholders circular and notice for each of the non-executive directors 2014 and is available to consult with of the 2013 AGM.
All directors will which will focus on areas where they shareholders if they have concerns offer themselves for appointment can add value to key strategic matters which contact through the normal reappointment at the 2014 AGM and facing the group and which will be channels of Chairman, Chief Executive for reappointment at all future AGMs.
board agenda items throughout 2014. or Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact Non-executive directors is inappropriate.
Each of the five non-executive In December 2013, John van Kuffeler, directors has been formally determined as the Chairman, met with the by the board to be independent non-executive directors without for the purposes of the effective any executive director present and governance of the group, in line with the non-executive directors met the independence expectations of without the Chairman present to the Code.
The board believes that discuss the Chairmans performance.
there are no current or past matters Manjit Wolstenholme, the SID at that which are likely to affect their time, discussed comments arising out independent judgement.
of this process with the Chairman.
83 Governance Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Effectiveness continued Policy on board Conflicts of interest appointments The board has put procedures in place to deal with situations where a director The boards policy on other has a conflict of interest.
As part of directorships is designed to ensure that these procedures the board: all directors remain able to discharge their responsibilities to the company.
considers each conflict situation separately based on its particular The letters of appointment of the facts: non-executive directors state that any proposed appointment to the board of considers any conflict situation in another company will require the prior conjunction with the other duties approval of the board.
The companys of directors under the Companies policy is that a non-executive Act 2006: director should have sufficient time to fulfil their duties to the company, keeps records and board minutes including, where appropriate, chairing as to authorisations granted by a committee.
directors and the scope of any approvals given: and The board will consider all requests for permission for other r egularly reviews conflict authorisations.
directorships carefully, subject to the The board has complied with these following principles: procedures during the year.
a non-executive director would not be expected to hold more than four other material non-executive directorships: and if they hold an executive role in a FTSE 350 company, they would not be expected to hold more than two other material nonexecutive directorships.
In line with the Code, an executive director will be permitted to hold one non-executive directorship in a FTSE 100 company and to retain the fees from that appointment provided that the board considers that this will not adversely affect their executive responsibilities.
The board would not permit an executive director to take on the chairmanship of a FTSE 100 company.
Any request for an exception to this policy is considered on its merits.
In July 2013, Peter Crook, Chief Executive, was given permission by the board to join Cabot Group Holdings Limited as a non-executive director on the basis that it would not adversely affect his executive responsibilities.
He retains the fees from this appointment.
