Strategic report Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Our business model in action Typically, Provident customers are hard-working people living on modest incomes.
They borrow relatively small amounts, but they need it to be easy to make repayments and they like the flexibility to adjust those payments if their circumstanceschange.
Our customers Reliability What are they P roviding credit when others wont, we establish a looking for?
routine with our customers, be it a weekly home visit or atelephone call, and help them manage their finances.
Affordability W e offer our customers sensible levels of credit with small, affordable repayments aiming to never overburden their limited incomes but tobe there at their time of need.
Flexibility We know that the circumstances of our customers can change be it reduced hours at work or a change in a relationship.
Customers value the fact that their repayments can be flexible at such times.
Certainty In t he home credit business and Satsuma loans, the amount tobe repaid is fixed, so the amount our customers agree to repay never rises, even if they miss some payments.
There are no extra charges whatsoever.
We lend to those often overlooked by high street banks and What attracts mainstream lenders.
Our approach and products are highly adapted to their needs.
10 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Strategic report Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued The value added The household income of most Vanquis Bank Home credit customers are not always the customers is between 15,000 and 30,000 a main breadwinners, but they often control the year.
They use the credit card in a similar way to household budget.
The household income tends users of mainstream cards, on the high street, to be from hourly-paid or part-time casual work and for internet shopping.
Growth in online rather than from salaried employment, and just shopping and changes in merchants payment under half of our customers are in receipt of policies have made everyday tasks increasingly non-universal benefits.
Home credit customers difficult without a payment card.
The card value the discipline of the weekly visit and therefore has a high utility value and offers appreciate having flexibility on repayments.
useful additional consumer protection it is often the only credit card theyhave.
Our differentiators Our differentiators Personal welcome call to all Personal contact every step of theway, newcustomers to establish a close ensuring that we treat our customers relationship.
Customer satisfaction levels ofjust Industry-leading customer satisfaction below 90%, much higher than levels of 93%.
Highly-skilled, locally-based agents in Highly-skilled, UK-based contact centres.
home credit who really understand their customers needs and circumstances.
Robust selection criteria with only a quarter of new applications being Robust selection criteria with only approved.
around 20% of new home credit applications beingapproved.
Starting with small and manageable initial credit limits, as low as 250.
Starting customers on small and manageable amounts of credit with Technology-driven, with online account 300 being the typical loan issued.
Embracing new technologies to meet Early engagement with customers theneeds of our customers.
to identify signs ofproblems and implement appropriate forbearance Using continuous payment authorities measures.
responsibly within Satsuma loans, only taking payments on the agreed day, Manageable monthly payments, priced based around a pre-agreed schedule appropriately and transparently.
Fixed weekly payments, priced appropriately and transparently, with noadditional charges whatsoever.
1.1m 1.5m customers customers 11 Vanquis Bank Consumer Credit Division
