Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Strategic report Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Our clearly defined roles Chairman Chief Executive Our board: ensuring balance and Our mission Our mission is to be the leading non-standard lender in our effectiveness chosen markets, acting responsibly in all our relationships, and Our board sets the tone from the top.
It is responsible to playing a positive role in the communities we serve.
shareholders for the long-term success of the company and ensuring that the company is appropriately managed.
We are committed to getting the right team in place and that means one with an effective and diverse balance of skills andexperience.
Leading non-standard lender With over 130 years of experience of lending in the non-standard credit market, we understand our customers requirements for Please go to page 76 for more on the key strengths of each of small sums, a high level of ongoing contact with their lender, and our board members, the results of our latest board evaluation and detail of our recent board appointments forbearance such as the ability to miss repayments at no extra cost to the customer whatsoever.
This understanding gives us a competitive advantage in our marketplace and provides support for our customers.
Our ethics: principles which guide our day-to-day behaviour Our corporate principles are embodied in our values and Acting responsibly in all our relationships policies, which set the standard for the way in which we expect Our desire to act responsibly extends to all of our stakeholders, our employees to behave andhow we interact with third parties, including customers, staff and agents, suppliers, the local our customers and agents.
These guide us in our day-to-day communities we serve, and the environment.
We publish operations and are embedded throughout our organisation.
a corporate responsibility report annually which sets out Compliance with values are closely monitored and reported our progress in meeting our objective of being a good regularly to the board.
Please go to page 32 Please go to page 32 for more on how we manage for more details our corporate responsibility Playing a positive role in the communities Our governance and remuneration: we serve rewarding ourselves inline with We have a well-developed community outreach programme shareholder expectations which supports grass roots projects in the communities we Our approach to governance is based on the concept that serve throughout the UK and Ireland.
We also support the good corporate governance enhances longer-term shareholder money advice sector and financial research projects that benefit value and, for us, this is a far cry from mere box-ticking.
to strong governance is our determination to demonstrate that our pay and benefits are linked to tangible and measurable performance against our strategy.
Our remuneration policy 2013 community investment sets out our thinking inthis area.
1 Cash 3 1 Please go to page 108 2 for more on our remuneration policy 1,767,279 2 Management costs 191,998 3 Value of employee time 49,918 Our target is to maintain an investment of 1% of group profit before tax in the communities we serve through various community initiatives, in support of the money advice sector and in social research.
