Strategic report Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Our marketplace The evolution of the non-standard credit market The UK non-standard Over the last six credit market in 2007 years, since the demerger of the c. 33m groups international Prime business in 2007, Market competitors c. 6m the non-standard Near-prime Black Horse credit market Capital One has evolved Beneficial Finance significantly.
Barclaycard The credit crisis, Citifinancial together with the Monument rapid increase in HFC c. 7m Welcome internet usage, Direct repayment Ocean Finance has meant that customer behaviours and preferences c. 3m Home-collected have changed and product propositions have Over 100bn of advances Mix of mainstream and per annum.
had to adapt in Market dominated by mainstream Regulation by the Office of Fair response.
Trading OFT and the Financial Services Authority FSA forbanks.
Headline prices less than 100% APR with additional fees for PPI and default charges.
In 2007, the non-standard credit dominated by more mainstream less than 100% although there were market represented around 10 million business models and products, also likely to be additional fees for consumers and was made up of although both mainstream businesses Payment Protection Insurance PPI about 100bn of advances per and non-standard credit specialists and default charges.
The home-collected segment were present in the market.
The largest represented a relatively small part of of the market was around 3 million lending format was instalment loans the direct repayment market in 2007 consumers in 2007. with customers mainly sourced as the business was still relatively new.
through brokers or a branch network.
The direct repayment segment of Loans were typically between 2,000 this market represented around and 10,000 over a duration of three seven million consumers and was years or more.
Headline APRs were 28 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Strategic report Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued The credit crisis and much tighter underwriting standards adopted The UK non-standard by mainstream lenders have meant credit market in 2013 that the non-standard market in 2013 looks quite different.
The target audience has increased from c. 33m approximately 10 million to 12 million Prime consumers but annual advances have reduced from 100 billion in 2007 Market competitors c. 7m to around 70 billion, representing Near-prime the general reduction in consumer Wonga lending following the credit crisis.
CapitalOne The market has started to grow again more recently.
PaydayUK The home-collected segment of the Aqua market is little changed in terms of size, QuickQuid with around three million addressable consumers being served by five larger Payday Express companies and 500 smaller, local Pounds to Pocket operators.
This part of the market is not showing any growth and, Ladder Loans c. 9m at the margins, newer formats such Direct repayment Cash Converters as rent-to-own and online lending are reducing the flow of quality new BrightHouse customers into the market.
PerfectHome The biggest area of change is in the c. 3m direct repayment segment of the Home-collected market which has grown from around seven million consumers to nine million.
This market is now dominated by specialist non-standard lenders providing much smaller loans at higher Approximately 70bn of advances Transition to the Financial Conduct APRs with customers typically being per annum and growing.
Authority FCA and payday recruited online.
The retrenchment of regulation are causing dislocation Specialist models and which provides new opportunities more mainstream lenders or failure products dominate.
of some other lenders has provided growth opportunities for credit More transparent APRs in excess Satsuma loans fills the undercard providers and payday lenders.
of 100% andinto the thousands served part of the directrepayment butwith no PPI.
In particular, Vanquis Bank has market between Vanquis Bank and prospered within the non-standard home credit.
credit card market, growing its customer base from around 300,000 customers in 2007 to over 1 million in 2013.
29 Strategic report Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Our marketplace continued The evolution of the non-standard credit market continued Our businesses Higher-return businesses with strong growth potential CCD Vanquis Bank Home UK Online Poland credit loans Vanquis Bank Returns Returns Returns Returns &growth & growth &growth In response to the evolution of the In addition, we have launched an online non-standard lending market, we have instalment lending business, branded repositioned the Consumer Credit Satsuma loans, which will operate in Division CCD to be a more broadlythe under-served part of the direct based lending business.
The changing repayment market between Vanquis preferences of some consumers to Bank and home credit.
The business source credit online together with the shares many of the core strengths of continuing pressure on disposable both our home credit business and incomes from the rising cost of utility Vanquis Bank and is positioned as a bills means that our home credit sustainable and responsible alternative business needs to be updated and our to payday lending.
As a We will continue to develop the nonresult, we are focusing on running a standard credit card market in the high-quality, leaner and more modern UK with Vanquis Bank and seek to home credit business to respond to expand overseas through our Polish changing customer needs and deliver pilot operation.
30 Future growth Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Strategic report Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Market opportunity So what does ?
We believe that Satsuma loans is the best product for the target demographic and directly meets the core customer needs of certainty and flexibility.
Satsuma loans The online loans market, which is primarily served by payday lending at present, is estimated to be some four times the size of the home credit market and is growing as customer preferences change.
With the backdrop of clearer, MYJAR Pounds to Pocket tighter regulation around Pounds Till Payday Zebit payday lending, there WageDayAdvance QuickQuid is likely to be a shift in Payday Express Peachy CFO Lending Ladder Loans demand from payday PaydayUK Lending Stream loans to instalment Mr Lender loan products, such Wonga asSatsuma loans.
Payday, one-off bullet Instalment loan, Flexible and affordable repayment fixed schedule with weekly repayments no flexibility Our ability to develop higher-return Vanquis Bank Home credit businesses in non-standard markets can only be achieved if we put our products products market knowledge and consumer understanding into practice.
Our current UK product portfolio is actively tailored to meet customer Credit cards Cash loans 24 7 needs and we engage regularly Visa credit cards with Small, cash, home credit 24 7 is a pre-paid with them to ensure we are meeting a representative 39.9% loans, typically of a few MasterCard loaded their expectations.
hundred pounds, with with the customers repayment over periods loan, enabling them from 14 to 110 weeks.
to spend in shops, via the telephone or online, and to withdraw Gold Card cash via ATMs.
It has the additional benefit The Gold Card is a of being secure, and pre-loaded plastic card can be replaced if the offered to our best card is lost or stolen.
customers which can be Repayments are made used at over 60 online via agents, in the same and high street retailers.
31 Late fees or Certain total cost rollover charges from the outset
