Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Remuneration Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Remuneration Policy the group but are proportionate relative to an individuals influence at Committee role group level.
The base salary increases awarded to the executive directors The committee is responsible for the remuneration are consistent with the average of the Chairman, the executive directors and percentage increases awarded elsewhere in the company and reflect the Company Secretary.
The remuneration and the strong financial performance of the terms of appointment of the non-executive company and each individual directors personal performance.
The committee directors are determined by the board as a whole.
does not formally consult directly with Thecommittee also reviews the remuneration of employees on executive pay but does receive periodic updates from the the senior management team.
divisional Human Resources directors on remuneration issues in general and The Chief Executive is consulted on proposals specifically in relation to remuneration relating to the remuneration of the other executive structures throughout the group.
directors and the senior management team and the How the executive Chairman is consulted on proposals relating to the  Chief Executives remuneration.
When appropriate, policy relates to the senior both are invited by the committee to attend management team Remuneration for the level below meetings but are not present when their own executive director including share remuneration is considered.
incentives, bonus and pension entitlement is set primarily by reference to market comparatives.
Long-term incentives are not typically 4.
Periodic external comparisons to Considerations when provided outside of the most examine current market trends setting policy senior executives and are reserved and practices and equivalent In setting the remuneration policy for those identified as having the roles in companies of similar for the executive directors and senior greatest potential to influence group size, business complexity and management, the committee takes level performance.
geographical scope: into account the following: 5.
The need to maintain a clear How shareholders views 1.
The responsibilities of each link between the overall aretaken into account individual role, the individuals reward policy and specific experience and their We remain committed to taking company performance: individual performance: into account shareholder views 6.
The need to achieve alignment to on any proposed changes to our 2.
The need to attract, retain and the business strategy both in the remuneration policy and for 2013 a motivate executive directors short and long term: and number of changes were made in and senior management when light of feedback received during the 7.
The requirement for remuneration determining benefit packages, companys shareholder consultation to be competitive, with a significant including an appropriate proportion process.
It has not been deemed proportion dependent on riskof fixed and variable pay: necessary to consult with shareholders assessed performance targets.
on the proposed policy in light of the 3.
P ay and benefits practice and fact that there have been minimal employment conditions both within How employees pay is taken changes from the 2013 policy which the group as a whole and within into account was supported by shareholders at the the sector in which it operates: 2013 AGM.
Pay and conditions elsewhere in the group were considered when finalising the policy for executive directors and the senior management team.
The same principles apply throughout 109 Remuneration Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Remuneration Policy continued Executive director remuneration policy PURPOSE AND LINK OPERATION PERFORMANCE TARGETS ELEMENT TO STRATEGY INCLUDING MAXIMUM LEVELS AND PROVISIONS FOR RECOVERY OF SUMS PAID Salary To reflect the Reviewed annually and effective from 1 January.
Broad assessment of company and individual responsibilities of performance as part of the review process.
Typically set following review of the budget for the theindividual role.
forthcoming year, taking into account salary levels in To reflect the companies of a similar size and complexity.
individuals skills and Targeted at or around median.
experience and their Annual increases typically linked to those of the performance over wider workforce.
Increases beyond those granted time.
to the wider workforce may be awarded in certain To provide an circumstances such as where there is a change in appropriate level of responsibility, progression in the role, or a significant basic fixed income increase in the scale of the role and or size, value and avoid excessive and or complexity of the group.
risk arising from Salary levels for the 2014 financial year are over reliance on as follows: variable income.
Chief Executive: 685,000 Finance Director: 489,000 Annual Incentivises annual Financial and operational goals set annually.
A minimum of 50% of any bonus opportunity will be bonus delivery of agreed subject to financial targets e. g. EPS with up to 20% Maximum opportunity of 120% of salary for the financial and linked to personal objectives.
Chief Executive and 100% of salary for the Finance operational goals.
A graduated scale operates from threshold performance Rewards the through to the maximum performance level.
One-third of bonus earned is subject to compulsory achievement of Inrelation to financial targets, 0% of this part of the deferral into the 2013 PSP, typically for a period of an agreed set of bonus becomes payable for achieving the threshold three years.
annual financial and performance target with a graduated scale operating May defer up to an additional third of bonus.
thereafter for higher levels of financial performance.
In relation to personal objectives, it is not always Any deferred bonus will be eligible for Matching practicable to set a sliding scale for each objective.
Where it is, a similar proportion of the bonus becomes Remainder of bonus paid in cash.
payable for achieving the threshold performance level as for financial targets.
Clawback provisions apply where there is a material prior period error requiring restatement of the group financial statements.
Details of the bonus measures operated each year will be included in the relevant Annual Report on Remuneration.
The committee reserves the power to make changes over the life of the policy to achieve alignment with the groups annual strategy.
Performance Alignment of Invitations to participate and awards made annually.
Awards vest based on three-year performance against a Share Plan managements challenging range of EPS growth targets set and assessed Opportunity to defer up to two-thirds of annual long-term strategic by the committee.
25% of the Matching Award half of bonus and receive a Basic Award together with a interests with one matching share vests at the threshold performance matching share award.
long-term interests level with full vesting taking place on a graduated scale of shareholders.
Executive directors eligible for a Matching Award of for achieving the maximum performance level.
The up to two times based on a deferral of up to twoperformance condition is reviewed annually by the Encourages thirds of annual bonus with a minimum compulsory committee prior to grant in terms of the range of targets an increased deferral of one-third.
and the choice of metric and may be refined to ensure shareholding in that the condition remains aligned with the company's the group.
Maximum bonus being earned and a maximum strategy and KPIs.
Any substantive reworking of the bonus deferral, results in a maximum benefit of current performance condition would be accompanied 160% of salary in the case of the Chief Executive and by appropriate dialogue with the company's shareholders 133% of salary in the case of the Finance Director.
and or approval sought for a revised policy depending on Dividends may also be payable on Basic Awards the nature of the change.
and in addition, dividend equivalent provisions allow the committee to pay dividends on vested Matching Clawback provisions apply where there is a material prior Awards or cash at the time of vesting.
period error requiring restatement of the group financial statements.
Clawback provisions apply to the Matching Award only.
110 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Remuneration Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued PURPOSE AND LINK OPERATION PERFORMANCE TARGETS ELEMENT TO STRATEGY INCLUDING MAXIMUM LEVELS AND PROVISIONS FOR RECOVERY OF SUMS PAID Long Term Alignment of Annual grant of share awards structured as Awards vest based on a three-year performance against Incentive managements conditional awards or nil-cost options.
a challenging range of EPS and TSR targets set and Scheme long-term strategic assessed by the committee.
20% of the award vests at Executive directors are eligible for awards of up to interests with longthe threshold performance level with full vesting taking 200% of salary which is the maximum opportunity term interests of place on a graduated scale for achieving the maximum contained within the plan rules.
The performance conditions are Dividend equivalent provisions allow the committee reviewed annually by the committee prior to grant in Rewards to pay dividends on vested shares or cash at the terms of the range of targets and the choice of metrics strong financial time of vesting.
and may be refined to ensure that the conditions performance and remain aligned with the company's strategy and KPIs.
The Long Term Incentive Scheme expires in May sustained increase in Any substantive reworking of the current performance 2016 and the intention is to present to shareholders, shareholder value.
conditions would be accompanied by appropriate at the AGM in 2015, a resolution to renew the Encourages dialogue with the company's shareholders and or scheme on substantially similar terms.
an increased approval sought for a revised policy depending on the shareholding in nature of the change.
Retirement Provision of a range Available pension arrangements include the Cash Not applicable benefits of schemes and Balance section of the group Final Salary Pension arrangements to Scheme, an Unfunded Unapproved Retirement enable executive Benefits Scheme, a cash supplement in lieu of directors to fund pension and or a contribution to individual SIPPs.
Pension credit of up to 30% of salary per annum is given to all executive directors.
Other Provision of a range Benefits will be appropriate to an executive Not applicable benefits of insured and nondirectors circumstances and include: insured benefits Life cover of six times salary, subject to the commensurate with provision of satisfactory medical evidence, a the role.
permanent health insurance benefit of 75% of basic salary after six months' illness and membership of the group's private medical insurance scheme.
Fully expensed company car or a cash equivalent.
Participation in any all-employee share plans operated by the company on the same basis as other eligible employees.
Share To ensure alignment Executive directors are required to hold a minimum Not applicable ownership of the longof 125% of salary in the form of shares in the term interests company.
of management Executive directors are required to retain half of any and shareholders.
shares vesting net of tax under the LTIS until the guideline is met.
Unvested shares held under the PSP are not taken into account.
The committee will operate the incentive schemes within the policy detailed above and in line with their respective rules.
In relation to the discretions included within the scheme rules, these include, but are not limited to: i who participates in the schemes: ii testing of the relevant performance targets: iii undertaking an annual review of performance targets and weightings: iv the determination of the treatment of leavers in line with the scheme rules: v adjustments to existing incentive plans performance targets and or share awards if certain relevant events take place e. g. a capital restructuring, a material acquisition divestment etc.
with any such adjustments to result in the revised targets being no more or less challenging to achieve: and vi dealing with a change of control.
For the purposes of incentive pay, EPS is calculated on an adjusted basis.
111 Remuneration Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Remuneration Policy continued Different performance measures may Arrangements from prior Choice of performance be set initially for the annual bonus, years metrics taking into account the responsibilities The outstanding share incentive The performance metrics used for the of the individual and the point in awards which are detailed on pages annual bonus scheme, the LTIS and the the financial year that they join 122 to 126 of the Annual Report on 2013 PSP have been selected to reflect the company.
Remuneration will remain eligible to the key indicators of the companys Any incentive offered above these vest based on their original award financial performance.
limits would be contingent on the terms.
In addition, all arrangements EPS continues to be considered by company receiving shareholder previously disclosed in prior years the committee as one of the broadest approval for an amendment to its directors' remuneration reports will and most well understood measures approved policy at its next AGM.
remain eligible to vest or become of the companys long-term financial payable on their original terms.
The above policy applies to both performance and therefore it remains aninternal promotion to the board appropriate to maintain the option to Regulatory changes oran external hire.
use it as a key metric in our long-term The committee is mindful that incentive plans.
proposed regulatory changes in the In the case of an external hire, if it is financial services sector may result necessary to buyout incentive pay Furthermore, EPS is fully aligned in a need to rebalance the executive or benefit arrangements which with our objective of continuing to directors pay and, as a result, the would be forfeited on leaving a deliver a high dividend yield and thus committee retains discretion to previous employer, then the form is aligned with our shareholder base adjust the current proportions of cash or shares, timing and expected which is weighted towards longer-term fixed and variable pay within the value i. e. likelihood of meeting any income investors.
current total remuneration package existing performance criteria of In 2012, the link to RPI was removed if new legislation were to impact the the remuneration or benefit being from the targets set for awards made executive directors in due course.
forfeited will be taken into account.
under the LTIS and the PSP given: a Should this be the case, the company The company will not pay any more the negative impact of higher rates of would enter into appropriate dialogue than necessary and will not pay inflation on customers circumstances with its major shareholders and, more than the expected value of the which had the potential to encourage depending on the nature of any remuneration or benefit being forfeited.
excessive risk-taking: b the funding changes, may be required to seek The approved policy will apply to the costs of the group which are linked shareholder approval for a revised balance of the remuneration package.
not only to UK financial markets but remuneration policy.
The company will also not make a global financial markets including golden hello payment.
private placements and or bonds in Policy for new directors In the case of an internal promotion, the US and Europe : and c that RPI Base salary levels will be set in any outstanding variable pay awarded is considered to have the potential accordance with the approved policy, in relation to the previous role will be to devalue awards from an executive taking into account the experience allowed to pay out according to its directors perspective and is outside and calibre of the individual.
terms of grant adjusted as relevant oftheir direct control.
Benefits will also be provided in to take into account the board line with the approved policy and In light of these factors, delinking appointment, even if inconsistent relocation expenses arrangements the performance targets for the LTIS with the policy prevailing when the may be provided if necessary.
and PSP from RPI was considered commitment is fulfilled.
appropriate by the committee in 2012 The maximum level of variable pay that On the appointment of a new and this approach was retained in may be offered on an ongoing basis Chairman or non-executive director, relation to awards under the 2013 PSP and the structure of remuneration will the fees will be set taking into account and the LTIS in 2013.
It is intended be in accordance with the approved the experience and calibre of the that this will also be the approach for policy.
This limit does not include the individual.
Where specific cash or awards made under the 2013 PSP value of any buyout arrangements.
share arrangements are delivered to and the LTIS during the three-year non-executive directors, these will period to which this policy applies.
not include share options or other Performance targets will, however, be performance-related elements.
assessed annually when setting targets for future awards to take account of prevailing rates of inflation.
112 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Remuneration Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued In addition, TSR is used under the LTIS The amount an executive director Fixed pay comprises: to provide an appropriate external could earn under the approved policy i salaries salary effective as at balance to the internal EPS measure A significant proportion of 1 January 2014: and is consistent with delivering remuneration is linked to performance, ii b enefits amount received by superior returns to shareholders which particularly at maximum performance each executive director in the remains the companys key, overlevels.
The charts below show how 2013 financial year: and arching, long-term objective.
much the Chief Executive and the Finance Director could earn under the iii p ension pension credit of The committee has determined that policy under different performance 30%of salary.
absolute TSR continues to be an scenarios.
The following assumptions appropriate performance measure have been made: Awards under the PSP and LTIS have as the FTSE 250 is considered too been assumed as follows: diverse a group against which to Minimum performance below compare relative TSR performance.
threshold fixed pay only with no i PSP matching award of twoAlso, the general financial sector is vesting under the LTIS or PSP and thirds of bonus earned at target a diverse group of companies, none noannual bonus.
and maximum performance of which is considered to be directly levels: and On target fixed pay plus a bonus comparable to the company.
However, at target 60% of the maximum ii L TIS award equal to 200% the committee will continue to keep opportunity and vesting of 55% of of salary.
the appropriateness of this measure the matching award under the PSP under review.
Partnership and matching shares and 55% of the award under the LTIS.
under the all-employee Share Incentive No performance targets are set for Plan and options under the SAYE Maximum performance meets or options granted under the companys Scheme have not been included.
exceeds maximum fixed pay plus Save As You Earn SAYE Scheme or maximum bonus 120 100% of salary awards under the Share Incentive Plan The scenarios do not include any and maximum vesting under the PSP as they form part of the company's growth or a fall in the share price and LTIS.
all-employee arrangements which ordividend assumptions.
are designed to encourage employee It should be noted that since this share ownership across the group.
analysis shows what could be earned by the executive directors based Total remuneration opportunity on the approved policy ignoring Peter Crook Andrew Fisher the potential impact of share price movements the numbers will be 5,000,000 different to the values included in the table on page 120 detailing what 4,500,000 was actually earned by the executive 4,221,000 directors in relation to the financial 4,000,000 year ended 31 December 2013, since these values are based on the actual 3,500,000 levels of performance achieved to 31 December 2013 and include the 3,000,000 58% 2,814,000 impact of share price movements 2,541,200 inrelation to share awards.
2,500,000 2,000,000 58% 44% 1,741,460 1,500,000 20% 43% 19% 933,000 1,000,000 17% 695,000 17% 500,000 100% 22% 37% 40% 25% 100% 0 Minimum On target Maximum Minimum On target Maximum Fixed pay Annual bonus Long-term incentives 113 Remuneration Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Remuneration Policy continued Non-executive director remuneration policy PURPOSE AND LINK OPERATION ELEMENT TO STRATEGY INCLUDING MAXIMUM LEVELS Fees To attract and retain a high-calibre The Chairman and non-executive directors receive annual fees paid in monthly instalments.
Chairman and non-executive The fee for the Chairman is set by the remuneration committee and the fees for the non-executive directors by offering market directors are approved by the board.
competitive fees which reflect The Chairman is paid an all-inclusive fee for all board responsibilities.
The other non-executive the individuals skills, experience directors receive a basic non-executive director fee, with supplementary fees payable for additional and responsibilities.
The non-executive directors do not participate in any of the companys incentive arrangements.
Relevant expenses and or benefits may be provided to the non-executive directors.
The fee levels are reviewed on a regular basis, and may be increased taking into account factors such as the time commitment of the role and market levels in companies of comparable size and complexity.
Flexibility is retained to go above the current fee levels and or to provide the fees in a form other than cash but not as share options or other performance-related incentives if necessary to appoint a new Chairman or non-executive director of an appropriate calibre.
Fee levels for current incumbents for 2014 are as follows: Non-executive Chairman: 255,000 Non-executive director base fee: 64,000 Supplementary fee for chairing the audit, remuneration or risk advisory committee: 15,000: and Supplementary fee for the role of Senior Independent Director SID : 10,000 Service contracts and exit policy Payments in lieu of notice are In the case of a termination by the The committee ensures that the not pensionable.
company of the contract of any new contractual terms for the executive executive director who has been In the event of a change of control of directors take due account of appointed where a payment in lieu the company there is no enhancement best practice.
of notice is made, the committee to contractual terms.
would normally seek to limit this to Service contracts normally continue base salary, pension and benefits Notice periods are limited to twelve until the directors agreed retirement for up to twelve months.
If the company terminates the date or such other date as the parties in respect of loss of annual bonus employment of an executive director agree.
All service contracts contain for the period of notice served pro without giving the period of notice provisions for early termination.
rata would only be included in required under the contract, then the The contracts of the executive exceptional circumstances and would executive director may be entitled to directors are dated 27 April 2006 for not apply in circumstances of poor receive up to one years compensation.
the Chief Executive and 1 January performance.
For the avoidance of Compensation is limited to: base 2008 for the Finance Director.
doubt, the director would be eligible salary due for any unexpired notice All contracts operate on a rolling basis to be considered in the normal way for period: any amount assessed by the with a 12-month notice period.
an annual bonus for any period they committee as representing the value have served as a director, subject to A directors contract may be of contractual benefits and pension the normal assessment of group and terminated without notice and without which would have been received personal performance.
any further payment or compensation, during the period: and any annual except for sums accrued up to the bonus which the executive director Any share-based entitlements granted date of termination, on the occurrence might otherwise have been eligible to to an executive director under the of certain events such as gross receive on a pro rata basis, subject to companys share incentive schemes misconduct.
No director has a service the committees assessment of group will be determined based on the contract providing liquidated damages and personal performance.
In the case on termination.
of a bad leaver the awards normally To the extent that a director seeks to lapse and in certain good leaver In the event of the termination of bring a claim against the company circumstances e. g. ill health awards a service contract, it is the current in relation to the termination of would remain eligible to vest subject policy to seek mitigation of loss by their employment e. g. for breach to an assessment of the performance the director concerned and to aim of contract or unfair dismissal, the target and a pro rata reduction unless to ensure that any payment made is committee retains the right to make an the committee determines otherwise.
the minimum which is commensurate appropriate payment in settlement of with the companys legal obligations.
114 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Remuneration Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Non-executive directors Policy on other appointments Non-executive directors are not Executive directors are permitted to employed under service contracts hold one non-executive directorship and do not receive compensation for in a FTSE 100 company and to retain loss of office.
They are appointed for the fees from that appointment fixed terms of three years, renewable provided that the board considers for a further three-year term and, in that this will not adversely affect their exceptional circumstances, further executive responsibilities.
extended if both parties agree.
Copies of directors service contracts Any such extension will be subject to and or letters of appointment are annual reappointment by shareholders.
available from the Company Secretary The table below shows details of the on request.
terms of appointment for the nonexecutive directors.
In accordance with their terms of appointment, Robert Hough retired from the board on 31 January 2013 and John van Kuffeler retired from the board on 1 January 2014.
All other directors will seek appointment reappointment at the forthcoming AGM.
Date of most recent Expected actual date Name Appointment term of expiry John van Kuffeler 29 January 2002 29 January 2002 1 January 2014 Manjit Wolstenholme 16 July 2007 31 July 2013 31 July 2016 Rob Anderson 2 March 2009 30 March 2012 30 March 2015 Robert Hough 1 February 2007 31 January 2010 31 January 2013 Stuart Sinclair 1 October 2012 1 October 2012 31 October 2015 Malcolm Le May 1 January 2014 1 January 2014 31 January 2017 Alison Halsey 1 January 2014 1 January 2014 31 January 2017 Remuneration payments and payments for loss of office will only be made if consistent with the approved policy or otherwise approved by ordinary resolution of shareholders.
Manjit Wolstenholme Chairman of the remuneration committee for the year ended 31 December 2013 25 February 2014 115 Remuneration Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Annual Report on Remuneration risk management specifically in relation Committee role to the remuneration incentives in place.
Introduction andmembership The committee considers corporate The role of the committee is set out This Annual Report performance on environmental, social in its terms of reference which are and governance ESG issues when on Remuneration reviewed annually and were last setting the performance conditions updated in October 2013.
These can in conjunction with for the annual bonus scheme and be found on the groups website the approved policy share incentive plans and will use at www.
its discretion to ensure that, where described earlier The committee meets at least appropriate, the management of three times a year and thereafter as complies with the ESG risks are reflected in the rewards circumstances dictate.
Companies Act 2006 granted to executive directors and the Details of the work undertaken by the senior management team.
the Companies Act, committee during the year are set out Schedule 8 of the Effectiveness on page 117.
Large and MediumOn the basis of the external board and During the year the members of the committee evaluation undertaken by committee and their attendance at sized Companies and Independent Board Evaluation, the meetings were as shown below.
Groups Accounts and committee formally considered its The committee has reviewed and Reports Amendment effectiveness in 2013 at its meeting considered the impact of the FCA in January 2014.
In the interests Regulations 2013 and Remuneration Code FCA Code.
of continuity and in light of the the Listing Rules of Whilst the FCA Code applies to importance of the ongoing relationship Vanquis Bank, it does not apply to the the Financial Conduct between the new Chairman and the group.
As a consequence, a Vanquis Chief Executive it was agreed that the Authority FCA.
The Bank remuneration committee has new Chairman be invited to attend company also followed been established which has identified future meetings of the committee those Vanquis Bank employees who the requirements of but not as a member.
The committee are Remuneration Code Staff and it also considered it important for the the UK Corporate ensures that Vanquis Bank complies new committee chairman to explain Governance Code with the FCA Code on an ongoing the approved policy, its ongoing basis.
The committee reviews the theCode.
implementation and its impact to work undertaken by the Vanquis Bank the senior management team on an remuneration committee through This report will be annual basis as this would improve regular reports submitted to it.
subject to an advisory transparency of the remuneration The committee regularly reviews priorities and principles being deployed vote at the AGM of the remuneration policy in the context by the committee.
It was also felt company to be held on of the groups risk management such action would create a wider 8 May 2014 and sets framework to ensure it does not and better understanding of the inadvertently promote irresponsible approved policy across the group.
out details of how the behaviour.
It has coordinated its work Overall the committee determined that approved policy will be with both the audit committee and the it was operating effectively and that implemented in 2014 risk advisory committee who assist it continued to have the appropriate with the monitoring and assessment of regard for the key issues within its remit.
as well as details of the Name Notes Appointed To Attendance implementation of the Manjit Chairman until 1 16 July 2007 1 January 2014 7 out of 7 1 policy for the financial Wolstenholme January 2014 2 Robert Hough 1 February 2007 31 January 2013 1 out of 7 year just ended.
Rob Anderson 2 March 2009 To date 7 out of 7 Stuart Sinclair 1 October 2012 To date 6 out of 7 3 Malcolm Le May Chairman from 1 1 January 2014 To date n a January 2014 3 Alison Halsey 1 January 2014 To date n a 1 Ceased to be chairman and member from 1 January 2014, but will continue to attend meetings by invitation.
2 Retired from the board on 31 January 2013.
116 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Remuneration Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Remuneration committee calendar in 2013 January May October Consideration of shareholder feedback on Adoption and approval of the operation Consideration of an outline proposed 2013 remuneration policy of the Performance Share Plan 2013 2013 remuneration policy PSP Determination of vesting of LTIS awards granted in 2010 Grant of awards under the 2013 PSP November Review of directors expenses Adoption and approval of the operation of the Savings Related Share Option Further consideration of the outline Scheme 2013 remuneration policy.
February Adoption and approval of the operation Consideration of an outline 2013 Annual of the Share Incentive Plan 2013 Report on Remuneration Finalisation of the 2013 remuneration policy September Agreement on the format of the 2012 December remuneration report Review of executive Review of Chairmans fees Establishment of the proposed remuneration landscape remuneration policy for shareholder Review of prior year performance against Review of changes to remuneration approval financial and non-financial objectives in reporting requirements relation to the annual bonus scheme Further consideration of the 2013 Annual Agreement of terms of departure for Report on Remuneration ChrisGillespie Review of executive directors shareholdings At each main meeting Review of minutes of previous meetings Review of implementation of actions from previous meetings Vanquis Bank remuneration committee update The terms of engagement for NBS The Company Secretary is secretary External advisors are available from the Company to the committee and instructed the During the year, New Bridge Street Secretary on request.
The committee advisors on behalf of the committee.
NBS, a trading name of Aon also engaged Addleshaw Goddard The secretary attended all the plc NBSs parent company, was LLP to provide advice and support meetings of the committee in 2013 and engaged by the committee to provide to the committee in relation to the provides legal and technical support.
establishment of a replacement The total fees paid to NBS in respect In selecting advisers the committee Performance Share Plan, the of such services to the committee considers a range of factors e. g. Provident Financial Savings Related during the year were 45,197. independence and objectivity, Share Option Scheme 2013 and the NBS is a signatory to the Remuneration experience, technical ability and Provident Financial Share Incentive Consultants Code of Conduct.
These factors Plan, all of which were approved also provides pension consultancy, are reviewed on a regular basis by by shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
accounting and actuarial advice to the the committee.
The total fees paid to Addleshaw company.
The committee is satisfied Goddard in respect of this work were that these additional services in no way 11,400.
Addleshaw Goddard has compromised the independence of provided other legal advisory services advice from NBS.
to the company during the year, chiefly relating to financial regulation.
117 Remuneration Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Annual Report on Remuneration continued EPS excluding exceptional items is LTIS Components of the the key internal measure of financial The committee is responsible for approved policy performance as it is the broadest selecting eligible employees, including The approved policy will be measure of the groups financial executive directors, to participate in implemented in 2014 as follows: performance and is aligned to the and for granting conditional share shareholder base which is weighted awards under the LTIS.
No payment Executive Directors towards longer-term income investors.
is required on grant or vesting of 1.
Until an award vests, a Salaries for executive directors and Straight-line vesting will operate participant has no voting, dividend the senior management team are between 95% of targeted group EPS or other rights in respect of the reviewed annually by the committee, and the maximum of 105% of targeted shares.
Participants are eligible to although not necessarily increased.
The personal objectives be considered for awards annually.
At its meeting in December 2013, the element of the scheme will continue The aggregate market value of awards committee considered the companys to be underpinned by a threshold level made under the LTIS in any one strong financial performance and each of targeted group EPS performance.
financial year may not exceed 200% individuals responsibilities, abilities, On the basis that the vast majority of of basic salary which is the normal experience and personal performance.
the group's competitors are unlisted, grant policy under the LTIS and the The committee also considered both and on the basis that the EPS target is committee intends to grant awards the groups own salary structures, pay consistent with the groups objective at this level in respect of the current and conditions and, although used with of continuing to deliver a high dividend financial year.
This 200% limit does caution, market data on salary rates yield, the committee considers that not include the value of any dividend for similar positions in comparative disclosure of the actual EPS target equivalent payable on shares vesting companies where appropriate.
for the annual bonus scheme in 2014 under an LTIS award which is also paid Accordingly, it agreed to increase the would put the company at a significant on the vesting date.
executive directors salaries in 2014 commercial disadvantage.
Details of as follows: the extent to which the bonus targets For awards to be made in 2014, it are achieved will however be set is proposed that the performance Directors % increase Salary name 2014 out in the next Annual Report targets for the LTIS continue to be Peter Crook 3.0 685,000 on Remuneration.
based on absolute EPS and absolute Andrew Fisher 3.0 489,000 TSR, with the range of targets Clawback provisions also apply to remaining unchanged from 2013.
These increases are consistent with the annual bonus awards which will enable average percentage increases awarded the committee to clawback value The actual range of the EPS targets for elsewhere in the group.
overpaid in the event of a restatement awards made in 2014 will be as follows of the companys Annual Report and with a sliding scale of vesting on a 2.
Annual bonus Financial Statements or an error in the straight-line basis between these lower The group operates an annual bonus calculation of the extent to which the and upper targets : scheme which provides the framework performance target has been met.
for an annual incentive for executive Any bonuses paid are non-pensionable directors.
The aim of the scheme is to and are not taken into account improve the companys performance when determining base salary for through the achievement of certain performance-related remuneration.
Long-term incentive schemes will continue to be restricted to 120% The companys long-term incentive of salary for the Chief Executive and arrangements for executive directors 100% of salary for the Finance Director.
are the Provident Financial Executive The performance conditions for the Share Option Scheme 2006 the 2014 annual bonus will be based on the ESOS, the LTIS and the 2013 PSP.
groups EPS and personal objectives as follows: Peter Crook Andrew Fisher Measure Maximum bonus Maximum bonus opportunity opportunity Group EPS 80% 657,600 80% 391,200 Personal 20% 164,400 20% 97,800 objectives 118 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Remuneration Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued waiver into the 2013 PSP.
The value of Share incentive plan Annualised growth Percentage vesting of inEPS EPS part of award the award can therefore increase or In addition to the Provident Financial Below 5% 0% decrease depending on the prevailing Savings Related Share Option Scheme 5% 20% share price at the date of vesting.
2013, an all-employee, HMRC- 11% 100% approved Share Incentive Plan SIP The actual range of the EPS targets for was approved by shareholders at awards made in 2014 will be as follows: The actual range of the TSR targets for the 2013 AGM.
The introduction of a awards made in 2014 will be as follows SIP is a further mechanism through Average annual Matching shares with a sliding scale of vesting on a growth inEPS vesting which the company encourages straight-line basis between these lower Below 5% No vesting employees to acquire shares in a taxand upper targets : 5% Half of one share approved manner and runs alongside 11% Two matching shares the Provident Financial Savings Percentage vesting of Annualised TSR TSR part of award Related Share Option Scheme 2013.
The same general underpin to the EPS Below 8% 0% Executive directors and the senior targets in the LTIS as set out opposite 8% 20% management team are invited to applies to all awards granted under the 15% 100% participate in the SIP on the same 2013 PSP.
terms as all other eligible employees.
Notwithstanding achievement against Awards made under the previous PSP The SIP provides an opportunity to the challenging EPS targets, vesting are subject to different performance invest in the companys shares and will only take place to the extent that measures, have different award levels benefit from the companys offer the committee considers the vesting and will vest in accordance with the to match that investment on the to be consistent with the broader terms of their grant in due course.
basis of one share for every four financial performance of the company Further details are set out on pages shares purchased.
and the committee may scale back 124 to 125. vesting if this is not considered Non-executive directors ESOS to be the case.
Non-executive directors fees The committee does not intend to introduced this underpin to the already At its meeting in February 2014, the make further grants to executive demanding EPS targets to ensure that board reviewed the non-executive directors under the ESOS in 2014. the executive directors do not place directors fees in the context of a too great an emphasis on EPS alone.
All-employee share schemes There is a similar general underpin by NBS and after taking due account Savings-related share option scheme which applies to the TSR target and of the anticipated ongoing time The executive directors together isset out on page 122. commitment for the role.
On this with other eligible employees may basis, the base fee was increased by participate in the Provident Financial PSP 1,500 to 64,000 with effect from Savings Related Share Option The previous PSP expired in 2012 and 1 March 2014.
Scheme 2013 which was approved a replacement PSP the 2013 PSP was by shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
approved by shareholders at the AGM 2.
Chairmans fees Participants save a fixed sum each in May 2013.
On 1 January 2014, Manjit month for three or five years and may Wolstenholme was appointed as Under the 2013 PSP, executive use these funds to purchase shares Chairman, and on the basis of a directors are required to defer a after three or five years.
The exercise benchmarking exercise carried minimum of one-third of annual bonus price is fixed at up to 20% below the out by NBS in December 2013 and payable into the 2013 PSP.
They may market value of the shares at the date taking into account the anticipated also elect to defer up to a further third directors and employees are invited time commitment, the committee of bonus.
They then receive matching to participate in the scheme and agreed to increase the Chairmans awards under the 2013 PSP which are monthly savings amounts are subject fees to 255,000 with effect from subject to a performance target based to HMRC limits.
At the lower end of the performance target range, one half of a matching share will vest up to a maximum of two matching shares at the upper end of the performance target range for each basic share awarded following bonus 119 Remuneration Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Details of the implementation of the company's remuneration policy in 2013 are set out below.
Directors remuneration Robert Hough retired from the board on 31 January 2013 and Chris Gillespie resigned from the board on 13 September 2013.
1 The annual bonus represents the gross bonus payable to the directors in respect of 2013.
Each director has agreed to waive two-thirds of gross bonus in order to participate in the 2013 PSP.
2 In addition to his salary for the period to 13 September 2013, Chris Gillespie received a payment in lieu of two months notice 102,467, which is included in the salary figure in the table above.
He also received a payment of 51,234, comprising: 25,617 in respect of new post termination restrictions, and 25,617 in respect of new confidentiality restrictions: both of which provide enhanced protection to the company over and above the provisions in his contract of employment.
These restrictions formed part of his settlement agreement.
His bonus in respect of 2013 lapsed along with his outstanding LTIS awards and his Matching Awards under the PSP and 2013 PSP.
The Basic Awards under the PSP and 2013 PSP i. e. the deferred element of his historic bonus awards vested in full in accordance with the rules of the schemes.
3 Amount calculated based on 100% vesting of 2011 awards multiplied by an average share price for the three months ended 31 December 2013.
No account has been taken of the dividend equivalent payable on these shares, which will be calculated on the vesting date of 4 March 2014.
The actual value may vary depending on the actual share price on 4 March 2014.
4 Amount calculated based on 100% vesting of 2011 awards multiplied by an average share price for the three months ended 31 December 2013.
Actual vesting date is 4 March 2014 and so the actual value may vary depending on the actual share price on 4 March 2014.
120 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Remuneration Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Fees Annual cash bonus Benefits in kind Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Directors name 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Chairman 1 John van Kuffeler 280 265 49 40 329 305 Non-executive directors Rob Anderson 75 75 7 4 82 79 Manjit Wolstenholme 85 75 2 1 87 76 2 Robert Hough 7 80 3 5 10 85 Stuart Sinclair 75 19 75 19 Sub-total 522 514 61 50 583 564 1 25,000 of this fee was paid to John van Kuffelers service company, Parchester Limited.
Retired from the board on 1 January 2014.
Note: The non-executive directors did not, except John van Kuffeler, receive a pension benefit nor did they receive any bonus or share incentive entitlements.
John van Kuffeler received a pension benefit of 30,000 in 2012 and 2013.
Straight-line vesting operated between Directors fees Annual bonus scheme 95% of targeted group EPS and the Non-executive directors The 2013 annual bonus scheme maximum of 105% of targeted group Non-executive directors fees are was based on a group audited EPS EPS.
A similar principle applied to designed both to recognise the target as defined in the rules of the the divisional financial target set for responsibilities of non-executive scheme, personal objectives and a Chris Gillespie.
directors and to attract individuals with divisional financial target in the case the necessary skills and experience of Chris Gillespie.
The committee carries out a to contribute to the future growth detailed review of the computations The maximum bonus opportunity in of the company.
Full details of the undertaken in determining the groups respect of 2013 was restricted to 120% non-executive directors fees are EPS and ensures that the rules of of salary for the Chief Executive and set out in the table above.
Nonthe scheme are applied consistently.
100% of salary for the other executive executive directors remuneration does The companys auditor is also asked directors and was split as follows: not include share options or other to perform agreed-upon procedures performance-related elements.
on behalf of the committee on the Peter Andrew Chris Crook Fisher Gillespie EPS calculations.
Chairman Measure Maximum bonus opportunity The fees for the Chairman are fixed At its meeting in February 2014, the Group EPS 80% 80% 20% by the committee.
Full details of the committee assessed the groups Divisional 60% Chairmans fees are set out in the financial performance against the targeted target table above.
The EPS achieved of 116.4p Personal 20% 20% 20% exceeded the targeted group EPS of objectives Fees from other directorships 111.8p and the committee therefore Peter Crook was appointed as a nonThe actual proportions of the 2013 determined that 92.0% of the EPS executive director of Cabot Group targeted group EPS that needed to element of the 2013 annual bonus Holdings Limited on 1 September be delivered, which the committee would be paid.
2013 and he retains the fee from that considered to be challenging, were appointment.
During 2013 these fees The balance of the annual bonus, as follows: amounted to 16,668. as detailed in the table of directors Threshold Target Maximum remuneration on page 120, was paid % of the 95% 100% 105% on the basis of the committees targeted assessment of the extent to which the group EPS personal objectives for Peter Crook achieved and Andrew Fisher were achieved.
% of EPS 0% 60% 100% element of annual bonus paid 121 Remuneration Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Annual Report on Remuneration continued The Chief Executives personal i 2010 Awards LTIS objectives included, but were not The assessment of the extent to which Grants under the scheme are limited to, undertaking a strategic these performance conditions were restricted to no more than 200% of a review for the ongoing group, in met for the conditional share awards participants basic salary.
Historically, particular the repositioning of CCD granted in 2010 was discussed by the and dependent upon satisfactory and taking steps to implement its key committee at its meeting in January personal and corporate performance outcomes, effectively managing the 2013, with assistance from NBS.
the committees policy has been to funding position of the group and The companys annualised growth in grant conditional share awards at the effective management of internal and EPS over the performance period was maximum level.
Executive directors external regulators and stakeholders.
12.6%, and the annualised growth in received maximum grants in 2013.
The committees assessment, having RPI over the same period was 4.2%.
considered performance against As the level of growth exceeded the 2013 Awards each objective, was that the level of maximum target of annualised growth The performance targets for awards achievement against these objectives of RPI plus 8%, this resulted in 100% of to be made under the LTIS in 2013 was 75%.
the EPS element of the award vesting.
were reviewed by the committee at The Finance Directors personal its meeting in February 2013 and it NBS also confirmed that the objectives included, but were not was considered that they remained companys annualised TSR over the limited to, undertaking a review of appropriately challenging given three-year performance period was strategic options to develop the market forecasts and the economic 21.5%, which exceeded the maximum group, effective management of the environment prevailing at the time.
target of annualised TSR of 15%, treasury and taxation functions, and The actual range of the targets resulting in 100% of the TSR element effective management of the groups for awards in 2013 are the same in of the award vesting.
The committees terms of metrics and annual growth therefore approved a 100% vesting assessment, having considered requirements as the proposed 2014 of the 2010 awards, having satisfied performance against these objectives, LTIS awards, further details of which itself that the TSR performance was was that the level of achievement are set out on pages 118 and 119. a genuine reflection of the underlying against these objectives was 95% business performance.
2010 and 2011 Awards The range of bonus payable as a This assessment included Vesting of the 2010 and 2011 percentage of salary in relation to 2013 consideration of various factors, conditional share awards is split equally was therefore 93% to 106%.
including the annualised increase between the companys annualised in profit before tax and exceptional Following Chris Gillespies resignation growth in EPS and its annualised items over the period of 11.7% and the from the board on 13 September 2013 TSR.
Under the EPS measure, no annualised increase in dividend over the committee determined that no award will vest if annualised growth the period of 6.7%.
in EPS is below RPI plus 3% over ii 2011 Awards the performance period.
For annual Share incentive schemes The assessment of the extent to which growth of RPI plus 3%, 25% of the these performance conditions were In 2013, the committee continued with award vests 12.5% of the total award.
met for the conditional share awards the policy of making conditional share The level of award vesting increases granted in 2011 was discussed by the awards to executive directors and the on a straight-line basis so that for committee at its meeting in January senior management team under the annualised growth in RPI plus 8% over 2014, with assistance from NBS.
LTIS and awards under the 2013 PSP.
a period of three consecutive financial The companys annualised growth in This policy is in line with prevailing years, the award vests in full 50% of EPS over the performance period was market practice and recognises that the total award.
14.8%, and the annualised growth in conditional share awards, and the Under the annualised TSR measure, no RPI over the same period was 3.5%.
deferral of annual bonus in the case award will vest if the annualised TSR As the level of growth exceeded the of the 2013 PSP, provide greater is below 10% over the performance maximum target of annualised EPS alignment with shareholders interests.
For annualised TSR of 10%, growth of RPI plus 8%, this resulted 25% of the award vests 12.5% of in 100% of the EPS element of the the total award.
The level of award award vesting.
vesting increases on a straight-line basis so that for annualised TSR of15% the award vests in full 50% ofthetotal award.
122 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Remuneration Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued NBS also confirmed that the There were no changes in directors As in previous years, awards made in companys annualised TSR over conditional share awards between 2012 and 2013 to employees within the three-year performance period 1 January 2014 and 25 February 2014. the Consumer Credit Division CCD was 31.4%, which exceeded the and Vanquis Bank are subject to a The executive directors have waived an maximum target of annualised TSR challenging divisional target rather entitlement to any dividend in respect of 15%, resulting in 100% of the than group EPS and TSR targets.
of the conditional share awards during TSR element of the award vesting.
To the extent The mid-market closing price of the The committee therefore approved an award vests at the end of the companys shares on 31 December a 100% vesting of the 2011 awards, performance period, either additional 2013 was 1623.5p.
The range having satisfied itself that the ordinary shares in the company or during 2013 was 1377p to 1773p.
TSR performance was a genuine a cash amount equivalent to the No consideration is payable on the reflection of the underlying business dividends that would have been paid award of conditional shares.
This assessment on the vested awards from the date of included consideration of various grant, will be provided to the executive factors, including the increase in profit directors if and when the award vests.
before tax and exceptional items over the period of 17.8% and the increase in dividend over the period of 15.7%.
Long Term Incentive Scheme Details of the conditional share awards granted to the executive directors during 2013 are summarised below: Number Percentage of Performance Performance % vesting at 1 2 Directors name Date of award of shares Face value salary condition period threshold Peter Crook 01.03.2013 90,784 1,330,000 200% 50% based on 3 financial absolute TSR and Andrew Fisher 01.03.2013 64,846 950,000 200% years ending 31 20% 50% based on December 2015 Chris Gillespie 01.03.2013 62,798 920,000 200% absolute EPS 1 Face value calculation is based on the share price of 14.65 on 28 February 2013.
Actual award achievable at vesting may be greater or lesser depending on actual share price at vesting and as a result of any dividend equivalent payable on vested shares.
2 Performance conditions are set out on pages 118 and 119.
2 In accordance with the rules of the LTIS, Chris Gillespie's awards granted under the LTIS in 2011, 2012 and 2013 lapsed on 13 September 2013.
3 Half the award vests subject to EPS growth with 20% of this part of the award vesting for EPS growth of 5% per annum through to full vesting for EPS growth of 11% per annum.
The remaining half of the award vests subject to absolute TSR with 20% of this part of the award vesting for 8% absolute TSR per annum and full vesting for absolute TSR of 15% per annum.
No vesting takes place below the threshold performance levels with straight line vesting taking place between threshold and maximum performance levels.
In addition: 1 where absolute TSR performance targets operate, that part of the award will not vest unless the committee is satisfied that the TSR performance is a genuine reflection of the underlying performance of the company: and 2 where absolute EPS performance targets operate, that part of the award will not vest unless the committee is satisfied that the vesting is consistent with the broader financial performance of the company.
Full details of historic performance targets have been fully set out in previous directors remuneration reports.
123 Remuneration Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Offshore Employee Benefit Trust seniority, of their annual bonus for a For awards granted in 2012 and 2013, The rules of the LTIS allow it to be period of three years.
Participants then the committee changed the EPS target operated in conjunction with any received a basic award of shares equal to an absolute EPS target, which is employee trust established by the to the value of their waived bonus, consistent with the absolute EPS target company.
Accordingly, the company together with an equivalent matching which was introduced for awards established the Provident Financial plc award on the basis of one share for under the LTIS from 2012, as set out 2007 Employee Benefit Trust EBT each share acquired by a participant onpage 112. in Jersey on 11 September 2007 with pursuant to their basic award which Performance is measured over a Kleinwort Benson Jersey Trustees issubject to a performance condition.
period of three consecutive financial Limited acting as the trustee of Awards to executive directors and years, the first of which is the financial the trust.
certain members of the senior year starting immediately before the The EBT, together with any other trust management team in 2013 were grant date of the matching award.
established by the company for the made on the basis of up to two shares A sliding scale of vesting on a straightbenefit of employees cannot, at any for each share acquired pursuant to line basis will apply between these time, hold more than 5% of the issued their basic award, the second share lower and upper targets.
share capital of the company.
being subject to a more stretching performance target.
The actual range of the EPS targets for Kleinwort Benson Jersey Trustees awards granted in 2012 is as follows: Limited, as trustee of the EBT, For awards granted in 2011, the first subscribed for 508,802 ordinary matching share granted on the basis Average annual Matching shares growth in EPS vesting shares in March 2013 for the purpose of one share for each share acquired Below 5% No vesting of satisfying the 2013 awards made pursuant to the basic award only 5% One matching share pursuant to the LTIS.
The trustee vests in full if the companys average 11% Two matching shares transferred the beneficial ownership annual percentage growth in EPS is subject to the performance conditions equal to, or greater than, the average The actual range of the EPS targets for set out on page 121 in 218,428 of the annual percentage growth in RPI plus awards granted in 2013 is as follows: shares for no consideration to the 3% measured over a period of three Average annual Matching shares executive directors on 27 March 2013. consecutive financial years, the first growth in EPS vesting of which is the financial year starting Kleinwort Benson Jersey Trustees Below 5% No vesting immediately before the grant date Limited also subscribed for 299,618 5% Half of one share of the matching award.
The second ordinary shares in March 2013 for the 11% Two matching shares matching award is subject to a more purpose of satisfying the 2013 awards stretching performance target and For awards granted in 2011 and 2012, made pursuant to the 2013 PSP.
only vests in full if the companys the dividends payable on the basic The trustee transferred the beneficial average annual percentage growth and matching shares are paid to the ownership subject to the performance in EPS is equal to, or greater than, directors on the normal dividend conditions set out opposite, in 128,456 the average annual percentage payment date.
For awards granted of the shares for no consideration growth in RPI plus 8%, measured in 2013, the dividend payable on to the executive directors on 9 May over a period of three consecutive the basic award only is paid to the 2013 and also transferred the legal financial years, the first of which is the directors on the normal payment date.
and beneficial ownership in 64,228 financial year starting immediately Any dividend payable on the matching of the shares for no consideration to before the grant date of the matching shares granted in 2013 will be paid to the executive directors.
A sliding scale of vesting on the directors as a dividend equivalent has entered into a dividend waiver a straight-line basis applies between on the normal vesting date.
agreement in respect of all the shares it these lower and upper targets.
holds in the company at any time.
The dividends received in 2013 At its meeting in January 2014 the under the PSP and 2013 PSP committee considered the extent to PSP were: Peter Crook 178,237 which the performance target for the In 2013, participation in the 2013 PSP 2012: 135,970, Andrew Fisher awards granted in 2011 had been met.
included the executive directors, who 105,278 2012: 79,896, and Chris The average annual growth in EPS over were able to elect to waive up to twoGillespie 41,290 2012: 53,003. the performance period was 16.0% and thirds with a minimum of one-third of These figures have been included in the average annual growth in RPI over their annual bonus for a period of three the table of directors remuneration the same period was 3.6%.
This level of years, and other eligible employees onpage 120.
EPS growth exceeded the maximum who were able to waive up to 50% target of RPI plus 8% resulting in 100% or 30%, depending on their level of of the matching awards vesting.
124 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Remuneration Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Performance Share Plan Details of the awards granted to the executive directors under the 2013 PSP during 2013 are summarised below: Directors Number of Percentage of Performance Performance % vesting at 1 2 name Date of award Type of award shares Face value salary condition period threshold Peter Crook 09.05.2013 Basic 33,243 509,615 77% Matching 66,486 1,019,230 153% 100% based on absolute 3 financial Andrew Fisher 09.05.2013 Basic 20,222 310,003 65% Half a matching EPS growth of years ending 31 share Matching 40,444 620,006 131% between 5% December 2015 and 11% Chris Gillespie 09.05.2013 Basic 10,763 164,997 35.9% Matching 21,526 329,994 71.7% 1 Face value calculated based on the 15 March 2013 share price of 15.33.
As disclosed in the 2012 remuneration report, these awards were granted based on the share price on 15 March 2013 notwithstanding the grant of the awards in May 2013 following shareholder approval of the 2013 PSP, to ensure that the market value used was the same as the market value on the date of the payment of the cash element of the bonus.
2 Performance conditions are set out on page 124.
All the corresponding matching awards lapsed on 13 September 2013.
One director exercised share options None of the directors has notified the Savings-related share under the Provident Financial plc company of an interest in any other option scheme Employee Savings-Related Share shares, transactions or arrangements As set out on page 119 the executive Option Scheme 2003 during the year which requires disclosure.
directors may participate in the and there was a 12,672 notional gain Provident Financial Savings Related representing the difference between Share Option Scheme 2013. the exercise price and the market price of the shares at the date of exercise This scheme does not contain on the exercise of this share option performance conditions as it 2012: nil.
is an HMRC-approved scheme designed for employees at all levels.
There were no changes in directors Invitations to join the scheme were share options between 1 January 2014 issued to eligible employees in August and 25 February 2014.
2013 following approval of the scheme by shareholders at the 2013 AGM.
No consideration is payable on the grant of an option.
125 Remuneration Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Directors share options at 2013 are set out in the table below.
Statement of shareholder 31 December 2013, granted under In addition, both Peter Crook and voting at AGM the Provident Financial plc Employee Andrew Fisher each held eight shares At the 2013 AGM the directors Savings-Related Share Option Scheme under the Provident Financial Share remuneration report received the 2003 and the Provident Financial Incentive Plan.
following votes from shareholders: Savings Related Share Option Scheme Total number % of votes Range of of votes cast normal Market exercisable For 111,393,785 99.5 value at dates of Against 549,773 0.5 Options Options date of options Total votes 111,943,558 100.0 Directors held at Granted in Exercised held at Exercise exercise held cast for name 01.01.2013 2013 in 2013 31.12.2013 price p p 31.12.2013 and against Peter Crook 1,777 1,777 868 01.12.2016 31.05.2017 The total number of votes withheld was 129,601 Andrew 1,359 1,359 662 1,594.5 01.12.2016 Fisher 31.05.2017 689 689 1,305 Clawback Chris In accordance with the Gillespie recommendations within the Code Total 3,136 689 1,359 2,466 and other best practice guidance, the committee, having consulted with approval for the removal of the 5% NBS, introduced clawback provisions Dilution and use of equity anti-dilution limit from the rules of the into all awards under the Annual Following the demerger of the LTIS was passed at the companys Bonus Scheme, LTIS and the Provident international business in 2007 and the 2008 AGM.
Information on the Financial Performance Share Plan from subsequent share consolidation, the resolution was included in the December 2010 and into all awards number of shares in issue was halved.
shareholders circular and notice of under the 2013 PSP.
This enables As a consequence of this, the 5% the 2008 AGM.
Awards granted under the committee, at its discretion, to anti-dilution limit contained within the the LTIS can therefore be satisfied clawback value overpaid in the event companys executive share incentive using newly issued shares, up to the of: i a material prior period error schemes was completely utilised so 10% anti-dilution limit in any 10 years, requiring restatement of the group that it was no longer possible for the which applies to all share schemes financial statements: or ii an error company to satisfy any new awards operated by the company.
In due in assessing the extent to which a granted under the executive share course, the committee intends to performance target and or any other incentive schemes using newly issued re-introduce the 5% limit when the condition had been met.
shares as opposed to satisfying LTIS can be effectively operated in awards by making market purchases accordance with, and subject to, a 5% of shares.
Had the demerger not anti-dilution limit.
occurred, the company would have had sufficient headroom under the The table below sets out the then existing 5% limit to continue to headroom available for all employee satisfy awards under the executive share schemes and shares held in trust share incentive schemes using newly as at 31 December.
Headroom 2013 2012 The committee considers the LTIS an All-employee 2.1% 1.9% share schemes important means of incentivising and Shares held in 2.9% 2.8% retaining key executives and senior trust management and consequently a resolution seeking shareholder 126 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Remuneration Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued 1.
Total shareholder return: Provident Financial vs. FTSE 250 2008 to 2013 Payments for loss of office Details of the payments made to Chris 300 Gillespie in relation to his departure from the board are set out in the 250 footnote to the directors remuneration table on page 120.
200 Total shareholder return: 150 Provident Financial plc vs FTSE250 100 The first graph 1 shows the total shareholder return for Provident Financial plc against the FTSE Provident Financial FTSE 250 250 index for the past five years.
This index was chosen for comparison 2.
Total shareholder return: Provident Financial vs. FTSE 250 16.07.2007 to 31.12.2013 because the company has been a member of this index for the five- 300 year period.
The second graph 2 shows the comparison for the period 250 from demerger of the international 200 business to 31 December 2013, 150 which the committee believes is a more accurate representation of the 100 company's performance.
The table 3 50 below these graphs shows the total remuneration figure for Peter Crook, 0 the Chief Executive, over the fiveyear period.
The total remuneration figure includes the annual bonus paid Provident Financial FTSE 250 together with LTIS and PSP awards which vested based on the relevant performance targets in those years.
Chief Executive remuneration 2009-2013 Year ended 31 December The annual bonus, LTIS and PSP 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 percentages show the payout for Single total figure of remuneration 000 2,023 2,727 3,443 4,326 4,990 each year as a percentage of the Annual bonus % 81 100 98 89 maximum opportunity.
LTIS vesting % 100 66 49 100 100 PSP vesting % 100 79 100 Chief executive relative pay The table 4 opposite shows the percentage year-on-year change in 4.
Chief Executive relative pay salary, benefits and annual bonus Annual earned between the year ended % Salary Benefits bonus 31 December 2012 and the year ended Chief Executive 2.3% 13.5% 7.0 % 31 December 2013 for Peter Crook, Average corporate office employee 4.9% 13.0% 9.0 % the Chief Executive, compared to Across the group, the budgeted salary increase ranged from 0% to 3.5%.
the average for the corporate office employees during the same period.
The corporate office employees are considered to be a more suitable comparator group due to the range and composition of employees and the wide range of different remuneration structures and practices which operate across the group.
127 2008 2009 2010 Jul 07 2011 Dec 07 Jul 08 2012 Dec 08 Jul 09 2013 Dec 09 Jul 10 Dec 10 Jul 11 Dec 11 Jul 12 Dec 12 Jul 13 Dec 13 Remuneration Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Annual Report on Remuneration continued dependant, or in an ISA or pension Relative importance of Share ownership guidelines scheme are included, whilst unvested spend on pay The company has share ownership LTIS awards and awards granted under guidelines for executive directors The table below shows the total the PSP and 2013 PSP are not.
which in 2013 required them to acquire pay including bonuses for all the and maintain shares in the company The executive directors complied groups employees in the 2012 and with a value of 125% of basic salary.
with these guidelines as at 2013 financial years compared to the Executive directors are required to 31 December 2013: distributions made to shareholders in retain 50% of vested LTIS awards, the same periods.
Actual share net of tax, until this requirement has ownership as a Year Year been reached.
Directors name percentage of salary ended 31 ended 31 Peter Crook 203% December December % The committee reviews the 2013 2012 change Andrew Fisher 172% shareholdings of the executive Total 115.9 114.3 1.4 directors in the light of these guidelines Details of shares held by directors employee remuneration once a year, based on the market value and their connected persons, are m of the companys shares at the date shown below.
When performing the shareholder distributions calculation to assess progress against m the guidelines, shares held by a spouse, Unvested Owned Subject to Not subject to Total as at Director Type outright performance conditions performance conditions 31.12.13 Peter Crook Own name 82,979 82,979 Held in YBS Trustees SIP 8 8 LTIS 334,943 334,943 PSP 193,978 96,989 290,967 Total 82,987 528,921 96,989 708,897 Andrew Fisher Own name 50,297 50,297 Held in YBS Trustees SIP 8 8 LTIS 239,368 239,368 PSP 115,358 57,679 173,037 Total 50,305 354,726 57,679 462,710 128 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Remuneration Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued was a deferred member of the cash Unfunded Unapproved Retirement Pensions and life assurance balance section of the pension scheme Benefits Scheme In December 2011, the Finance Act from 3 April 2012.
The Reduced Annual The company operates an Unfunded introduced the Reduced Annual Allowance significantly impacts the Unapproved Retirement Benefits Allowance, which limited the benefits benefits that can be received through Scheme UURBS to provide cash that can be provided by the groups the pension scheme on a tax-efficient balance benefits to those employees registered pension schemes on a taxbasis.
The accumulated cash balance affected by the Reduced Annual efficient basis to a value of 50,000 in credit increases each year by the lower Allowance.
Details of the pension any year.
As a result, the company has of the increase in RPI plus 1.5% and credits earned under the UURBS provided a range of options through 6.5%.
At retirement, up to 25% of the areset out in the table on page 130. which executive directors can choose total value of the directors retirement to receive retirement benefits with a Cash supplement account can be taken as a lump sum, value equivalent to 30%of salary.
A further option is for directors to with the balance used to purchase an receive a cash supplement in lieu of annuity.
If the director dies in service, Pension entitlements the benefits payable in excess of the a death benefit of six times salary plus Details of the pension entitlements Reduced Annual Allowance.
the value of the retirement account earned under the companys pension is payable.
Benefits paid under the Cash arrangements are set out on page 130.
Supplement are set out in the tableon Details of the pension entitlements Provident Financial Staff page 130. earned under the cash balance section Pension Scheme of the pension scheme are set out in Both the UURBS and the Cash There are three directors 2012: three the table on page 130.
Supplement can also be used where for whom retirement benefits accrued employees are affected by the HMRC in the year under the cash balance Personal pension arrangements Lifetime Allowance of 1.5m which is section of the Provident Financial John van Kuffeler had a defined reducing to 1.25m from 6 April 2014.
Staff Pension Scheme the pension contribution personal pension scheme.
The pension scheme is a arrangement.
A life assurance benefit defined benefit scheme with cash of four times his fees was also provided balance benefits.
by the company through its Group Life Scheme in the event of death in Peter Crook was a member of the cash service.
During 2013 the company balance section of the pension scheme contributed 29,900 2012: 29,900 throughout 2013.
Andrew Fisher was to his pension arrangement.
a member of the cash balance section of the pension scheme until 4 June Andrew Fisher also has a personal 2013, when he transferred the value of pension arrangement to which the his pension rights into a Self Invested company contributed 18,364 in 2013 Personal Pension SIPP.
129 Remuneration Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Annual Report on Remuneration continued Accrued retirement account as at 1 2 31December Increase in retirement account Age as at Normal 5 31 December 2013 retirement age 2013 2012 2013 2012 Defined benefits 000 000 000 000 Cash balance Peter Crook 50 60 1,105 1,040 65 81 3 Andrew Fisher 55 60 802 28 42 4 Chris Gillespie 50 60 618 615 3 19 UURBS Peter Crook 50 553 356 197 173 Andrew Fisher 55 317 180 137 123 Non-defined benefits Cash Supplement Chris Gillespie 50 92 135 Self Invested Personal Pension Andrew Fisher 55 18 38 John van Kuffeler 65 65 30 30 1 The transfer value of the accrued retirement account is the same as the accrued retirement account.
2 The increase in the transfer value of the accrued retirement account is the same as the increase in the retirement account.
The total increases for each director in 2013 which are included in the table of directors remuneration on page 120 were: Peter Crook: 262,000: Andrew Fisher: 183,000 and Chris Gillespie: 95,000.
3 On 4 June 2013 Andrew Fisher opted out of the Cash Balance section of the Scheme and took a transfer value of 830,000 to his Self Invested Personal Pension.
4 Chris Gillespie ceased to be a director on 13 September 2013 and the values shown are as at that date.
5 Any request for early retirement will require the consent of the Trustees of the pension scheme.
Audit The elements of the directors remuneration including pension entitlements and share options set out on pages 120 to 130 of this report which are required to be audited, have been audited in accordance with the Companies Act.
This Annual Report on Remuneration has been approved by the remuneration committee and the board and signed on its behalf.
Manjit Wolstenholme Chairman of the remuneration committee for the year ended 31 December 2013 25 February 2014 130 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Financial statements Consolidated income statement Page 132 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Page 132 Earnings per share Page 132 Balance sheets Page 133 Statements of changes in shareholders equity Page 134 Statements of cash flows Page 137 Statement of accounting policies Page 138 Financial and capital risk management Page 146 Notes to the financial statements Page 151 In this section 131
