Strategic report Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Consumer Credit Division For families on modest incomes, juggling finances can be problematic.
Often with limited ability to save, negotiating peaksand troughs in spending is challenging.
Quick facts 102.5m 2,600 1.5m Profit before tax Employees Customers 740.0m 300 9,000 Year-end receivables Typical initial Self-employed agents loan amount How it works Home credit Satsuma loans 3.
First contact We have absolutely no Many customers hear about After receiving a request to Most of our customers hear hidden fees or charges.
call at the customers home, about us through our TV Customers always know Much of our new business the agent will visit to discuss advertisement.
Customers the full cost of their loan comes from word of mouth, the various products the also hear about us through upfront.
direct mail, the internet or is company offers and make the internet and other sourced through our network an appointment to call back.
Online application An agent will visit the There are no hidden To complete the application Our application process customer in their own home charges.
The maximum process, we carry out a is simple and easy to to conduct affordability and amount to be repaid is welcome call with every understand and typically creditworthiness checks, clear and fixed at the start, takes under 15 minutes to customer, to introduce complete the paperwork even if a customer misses complete.
Customers go ourselves, check details and required, and agree a payments.
onto our Satsuma loans ensure the customer knows suitable loan amount, website and click Apply the details of their credit havingfully explained the now.
Following the loan terms and determined their application, we give completion of the welcome the loan tobe suitable.
them a decision there and call, the amount borrowed is 5.
We use affordability sent direct to the customers and credit bureau We operate a low and bank account.
information to help us to grow policy.
First-time decide whether to offer borrowers typically get theloan to the customer.
Building trust Those able to manage their We operate a low and grow repayments become eligible policy.
First-time borrowers for larger amounts over typically get smaller, shorterlonger periods.
Those able to manage their repayments become eligible for larger amounts over longer periods.
52 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Strategic report Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Consumer Credit Division business model We have a specialist non-standard business model which has been successfully applied to the home credit market for 130 years and we arenow applying many of the same characteristics to Satsuma loans.
Our financial products, approach to lending and customer relationships are highly adapted to the markets we serve.
Consumer Credit Division Better risk management Simple, Selective, gradual Responsibility transparent Individual and flexible and compliance products relationships approach built in Resilient, conservative and flexible business fundamentals Our key differentiators Individual relationships Selective, gradual and flexibleapproach Establish individual contact from the outset with Selective lending criteria only 20% of applications the home visit in home credit or the welcome call from new customers are approved.
Low and grow approach with loan sizes starting Treat customers as individuals.
No charge for missing payments.
9,000 home credit agents with excellent localknowledge.
Social investment in the communities we serve.
Simple, transparent products Responsibility and compliance built in Cash, prepaid cards, shopping vouchers and online Agents are paid primarily based on what they instalment loans.
collect and therefore have every reason not to lend more than customers can afford.
Priced appropriately and transparently customers tell us we are clear and offer good value for money.
Lending decisions are made by the agent in the customers home within home credit.
Fixed weekly repayments that never go up.
Our customers say that we are straightforward and Rigorous controls and limits over lending.
53 Strategic report Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Consumer Credit Division continued Our new strategy During 2013, in the face of difficult market conditions and given the evolution of the non-standard market, we have developed a strategy to reposition the Consumer Credit Division CCD over the next two years.
We have become a lending business, not just a home credit business.
Our new strategy has two elements: Mark Stevens Managing Director, Consumer Credit Division Update home Win in online credit and drive loans 1 2 for returns Investing in people Applying the proven home andtechnology credit DNA is a key enabler Targeting customers in the of better customer space between home credit service and Vanquis Bank of standardising Using the best capabilities best practice of home credit and Vanquis Bank to get the model right of improved collections Benefitting from payday of market-leading dislocation and clear, tighter compliance regulations of material cost reduction.
Achieving returns as good as home credit Leaner, better-quality, Top 3 market position modern, more profitable within 3 to 5 years business relevant in the digital age Our strategy is underpinned by: i lending responsibly and providing our customers with the right products and services in order to maintain our high levels ofcustomer satisfaction: and ii e nsuring that we maintain high levels of compliance with applicable laws and regulation.
54 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Strategic report Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued 4.
The home credit service is faceHome credit a great to-face with loans being delivered Brand attributes: business that has stood the to customers homes by selftest of time employed agents who then usually 97% of customers Our home credit business is Provident call every week, or in some cases agree that Provident is Financials longest running business, every month, to collect repayments.
friendly stretching back to the companys Agents often live in the same foundation in 1880.
It is the largest communities as their customers and 96% that we are home credit business in the UK and understand their needs, developing accessible Ireland.
Every week, 9,000 local agents an intimate knowledge of their visit the majority of our 1.5 million circumstances through the weekly 96% that we are customers, to issue loans and collect visit.
Even after 130 years, the trustworthy is also used, agents make the final business continues to fill a vital need lending decision as they can assess 96% that we are for customers, providing access to customer capacity and character in credit for those who might otherwise the home.
Importantly, agents are straightforward be financially excluded and helping paid commission primarily on what when others won't.
they collect, not what they lend, 93% that we are flexible so they have every reason not to The home credit service fits the needs lend more than their customers can of customers like a glove: afford to repay.
The products are simple and The home credit product is one that transparent with all costs included customers trust and positively want up front and no additional fees to use which helps to explain why or charges whatsoever.
For those our customer satisfaction rates are managing on a tight budget, its consistently high.
93% of customers important to know that the amount say they are satisfied with the to be repaid is fixed at the start and Provident home credit service, and will never go up.
the vast majority say they would recommend Provident to family 2.
The affordable weekly repayments or friends.
suit those managing on tight weekly budgets and the agents regular visit is not only convenient for the I used to dread birthdays customer but also acts as a useful Strong, historic trend in and Christmas, it was so reminder to put the money aside for customersatisfaction hard wanting to give the the repayment.
Forbearance is core to the product 80 without the money we offering so that when customers 60 needed.
With Provident, get into difficulty they know theyll 40 get a sympathetic response which I can borrow as little as 20 could mean either making a reduced 50 and pay it back in 0 payment or missing a weekly small chunks.
It has made payment altogether, depending on all the difference to our the circumstances.
Angela, Bradford 55 Q4 07 Q2 08 Q4 08 Q2 09 Q4 09 Q2 10 Q4 10 Q2 11 Q4 11 Q2 12 Q4 12 Q2 13 Q4 13 Strategic report Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Consumer Credit Division continued Home credit a long-term 2.
Very low customer future, but a business which confidence needs updating The pressure on disposable incomes has resulted in home credit customer Our home credit business has a confidence falling consistently over long and proud track record over a recent years.
Currently, 63% of our considerable period of time.
However, customers agree that in the last 12 it is clear that the current economic months I have felt a lot worse off backdrop and the evolution of the than before, which is the highest non-standard market are having a level we have ever recorded.
As a significant impact on the business.
result of the pressure on disposable We moved into a new 1.
Cost of living pressures incomes and the very low customer house and used a home Home credit customers tend to be confidence, demand for credit is credit loan when we hourly paid with a bias towards more weak and the home credit market is casual, temporary and part-time currently contracting as the nature of wanted to do some employment.
Average household our customers' employment means decorating.
The moving incomes are approximately 12,000 that they are typically late cycle costs ate up all of our per annum.
Household disposable and the uptick in their circumstances incomes continue to be adversely will tend to lag behind the broader savings so theres no way affected by the persistent rise in dayUK economy by at least 12 months.
we could have done the to-day living costs and, in particular, Whilst this is only a temporary position work without it.
the higher winter utility charges and, as disposable incomes recover, billed during the first quarter of the confidence will improve and demand James, Peterborough year.
Over the last three years, winter may recover, we do not expect things fuel bill inflation has been 7.3% in to improve in the short term.
Food price inflation has been on average 4% per annum over that period.
All this has been at a time when wage inflation has been minimal.
This has placed customers disposable incomes under significant pressure and they have restricted their spending on discretionary items such as upgrading white and brown goods and holidays.
Home credit customer confidence remains The cost of everyday essentials has risen much faster than incomes at historically low levels 150 146.9 125 125.0 113.5 105.1 100 100 80 75 60 50 40 25 20 0 0 Retail Prices Index Average gas and electricity prices index Provident customers Average earnings UK Average earnings Provident customers UK consumers Source: Internal data Source: Office of National Statistics and internal data 56 Mar 07 Dec 07 Mar 08 Dec 08 Mar 09 Dec 09 Mar 10 Dec 10 Mar 11 Dec 11 Mar 12 Dec 12 Mar 13 Dec 13 H1 09 H2 09 H1 10 H2 10 H1 11 H2 11 H1 12 H2 12 H1 13 H2 13 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Strategic report Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued 3.
C hanging customer Home credit is a sustainable customers have other behaviours and and highly customer-centric options preferences business, currently in cyclical Our better-quality customers now More and more customers are moving downturn.
Our leading market have more credit options compared online to source their credit.
This has position should enable us to with five years ago.
This is reflected in been accelerated by the rapid increase benefit from the expected the growth in rent-to-own providers in the use of smartphones and tablet consolidation over the next two and, to a lesser extent, payday lenders.
devices which are now relatively cheap.
to three years arising from the Whilst this only impacts the upper end Over 75% of our customers now use changing regulatory landscape of the home credit customer base, as the internet, whilst 50% of visits to which will place more onerous remote lenders cannot typically lend our website are via smartphones, up requirements on lenders.
to traditional home credit customers, from 10% two years ago.
It is therefore However, to ensure that we newer format lenders are restricting harder to attract new customers with continue to deliver high returns the flow of new, better-quality the traditional cash-only, home credit and strong capital generation, customers into the business.
weneed to update the home credit business.
75% of customers are on the internet and half shop online 100% 75% 50% 25% 0% Access the internet Purchased online in the last 12 months Source: Internal data We really wanted to take the kids on holiday this year but without any overtime at work we just couldnt stretch to it.
Thats when I saw a Satsuma loans advert and once wed applied online, we got just what we needed to be able to go away for the first time in ages.
Heather, Wolverhampton 57 Q1 07 Q2 07 Q4 07 Q2 08 Q4 08 Q2 09 Q4 09 Q2 10 Q4 10 Q2 11 Q4 11 Q2 12 Q4 12 Q2 13 Q4 13 Strategic report Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Consumer Credit Division continued Home credit the future We are also well on the way to 1.
Technology & apps allowing customers to make electronic Historically, home credit has been a As part of a payments through Chip and Pin very paper-based business.
The use technology and developing an app repositioning of of paper is costly, slow and can result for agents to issue electronic loan in differing practices and makes CCD, we are creating documentation which is scheduled compliance harder to monitor and to be available later in 2014.
As a result, we are in the a leaner, bettereliminate paper, saving a significant process of developing technology amount of agent and back office quality, modern through the use of smartphone time.
Equally importantly, it will allow and tablet apps which will enable and more profitable the business to enforce and evidence agents and our field managers to compliance to a level that is virtually home credit use their time more efficiently by impossible to achieve in a paperfocussing on improving collections based environment.
We have performance, arrears management and spending more time with Finally, the trial of 24 7, a prepaid established five key customers.
The improved use of reloadable MasterCard, together areas for change to technology will also have significant with an online customer portal which compliance benefits.
allows customers to top up their card achieve our goal.
against agent pre-approved limits, We have already introduced a was launched in September in one collections app for agents at a very region and continues to progress low cost.
The app is currently being well.
Full roll-out will take place in the used by almost all of the 2,500 agents second half of 2014. that carry iPhones, and has been very well received, saving each agent an estimated two to three hours a week previously spent on administrative paperwork.
One Best Way the app that runs on the smartphones There are differing working practices carried by the majority of agents spanning the 240 branches across has now been released with strong the UK and Ireland.
branches are performing very We are trialling the use of tablet well whilst others are not and best devices for field managers which practice is not often shared.
To some effectively provides them with a mobile extent this reflects the maturity office.
This will free up significant of the business and the average time currently spent on office-based tenure of the field management administration as the technology team which is approximately 15 is rolled out during 2014, allowing years, meaning it can be difficult to managers to spend more time with change working practices.
Too much agents and assisting with arrears cases.
time has been spent undertaking administration duties with less time for supporting agents and customers.
Significant benefits will be gained from enforcing standardised best-practice processes across the whole branch network, assisted by the deployment of technology and investing in developing our best people.
58 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Strategic report Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued 3.
Performance through people The difficult market conditions over The business has already taken recent years has meant that the key significant actions on costs during The profitability of an agency impairment to revenue metric has 2013.
Whilst job losses are always increases markedly as the agent moved out of its historic band of regrettable, we have reduced gets more experience.
As a result, between 32% and 34%, ending 2013 headcount in the field and in our head we have significantly changed the at 38.7%.
The business has already office by approximately 520 during way we attract, induct and support taken significant steps to standardise 2013 to better align the workforce to agents to drive higher retention and arrears processes, including a focus customer numbers.
The headcount reduce agent turnover.
We are also on early intervention and the better reduction together with other savings combining agent rounds to remove integration of field and central and volume reductions are expected less profitable agencies, which are a collections activities during 2013. to reduce the CCD cost base by over key driver of agent turnover as the This resulted in a stabilisation of 40m between 2012 and 2014, net agents commission is often insufficient arrears during the second half of of investing 16m in new business for their needs.
Tighter underwriting for new development.
The volume reduction are introducing a new development customers and further developments in the business is consistent with a agenda throughout the business to in technology, including Chip and Pin, 20% reduction in receivables over the recruit, retain and develop better which gives customers more ways to same period.
We expect further cost leaders in our management team.
pay, should result in an improvement efficiencies in 2015 and beyond once in collections performance in 2014 technology is deployed.
We incurred The changes we have made, and beyond.
an exceptional cost of 13.7m in 2013 particularly around reducing associated with the restructuring costs, should ensure that 2013 in CCD.
is the baseline year for profits.
2014 will be a year of further change before we complete the transformation programme during mid-2015.
We will then have a solid foundation to grow our profits and the returns from the business.
We will create a leaner, Home credit is a great customer better-quality, modern, more profitable home credit business proposition and adds significant value to our customers' lives.
The changes we are making will ensure that we can continue Update to meet our customers needs home and maintain the high levels of credit and returns and cash generation for deliver better our shareholders.
Much lower and apps Way focus costs 5.
Performance through people 59 Strategic report Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Consumer Credit Division continued only two to three well-funded payday Satsuma loans loan companies which have the scale win in online lending and flexibility to build the different Market opportunity capability to succeed in instalment Whilst the home credit market is in loans.
As part of the repositioning of cyclical downturn, there are significant CCD as a broader loans business, we opportunities outside the home credit believe that now is the right time to market.
Importantly: enter the online loans market with a unique customer proposition.
The non-standard market is growing, as banks continue to Getting the model right tighten underwriting and the Following trials of online loan products macro environment is leading on the Provident website between May to more consumers entering the and October, we launched Satsuma Marketing market.
We estimate that there are loans, an online instalment loans We have positioned Satsuma loans approximately 12 million consumers product, in November.
with a broad marketing reach including in the non-standard market.
those consumers who do not want The Satsuma loans target customer The non-standard market is the the home credit agent service, paidis incremental to the home credit domain of specialists and supply is up former customers of home credit, customer base and sits in the wide constrained as small and mediumVanquis Bank declines and the open space between Vanquis Bank and sized specialists lack funding market.
We are supporting the open home credit.
This demographic is, for growth.
market proposition with memorable therefore, not currently served by front of mind branding and significant the group.
There is likely to be consolidation marketing spend.
This includes a in the market, driven by higher Product distinctive, customer-focused website regulatory standards following the The product proposition of Satsuma which has a fresh look and feel and transition of regulation from the loans is based closely on proven TV advertising with the launch of Office of Fair Trading OFT to the home credit DNA.
Loans are for small the singing Satsuma.
In addition, Financial Conduct Authority FCA amounts of up to 300 initially and customers applying for a Satsuma in 2014. are repayable weekly.
Just like home loan who do not meet the higher credit, all the costs are set up front underwriting criteria, are referred There is rapid growth in the demand and there are no additional charges, tohome credit.
for online lending, accelerated by even if customers circumstances smartphone and tablet device Underwriting change or payments are missed due proliferation.
Our initial underwriting combines to financial difficulties.
All customers the unique proprietary knowledge The economics of the payday have a welcome call with one of of issuing weekly loans in the home lending model are under threat our telephone representatives who credit business and remote nondue to increased regulation is always on the end of a phone standard credit in Vanquis Bank.
which provides opportunities for to discuss a customers account We supplement this with external responsible lending businesses, such throughout the term of the loan.
bureau data and will refine our as Provident Financial.
Payments are collected via CPA, based scorecards for different sources as on a pre-agreed amount on a preWe estimate that the online loans the business develops.
If a repayment is missed, market, primarily served by payday call and ongoing personal contact we contact the customer immediately lenders at present, is roughly four from our telephone representatives to discuss their situation and do not times the size of the home credit provides us with a unique customer abuse the use of the CPA.
We adopt market and will grow further as insight.
Consistent with both our home similar forbearance procedures to customer preferences change.
credit business and Vanquis Bank, we those successfully used currently in With the backdrop of clearer, tighter are adopting a prudent low and grow both home credit and Vanquis Bank.
regulation around payday lending, approach to issuing further credit.
We believe that Satsuma loans is there is likely to be a shift in demand Whilst it is early days, our default better than payday lending and other from payday loans to instalment rates are currently better than our instalment loan products currently in loans as the restrictions on the use original forecast.
of rollovers and continuous payment authorities CPA by payday lenders take effect.
We believe that there are 60 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Strategic report Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Getting the model right: We believe Satsuma is the best customer proposition in the market, closely aligned with home credit Provident Typical Personal instalment Credit Satsuma Payday loan Customers with little leeway Collections in income need Our collections process will utilise the Small sums on first loan Up to Up to 300 Up to Up to excellent collections capabilities of 300 500 1,000 2,000 Vanquis Bank which will be engaged Manageable rate APR in 100s APR in 100s APR in APR in 100s at the earliest stage to optimise 1,000s collections performance.
This will Affordable schedule Weekly Weekly One-off Monthly include using their technology to bullet contact customers through the Certainty on costs Yes not a Yes not a No rollover No late use of their contact centre and penny more penny more fees fees SMS capabilities, trace activity for Flexibility if things change No penalties No penalties Rollover Late fees customers where no contact can at all at all fees be made and utilising their suite Someone to talk to if things Weekly Welcome call Online Online offorbearance measures for those change agent visit and ongoing relationship relationship representative only only customers whose circumstances on the phone have changed.
Certainty on when payments Agent calls CPA on preMultiple use Multiple use taken weekly agreed day of CPA of CPA to collect for pre-agreed repayments amount We have strong capabilities at every part of the customer journey.
We are utilising our core skills in both CCD and Vanquis We will use our competitive advantage to achieve a top-3 market position within Bank to lend responsibly and 3to5years build a successful business.
We believe that the business will broadly break even in 2014 as the investment takes place to Win in build scale and make a financial online contribution from 2015 onwards.
lending We will use our competitive advantage and understanding of customer needs to achieve a top-3 market position within Broad Best customer Best in class Best in class three to five years.
marketing proposition underwriting collections reach Data-led continuous improvement 61 Strategic report Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Consumer Credit Division continued Financial performance CCD generated a profit before tax of 102.5m in 2013 2012 restated: 122.9m from weaker demand as those asset out below: existing customers not wishing to take further credit have less incentive to 1 2 2013 2012 Change bring their accounts up to date and m m % typically remained in mild arrears.
Customer numbers '000 1,511 1,827 17.3 Whilst demand through the last Year-end receivables 740.0 869.6 14.9 quarter of the year remained weak, it Average receivables 725.8 782.7 7.3 is encouraging that early benefits from the implementation of standardised Revenue 697.1 696.9 arrears and collections processes Impairment 269.7 230.2 17.2 coupled with tighter credit standards Revenue less impairment 427.4 466.7 8.4 mitigated any further deterioration 3 Revenue yield 96.0% 89.0% and has produced a consistent 4 Impairment % revenue 38.7% 33.0% improvement in year-on-year 5 Risk-adjusted margin 58.9% 59.6% collections performance and arrears through the first two months of 2014.
Costs 285.6 297.6 4.0 Interest 39.3 46.2 14.9 Costs remained under close scrutiny Profit before tax 102.5 122.9 16.6 throughout 2013 and the first phase 1 2013 profit before tax is stated before an exceptional item of 13.7m in respect of the cost of a of the cost reduction programme was business restructuring within CCD.
This included 2 Profit before tax in 2012 has been restated from 125.1m to 122.9m following the mandatory adoption a reduction in field headcount of and retrospective application of the amended IAS 19, Employee Benefits from 1 January 2013. approximately 180 which delivered 3 Revenue as a percentage of average receivables for the year ended 31 December.
second-half cost savings of 10m and 4 Impairment as a percentage of revenue for theyear ended 31 December.
a 4% reduction in the cost base for 5 Revenue less impairment as a percentage of average receivables for theyear ended 31 December.
In November, the business announced the second phase of the cost reduction programme CCDs performance during 2013 Receivables at the end of December including further field and head office reflected difficult trading conditions.
were 14.9% lower than the previous headcount reductions totalling 340.
Demand for credit was weak with year and average receivables showed The related consultation period was customer confidence at the lowest a year-on-year reduction of 7.3% due successfully concluded in December.
level recorded for many years.
to a combination of weaker demand, The cost reduction programme has Customers household incomes were tighter credit standards and lower secured 26m of further year-onlittle changed on the previous year customer recruitment.
The headcount but disposable incomes saw further reductions recalibrate the ratio of The annualised revenue yield has erosion due to continued rises in food, customer numbers to employees and strengthened to 96.0% at the end of fuel and utility bills.
Weaker demand operational spans of control back to December, up significantly from 89.0% has been particularly apparent 2007 levels based on planned business at the end of last year.
This primarily amongst better-quality existing volumes in 2014. reflects the shift in mix of loans customers who are typically served resulting from the reduction in demand Interest costs in 2013 were 14.9% with high value, longer duration for longer duration loans which carry a lower than last year reflecting the 7.3% loans that tend to be used for more lower yield than shorter-term products.
reduction in average receivables and discretionary items of expenditure.
a reduction in the funding rate for the In addition, as part of the focus on The ratio of impairment to revenue business from 7.4% to 6.8%.
driving returns in the home credit increased from 33.0% at December business, significantly tighter credit 2012 to 38.7% at the end of 2013. standards have been implemented Approximately 3% of the increase which reduced the flow of new is attributable to the increase in the customers into the business through revenue yield.
The other influence, the final quarter of the year and was the deterioration in the arrears contributed to customer numbers profile that occurred during the first ending the year 17.3% lower than 2012. nine months of the year.
This resulted 62 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Strategic report Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Looking ahead 2013 has been a year of significant All of our actions will be driven by change.
The repositioning of CCD lending responsibly and providing our to a broader lending business will customers with the right products ensure that we continue to meet and services for them.
Maintaining our customer needs and deliver strong high levels of customer satisfaction will returns to our shareholders.
We have always be central to our business.
a clear, focused and deliverable CCD remains a highly profitable and strategy and have strengthened the cash-generative business and the management team with a combination bedrock of the groups high dividend Its when things go of Provident experience and proven payout ratio.
wrong that life can get external track records.
We have good initial momentum from our two-year very tough.
I always programme to transform CCD and dread it when the MOT have established some measurable is due, but now that Ive outcomes to monitor our progress: discovered Satsuma 2013 profits of approximately 100m loans, I know I can handle will be the baseline for CCD profits.
whatever comes our Performance in 2014 will reflect way.
the transition to a smaller, higherquality home credit customer and Paul, Worcester receivables base with corresponding net cost savings.
For 2014 and 2015, we will focus on driving home credit returns and not on growing customer numbers, sales or the number of agents.
The substantial home credit transformation programme will becompleted by mid-2015.
Satsuma loans will make a financial contribution from 2015 onwards.
We will also continue to explore the potential for growth into other forms ofnon-standard lending.
