Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Governance Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Accountability Risk management and internal control The board is responsible for the alignment of strategy and risk, and for maintaining a sound system of risk management and internal controls.
Wecontinue to drive improvements to our risk management processes andsystems, which are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk offailure to achieve business objectives.
The group has a robust governance and internal control framework.
Thekey elements of the internal control system, including the financial reporting processes, have been established in accordance with the FRCs Internal Control: Guidance for Directors and the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
CONTROLS Risk advisory committee Committees Supporting documents and structures Members: Rob Anderson Chairman Audit committee Biannual budget process In December each year, the board approves Stuart Sinclair The audit committee comprises the detailed budgets and cash flow forecasts non-executive directors and is chaired for the year ahead.
It also approves outline Manjit Wolstenholme by Stuart Sinclair.
The Finance Director, projections for the subsequent four years.
1 Chief Executive, Head of Audit, An update to the budget is approved in June Robert Hough each year.
Group Financial Controller and the 2 Malcolm Le May external audit partner from Deloitte LLP normally attend all meetings by 2 Alison Halsey Monthly management accounts invitation.
The audit committee meets Monthly management accounts are six times a year and is responsible Attendees by invitation: prepared comparing actual trading results for monitoring group-wide internal Ken Mullen Company Secretary by division to budget and the prior year.
financial controls, appointment and Capital adequacy, funding and economic and General Counsel appraisal of the external auditor, trends are also reported monthly.
A rolling forecast of the full year outturn is produced agreeing the internal audit plan each Peter Crook as part of the management accounts pack.
year, reviewing the reports produced 3 Management accounts are distributed to the Andrew Fisher by internal audit and reviewing the executive directors and senior members of groups whistleblowing policy.
The audit the management team on a monthly basis David Mortlock Head of Audit committee also reviews the financial and are distributed to the board for each board meeting.
statements, interim reports and David Merrett Director of preliminary announcements including Corporate Strategy and Risk any significant accounting judgements 1 Retired from the board on 31 January 2013.
Internal audit made in preparing them.
Regularly reviews the adequacy of internal 3 Resigned as a member on 1 January 2014 controls including financial, operational and but attends by invitation.
Nomination committee compliance controls in conjunction with the auditor and reports to the risk advisory The nomination committee comprises committee and audit committee.
An annual the non-executive directors and is programme of work which targets and chaired by Manjit Wolstenholme, reports on higher-risk areas is carried out the Chairman.
The Chief Executive by the group internal audit function.
The operation of internal financial controls is attends all meetings by invitation.
monitored by regular management reviews, The nomination committee meets at including a requirement for each division to least twice a year and is responsible certify compliance quarterly.
for reviewing the structure, size and composition of the board, considering succession planning for directors Finance forum and other members of the senior A six-weekly finance forum, chaired by the Finance Director and attended by divisional management team and recommending finance directors and senior finance candidates for appointment to the management including the heads of tax, audit board, having considered the skills, treasury and risk, reviews and provides oversight knowledge, experience and diversity of the key financial matters of the group.
85 Governance Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Accountability continued CONTROLS Role and responsibilities Committees Supporting documents and structures of the risk advisory committee Executive committee Divisional boards Design, implement and monitor The divisional boards and their The executive committee comprises the two committees are responsible for the risk management framework.
executive directors and is chaired by the managing the divisional risks and Chief Executive.
The committee normally preparing divisional risk registers Consider the nature and extent meets at least once a week, and more forreview by the risk advisory of the risks facing the group and groupand submission to the risk frequently as required, and deals with matters appropriate mitigation.
relating to the general running of the group.
Review and approve the groups These matters include monitoring the weekly Internal Capital Adequacy performance of the groups businesses, Assessment Process ICAAP for approving capital expenditure projects and submission to the board.
long-term contracts subject to certain limits, approving treasury-related transactions Review the groups business and approving all transactions that have the continuity plans.
potential to impact adversely on the groups capital ratio.
Notify the board of any changes in Corporate policies manual the status and control of risks.
The board requires the divisions and the corporate office to operate in accordance with the corporate Risk advisory committee Risk advisory group policies manual and the divisions Considers the nature and extent of the risks The risk advisory committee delegates andthe corporate office are facing the group, keeps them under review, obligedto certify compliance on a number of responsibilities to the abiannual basis.
reviews the framework to mitigate such risks, risk advisory group which comprises and notifies the board of changes in the status the executive directors, the Company and control of risks.
It reports to the board on Secretary and General Counsel, the Risk advisory group a regular basis.
Group Financial Controller, the Director The risk advisory group formally of Strategy and Risk and the Group reviews the divisional risk registers at least three times a year and it reports Treasurer.
The Deputy Company to the risk advisory committee.
Secretary and divisional risk managers Remuneration committee also attend the meetings by invitation.
The remuneration committee comprises the The risk advisory group considers the Treasury committee non-executive directors and is chaired by extent and nature of the risks facing The treasury committee is chaired Malcolm Le May and is responsible for the the group, the extent and categories by the Finance Director and remuneration of the Chairman, the executive comprises the Group Treasurer, of risk which are acceptable to bear, directors and the Company Secretary.
divisional finance directors, Group the likelihood of any risk materialising, Financial Controller, Head of Tax and The committee, which meets at least three the groups ability to mitigate any risk, other key members of the finance times a year, also reviews the remuneration and the costs of operating particular function.
The treasury committee of the senior management team.
The Chief manages the treasury activities of controls relative to the benefits Executive is consulted on proposals relating the group and meets at least six obtained.
It also reviews the key risk times a year.
The treasury committee to the remuneration of the other executive registers prepared by the group and is not a formal sub-committee of directors and the senior management the divisional risk committees three the board but it regularly reports team and the Chairman is consulted on times a year, challenging and making to the board on compliance with proposals relating to the Chief Executives treasury policies and other treasury changes where appropriate.
The treasury committee a schedule of key risks, the group and is also responsible for monitoring reviews the remuneration policy in the context divisional risk registers and the ICAAP the groups capital adequacy and of the groups risk management framework to the risk advisory committee for liquidity positions.
to ensure it does not inadvertently promote review and approval.
It coordinates its work with the audit committee and risk advisory committee who assist with the monitoring and assessment of risk management specifically in relation to the remuneration incentives in place.
86 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Governance Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Update on 2013 activities Statement on internal During 2013, the risk advisory controls committee has: i updated its terms In accordance with the revised of reference and the risk management Guidance for Directors on the framework: ii updated the groups Combined Code, the board has risk appetite framework to reflect the reviewed the effectiveness of the imminent change in the regulatory groups framework of internal environment in which the group controls during 2013.
The process for operates, specifically to address identifying, evaluating and managing conduct risk and customer outcomes the significant risks faced by the group and to reflect the changes to the was in place throughout 2013 and up strategic and operational objectives of to 25 February 2014 and no significant the group: iii reviewed and approved failings or weaknesses were identified the divisional business continuity and during this period.
recovery plans, and iv reviewed and approved the realignment of the Effectiveness responsibility for risk to the Director of The committee formally considered its Corporate Strategy and Risk.
On the basis of the board and committee evaluation undertaken, the overall view was that it was working effectively.
On the recommendation of Independent Board Evaluation who carried out the 2013 evaluation of the committee, Mr Fisher resigned as a member of the committee on 1 January 2014 but agreed to attend the meetings by invitation.
Risk advisory committee calendar in 2013 At specific meetings: January July October Update of terms of reference ICAAP review and approval Assess overall risk management status Risk management framework update Risk appetite framework review Financial risk review andapproval Performance and effectiveness Review and approve the realignment of of the committee Consider the overall risk the responsibility for risk to the Director of managementstatus Corporate Strategy and Risk Review and approve the revised group risk appetite framework Business continuity and disaster recoveryreview At each main meeting Review minutes of previous meetings Review of implementation of actions agreed at previous meetings Consideration of divisional risk registers Review of risk appetite reports 87
