Strategic report Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Our investment case Our excellent track record, consistent strategy, robust business model and strong market position means that we are in a very good position to further develop our business in 2014 and deliver another year of success for allof our stakeholders.
Peter Crook Chief Executive Our strategy, together with our robust business model, has allowed us to generate strong, profitable growth since the demerger of our international business in 2007 and through the credit crisis.
Adjusted earnings pershare has cumulatively increased by over 60% over the last five years.
Our strong earnings growth has Our growth in earnings and dividends allowed us to deliver on our dividend has meant that we have now commitment stated at the time of the generated Total Shareholder Return demerger.
We maintained dividends TSR of over 11 per share since of 63.5p through to 2010 whilst we demerger.
This equates to annualised built dividend cover to our minimum TSR growth of 13%.
Subsequently, we Our businesses are generating have been able to adopt a progressive sufficient capital to support planned dividend policy based on distributing growth and business development 80% of post-tax earnings.
We have without compromising on our increased dividends by 8.7%, 11.9% and progressive dividend policy.
We now 10.1% over the last three years.
have funding secured to cover our At the same time, our funding and growth plans until the seasonal peak capital positions have remained robust in 2017, following the renewal of and we have maintained our gearing our core syndicated bank facility in level below the maximum target level January 2014. of 3.5 times.
Strong capital generation in 2013 has resulted in gearing reducing to 3.0 times, our lowest level since demerger.
2 Restated for the mandatory adoption and retrospective application of the revised IAS 19 from 1 January 2013.
40 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Strategic report Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued We expect the UK non-standard credit ofmobile technology.
In addition, as The transition to the Financial market to show steady growth in part of the medium-term repositioning Conduct Authority FCA and payday 2014 and beyond, reflecting structural of the Consumer Credit Division regulation is causing dislocation changes in the employment market CCD, we will continue to broaden in the non-standard credit market which is increasing the number of partthe customer and product proposition which provides new opportunities for time, casual and temporary workers.
through the further development of responsible lending businesses such It is our firm aim to remain theleading Satsuma loans, our online instalment as Provident Financial: lender in this market.
Our management teams are highly At Vanquis Bank, we will look to The investment case for Provident skilled and experienced, particularly maintain the strong momentum built Financial is very attractive: in serving the non-standard up over recent years in the customer credit market: Winners in the non-standard credit acquisition programme through market will be larger, well-funded We have a robust balance sheet continuing to develop our distribution specialist lenders with sustainable andprudent funding: and channels.
We will also focus on business models like us: the development, marketing and We generate sufficient capital distribution of our credit proposition in We have an attractive mix of to support planned growth and Poland.
Vanquis Bank remains well on businesses: business development without track to meet its current UK external compromising our progressive targets of between 1.3 and 1.5 million Strong, profitable and capitaldividend policy.
customers with an average balance generative growth in Vanquis Bank: of between 800 to 1,000 as the Our excellent track record, consistent An excellent UK credit card business approaches a more mature strategy, robust business model and platform, channels to market and state.
In practice, the medium-term strong market position mean that we credit expertise which has the rate of growth will be dictated by are in a very good position to further potential of being exported into economic conditions, the emergence develop our businesses in 2014 and other territories such as Poland: of competition and the strict financial deliver another year of success for objective of maintaining a minimum allof our stakeholders.
A cash-generative home credit post-tax return on equity of 30%.
business with a focus on returns: We expect economic conditions in the Opportunities for growth in the UK to remain difficult for home credit online instalment market with customers in 2014, with continued Satsuma loans in the segment of pressure on disposable incomes from the market between home credit rising food, fuel and utility bills.
As a and Vanquis Bank: and result, we will continue to focus on The potential for growth into other driving through the repositioning forms of non-standard lending.
of the home credit business to a smaller, higher-quality customer and receivables base with corresponding cost savings derived from greater operational effectiveness and cost efficiencies enabled by the roll-out Gearing times 2013 3.0 25% 30% 2012 3.2 2011 3.2 TSR in 2013 Minimum post-tax 2010 3.3 return on equity target for our 2009 3.3 businesses 41
