Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Governance Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Directors report Directors interests in shares Directors The beneficial interests of the directors The directors of the company during the year were as follows: in the issued share capital of the company were as follows: John van Kuffeler Chairman Number of shares Rob Anderson Independent non-executive director 31 December 31 December 2013 2012 Peter Crook Chief Executive John van Kuffeler 18,000 18,000 Andrew Fisher Finance Director 1 Peter Crook 708,897 658,928 1 Andrew Fisher 462,710 441,061 Chris Gillespie Managing Director, CCD Rob Anderson 3,897 3,701 Manjit 5,663 5,663 Robert Hough Independent non-executive director Wolstenholme Stuart Sinclair Stuart Sinclair Independent non-executive director 1 Manjit Wolstenholme Independent non-executive director These interests include conditional share awards granted under the LTIS, awards under All directors served throughout 2013 and up to the date of signing of the the PSP and 2013 PSP and shares purchased under the SIP as detailed on pages 123 to 126 of financial statements, with the exception of Robert Hough, whose term of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
appointment expired on 31 January 2013 and Chris Gillespie, who resigned No director had any non-beneficial on 13 September 2013.
In addition, John van Kuffeler retired from the board holdings at 31 December 2013 or at any on 1 January 2014 and Malcolm Le May and Alison Halsey were appointed as time up to 25 February2014.
independent non-executive directors on 1 January 2014.
There were no changes in the During the year no director had a material interest in any contract of beneficial or non-beneficial interests of significance to which the company or a subsidiary undertaking was a party.
the directors between 1 January 2014 and 25 February 2014.
However, the company may not Directors indemnities provide an indemnity against: i any The companys articles of association liability incurred by the director to permit it to indemnify directors of the company or to any associated the company or of any associated company: or ii against any liability company in accordance with the incurred by the director to pay a Companies Act 2006.
The company criminal or regulatory penalty: or may fund expenditure incurred by iii against any liability incurred by directors in defending proceedings the director in defending criminal against them.
proceedings in which they are convicted: or iv in defending any civil If such funding is by means of a loan, proceedings brought by the company the director must repay the loan to or an associated company in which the company if they are convicted in judgment is given against them: or any criminal proceedings or judgment v in connection with certain court is given against them in any civil applications under the Companies proceedings.
The company may Act 2006. indemnify any director of the company or of any associated company against No indemnity was provided and no any liability.
payments pursuant to these provisions were made in 2013 or at any time up to 25 February 2014.
There were no other qualifying indemnities in place during this period.
101 Governance Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Directors report continued All employee share schemes Provident Financial plc 2007 Share capital The current schemes for employees Employee Benefit Trust the EBT Increase in issued ordinary resident in the UK are the Provident The EBT, a discretionary trust for share capital Financial plc Employee Savingsthe benefit of executive directors During the year, the ordinary share Related Share Option Scheme 2003, and employees, was established capital in issue increased by 1,198,034 the Provident Financial Savings on 11 September 2007.
The trustee, shares to 139,615,620 shares.
Details Related Share Option Scheme 2013 Kleinwort Benson Jersey Trustees are set out in note 23 to the financial 2013 SAYE and the Provident Limited, is not a subsidiary of the statements.
Financial Share Incentive Plan SIP.
The EBT operates in The 2013 SAYE and the SIP were conjunction with the LTIS and the 2013 Rights of ordinary shares approved by shareholders at the AGM PSP and has previously purchased All of the companys issued ordinary in May 2013. shares in the market for the purpose shares are fully paid up and rank of the LTIS.
Following the passing equally in all respects and there are no Executive share incentive schemes of a resolution at the 2008 AGM, special rights with regard to control of Options are outstanding under the the EBT is able to subscribe for the the company.
The rights attached to Provident Financial Executive Share issue of new shares.
The number of them, in addition to those conferred Option Scheme 2006 the ESOS.
shares held by the EBT at any time, on their holders by law, are set out in Awards are also outstanding under when added to the number of shares the companys articles of association.
the Provident Financial Long Term held by any other trust established There are no restrictions on the Incentive Scheme 2006 the LTIS by the company for the benefit of transfer of ordinary shares or on the and both the Provident Financial employees, will not exceed 5% of the exercise of voting rights attached to Performance Share Plan the PSP and issued share capital of the company.
them, except: the Provident Financial Performance The EBT is funded by loans from the Share Plan 2013 the 2013 PSP.
1 where the company has exercised company which are then used to its right to suspend their voting acquire, either via market purchase or The PSP expired in July 2012 and was rights or to prohibit their transfer subscription, ordinary shares to satisfy replaced by the 2013 PSP which was following the omission by their conditional share awards granted approved by shareholders at the AGM holder or any person interested under the LTIS, and awards granted in May 2013. in them to provide the company under the 2013 PSP.
For the purpose with information requested by it As set out on page 122 of the directors of the financial statements, the EBT in accordance with Part 22 of the remuneration report, the remuneration is consolidated into the company and Companies Act 2006: or committee did not grant any options group.
As a consequence, the loans are during the year under either the ESOS eliminated and the cost of the shares 2 where their holder is precluded or the LTIS.
acquired is deducted from equity as from exercising voting rights by the set out in note 25 on page 188 of the FCAs Listing Rules or the City Code financial statements.
In relation to its operation in conjunction with the LTIS, the EBT transfers the beneficial interest in the shares to the executive directors and employees when conditional share awards are made.
In relation to the 2013 PSP, the legal and beneficial interest in the Basic Award is transferred to the executive directors and other participants when the awards are made.
However, only the beneficial interest in the Matching Award is transferred when the award is made.
Full vesting of awards granted under the LTIS and the 2013 PSP is subject to the achievement of the performance targets set out on pages 122 to 125 of the directors remuneration report.
102 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Governance Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued In March 2013, the company provided The PF Trust has previously subscribed Substantial shareholdings a loan of 118,472 to the EBT for the for shares for the purpose of satisfying On the basis of the information purpose of acquiring ordinary shares awards granted under the PSP.
available to the company as at of 20 8 11p in the company.
The EBT When the PF Trust subscribed for 16 February 2014, the following subscribed for the issue of 508,802 shares, it was funded by loans from investment managers through new shares in order to satisfy the the company which were then used segregated managed funds have awards made under the LTIS on to acquire ordinary shares for the interests though not necessarily 1 March 2013 and then transferred the purposes of satisfying awards granted beneficial ownership in aggregate beneficial ownership in those shares to under the PSP.
For the purposes of amounting to over 3% 5% for the participants.
In April 2013, the EBT the financial statements, the PF Trust investment trusts and collective transferred the beneficial ownership is consolidated into the company and investment companies in the issued in 16,465 shares in order to satisfy a group.
As a consequence, the loans are ordinary share capital of the company: further award made under the LTIS on eliminated and the cost of the shares 2 April 2013. acquired is deducted from equity Invesco Limited 23.62% as set out in note 25 to the financial M&G Investment 6.71% In addition to this, the company also Management Limited statements.
As the PSP expired in July provided a loan of 200,000 to the Marathon Asset 5.33% 2012 no further awards were made EBT in May 2013 for the purpose of Management Limited under the PSP and no further loans to acquiring ordinary shares of 20 8 11p Tweedy Browne Company 4.49% the PF Trust were made during 2013.
The EBT subscribed Cantillon Capital 4.11% for the issue of 299,618 shares in order The PF Trust operated in conjunction Management LLP to satisfy the awards made under the with the PSP and the legal and BlackRock Inc. 3.19% 2013 PSP on 9 May 2013. beneficial interest in shares was Alken Asset Management 3.03% transferred from the PF Trust to LLP As at 31 December 2013, the EBT executive directors and employees held the non-beneficial interest in Interests as at 31 December 2013 were when awards were made.
Full vesting 2,809,850 shares in the company as follows: of such shares is subject to the 2012: 3,005,588.
The EBT may achievement of the performance Invesco Limited 23.91% exercise or refrain from exercising any targets set out on page 124 of the M&G Investment 6.84% voting rights in its absolute discretion Management Limited Annual Report on Remuneration.
and is not obliged to exercise such Marathon Asset 5.47% voting rights in a manner requested by Authority to purchase shares Management Limited the employee beneficiaries.
At the 2013 AGM, shareholders Tweedy Browne Company 4.37% LLC authorised the company to purchase Cantillon Capital 4.26% Provident Financial Employee Benefit up to 13,896,591 of its ordinary Management LLP Trust the PF Trust shares up until 8 November 2014 or, BlackRock Inc. 3.96% The PF Trust, a discretionary trust for if earlier, the conclusion of the next Alken Asset Management 3.03% the benefit of executive directors and AGM.
No shares were purchased LLP employees, was established in 2003 pursuant to this authority.
A further and operated in conjunction with the authority for the company to purchase PSP.
The trustee, Provident Financial its own shares will be sought from Trustees Performance Share Plan shareholders at the forthcoming AGM Limited, is a subsidiary of the company.
The number of shares held by the PF Power to allot shares for cash Trust at any time, when added to the At the 2013 AGM, shareholders number of shares held by any other authorised the directors to trust established by the company allot equity securities as defined for the benefit of employees, will not by the Companies Act 2006 up exceed 5% of the issued share capital to an aggregate nominal amount of of the company.
A further authority for the 2013, the PF Trust had no interest in directors to allot shares will be sought any shares in the company 2012: nil.
from shareholders at the forthcoming AGM to be held on 8 May 2014.
103 Governance Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Directors report continued Share Incentive Plan Pensions Employee involvement The company also operates an allThe group operates two pension The group systematically provides employee Share Incentive Plan SIP schemes.
Employee involvement employees with information on which was approved by shareholders in the group defined benefit matters of concern to them.
It consults at the AGM in May 2013 and offers pension scheme is achieved by the with them or their representatives employees the opportunity to further appointment of member-nominated regularly, including through surveys, invest in the company and to benefit trustees and by regular newsletters so that their views can be taken into from the companys offer to match and communications from the trustees account when making decisions that that investment on the basis of one to members.
In addition, there is are likely to affect their interests.
share for every four shares purchased.
a website dedicated to pension Employee involvement in the group is 234 employees are currently investing matters.
The trustees manage the encouraged as achieving a common in company shares under the SIP.
assets of the defined benefit pension awareness on the part of all employees scheme, which are held under trust of the financial and economic factors Training separately from the assets of the affecting the group plays a major role The company is fully committed group.
Each trustee is encouraged to in maintaining its competitive position.
to encouraging employees at undertake training and regular training The group encourages the involvement all levels to study for relevant sessions on topical issues are carried of employees by means of company educational qualifications and to out at meetings of the trustees by newsletters, weekly performance training employees at all levels in the the trustees advisors.
The training updates, regular management team group.
In particular the company schedule is based on The Pension briefings, regular listening groups, staff has initiated a series of talent and Regulators Trustee Knowledge and meetings and conferences including development initiatives as part of its Understanding requirements and trade union meetings in those investment in the career progression the sessions are tailored to current companies which recognise unions.
topical issues or to address any skill gaps.
The trustees have a business Save As You Earn In 2012, the company applied to plan and, at the start of each year, The company operates two savingsregister as an authorised training review performance against the plan related share option schemes referred provider with the Solicitors Regulation and objectives from the previous to on page 102, aimed atencouraging Authority and is now authorised to year.
In addition they agree objectives employees involvement and interest in issue training contracts to trainee and a budget for the current year.
the financial performance and success solicitors who are able to qualify with The trustees are committed to clear of the group through share ownership.
member communication and also have 1,304 employees are currently saving At the start of 2014 the company a risk register and associated action to buy shares in the company under was authorised as an Associate plan and a conflicts of interest policy these schemes 2012: 1,469.
Chartered Accountant ACA and register, all of which are reviewed Training Employer by the Institute of at least annually.
Chartered Accountants of England The group also operates a group and Wales ICAEW.
This allows the personal pension plan for employees company to issue training contracts who joined the group from 1 January to employees wishing to qualify as 2003.
Employees in this plan have chartered accountants, provide and access to dedicated websites which support their training and professional provide information on their funds and development and sign off their general information about the plan.
training, professional development and final competency as a chartered In 2011, the company established an accountant prior to consideration by Unfunded Unapproved Retirement ICAEW for membership.
Benefits Scheme UURBS, for the benefit of those employees who were affected by the HMRC reduced annual allowance which applies to registered pension schemes and was introduced in October 2010.
The UURBS offers an alternative to a cash payment in lieu of a pension benefit over the annual allowance.
104 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Governance Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued supply chain issues.
The company procedures in relation to health Environmental, social and publicly discloses its CR performance and safety throughout CCD, with governance matters through an annual CR report and communication and training on health Further information on the groups through making regular submissions and safety matters working effectively.
corporate responsibility activities to mainstream sustainability indices The majority of the recommendations is set out on pages 32 to 39 and such as the FTSE4Good and Dow made as a result of the audit in 2012 on the companys website at Jones Sustainability Indexes.
The CR were implemented in 2013 and further www.
programme is subject to an ongoing recommendations to enhance the programme of independent assurance current processes following the 2013 The significance of environmental, to reassure stakeholders that the audit will be implemented during the social and governance ESG matters programme is well managed, in line course of 2014.
In addition, a follow to the businesses of the group is with legislation and best practice, and up audit of the head office building regularly considered by the board.
in Bradford was carried out in 2013 A corporate affairs activity report, after completion of the audit by which covers corporate responsibility Greenhouse gas GHG AIG in 2012.
This confirmed that the and community affairs, is presented high standards of health and safety emission reporting at each board meeting.
The Chief within the head office continued Executive has responsibility for Details of the groups environmental to be maintained and that the this area.
impact and the amount of GHG recommendations made by AIG had emissions are set out on page 38 of the been appropriately implemented.
The groups risk management strategic report.
processes, details of which are set out Equal opportunities on pages 85 to 86, enable the board Health and safety to review and manage material risks The group is committed to The group attaches great importance arising from ESG matters.
The board employment policies, which follow to the health and safety of its has systems in place to identify best practice, based on equal employees, to the self-employed and manage significant ESG risks opportunities for all employees, agents it engages and other people and considers that it has adequate irrespective of sex, pregnancy, who may be affected by its activities.
information relating to these risks.
maternity, race, colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin, disability, The board has approved a groupThere are no specific remuneration sexual orientation, age, marital or civil wide health and safety policy and incentives in the group based on partner status, gender reassignment a framework for health and safety.
However, the annual or religion or belief.
The group Each divisional board is responsible bonus scheme for executive directors gives full and fair consideration to for the issue and implementation of comprises specific personal objectives, applications for employment from its own health and safety policy in and ESG matters are considered when disabled persons, having regard to order to comply with the divisions day setting these objectives.
Details are their particular aptitudes and abilities.
to day responsibility for health and set out on page 118 of the directors Appropriate arrangements are made safety.
Health and safety is considered remuneration report.
Details of training for the continued employment and regularly at divisional board meetings for directors is set out on page 83. training, career development and and each divisional board produces a promotion of disabled persons formal written report on compliance The group manages its corporate employed by the group.
If members with the group-wide health and responsibility CR impacts as a of staff become disabled, every effort safety policy and framework which is responsible citizen and to ensure it is made by the group to ensure their reviewed annually by the board at its treats its customers in a fair manner.
continued employment, either in the meeting in February.
The programme continues to be same or an alternative position, with informed by the feedback it receives An annual audit of the health and appropriate retraining being given from its key stakeholders which safety policies established by if necessary.
enables the group to respond to CCD, in particular those relating the ESG issues that are material to agent safety, is carried out to its operations.
Through the CR by the companys lead insurer, programme, which is overseen AIG.
The results of the 2013 audit centrally with support provided by indicated that there continued to divisional working groups, the group is be an excellent understanding of able to manage a range of customer, company expectations, rules and local community, environmental and 105 Governance Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Directors report continued Anti-bribery and corruption Whistleblowing Significant agreements The corporate policies manual The group has a system by which staff There are no agreements between was updated in 2011 to reflect the may, in confidence, raise concerns any group company and any of its introduction of the Bribery Act in about possible wrongdoing in financial employees or any director of any July 2011 and a corporate hospitality reporting or other matters.
During 2013 group company which provide register was established using a riskthe system was operational throughout for compensation to be paid to an based approach.
Although the risks the group.
Procedures are in place to employee or a director for termination for the group arising from the Bribery ensure issues raised are addressed in of employment or for loss of office Act continues to be assessed as low, a confidential manner.
The Company as a consequence of a takeover of the divisions are, nevertheless, required Secretary is required to report to the company.
to undergo appropriate training and the audit committee in December There are no significant agreements instruction to ensure that they have each year on the integrity of these to which the company is a party that effective anti-bribery and corruption procedures, the state of ongoing take effect, alter or terminate upon a policies and procedures in place.
investigations and conclusions change of control following a takeover Compliance is regularly monitored reached.
During 2013, group bid for the company.
by the risk advisory committee and is employees used this system to raise subject to periodic review by the group concerns about four issues, all of Directors responsibilities internal audit function.
which were appropriately responded in relation to the to through the groups human Dividends resources functions.
financial statements The board has recommended a The following statement, which Financial instruments final dividend of 54.0p per ordinary should be read in conjunction with share to be paid on 20 June 2014 to the independent auditor report on Details of the financial risk shareholders on the register at close of pages 193 to 197, is made to distinguish management objectives and policies business on 23 May 2014.
This makes a for shareholders the respective of the group and the exposure of total dividend for the year of 85.0p per responsibilities of the directors the group to credit risk, liquidity risk, ordinary share.
and of the auditor in relation to the interest rate risk and foreign exchange financial statements.
rate risk are included on pages 146 to Overseas branches 149 of the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for The group has overseas branches in preparing the annual report, the the Republic of Ireland and Poland.
Appointment and directors remuneration report and the replacement of directors financial statements in accordance Important events since the Rules about the appointment and with applicable law and regulations.
end of the financial year replacement of directors are set out in The Companies Act 2006 requires 31December 2013 the articles of association and on page the directors to prepare financial On 31 January 2014 the group entered 83.
The directors powers are conferred statements for each financial year.
into a new 382.5m syndicated bank on them by UK legislation and by the Under this Act, the directors have facility maturing in May 2017 and companys articles of association.
prepared the group and company cancelled the existing committed Changes to the articles of association financial statements in accordance syndicated bank facility of 382.5m must be approved by shareholders with International Financial Reporting which was due to expire in May 2015. passing a special resolution and must Standards IFRS as adopted by the Further information can be found on comply with the provisions of the European Union.
Under this Act, page 66 in the strategic report.
Companies Act 2006 and the FCAs the directors must not approve the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
financial statements unless they are Corporate governance satisfied that they give a true and fair statement view of the state of affairs of the group The groups corporate governance and company and of the profit or loss report is set out on pages 73 to of the group for that period.
The group complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code throughout 2013 and a copy of the Code can be found at www.
uk 106 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Governance Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued In preparing these financial statements, financial statements, Article 4 of Auditor the directors have: the IAS Regulation.
They are also Deloitte LLP, the auditor for the responsible for safeguarding the selected suitable accounting policies company, was appointed on 29 June assets of the company and the group and applied them consistently: 2012 and a resolution proposing their and hence taking reasonable steps reappointment will be proposed at the for the prevention and detection of made judgements and accounting forthcoming AGM.
estimates that are reasonable and prudent: The Annual Report and Financial Annual general meeting Statements 2013 will be published complied with IFRS as adopted AGM on the companys website in by the European Union, subject to The AGM will be held at 10 am on addition to the normal paper version.
any material departures disclosed 8 May 2014 at the offices of Provident The directors are responsible for the and explained in the financial Financial plc, No.
1 Godwin Street, maintenance and integrity of the statements: and Bradford, West Yorkshire, BD1 2SU.
Legislation in The Notice of Meeting, together with prepared the financial statements on the United Kingdom governing the an explanation of the items of business, a going concern basis.
preparation and dissemination of will be contained in a circular to financial statements may differ from The directors have also considered shareholders to be dated 2 April 2014. legislation in other jurisdictions.
the review undertaken by the audit Approved by the board on committee and is satisfied that Responsibility statement 25 February 2014 and signed by order the Annual Report and Financial Each of the directors, whose names of the board.
Statements 2013, taken as a whole, are and functions are set out on page fair, balanced and understandable and 101, confirms that, to the best of provides the necessary information for their knowledge, the group financial shareholders to assess the company's Kenneth J Mullen statements, prepared in accordance performance, business model General Counsel and with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give and strategy.
Company Secretary a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit The directors are also required by the of the group and company, and that FCAs Disclosure and Transparency the Strategic Report contained in Rules to include a management report this Annual Report and Financial containing a fair review of the business Statements 2013 includes a fair review of the group and the company and of the development and performance a description of the principal risks of the business and the position of the and uncertainties facing the group company and group, together with a and company.
description of the principal risks and The directors report and the strategic uncertainties it faces.
report constitute the management report for the purposes of DTR 4.1.
5R Disclosure of information and DTR 4.1.
to auditor The directors are responsible for In accordance with section 418 of the keeping proper accounting records Companies Act 2006, each person that are sufficient to: who is a director at the date of this report confirms that: show and explain the companys transactions: so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which disclose with reasonable accuracy at the companys auditor is unaware: any time the financial position of the and company and group: they have taken all steps that ought enable them to ensure that the to have been taken as a director in financial statements and the order to make themselves aware of directors remuneration report any relevant audit information and to comply with the Companies Act establish that the companys auditor 2006 and as regards the group is aware of that information.
