Governance Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Engagement A proactive approach to inviting investors and sell-side analysts Listening to the views of our shareholders is a key to meet with divisional senior part of managing our business.
We frequently meet management and to visit operational facilities.
with shareholders, shareholder advisory bodies and governance organisations in order to discuss A longstanding US roadshow programme, held on both the East the groups strategy and performance as a means and West Coasts, to build knowledge of encouraging our shareholders to become more of the groups business outside the UK.
Over the last two years this has informed investors.
been supplemented by a European roadshow programme to allow European shareholders access to the Chief Executive, Finance Director and Head of IR.
Investor relations IR programme The Chairman is responsible for Senior management devote a large An annual CSR report ensuring that appropriate channels proportion of time to the groups for stakeholders.
of communication are established IR programme to ensure that the between directors and shareholders group is effective in communicating A commitment to respond to and that all directors are aware of with all investors, analysts and other shareholders, regardless of the any issues and concerns that major stakeholders.
This is achieved by the size of their holding, within two shareholders may have.
The company has a comprehensive The annual report is the most An annual perception audit designed investor relations IR programme, significant communication method, to obtain formal independent through which the Chief Executive, ensuring that investors are kept fully feedback from investors and sell-side Finance Director and Head of IR informed regarding developments in analysts.
This enables management engage regularly with the companys the business.
to note and respond to any concerns largest shareholders on a one-to-one in the investment community.
The corporate website provides basis to discuss strategic and other investors with timely information on Board oversight issues as well as to give presentations the companys performance as well on the groups results.
This year there have been no as details of the groups corporate significant issues raised by social responsibility CSR activities.
shareholders in relation to the company.
Had there been, these would A web app to enable shareholders have been reported to the board, to view key website data on their discussed in detail, and an appropriate tablet devices and mobile phones corrective action plan developed to including videos, presentations and address any concerns raised.
The board considers an IR report at Regular investor days inviting each board meeting which outlines institutional shareholders and sellthe general nature of matters side analysts to an on-site facility or communicated and discussed with an external location to provide them institutional investors, including with a more detailed insight into feedback.
of shareholder views are also commissioned annually and reviewed by the board.
92 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Governance Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Electronic and postal voting: Those who are able to attend our AGM shareholders can vote on all the AGM have the opportunity to ask Regular dialogue with shareholders resolutions either electronically via questions and hear the views of other is important for good governance.
shareholders before deciding how to At the centre of the companys cast their votes.
The Code requires engagement with its shareholders Questions and answers: all that all directors are subject to annual is the AGM, which provides a forum shareholders have the opportunity to re-election by shareholders and, as for meeting with all shareholders.
submit questions by email or post.
a consequence, all members of the The chairman of each of the board board stood for re-election in 2013 and Results: the results of the voting on committees is available to answer will continue to do so in future years.
all resolutions are published on the questions from shareholders at the company's website and through an AGM and there is an opportunity for The 2014 AGM will be held on 8 May RNS announcement.
shareholders to ask questions on each 2014 at the companys head office resolution proposed.
The company in Bradford and shareholders are The 2013 AGM was held in the has thousands of shareholders, most encouraged to attend and raise any companys head office building in of whom do not wish, or are unable to questions they may have on this Bradford.
The company proposed attend the actual meeting.
However, all governance report and other matters separate resolutions on substantially shareholders have the opportunity to covered by the resolutions to be put separate issues and will continue to do ensure that their votes are cast.
It is the companys policy to give facilitate this they are provided with shareholders in excess of 20 working the following: days notice of the AGM.
Investor relations programme in 2013 January May September Trading statement AGM and IMS Scandinavia investor roadshow Milan and Paris investor roadshows February October Preliminary results announcement IMS and analysts call June London and Edinburgh investor sales Frankfurt, Zurich and Dublin investor Numis mid-cap investor conference teamsroadshows roadshows November April July US investor roadshow New York, Vienna investor roadshow Connecticut, Chicago US investor roadshow New York, Interim results Connecticut, Boston London and Edinburgh investor sales teamsroadshows December Berenberg European investor conference 93
