Strategic report Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Our strategy Growing high return on equity businesses in Generating non-standard markets high shareholder 1 2 returns We specialise in investing in and developing businesses that provide Our strategy of developing high returns on a relatively small amount of equity capital deployed.
businesses which generate In particular, we focus on small-sum unsecured credit as: i this area strong returns on equity of the market offers high margins and high returns to companies with capital underpins our dividend sustainable business models such as ours: and ii lending small amounts policy which aims to distribute to millions of customers who do not have much indebtedness elsewhere up to 80% of our profits to means that our risks are well spread.
We aim to generate sustainable growth in profits and dividends to continue to deliver attractive shareholder returns.
What we said we'd do in 2013 What we said we'd do Maintain strong growth in Vanquis Bank within the UK non-standard credit card in2013 market, whilst seeking opportunities to utilise the existing business model to expand Generate sustainable growth in into other geographic markets and products.
profits and dividends to deliver Deliver on the business effectiveness programme in our home credit business increasing shareholder returns.
Maintain a dividend cover of at least Extend our product offerings to ensure that we have the appropriate range 1.25times.
ofproducts for our chosen markets.
What we'five achieved What we'five achieved in 2013 in2013 Generated further strong, profitable growth in Vanquis Bank, delivering record new account volumes and UK profits growth of 60%.
We have continued to develop the Group profit before tax and pilot credit card operation in Poland, including refining underwriting anddeveloping exceptional items growth of 9.9%.
the product proposition and distribution channels.
Growth in dividends per share of Developed a strategic plan to reposition the Consumer Credit Division CCD over the 10.1%.
next two years to become alending business, not just a home credit business: Total shareholder return of 25.4%.
- We are updating the home credit business to create aleaner, better-quality, Dividend cover maintained at 1.32 modern, more profitable business: and times, consistent with 2012.
- We have launched Satsuma loans, an online loans proposition, to address the target market directly between Vanquis Bank and our home credit business.
We have continued to explore the potential for growth into other forms of non-standard lending.
Generating further profits and dividends growth whilst maintaining a dividend cover of around 1.30 Whats next?
times, to generate continued growth in total shareholder return.
Continuing the growth in the UK business of Vanquis Bank by further developing our distribution channels.
Developing the marketing and distribution of the revolving credit proposition in Poland.
Continuing the programme to update the home credit business, through the roll-out of technology, standardisation of processes and the development of the people programme.
Developing the platform, underwriting, brand and channels to market for Satsuma loans tocapture the growth opportunity available in the online instalment loans market.
20 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Strategic report Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Maintaining a secure funding Acting responsibly in our andcapital structure relationships with customers and making a positive 3 4 contribution to the We maintain a strong balance sheet and prudent communities served by funding structure.
Our business model is based on thegroups businesses borrowing long and lending short and maintaining We are passionate about providing our customers a diverse funding base, including bank funding, with an excellent product proposition and service.
public and private bonds, private placements and Agents see the majority of customers every week in retail deposit-taking in Vanquis Bank.
Our maximum our home credit business and we have much higher target gearing ratio is 3.5 times, comfortably inside levels of contact than mainstream lenders in our our banking covenant of 5.0 times.
This means that direct repayment businesses, including a welcome we have not had the funding or capital strain that call to allnew customers.
has affected other lending businesses through the credit crisis.
What we said we'd do in 2013 What we said we'd do in 2013 Maintain borrowing facilities which, together with Earn high levels of customer satisfaction.
VanquisBanks retail deposits programme, meet contractual Meet or exceed regulatory requirements.
maturities and fund growth over at least thenext 12months.
Follow our corporate values in the treatment of Maintain a maximum gearing ratio of 3.5 times to ensure our stakeholders.
alignment with the minimum dividend cover target of 1.25 Invest in the communities in which our customers and agents times and the groups growth plans whilst maintaining a live and in which our staff work.
comfortable surplus of regulatory capital over the capital Maintain a system to manage .
requirements set by the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA.
Continue to diversify the groups sources offunding.
What we'five achieved in 2013 Maintained very high levels of customer satisfaction in both What we'five achieved in 2013 Vanquis Bank and CCD.
Renewed our syndicated bank facility of 382.5m through Developed Satsuma loans to be a unique proposition in the online instalment loans market, including certainty on costs toMay 2017. with no penalty charges, a welcome call and a representative Strong capital generation has led to a reduction in gearing on the phone for all customers.
Developed the programme for ensuring a smooth transition The group now has sufficient headroom on committed from the Office of Fair Trading OFT to the Financial facilities, together with the retail deposits programme at Conduct Authority FCA in 2014.
Vanquis Bank, to fund contractual maturities and growth through to the seasonal peak in 2017.
Continued to invest at least 1% of our profits in our community programme.
Maintain our commitments on gearing and headroom on committed facilities to ensure that we maintain a prudent Continuing to ensure that the customer is placed at the heart funding and capital structure.
