Strategic report Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Vanquis Bank Vanquis Bank brings the advantages of credit cards to nonstandard credit customers, many of whom are excluded by mainstream card issuers.
We are specialists in the non-standard credit market.
We lend responsibly to new and existing customers and provide information and support to help them manage their finances.
Quick facts 950 1.1m 106.1m Employees Customers Profit before tax 866.6m 250 12,000 Low initial Savers using our Year-end receivables credit limits retail deposits offering How it works 2.
First contact Online applicants get a We now recruit new customers through a number provisional response within minutes.
We interview of different channels, the most popular being via direct customers by phone before mail and the internet.
Payment channels Payments can be made Every new customer receives a welcome pack outlining online through internet account servicing their rights and responsibilities and offering tips on managing eVanquis or directly at www.
their finances and improving their credit rating.
Debit card payments can be made by phone, standing order, direct debit or over the counter.
Building trust With our low and grow lending policy, new customers typically receive an initial credit limit as low as 250.
We will then review the account after four months for potential credit line adjustments.
42 42 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Strategic report Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Vanquis Bank business model At Vanquis Bank, we apply our successful non-standard credit business model to the credit card market.
Our credit card product, approach to lending, and customer relationships are highly adapted to the market we serve.
Vanquis Bank Better risk management Simple, Selective, gradual Responsibility transparent Individual and flexible and compliance products relationships approach built in Resilient, conservative and flexible business fundamentals Our key differentiators Individual relationships Selective, gradual and flexibleapproach Low and grow approach with credit limits Welcome call for all new customers to starting as low as 250. establish personal contact.
Selective lending criteria only 25% of applications are approved.
Online account access and management.
Early engagement with customers before as Selective credit line increase criteria with they show signs of problems.
credit limits increased progressively over time.
Repayment Option Plan allows customers to For around half our customers, we are their freeze their balance and suspend payments first or only credit card.
when they get into difficulty.
Simple, transparent products Responsibility and compliance built in No teaser rates, no cash back incentives, no Continuous account monitoring.
balance transfer deals, just simple, clear credit Fact-based, analytical approach to credit issue card products.
Customers tell us they understand their Card and deposit systems outsourced to major statements and that we treat them fairly.
43 Strategic report Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Vanquis Bank continued Vanquis Bank has established itself as the leading specialist provider of credit cards to customers in the non-standard segment of the UK credit market.
We promote financial inclusion, bringing the benefits of credit cards to consumers who are typically declined by mainstream lenders, helping people to establish or rebuild their credit profiles and enjoy the increasing utility of card-based credit, including online shopping.
Our 'low and grow' approach to extending credit and high levels of customer contact underpin a sustainable, responsible lending Michael Lenora model.
Managing Director, Vanquis Bank compared with prime customers who What is Vanquis Bank?
are predominantly home owners, and In many ways Vanquis Bank looks and their use of debt and other credit operates like any other credit card cards is very low compared with prime provider: customers who have a greater access We are Visa-branded: to, and use of, other forms of debt.
Our cards are accepted at over 15 Our customers value a Vanquis Bank million locations: credit card for a variety of reasons: We use internet sales and servicing: We have over 10 years It provides them with access to We accept standard payment credit for the first time if they have a of experience in lending thin credit history and no previous methods and issue customer responsibly to our statements: and experience of taking out credit: chosen target market.
They are seeking to rebuild their We have contact centres to support Our success is based our customers.
credit history after problems in the past: on a clearly defined Our customers spend at many of the major merchants used by prime They value the inherent utility of a strategy and our tailored credit card, particularly accessing credit card providers, such as Tesco, approach to serving Asda, Sainsburys, Argos, Amazon discounts and lower prices on the internet: customers in the nonand PayPal.
However, our target customers have a very different Our customers often have a lack of standard credit market.
profile to prime credit card users.
trust in high street banking, having Whilst they are typically employed, been declined or experienced their incomes of between 15,000 financial difficulty in the past with and 30,000 are lower than a prime high street banks: and customer, they typically live in rented They value our high personal contact accommodation approximately 75% model.
Im the first to admit I havent been great at managing money in the past.
For me, the best thing about Vanquis Bank is the text reminders when a payment is due.
It stops me getting behind and Ican easily keep on top ofthings.
Sarah, Northampton 44 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Strategic report Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Last year I got the job Id been after for a while which was great until I realised I couldnt afford the travel expenses to get there.
Iapplied for a Vanquis Bank card and used it to buy a bike that I now commute on.
Ihonestly dont know what I would have done without it.
Nick, London We have over 10 years of experience Ensuring that our operations are in lending responsibly to our chosen efficient and effective across all target market.
Our success is based aspects of the customer experience on a clearly defined strategy and our from identifying and welcoming tailored approach to serving customers Sustainable growth is new customers, to ongoing in the non-standard credit market.
customer service, collections vital to our strategy as processes and dealing fairly with Our strategy we continue to enhance customers who get into difficulty: Our strategy at Vanquis Bank is to our reputation as a Developing our products, deliver sustainable growth and high responsible lender and distribution channels and the returns with a minimum 30% post-tax markets in which we operate: to put the needs of our return on equity.
Treating our customers fairly and customers first.
To deliver our strategy, we continue to managing conduct risk, while focus on: ensuring that we comply fully with Clear credit management objectives allapplicable regulation: to ensure that we maintain stable Developing our retail deposits levels of impairment: programme to fund up to 90% of Providing customers with a our receivables book in due course: responsive, high-quality service and throughout their time with Vanquis Maintaining a minimum riskBank, commencing with the unique adjusted margin revenue less welcome call to all new customers: impairment as a percentage of Offering very simple credit card average receivables of at least products with no balance transfers, 30%.
teaser introductory rates, reward schemes, cash back or other features of typical mainstream lenders: Providing customers with the appropriate credit limit and no more, thereby maintaining relatively high levels of credit line utilisation to minimise the level of contingent liability: 45 Strategic report Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Vanquis Bank continued 1.
Underwriting capability Our tailored We are continuing to seek new ways Our bespoke underwriting processes to attract customers to Vanquis Bank.
have been developed over the last approach We have always successfully used 10 years.
We have a conservative the internet and direct mail channels, approach to risk which is reflected Our success and these continue to be our major in our decline rates of around 75%.
source of new leads providing over We have created multiple scorecards is built on our 80% of new account bookings in 2013. for each channel to market based on tailored approach, However, we continue to develop our extensive experience of dealing new distribution channels to ensure with non-standard consumers.
When a comprising a that we remain the leading player in customer applies, we combine their the market.
application data with bureau data number of important and feed the information through In 2012, in partnership with Argos, we strands which our scorecards.
We supplement the launched an Argos credit card and underwriting process with a welcome together provide us we will continue to seek other retail call from one of our contact centre partners in the future.
This is unique in the with a significant we successfully developed the face to credit card industry and provides face channel, whereby a Vanquis Bank competitive us with the opportunity to gather representative introduces potential additional information which is useful advantage in customers to the Vanquis credit card to help manage the customers in a location on the high street or in account at a later date and establish ourmarketplace.
a shopping centre, where there is a more personal relationship.
It is also sufficient footfall of potential Vanquis an important element of completing Bank customers.
This channel has our underwriting and we will generally proved successful in attracting new turn down an application if we cannot customers and mitigating some of contact a potential customer.
All of our the impact from a modest increase processes are the subject of ongoing in competition.
We supplement our core Vanquis Bank credit card proposition with a number of other brands and price points to increase our marketing reach.
Aquis, Chrome and Granite are all brand names which we currently use to attract new customers with APRs ranging from 29.9% to 39.9%.
When youre living on a tight income, every penny counts.
Having a credit card means I can go online and look for the best bargains, rather than having to rely on the high street which often has a mark up.
Im always trawling eBay and Amazon for deals now!
Faye, Birmingham 46 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Strategic report Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Why utilisation matters 3.
Collections processes Typical Typical Booking the majority of our accounts Collections are an extremely prime card Vanquis Bank on a small initial credit line is at the important aspect of the business customer customer core of our low and grow strategy.
and we continue to develop new Average The initial credit line is typically as low and innovative collection strategies credit limit 10,000 1,000 as 250 and this allows us to observe designed to help customers stay on Average and understand the behaviour of track.
Our telephone-based operations utilisation 25% 75% our customers before granting any use leading-edge technology and Good further lending in a responsible and techniques to maximise efficiency and account balance 2,500 750 sustainable manner.
Vanquis Bank has cash collected.
Our collections teams Bad developed an unparalleled expertise in are highly trained and our promise account lending to the non-standard market in kept rate the number of payments balance 9,000 900 this way.
This low and grow approach actually received from a promise Revenue has allowed the average customer given by a customer is consistently yield 20% 50% balance to continue to grow to 780 in excess of 70%, which we believe Revenue 2012: 750 whilst continuing to is best in class.
Our employees are per good improve underlying credit quality.
trained to manage the accounts customer 500 375 of customers who are identified No.
High customer contact as vulnerable and support them customers accordingly.
For those customers that to offset one The relationships with our customers bad 18 2.4 get into financial difficulty, we have a are much, much closer than those of suite of forbearance options to assist mainstream lenders.
We genuinely them whilst they get back on track.
value our customers and continue to develop new propositions to enhance 6.
High levels of utilisation levels of contact.
Customers excluded by mainstream card issuers appreciate Maintaining high levels of utilisation the more regular contact provided by is very important in non-standard Vanquis Bank and we provide a higher credit cards.
Utilisation is the amount level of help and support than the of a customers credit line that they mainstream lenders from our contact are actually using.
We ensure that we centres in Chatham and Bradford.
only extend customers' credit limits if their circumstances indicate they are High customer contact has helped us suitable for extra credit and we believe to maintain some of the best levels of they will use it.
If customers dont use customer satisfaction in the industry their cards and they have no balance, with nine out of 10 customers saying we will actively contact them and they would recommend us.
It is always reduce their credit limit or close their our aim to treat customers fairly and account.
This proactive management quickly resolve any complaints that of card utilisation means that our arise.
This is reflected in the fact that average utilisation on the portfolio when complaints are escalated to the is around 75%.
This ensures that we Financial Ombudsman Service FOS, maintain a good stream of revenue they find in our favour over 90% of the whilst reducing the level of contingent time, which makes us one of the best risk attached to the undrawn element performers in the industry.
In a prime portfolio you need a much larger number of good customers to cover the losses incurred from a single bad customer due to their relatively low levels of utilisation.
This is not the case at Vanquis Bank and, provided we maintain a stable level of impairment, we can provide a good, consistent return toour shareholders.
47 Strategic report Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Vanquis Bank continued 7.
Funding Our bespoke underwriting, robust We have a strong management team We are currently funded by a mix of collections processes and approach at Vanquis Bank.
Our senior directors retail deposits and an intercompany to lending to customers with limited have over 90 years of credit card loan from Provident Financial plc.
debt elsewhere, results in low volatility and 170 years of financial services Like our credit card offering, our retail of bad debt compared to prime experience.
Importantly, this team deposit product is designed to be a standard lenders.
has been together for over five years, straightforward proposition but aimed ensuring continuity in direction and Through the credit crisis of 2009 at a different customer base: leadership for the business.
However, and 2010, Vanquis Bank write offs it is not just at director level where our We issue fixed-rate deposits for fixed increased only marginally compared strength lies, we have a very strong terms of either 1, 2, 3, 4 or 5 years with the write offs of prime portfolios senior management team of around we do not offer instant access which showed marked increases.
50 individuals and we have great talent savings products: It is this stability, together with the and expertise running throughout the high levels of utilisation, that allows Depositors have no right to withdraw whole organisation.
We support the us to price appropriately and ensure early, other than in the event of development of our team with a strong that we deliver high returns to death or bankruptcy, which ensures performance culture.
that we have a stable and fixed As a regulated bank, we have a wellmaturity profile: established and robust governance The offer is internet-based framework to ensure that our through our own website, employees can develop the business www.
co. uk: and themselves but in a controlled and appropriate manner.
We operate Our products are also marketed a number of internal control and risk through the best buy tables such management processes, typically as moneysupermarket.
com, only held at a group level in many moneyfacts.
com: risk committee, audit committee, remuneration committee and As a PRA-regulated bank, the first compliance committee, all of which are 85,000 of deposits are covered by chaired by one of the two independent the Financial Services Compensation non-executive directors, to provide Scheme: and the appropriate level of challenge The deposit-taking platform is and oversight.
outsourced to Newcastle Building Society, the market-leading specialist in providing a scalable service for the industry.
Credit card write offs % of outstanding balances indexed to 100 to 1 January 2008 Over the medium term, we will build steadily our retail deposits base 200 towards our maximum permitted limit 175 of 90% of UK receivables, which will 150 allow us to repay our intercompany 125 loan and be fully self-funded.
At a time 100 when many non-standard companies 75 are struggling for funding, this provides 50 a very strong position to finance 25 future growth.
0 Industry Vanquis Bank Source: Bank of England and internal data 48 Jan 08 Mar 08 Jun 08 Sep 08 Dec 08 Mar 09 Jun 09 Sep 09 Dec 09 Mar 10 Jun 10 Sep 10 Dec 10 Mar 11 Jun 11 Sep 11 Dec 11 Mar 12 Jun 12 Sep 12 Dec 12 Mar 13 Jun 13 Sep 13 Dec 13 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Strategic report Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued Poland The Ministry of Finance in Poland Vanquis Banks development in the UK During 2013, we have successfully issued draft proposals containing over the last 10 years has been a real developed the credit tools required amendments to Polish consumer law success.
However, it is appropriate that to underwrite new business capable in August 2013.
The draft proposals we continue to explore potential new of supporting Vanquis Banks target were updated in December 2013 and medium-term growth opportunities to returns.
Following the introduction include introducing a further restriction supplement the UK business.
of first generation scorecards based on the cost of credit that limits nonon bank bureau data in May 2013, During 2011 and 2012, we undertook a interest charges to 50% of the credit second generation scorecards review of potential overseas markets granted.
This is in addition to the were implemented in October which have a critical mass of underexisting limit on interest charges of 2013 which draw on much broader served, non-standard consumers, four times the Lombard rate currently data from multiple bureau sources.
into which we could transport our 4%, giving a limit of 16%.
The draft These scorecards are proving successful UK business model and proposals may be subject to further effective at underwriting risks in the develop a customer proposition amendment and require clarification in target market.
capable of delivering the groups a number of areas.
The final regulatory target returns.
Our review focused Our focus is now on developing changes are expected to be published on EU territories as: i consumer the marketing and distribution of and incorporated in legislation in the finance regulation is substantially the credit card in order to lift new coming months.
Whilst the current similar across the EU: and ii we can customer volumes which, to date, have draft proposals are not expected to passport our UK banking licence and been running at around 2,500 per have a material impact on our business raise local currency funding in other month based on distribution through in Poland, it is almost certain to have EU territories.
brokers, which are a traditional and a significant impact on providers of still important sales channel in Poland, high-cost, short-term credit, including Poland emerged as the most attractive and to a lesser extent the emerging payday lenders, that have grown opportunity for the following reasons: internet channel.
We are actively very rapidly in Poland in recent trialling telesales, direct mail and facePoland has a population of years.
This may alter the competitive to-face sales, as well as testing TV just under 40 million, of which landscape for consumer credit in and radio advertising for the first time.
approximately 10 million are within Poland and allow us to position Alongside the credit card, we are also our target market: our credit card and possibly other starting to test other products that revolving credit products to meet the The Polish economy has been deliver our revolving credit proposition opportunity this may present.
robust through the global economic so that we can broaden our appeal to downturn, being one of the few We remain confident that the progress the target audience.
economies not to have entered of the pilot operation to date provides Credit line utilisation in Poland is technical recession: a foundation for developing a Polish comparable with the UK, which is credit card business capable of The political and regulatory important to generating a healthy delivering the groups target returns.
environment in Poland is relatively revenue stream whilst managing stable: and the risk associated with undrawn credit lines.
At present, however, the Polish consumers have good Polish customer has a much greater attitudes to borrowing and repaying, propensity to use the card to access similar to the UK.
cash rather than use it at the point of sale.
This is likely to change as online Following the necessary approvals shopping develops and as recent EU from the UK and Polish regulators legislation reduces the interchange to passport our banking licence for fees payable by retailers on credit the purpose of issuing credit cards in card transactions.
Poland, we commenced a pilot credit card operation in Poland in May 2012.
49 Strategic report Provident Financial plc continued Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Vanquis Bank continued The combination of a stable UK Financial performance employment market and the Vanquis Bank generated a profit before tax of 106.1m in 2013 2012: 68.0m application of consistently tight analysed as follows: underwriting resulted in delinquency levels continuing to run at record 2013 2012 Change lows for the business.
Accordingly, m m % the increase in impairment of 31.7% Profit loss before tax: was lower than the 37.5% increase in - UK 113.7 71.3 59.5 average receivables.
- Poland 7.6 3.3 130.3 The favourable delinquency Total Vanquis Bank 106.1 68.0 56.0 performance through the year has resulted in an annualised risk-adjusted UK margin of 34.2% compared with 34.8% 2013 2012 Change m m % in 2012.
The risk-adjusted margin in 2012 benefited from a more significant Customer numbers '000 1,099 899 22.2 fall in delinquency levels than that Year-end receivables 861.3 641.5 34.3 experienced in 2013.
Average receivables 739.1 537.4 37.5 As previously reported, during the Revenue 378.8 283.0 33.9 second half of 2013 Vanquis Bank Impairment 126.3 95.9 31.7 changed the timing of the sale of Revenue less impairment 252.5 187.1 35.0 its Repayment Option Plan ROP 1 Risk-adjusted margin 34.2% 34.8% product to customers from the Costs 104.3 87.4 19.3 welcome call to the activation call, Interest 34.5 28.4 21.5 which is approximately one week later.
This has had a modest impact Profit before tax 113.7 71.3 59.5 on the penetration of the product 1 Revenue less impairment as a percentage of average receivables for the year ended 31 December.
In addition, following feedback from a series of Vanquis Bank performed very The demand for non-standard customer focus groups, the business strongly in 2013, reporting UK profits credit cards has remained strong has also taken the opportunity to ahead of managements internal and the business generated a flow make further enhancements to the plans and 59.5% higher than last of 1.62 million 2012: 1.56 million products features, including the waiver year.
Further strong growth in the applications during 2013 as a result of one default fee per annum for all receivables book together with of continued investment in its ROP customers.
delinquency running at record lows customer acquisition programme.
have enabled the UK business to New customer bookings of 411,000 Based on current delinquency trends deliver a post-tax return on equity 2012: 375,000 were a record high and after taking into account the well above its target rate of 30%.
and reflected an acceptance rate of changes made to the ROP product, Surplus distributable capital generated 25% 2012: 24% against unchanged the risk-adjusted margin is expected in 2013 amounted to 53.0m, up underwriting standards.
to moderate to between 32% and 33% from 26.1m in 2012.
Accordingly, the during 2014 and remain above the The growth in customer numbers, business paid dividends of 30.0m to target level of 30% thereafter.
together with the credit line increase Provident Financial plc during the year programme to customers who have and paid a further 25.0m subsequent Cost growth of 19.3% was well below established a sound payment history, to the year end.
the 33.9% increase in revenue as the produced a 37.5% increase in average business continues to benefit from receivables and a 33.9% increase operational gearing.
Returns from the low has outgrown its central London and grow approach to extending premises on which the lease is due credit remain consistently strong and to expire in 2014.
New space has are underpinned by average credit now been secured nearby which will line utilisation of around 75% which accommodate future growth and delivers a strong stream of revenue result in an increase in property costs whilst maintaining a relatively low of 1.5m.
level of contingent risk from undrawn credit lines.
50 Strategic report Governance Remuneration Financial statements Shareholder information Provident Financial plc Strategic report Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 continued UK customers 000 Looking ahead We expect 2014 to be a further year 2013 1,099 of strong growth.
We will continue to 2012 899 invest in growing the customer base 2011 691 and receivables.
However, we remain 2010 544 focused on delivering a post-tax return 2009 426 2008 404 on equity of at least 30% and we will 2007 316 not seek growth at the expense of diluting returns.
Even though there are signs of recovery in the UK economy, I started my own business we will maintain the tight underwriting that has served us so well over a few months ago recent years.
and things were very The pilot credit card operation in difficult at the beginning, Poland has developed an effective set UK receivables m especially because Ihad of credit tools and the focus has now very little credit history.
2013 861.3 shifted to the development, marketing 2012 641.5 Vanquis Bank gave me and distribution of our revolving credit 2011 453.4 product.
We continue to see a good the chance Ineeded and 2010 345.0 growth opportunity in Poland.
it has helped toease out 2009 255.5 Looking beyond 2014, we expect 2008 205.4 thepeaks and troughs the demand for non-standard credit 2007 143.1 when things dont always cards in the UK to remain strong.
We believe that the UK business of Vanquis Bank has the mediumStuart, Derby term potential to grow to between 1.3 and 1.5 million customers with an average balance of between 800 and 1,000.
However, we will continue Interest costs of 34.5m UK risk-adjusted margin % to develop our channels to market 2012: 28.4m increased by 21.5% and product proposition and will try during 2013 compared with the growth 2013 34.2 to exceed those targets in the longer in average receivables of 37.5%.
The rate of progress towards This reflects the reduction in Vanquis 2011 35.0 our targets will be dictated by future Banks blended funding rate from 2010 33.9 economic conditions, the potential 7.2% in 2012 to 6.4% in 2013 due to 2009 30.1 emergence of competition and our key the progressive benefit from taking 2008 31.8 principle of maintaining our minimum retail deposits.
Assuming market 2007 32.7 targeted post-tax return on equity rates remain stable, Vanquis Banks of 30%.
overall funding rate is expected to reduce to just below 6% in 2014 as the The future for Vanquis Bank is very proportion of funding provided by bright.
It is a profitable, growing, retail deposits increases.
capital-generative business and we continue to see excellent growth Poland opportunities for the business both in At the end of 2013, the Polish pilot UK profit before tax m the UK and overseas.
Vanquis Bank operation had 25,000 customers will continue to be a major contributor 2012: 9,000 and a receivables book 2013 113.7 to the future growth in the groups of 5.3m 2012: 1.8m.
In line with 2012 71.3 dividends and the overall returns expectations, the cost of the pilot 2011 44.2 provided to shareholders.
2009 14.1 The start-up losses associated with 2008 8.0 the pilot will continue at a similar rate 2007 0.9 through the first half of 2014.
