A h s t s : g e s t n e o t e m a p r t t t a S i s n m d n a i e o s g t i e e d n l m U i u e b n t : 16 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report Our strategy Our strategy is designed to create sustainable economic value for our customers and our shareholders.
It is focused on three long-term opportunities: The significant protection gap in Asia: The transition of US baby boomers into retirement: and The UK savings gap and ageing population in need of returns and income.
Asia: United States: accelerate build on strength The Asian middle class The US baby boomer generation population is forecast to double is the wealthiest demographic by 2020 and will then represent in the global economy.
Over over half of the global middle the next 20 years they will be class.
This group is getting retiring at a rate of 10,000 per day, wealthier and will have creating significant demand for significant and growing needs retirement services.
for protection against illness and accident.
Focus on customers & distribution Asset management: United Kingdom: optimise focus Europe is home to the secondThe UK has an ageing largest retail asset management population and a savings gap, industry in the world, with over that is unsustainable over 5.8 trillion of assets.
This will drive managers with trusted brands increasing demand for savings and superior investment products and retirement performance will see increasing income solutions.
We believe that in order to do well for our recommending our products and services shareholders we must first do good for our to their friends and families.
Hence, customers are at the Distribution plays a key role in our centre of our operating principles.
ability to reach, attract and retain these Our products are designed to provide valued customers across our regions.
peace of mind to our customers, whether Building out and diversifying our that be in relation to saving for retirement, or distribution platform in order to reach a insuring against the risks of illness or death.
growing customer base will help ensure Satisfied customers are a key driver of our that we fully capitalise on the opportunities growth as they become our advocates, available to us in each of our regions.
