Our strategy Strategic report Implementing our strategy Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 17 Implementing our strategy Our strategy is underpinned by a set of key operating principles.
We aim to have clarity and consistency T o show how we think about capital internally and externally in the allocation via a number of metrics that performance indicators that drive our highlight the returns we generate on businesses.
Alongside this we develop our capital invested in new business, Balanced financial disclosures to enable our external including internal rates of return, metrics and stakeholders to fairly assess our long-term payback periods and new business disclosures performance.
We have three objectives: profitability: and To demonstrate how we generate T o highlight the cash generation of our profits under the different accounting business, which over time is the ultimate regimes: for example, in the IFRS measure of performance.
sources of earnings disclosures within the Chief Financial Officers report: We rigorously allocate capital to the This has, in turn, transformed the capital highest-return product and geographical dynamics of our Group: for example, the locations with the shortest payback free capital generated from our existing life periods, in line with our risk appetite.
This and asset management operations reached Disciplined has had a positive and significant impact, 3.1 billion in 2013 compared to 2.1 billion capital so that over the last five years, new five years ago.
This transformation allocation business capital investment has declined enabled our business operation to remit by 6 per cent, while new business profits 1,341 million to the Group, nearly double have increased by 77 per cent.
the level of remittance five years ago.
Balance sheet strength and proactive risk T he sale of our capital-intensive Taiwan management enable us to make good our agency business in 2009, improving promises to customers and are therefore our IGD capital position: key drivers of long-term value creation T he establishment of 1.9 billion Proactive risk and relative performance.
We have 1 of credit default reserves in the UK continuously strengthened our capital management annuity business: and position since 2008, in spite of the financial crisis and the challenging macroeconomic C ontrolling sales of US variable environment that followed.
Management annuities in a manner which actions that have been taken over this appropriately balances value, period include: volume, capital generation and balance sheet risk.
Note 1 On a statutory Pillar 1 basis.
