84 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Governance Shareholders Communication with shareholders Company constitution against if instructed by one or more members to vote for the resolution and by one or more Being a major institutional investor, Prudential is governed by the Companies Prudential is very aware of the importance Act 2006, other applicable legislation and members to vote against the resolution.
Where, under an employee share plan, of maintaining a good relationship with its regulation, and provisions in its Articles shareholders, as well as with its debt of Association.
Any change to the Articles participants are the beneficial owners of the shares but not the registered owners, investors.
Discussions are held regularly of Association must be approved by special with major shareholders and a programme resolution of the shareholders.
There were the voting rights are normally exercisable by the registered owner in accordance with of meetings took place throughout the no changes to the constitutional documents year.
In addition, Prudential regularly holds during 2013. the relevant plan rules.
Trustees may vote at their discretion, but do not vote on any a conference for investors to provide The Memorandum and Articles further insight on selected areas of the of Association are available on the unawarded shares held as surplus assets.
As at 11 March 2014, Trustees held business.
In December 2013, the Groups website.
conference was held in London and new 3 per cent of the issued share capital under the various plans in operation.
Growth and Cash targets for 2014 to 2017 Share capital were published.
The issued share capital as at Rights to dividends under the various schemes are set out in the directors The latest analysts and brokers reports 31 December 2013, which is set out in Note are circulated regularly to Board members.
C10 on page 257, consisted of ordinary remuneration policy section of the remuneration report.
The Chairman and the non-executive shares of 5 pence each, all fully paid up and directors also provided feedback to the listed on the London Stock Exchange and Restrictions on transfer Board on topics raised with them by major the Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
Major shareholders and applicable local securities law, the In accordance with English company law, shares may be transferred by an instrument debt investors are welcome to meet with Companys shares may be registered on newly appointed directors, or any of the the main register in the UK or the branch of transfer or through an electronic system currently CREST and transfer is not directors generally.
registers in Ireland or Hong Kong.
The Group maintains a corporate restricted except that the directors may, Number of in certain circumstances, refuse to register website containing a wide range of relevant Issued share accounts on information for private and institutional transfers of shares but only if such refusal capital the register does not prevent dealings in the shares investors, including the Groups financial 2013 2,560,381,736 57,013 calendar.
The shareholder information from taking place on an open and proper basis.
If the directors make use of that section on pages 371 to 372 contains 2012 2,557,242,352 60,522 further details which may be of interest power, they must send the transferee to shareholders.
notice of the refusal within two months.
Prudential also maintains secondary listings Certain restrictions may be imposed on the New York Stock Exchange in the form Annual General Meeting from time to time by applicable laws and of American Depositary Receipts which The Annual General Meeting will be held regulations for example, insider trading are referenced to ordinary shares on in the Churchill Auditorium at The Queen laws and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the main UK register, under a depositary Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad both the Financial Conduct Authority agreement with J. P. Morgan, and on the Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P FCA and the Hong Kong Stock Exchange, Singapore Stock Exchange in the form 3EE on 15 May 2014 at 11.00am.
as well as under the Rules of some of the of interests in shares, which are referenced The Annual General Meeting is an Groups employee share plans.
to the shares on the Hong Kong register important forum for both institutional and All directors are required to hold under a depository agreement with the private shareholders and all shareholders a number of shares under guidelines Central Depository Pte Limited.
Shareholders are approved by the Board, which they Prudential has maintained a sufficiency of given the opportunity during annual would also be expected to retain as public float throughout the reporting period general meetings to put questions to the described on page 100 of the directors as required by the Hong Kong Listing Rules.
Board on matters relating to the Groups remuneration report.
A number of dividend waivers are in operations and performance.
place and these relate to shares issued Prudential has continued its practice of Significant shareholdings but not allocated under the Groups calling a poll on all resolutions and the voting The following notifications have been employee share plans.
These shares are results, including all proxies lodged prior to disclosed under the FCAs Disclosure and held by the Trustees and will, in due the meeting, are displayed at the meeting Transparency Rules in respect of notifiable course, be used to satisfy requirements and published on the Groups website.
interests exceeding 3 per cent in the voting under the Groups employee share plans.
Details of the 2013 AGM, including the rights of the issued share capital.
major items discussed at the meeting and Rights and obligations the results of the voting, can be found on the % of total The rights and obligations attaching to the As at 31 December 2013 voting rights Groups website.
All directors in office at the Companys shares are set out in full in the time of the Annual General Meeting held on Capital Group 10.12 Articles of Association.
There are currently no 16 May 2013 attended the meeting, with the Companies, Inc. voting restrictions on the ordinary shares, all exception of Keki Dadiseth, who was unable BlackRock, Inc. 5.08 of which are fully paid, and each share carries to do so due to a prior commitment.
If votes are cast on a show Norges Bank 4.03 In accordance with the relevant of hands, each shareholder present in person Investment Managers legislation, shareholders holding 5 per cent or or by proxy, or in the case of a corporation, more of the fully paid up issued share capital each of its duly authorised corporate are able to require the directors to hold a No further notifications have been received representatives, has one vote, except that if a general meeting.
Written shareholder between the end of 2013 and the date of proxy is appointed by more than one member, requests should be addressed to the Group this report.
the proxy has one vote for and one vote Company Secretary at the registered office.
Governance Shareholders Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 85 Authority to issue shares US corporate governance and The directors require authority from regulations shareholders in relation to the issue of As a result of the listing of its securities shares.
Whenever shares are issued, these on the New York Stock Exchange, the must be offered to existing shareholders Company is required to comply with the pro rata to their holdings, unless the relevant provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley directors have been given authority by Act 2002 the Act as they apply to foreign shareholders to issue shares without private issuers and has adopted procedures offering them first to existing shareholders.
to ensure this is the case.
Prudential seeks authority from its In particular, in relation to the provisions shareholders on an annual basis to issue of Section 302 of that Act, which covers shares up to a maximum amount and to disclosure controls and procedures, a issue up to 5 per cent of its issued share Disclosure Committee has been established capital without offering them to existing reporting to the Group Chief Executive, shareholders, in line with relevant chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and regulations and best practice.
comprising members of senior management.
Disapplication of statutory pre-emption The objectives of this Committee are to: procedures is also sought for rights issues.
Assist the Group Chief Executive and The existing authorities to issue shares the Chief Financial Officer in designing, and to do so without observing preimplementing and periodically emption rights are due to expire at the evaluating the Companys disclosure end of this years Annual General Meeting.
controls and procedures: An ordinary resolution and a special resolution to approve the renewal of these Monitor compliance with the Companys authorities respectively will be put to disclosure controls and procedures: shareholders at the Annual General Review and provide advice to the Group Meeting on 15 May 2014.
Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Details of shares issued during 2013 Officer with regard to the scope and and 2012 are given in Note C10 on page 257. content of all public disclosures made In accordance with the terms of a by the Company which are of material waiver granted by the Hong Kong Stock significance to the market or investors: and Exchange, Prudential confirms that it complies with the applicable law and Review and consider and, where regulation in the UK in relation to the applicable, follow up on matters raised holding of shares in treasury and with by other components of the disclosure the conditions of the waiver in connection process.
These may include, to the with the purchase of own shares and extent they are relevant to the any treasury shares it may hold.
disclosure process, any matters to be raised with the Audit Committee, the Authority to purchase own shares internal auditors or the external auditor The directors also require authority from on the Companys internal controls.
shareholders in relation to the purchase In discharging these objectives, the of the Companys own shares.
Prudential Committee helps to support the seeks authority by special resolution on certifications by the Group Chief Executive an annual basis for the buyback of its own and the Chief Financial Officer of the shares in accordance with the relevant effectiveness of disclosure procedures and provisions of the Companies Act 2006 controls required by Section 302 of the Act.
This authority The provisions of Section 404 of the Act has not been used since it was last granted require the Companys management to at the Annual General Meeting in 2013. report on the effectiveness of internal This existing authority is due to expire controls over financial reporting in its Annual at the end of this years Annual General Report on Form 20-F, which is filed with the Meeting and a special resolution to renew US Securities and Exchange Commission.
the authority will be put to shareholders To comply with this requirement and report at the Annual General Meeting on on the effectiveness of internal control, the 15 May 2014.
Group has documented and tested its internal controls over financial reporting in Model code for securities the format required by the Act.
The annual transactions by directors assessment and related report from the Prudential confirms that it has adopted external auditor will be included in the a code of conduct regarding securities Groups Annual Report on Form 20-F. transactions by directors on terms no less In addition, the Disclosure Committee exacting than required by Appendix 10 evaluates whether or not a particular matter to the Hong Kong Listing Rules, and that requires disclosure to the market, taking into the directors have complied with this account relevant regulations, and reviews all code of conduct throughout the period.
