Governance Corporate governance report Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 73 Powers of the Board Table 1 The Board may exercise all powers Board Board Overall conferred on it by the Companys Articles scheduled additional attendance of Association and the Companies Act Number of meetings held 10 1 2006.
This includes the powers of the Chairman Company to borrow money and to Paul Manduca 10 1 100% mortgage or charge any of its assets subject to the limitations set out in the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Executive directors Articles of Association and to give a Tidjane Thiam 10 1 100% guarantee, security or indemnity in Nic Nicandrou 10 1 100% 1 respect of a debt or other obligation Rob Devey 7 1 100% of the Company.
John Foley 10 1 100% 2 Jackie Hunt 3 n a 100% Board committees Michael McLintock 10 1 100% Corporate governance framework Barry Stowe 10 1 100% The Board has established Audit, Mike Wells 10 1 100% Remuneration, Nomination and Risk Committees as principal standing Non-executive directors committees of the Board.
These 3 Keki Dadiseth 0 1 25% committees form a key element of the Howard Davies 10 1 100% Groups corporate governance framework.
4 Michael Garrett 7 1 100% During the year, the Board constituted Ann Godbehere 10 1 100% a Group Disclosure Committee with the Alistair Johnston 10 1 100% purpose of assisting the Company in Kai Nargolwala 10 1 100% fulfilling its obligations for the release of 5 any inside information under the various Anthony Nightingale 6 n a 100% listing requirements to which the Company Philip Remnant 10 1 100% 6 is subject.
A Standing Committee was also Alice Schroeder 6 n a 100% constituted with authority to deal with Lord Turnbull 10 1 100% business requiring attention between scheduled Board meetings.
Notes 1 Rob Devey was eligible to attend eight meetings during the year, up until his resignation on 5 September 2013.
The committee chairmen report to 2 Jackie Hunt was eligible to attend three meetings during the year, from the date of her appointment.
the Board on matters of significance after 3 Keki Dadiseth was eligible to attend four meeting during the year, up until his resignation on 1 May 2013. each meeting.
Each Board committee has 4 Michael Garrett was eligible to attend eight meetings during the year, up until his resignation on 31 August 2013. written terms of reference which were 5 Anthony Nightingale was eligible to attend six meetings during the year, from the date of his appointment.
reviewed during the course of the year 6 Alice Schroeder was eligible to attend six meetings during the year, from the date of her appointment.
to ensure that these remained in line with best practice and that each committee Corporate governance framework continued to have suitable delegated authority to fulfil their responsibilities without creating duplication of activities.
Copies of the updated terms of reference Board can be found on the Companys website.
The committees have access to the services of the Group Company Secretary and may seek external professional advice at the Companys expense.
The effectiveness of the committees is Audit Committee Risk Committee Group Chief Executive considered annually as part of the overall performance review of the Board.
Details of the evaluation process are set out more fully on page 70.
A report on the activities undertaken Remuneration Nomination Group Executive by each committee during the course Committee Committee Committee of the year is set out on pages 74 to 83.
74 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Governance Audit Committee report Membership of internal control, including the Turnbull compliance statement and Meetings Sarbanes-Oxley procedures: Director attended Monitor auditor independence and Number of meetings held 12 the external auditors plans and Ann Godbehere 12 audit strategy, the effectiveness Chairman of the external audit process, the external auditors qualifications, Howard Davies 12 expertise and resources, and Alistair Johnston 12 make recommendations to the Philip Remnant 12 Board for the re-appointment of Ensuring that the new reporting appointed 1 January 2013 the external auditor: requirements were suitably 1 Alice Schroeder 6 Approve the internal audit plan and implemented was a key focus appointed 10 June 2013 resources, and monitor the audit for the Committee during 2013. framework and effectiveness of the Note internal audit function: Ann Godbehere 1 Alice Schroeder was eligible to attend six meetings during the year, from the date of her Chairman of the Audit Committee Monitor the effectiveness of appointment.
compliance processes and controls, and performance against Biographical details of the members can be the group compliance plan: found on pages 66 to 68. Review the anti-money laundering The Board determined that Ann Godbehere, the Committee Chairman, has procedures in place, as well as the review of procedures operated for recent and relevant financial experience for the purposes of the UK Code and the Hong handling allegations from whistleblowers: and Kong Listing Rules.
In March 2013, the Board designated Ann Godbehere as its Review the effectiveness of the Audit Committee financial expert for the business unit audit committees.
purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
This In performing its duties, the will be reviewed during 2014 in conjunction with the publication of Form 20-F. Committee has access to employees and their financial or other relevant Role and responsibilities expertise across the Group.
of the Committee The Committees role is to assist the Meetings The Committee held 11 scheduled meetings Board in meeting its responsibilities for the integrity of the Groups and one additional meeting during the year and worked closely with the Risk Committee financial reporting, including the effectiveness of the internal control to ensure that any pertinent areas of overlap were appropriately addressed.
The Chairman and risk management systems, and for monitoring the effectiveness of the Risk Committee is a member of the Audit Committee and the Committee and objectivity of the internal and external auditors.
Chairman is a member of the Risk Committee.
The cross-membership helps The principal responsibilities of the Committee are to: ensure that both committees work together effectively to cover all relevant issues.
Monitor the integrity of the financial The Chairman of the Board, the Group statements, including the review of Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, half and full-year results, the Annual the Group Chief Risk Officer, the Group Report and accounts and other General Counsel and head of Group-wide significant financial announcements Internal Audit, as well as other senior staff and review the critical accounting from the Group Finance, Internal Audit, Risk, policies, going concern assumption Compliance and Security functions attended and key judgemental areas the meetings by invitation to contribute to the contained therein: discussions relating to their respective areas of expertise.
The lead and other partners of the Consider and advise the Board in meeting its obligation to report that external auditor also attended the meetings.
the Annual Report is fair, balanced and understandable, and provides How the Committee discharged its responsibilities in 2013 the information necessary for shareholders to assess the During the year, the Committee undertook the following work: Companys performance, business model and strategy: Financial reporting Monitor the framework and The Committee assessed whether suitable effectiveness of the Groups systems accounting policies had been adopted Governance Audit Committee report Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 75 throughout the accounting period and The Committee received detailed and chairmen are comprised primarily of whether management had made appropriate papers from management regarding Group senior management who are independent estimates and judgements over recognition, capital, Group liquidity, subsidiary capital of the respective business unit.
The measurement and presentation of the and subsidiary liquidity prior to minutes of these committees are reported results.
The Committee also focused on recommending to the Board that it could regularly to the Committee and their material transactions, clarity of disclosures, conclude that the financial statements meetings are attended by senior significant audit adjustments, the going should continue to be prepared on the management of the respective business concern assumptions, compliance with going concern basis.
unit, including the business units heads accounting standards and obligations under As part of its assessment of the of Finance, Risk, Compliance and applicable laws, regulations and governance explanation of performance, the Group-wide Internal Audit, and by the codes.
The Committee further considered Committee considered judgemental aspects external auditor.
changes to the Annual Report requirements, of the Groups reporting of non GAAP In 2013, the standard terms of reference including the introduction of the new metrics and in relation to the Groups for the business unit audit committees strategic report, additional disclosures of supplementary reporting on the European were updated in line with revised the Audit Committee report and the fair, Embedded Value EEV basis, specifically: provisions included in the Committees balanced and understandable requirement terms of reference.
These will be adopted The appropriateness of the economic under the UK Code, providing advice to in 2014 by the business unit audit assumptions underpinning the projected the Board in respect of this last requirement.
committees, with minor variations, to rates of return and risk discount rates: In preparing the Annual Report, the Group address local requirements or the particular has taken the opportunity to reassess the The appropriateness of changes to EEV requirements of the business.
structure of the narrative sections and the operating assumptions and the level of The Committee Chairman also Committees work in this area included operating experience variances: and reviewed and approved the appointments consideration and discussions with to the business unit audit committees.
Disclosures to explain the proposed management so that the narrative sections During the year, the business unit audit change from 2014 so that the EEV provide an enhanced description of the committees reviewed their respective results will be prepared on a post-tax Companys business and results.
internal audit plans, resources and the only basis.
Accounting policy changes on results of internal audit work, and both consolidated investment holdings The Committee considered the effects of external and internal auditors were able IFRS 10, accounting for joint ventures and volatility in equity market movements, and to discuss any relevant matters with the associated undertakings IFRS 11 and changes in interest and foreign currency Chairman and members of the Committee IFRS 12, fair value measurement IFRS 13 translation rates on the Groups results, as required.
and accounting for the Groups defined accounting presentation and disclosure.
benefit pension schemes revised IAS 19 For all of the above areas, the Committee Effectiveness of the business unit were also considered.
In addition, the received input from management and audit committees Committee considered the impact that the the external auditor prior to reaching An annual assessment of the business acquisitions of REALIC and Thanachart Life its conclusions.
unit audit committees was carried out would have on the financial statements.
by Group-wide Internal Audit in order Key assumptions and judgements Confidential reporting to ensure that these committees in respect of the Groups investments, The Committee is responsible for reviewing continued to function effectively and insurance liabilities, and deferred the Groups whistle-blowing procedures provide appropriate support to enable acquisition costs are important, and in this and received, as a standing item, reports on the Committee to fulfil its regard, the main areas of focus were: concerns raised through these channels, responsibilities.
as well as any management action taken The assessment was conducted by Oversight of the assumptions applied and in response.
the internal audit teams in each of the operation of internal controls in respect The Confidential Helpline Policy the business units and considered whether of the items shown below, and more Policy is kept under regular review by the each of the committees was fulfilling its generally, in the preparation of the results: Committee and is maintained as part of the responsibilities as documented in their Specific assumptions for: Group Governance Manual.
No material terms of reference.
Attendance rates changes to the Policy have been made by committee members and evidence Mortality and credit risk for UK during the course of 2013, although it has of the committees coverage of key annuity business: been updated to reflect the latest guidance business unit issues, as well as the Economic and policyholder behaviour issued by the Institute of Business Ethics.
appropriate escalation of concerns assumptions affecting the The Committee also met with the head to the Committee formed part of the measurement of Jackson guarantee of Group Security, who is responsible for criteria used for the evaluation.
The liabilities and amortisation of deferred the Policy, without the presence of assessment further factored in the acquisition costs: management, in respect of its suitability of the business unit audit responsibilities for reviewing whistlecommittee structures and the Non-recurrent adjustments to Asia blowing procedures and any concerns appropriateness of the membership policyholder liabilities: and regarding such issues.
Investment and derivative valuations, The results of the assessment in particular considering the results Business unit audit committees concluded that the business unit audit of independent valuations by the Every business unit has its own audit committees continued to operate external auditor.
committee which provides oversight to the effectively and the Committee respective business unit and supports the considered a report on the findings The Committee also considered work of the Committee.
Any relevant at its meeting in December.
judgemental matters regarding provisions matters discussed at business unit level are for certain open tax items.
The members 76 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Governance Audit Committee report continued Internal control and risk internal audit function, and did so during the executive management, finance, Groupmanagement course of the 2013.
The assessment was wide Internal Audit and risk functions The Committee reviewed the Groups performed by Group-wide Internal Audit across the Group.
A report on the principal statement on internal control systems prior Quality Assurance and conducted in findings of the review was considered by to its endorsement by the Board.
accordance with the CIIAs professional the Committee in May 2013, alongside a Pursuant to the requirements of Section practice standards.
For 2013, the assessment response to the review prepared by KPMG.
404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Group concluded that Group-wide Internal Audit The Committee also reviewed the undertakes an annual assessment of the complies with the requirements of internal external audit strategy and received effectiveness of internal control over audit policies, procedures and practices, reports from the auditor on its own policies financial reporting.
and standards in all material respects and and procedures regarding independence is aligned with its mandated objectives.
and quality control, including an annual Group-wide Internal Audit As such, the Committee determined that confirmation of its independence in line Group-wide Internal Audit is a fundamental Group-wide Internal Audit continued to with industry standards.
function which supports the Committee in operate effectively.
meeting its legal and regulatory Re-appointment of auditor responsibilities and also in complying with Group Compliance The Group operates a policy under which provisions of the UK and HK Codes.
The The Committee received regular reports at least once every five years a formal review independent assurance provided by the from Group Compliance, who is is undertaken by the Committee to assess function formed a key part of the responsible for assessing the risks posed to whether the external audit should be Committees deliberations on the systems the Group as a result of non-compliance re-tendered.
The external audit was last put of internal control and risk management.
with relevant regulations, including those out to competitive tender in 1999 when the Each of the Groups business units has in respect of anti-money laundering and present auditor was appointed.
Since 2005, an internal audit team, the heads of which sanctions.
Each business unit has its own the Committee has annually considered the report to the Head of Group-wide Internal compliance function, and the role of Group need to re-tender the external audit service Audit.
Internal audit resources, plans, Compliance is to assess the effectiveness and it again considered this in February budgets and its work are overseen by both of these functions, as well as to provide 2014, concluding that there was nothing the Committee and the relevant business oversight and support in the identification, in the performance of the auditor which unit audit committee.
The Head of Groupmitigation and reporting of regulatory risks required a change.
wide Internal Audit reports functionally arising from both current business activities The Committee acknowledges the to the Committee and for management and from changes in the regulatory provisions contained in the UK Code in purposes to the Group Chief Executive.
respect of audit tendering, along with the As part of its remit, the Committee During 2013, the Committee also current proposals of the UK Competition periodically meets with the head of considered and approved changes to the Commission and the European Union.
The Group-wide Internal Audit without the Group Compliance Policy, the Anti-Money Committee intends to comply with these presence of management.
Laundering and Counter Terrorist Policy changes and will finalise its decision on During the year, the Committee and the Group Sanctions Policy to take the timeline for completing a tender of the considered the following matters: account of changes in the relevant legal external audit service when legislative and regulatory environments.
Effective Internal Audit in the Financial In line with the Auditing Practices Services Sector External audit Board Ethical Statements and the In July 2013, the Chartered Institute of The Committee is responsible for Sarbanes-Oxley Act, a new lead audit Internal Auditors CIIA issued overseeing the relationship with the partner was appointed in respect of the recommendations on Effective Internal external auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, 2012 financial year.
Audit in the Financial Services Sector.
monitoring its performance, objectivity Following its review of the external Group-wide Internal Audit benchmarked and independence, to ensure that its auditors effectiveness and independence, their current structure and practices coverage is focused and that suitable the Committee has recommended to the against the guidelines and the results of the overlap with the work of internal audit Board that KPMG be re-appointed as benchmarking were also externally quality is achieved.
As part of its remit, the auditor of the Company.
While largely compliant, a Committee met with the external auditor reorganisation within KPMG, the specific programme of enhancement is scheduled without the presence of management entity being appointed for 2014 will be to be completed to deliver full compliance on two occasions during the year.
KPMG LLP rather than KPMG Audit Plc in 2014.
Aligned with the CIIA guidance for as currently.
The Board has, therefore, effective Internal Audit in the Financial Auditor performance and decided to put KPMG Audit Plcs parent Services Sector, the revised Charter of independence entity, KPMG LLP, forward to be appointed Group-wide Internal Audit has been The Committee assessed the performance, as auditor and a resolution concerning their published on the Companys website.
In as well as the independence and appointment will be put to a shareholder addition, the Committee has formally objectivity, of the external auditor and the vote at the Annual General Meeting on assessed that Group-wide Internal Audit effectiveness of the audit process.
A key 15 May 2014. has sufficient resources to discharge its component of this assessment is the mandate.
consideration that the auditor is sufficiently robust in its challenge.
The review of the Internal auditor performance effectiveness of the external audit process In addition to periodic external effectiveness was conducted through a questionnairereviews such as that conducted by PwC in based exercise administered by Group 2012, the Committee regularly assesses the Finance.
This was circulated to key performance and effectiveness of the stakeholders involved in the statutory audit, including committee members, Governance Audit Committee report Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 77 Fees payable to the auditor policies and procedures regarding Auditor independence The fees payable to the external auditor The Committees responsibility independence and quality control, for the year ended 31 December 2013 and sought annual confirmation of to monitor the independence and amounted to 15.2 million, of which objectivity of the external auditor KPMGs independence in line with 3.6 million was payable in respect of industry standards.
is supported by the Auditor non-audit services.
Non-audit services Independence Policy the Policy, The Policy has two permissible accounted for 24 per cent of total fees service types, including those that which is reviewed by the Committee payable.
The Policy sets out the require specific approval by the Additional information can be found Committee on an engagement basis circumstances in which the external in note B3.4 to the financial statements auditor may be permitted to undertake and those that are pre-approved by on page 163. the Committee with an annual limit.
Changes to the Policy were agreed In accordance with the Policy, the Dialogue with the regulator Committee approves these permissible during 2013, which implemented the Ongoing dialogue with the Prudential Financial Reporting Councils prohibition services, classified as either audit or Regulatory Authority PRA was non-audit services, monitoring the on the use of the internal audit function maintained through the usual cycle to provide direct assistance to the annual limit on an ongoing basis.
of close and continuous meetings with All non-audit services undertaken external auditor and the provisions the Committee Chairman and relevant relating to the introduction of a by the auditor were agreed prior to members of management.
Discussions the commencement of work and were mandatory audit tender.
focussed on the Committees The four key principles of the Policy confirmed as permissible for the responsibilities on matters of financial external auditor to undertake under the specify that the auditor should not: reporting, audit and compliance.
provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The meetings were also used to better Audit its own firms work: The main non-audit services understand the PRAs areas of focus and Make management decisions provided by KPMG in 2013 included: how these might impact the responsibilities for the Group: of the Committee.
Financial risk management services such as actuarial, forensic and Have a mutuality of financial interest Training with the Group: or enterprise resource management: The Committee received detailed Reports on internal controls not Be put in the role of advocate presentations on a range of topics for the Group.
required by legislative authority: including updated financial accounting developments, the new reporting Tax compliance and advisory The Committee regularly reviewed the requirements, briefings on developments services: and external audit strategy and received in the regulatory environment, and reports from the auditor on its own Due diligence services.
received the minutes of both the Disclosure Committee and the Assumptions Approval Committee for information.
Further information on the Disclosure Committee appears on page 73.
The Assumptions Approval Committee reviewed the key assumptions to be used for financial reporting, business planning, forecasting and the IAS 19 valuation of the three UK defined benefit pension schemes.
78 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Governance Nomination Committee report Membership Meetings The Committee met on four occasions Meetings during the year.
Director attended The Group Chief Executive is closely Number of meetings held 4 involved in the work of the Committee and was invited to attend and contribute to Paul Manduca 4 meetings.
The Group HR Director was also Chairman invited to attend meetings.
Howard Davies 4 Ann Godbehere 4 How the Committee discharged its responsibilities in 2013 Philip Remnant 4 During the year, the Committee undertook Maintaining the right balance appointed 1 January 2013 the following work: of skills and knowledge is Lord Turnbull 4 key to achieving the Groups Board composition strategic objectives and the Biographical details of the members can The Committee reviewed the composition Committee focussed on be found on pages 64 to 68. of the Board and, in particular, the these in considering new non-executive directors, to ensure that the Role and responsibilities of the balance of skills, experience and appointments to the Board.
Committee knowledge continued to be appropriate for Paul Manduca The purpose of the Committee is to the Groups business to meet the strategic Chairman of the assist the Board in ensuring that it objectives.
The Committee also considered Nomination Committee maintains the appropriate balance whether any additional skills and of skills, knowledge and diversity experience would be needed, either to to support the Groups strategic complement those already on the Board, or objectives, and that a clear and to plan for filling vacancies due to the future transparent appointment process retirement of non-executive directors.
for directors is in place.
The principal responsibilities Succession planning of the Committee are to: The Committee reviewed the succession plans for both executive and non-executive Review the size, structure and appointments to the Board, taking into composition of the Board, account the strategic objectives of the including the skills, knowledge, Group and the future retirement of experience and diversity of directors, as well as the level of diversity Board members, and make desirable for a Group with such a global recommendations to the Board reach.
Further information on the diversity with regard to changes: of the Board can be found on page 70.
The Identify and nominate candidates process included consideration of the for appointment to the Board, anticipated demands of the business and based on merit and against the skills and knowledge required to objective criteria: successfully deliver against these.
Make recommendations to the Appointment of directors membership of the Audit, Risk, Two new non-executive directors and one Remuneration and Nomination executive director were appointed during Committees in consultation the course of the year.
with the chairmen of those The Committee initiated the committees: recruitment process for two non-executive Consider and, where necessary, directors to replace Keki Dadiseth and authorise any actual or potential Michael Garrett who retired in 2013, and situational conflicts arising out made recommendations to the Board on of a proposed new appointment, the appointment of Alice Schroeder and changes in the circumstances Anthony Nightingale details of the process of an existing appointment or are set out in the box opposite.
Korn Ferry those of a directors connected Whitehead Mann and Ridgeway Partners person: and were appointed to assist in the searches leading to the appointment of Alice Develop, where appropriate, and Schroeder and Anthony Nightingale periodically review, any objectives respectively.
Neither of the search established for the implementation consultancies used in the process of diversity on the Board and undertook any other significant work monitor progress toward the for Prudential.
With the assistance of Egon Zehnder, the Committee also led the search process for the appointment of Jackie Hunt as Governance Nomination Committee report Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 79 Chief Executive, Prudential UK & Europe.
Conflicts of interest and Egon Zehnder assisted Prudential in finding independence candidates for a number of executive The Board has delegated authority to the positions below Board level during the Committee to consider, and where course of the year.
necessary authorise, any actual or potential conflicts of interest arising in respect of the directors.
The Committee considered Appointment of potential conflicts of interest as they arose non-executive directors during the course of the year and in respect Alice Schroeder and Anthony of the appointments of new directors.
Nightingale were appointed as The Committee also supports the Board non-executive directors during the in its annual consideration of the Conflicts course of the year, following the of Interest Register, which is carried out scheduled retirement of Keki Dadiseth prior to the publication of the Annual and Michael Garrett as part of the Report, and considers the independence continuous refreshment of the Board.
of the non-executive directors, in the The Committee evaluated the skills context of the criteria set out in the UK and knowledge required in order to and HK Codes.
ensure the Board was appropriately balanced to meet the needs of the Group and agreed role specifications setting out the key attributes expected in the successful candidates.
The search consultancies shared with the Nomination Committee a long list of potential non-executive directors.
The Committee reviewed the potential candidates provided by Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann and Ridgeway Partners, agreeing a shortlist of individuals meeting the key skills, knowledge and personal attributes, as identified by the Committee.
The Committee members and Group Chief Executive then met with the identified candidates, further evaluating them against the needs of the business and the Board.
The Committee gave consideration to the external commitments of the candidates to ensure they could dedicate sufficient time to meet the demands of the role and that they were suitably independent of the Group to fulfil the role of a non-executive director.
On completion of the process, the Committee agreed to recommend Alice Schroeder and Anthony Nightingale to the Board for appointment.
80 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Governance Risk Committee report Membership Meetings The Committee met on five occasions during Meetings the year and continued to maintain close links Director attended with the Audit Committee.
The Chairman of Number of meetings held 5 the Audit Committee is a member of the Risk Committee and the Committee Chairman Howard Davies Chairman 5 is a member of the Audit Committee.
This Ann Godbehere 5 cross-membership facilitates an effective linkage between both committees, ensuring Kai Nargolwala 5 that any risk assurance relevant to financial Lord Turnbull 5 reporting is referred to that Committee.
The Chairman of the Board, the Group The Committee continued Biographical details of the members can Chief Executive, the Chief Financial to strengthen the Group be found on pages 66 to 68.
Officer, the Group Chief Risk Officer, the risk framework, taking Group-wide Internal Audit Director and a more universal approach Role and responsibilities of the the Group General Counsel are invited to the Groups risks that went Committee to attend the meetings, as is the Chief The Committee is responsible for beyond the management Operating Officer, Group Risk and Director assisting the Board in providing of Risk Advisory and Technical Analysis.
leadership, direction and oversight Howard Davies of the Groups overall risk appetite, How the Committee discharged its Chairman of the Risk Committee risk tolerance and risk management responsibilities in 2013 framework.
During the year, the Committee undertook The principal responsibilities the following work: of the Committee are to: Group risk framework Review the Groups risk, capital The Committee continued its granular and liquidity management review of the Group risk framework, framework, as well as the Groups expanding and strengthening it in respect risk appetite, its risk policies and of the Groups significant investment standards, including the portfolios and taking account of parameters used and Prudentials wider stakeholders.
methodologies and processes Extensive road-testing of the adopted for identifying and framework was carried out during the assessing risks: course of 2012 and 2013, with the Review the material and emerging Committee receiving regular feedback on risk exposures of the Group, the implementation in the business units.
including market, credit, Once the Committee was satisfied that insurance, operational, liquidity the strengthened framework was both and economic and regulatory appropriate for the business and capital risks, as well as regulatory functioning robustly, it was recommended and compliance matters: to the Board for approval.
Oversee the Groups processes Key Group risks and policies for determining risk The Committee continued to monitor the tolerance and reviewing Groups key risks against the changing managements measurement and economic backdrop and strategic effectiveness of the Groups risk objectives approved by the Board in June.
tolerance levels: The Committee determined that the Receive and review Group-wide principal risks to the Group remained Internal Audit reports on the risk largely unchanged and continued to management function: provide oversight to managements actions in respect of these risks.
Assist the Board in reviewing The Committee reviewed the adequacy the risks inherent in the business of capital levels in respect of the principal plans: and risks to the Group, including the levels Provide qualitative and quantitative of capital buffers for unforeseen risks.
advice to the Remuneration Committee on risk weightings Regulatory and economic applied to performance objectives capital models incorporated in executive The development and finalisation of the remuneration, and evaluate model used in the preparation of the Groups whether the remuneration Pillar I disclosures required under Solvency II approach for senior executives were areas of focus for the Committee.
The was positioned within the Groups appropriateness of the underlying model and overall risk appetite framework.
the assumptions forming the basis of the Economic Capital Model were further key Governance Risk Committee report Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 81 areas of consideration for the Committee and Training and support the levels of risk-taking with the both items formed a notable part of the achievement of business objectives.
The Committee regularly received updates Committees deliberations over the course from Group Risk, Group-wide Internal Material risks will only be retained where of 2013. this is consistent with Prudentials risk Audit and the Group Treasurer on industry and market developments and their impact appetite framework and its philosophy Stress testing on Prudential.
The Groups current Alongside the Committees regular review The Committee received the minutes approach is to retain such risks where doing of the Reverse Stress Test Exercise, Prudential of the Group Executive Risk Committee, so contributes to value creation and the also participated in the industry-wide stress along with any matters escalated by the Group is able to withstand the impact of an testing carried out by the PRA.
adverse outcome, and has the necessary The Committee considered the impact of In performing its duties, the Committee capabilities, expertise, processes and the additional testing on the operation of the has access to the Group Chief Risk Officer, controls to appropriately manage the risk.
business units, approving the proposed as well as other employees and their Prudentials risk governance framework timeline for the coordinated exercise and relevant expertise across the Group.
requires that all of the Groups businesses governance process for signing off the results.
and functions establish processes for Risk governance identifying, evaluating and managing the Dialogue with the regulator Principles and objectives key risks faced by the Group.
The Ongoing dialogue with the PRA was Risk is defined as the uncertainty that framework is based on the concept of three maintained through the usual cycle Prudential faces in successfully implementing lines of defence comprising risk-taking and of close and continuous meetings with the its strategies and objectives.
This includes all management, risk control and oversight and Committee Chairman and Group Chief internal or external events, acts or omissions independent assurance.
The diagram below Risk Officer.
Discussions focussed on the that have the potential to threaten the success outlines the Group level framework.
Pillar I disclosures under Solvency II and and survival of Prudential.
Primary responsibility for strategy, the Economic Capital Model, which sets The control procedures and systems performance management and risk control lies out the Groups approach to risk appetite established within the Group are designed with the Board, which has established the Risk and the Group risk framework.
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of Committee to assist in providing leadership, The meetings were also used to better failure to meet business objectives.
They direction and oversight in respect of the understand the PRAs areas of focus and can only provide reasonable and not Groups significant risks, and with the Group how these might impact the responsibilities absolute assurance against material Chief Executive and the chief executives of of the Committee.
misstatement or loss and focus on aligning each of the Groups business units.
Diagram 1: Group level framework Risk objectives In keeping with this philosophy, the Group Board has five objectives for risk and capital management which are as follows: Board 1 Framework Design, implement and maintain a capital management and risk oversight framework, which is consistent with the Groups risk appetite and philosophy towards risk-taking: Nomination Remuneration Risk Committee Audit Committee 2 Monitoring Committee Committee Establish a no surprises risk management culture by identifying the risk landscape, assessing and monitoring risk exposures 1st line of defence 2nd line of defence 3rd line of defence and understanding change drivers: 3 Control Executives Implement suitable risk mitigation strategies and remedial actions where exposures are Group CEO deemed inappropriate, and manage the response to potentially extreme events: GEC GERC 4 Communication Effectively communicate the Groups risk, capital and profitability position to both BSCMC Group CRO CFO internal and external stakeholders: and 5 Culture Foster a risk management culture, providing Management quality assurance and facilitating the sharing of best practice.
TAC GCRC GORC GCC STOC Group Group Group Group-wide Compliance Security Risk Internal Audit Key GEC Group Executive Committee Board-level committees BSCMC Balance Sheet & Capital Management Committee Executive personnel GERC Group Executive Risk Committee Exec Management committees TAC Technical Actuarial Committee GHO functions GCRC Group Credit Risk Committee Direct reporting line GORC Group Operational Risk Committee Regular communication GCC Group Compliance Committee and escalation STOC Solvency II Technical Oversight Committee 82 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Governance Risk Committee report continued R Ri is sk k m ma an na ag ge em me en nt t t th he e fir firs st t l li in ne e o of f d fide ef fe en nc ce e Risk-taking and the management thereof forms the first line of defence and is facilitated through both the Group Executive Committee and the Balance Sheet and Capital Management Committee.
Group Executive Committee GEC Balance Sheet and Capital Management Committee BSCMC Purpose: Supports the Group Chief Executive in the executive Purpose: Supports the Chief Financial Officer in the management of management of the Group and is comprised of the chief executives the Groups balance sheet, as well as providing oversight to the activities of each of the Groups major business units, as well as a number of of Prudential Capital, which undertakes the treasury function for the functional specialists.
The BSCMC is comprised of a number of functional specialists.
Meets: Usually fortnightly Meets: Monthly R Ri is sk k o ov five er rs si ig gh ht t t th he e s se ec co on nd d l li in ne e o of f d fide ef fe en nc ce e Risk control and oversight constitutes the second line of defence, and is achieved through the operation of a number of Group-level risk committees, chaired by either the Chief Financial Officer or the Group Chief Risk Officer, which monitor and keep risk exposures under regular review.
Group Executive Risk Committee GERC Purpose: Oversees the Groups risk exposures, including market, credit, liquidity, insurance and operational risks, and also monitors the Groups capital position.
Reports to: Group Chief Executive Meets: Monthly Technical Actuarial Group Credit Group Operational Group Compliance Solvency II Technical Committee TAC Risk Committee Risk Committee Committee Oversight Committee Purpose: Sets the GCRC GORC GCC STOC methodology for Purpose: Reviews the Purpose: Overseas the Purpose: Oversees the Purpose: Provides valuing Prudentials Groups investment and Groups operational risk effectiveness of risk and ongoing technical assets, liabilities and counterparty credit risk exposures.
capital management for oversight and advice to capital requirements positions.
all financial and the Board and executive Reports to: GERC under Solvency II and non-financial risks in respect of their duties Reports to: GERC the Groups internal Meets: Quarterly faced by Prudential with regard to the economic capital basis.
Meets: Monthly Group and has Groups Internal Model.
responsibility to Reports to: GERC Reports to: GERC consider Group-wide Meets: Usually regulatory compliance Meets: Usually 10 monthly and more risks and controls.
times annually often as required Responsibility for these risks has moved to the GORC from January 2014.
Reports to: GERC Meets: Every two months The Group-level risk committees are supported by the Group Chief Risk Officer, with functional oversight provided by Group Security, Group Compliance and Group Risk.
Group Security is responsible for developing and delivering appropriate security measures, with a view to protecting the Groups staff, physical assets and intellectual property.
Group Compliance provides verification of compliance with regulatory standards and informs the Board, as well as management, on key regulatory issues affecting the Group.
Group Risk has responsibility for establishing and embedding a capital management and risk oversight framework and culture consistent with Prudentials risk appetite, that protects and enhances the Groups embedded and franchise value.
In Ind fide epe pen nd fide en nt t a as ss su ur ra an nc ce e t th he e t th hi ir rd d l li in ne e o of f d fide ef fe en nc ce e Group-wide Internal Audit GwIA The third line of defence comprises the Group-wide Internal Audit function, which provides independent and objective assurance to the Board, Audit and Risk Committees and the Group Executive Committee, to protect the assets, sustainability and reputation of the organisation.
