86 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Governance Additional disclosures The following additional disclosures Going concern of compensation for loss of office or are made in compliance with the In accordance with the requirements of the employment that occurs as a result of a Companies Act 2006, the Disclosure guidance issued by the Financial Reporting change of control.
Terms applying on a and Transparency Rules issued by Council in October 2009 Going Concern termination of their office are set out in the the FCA and the UK and HK Codes.
and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for directors of directors remuneration report.
In the US, UK companies 2009, after making sufficient senior executives participate on a Financial reporting enquiries the directors have a reasonable discretionary basis in a plan which entitles The directors have a duty to report to expectation that the Company and the them to compensation, in the event that shareholders on the performance and Group have adequate resources to continue their employment is terminated or adversely financial position of the Group and are their operations for the foreseeable future.
affected as a result of a change of control.
responsible for preparing the financial In support of this expectation, the statements on pages 127 to 289 and the Companys business activities, together Customers supplementary information on pages 296 to with the factors likely to affect its future The five largest customers of the Group 330.
It is the responsibility of the auditor to development, successful performance and constituted in aggregate less than form independent opinions, based on its position in the current economic climate are 30 per cent of its total sales for each of 2012 audit of the financial statements and its audit set out in the strategic report on pages 34 to and 2013. of the EEV basis supplementary information, 45.
The risks facing the Groups capital and For the year ended 31 December 2013, and to report its opinions to the Companys liquidity positions and their sensitivities are none of the directors, their associates or shareholders and to the Company.
Its referred to in the strategic report on pages any shareholders of the Company which opinions are given on pages 291 and 332.
Specifically, the Groups have, to the knowledge of the directors of Company law requires the directors borrowings are detailed in Note C6 on pages the Company, owned more than 5 per cent to prepare financial statements for each 235 to 236, the market risk and liquidity of the issued share capital had any interest financial year which give a true and fair analysis associated with the Groups assets in the Groups major customers.
view of the state of affairs of the Company and liabilities can be found in Note C3.5 a and of the Group.
The criteria applied in on pages 206 to 208, policyholder liability the preparation of the financial statements maturity profile by business units in Notes are set out in the statement of directors C4.1 b, C4.1 c and C4.1 d on pages 215, responsibilities on pages 290 and 331.
217 and 218 respectively, cash flow details in Company law also requires the Board to the consolidated statement of cash flows and approve the strategic report.
In addition, the provisions and contingencies in Note C12.
UK Code requires the directors statement The directors, therefore, have continued to to state that they consider the annual report adopt the going concern basis of accounting and financial statements, taken as a whole is in preparing the financial statements for the fair, balanced and understandable and year ended 31 December 2013. provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys Post-balance sheet events performance, business model and strategy.
Significant events affecting the Group which The directors are further required to have taken place after the end of the financial confirm that the strategic report includes year are detailed in Note D4 on page 272. a fair review of the development and performance of the business, with a Change of control description of the principal risks and Under the agreements governing uncertainties.
Such confirmation is Prudential Corporation Holdings Limiteds included in the statement of directors life insurance and fund management joint responsibilities on pages 290 and 331. ventures with China International Trust & The strategic report provides, on pages Investment Corporation CITIC, if there is 46 to 53, a description of the Groups risk a change of control of the Company, CITIC and capital management, which includes may terminate the agreements and either a description of the Groups liquidity i purchase the Companys entire interest position.
These risks are also discussed in in the joint venture or require the Company the audited sections of the Group Chief to sell its interest to a third party designated Risk Officers report on the risks facing by CITIC, or ii require the Company to our business and our capital strength.
purchase all of CITICs interest in the joint The directors who held office at the venture.
The price of such purchase or sale date of approval of this directors report is to be the fair value of the shares to be confirm that, so far as they are each aware, transferred, as determined by the auditor there is no relevant audit information of of the joint venture.
which the Companys auditor is unaware and that each director has taken all the Significant contracts steps that he or she ought to have taken as At no time during the year did any director a director to make himself or herself aware hold a material interest in any contract of of any relevant audit information and to significance with the Company or any establish that the Companys auditor is subsidiary undertaking.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in Compensation for loss of office accordance with the provisions of Section None of the terms of employment of the 418 of the Companies Act 2006. directors includes provisions for payment
