Strategic report Our businesses and their performance Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 21 Favourable economic trends are getting smaller, life expectancies are Performance highlights lengthening and the incidence of chronic Asia excluding Japan is leading the world B Objectives set in 2010 for 2013 have in terms of Gross Domestic Product growth.
been achieved Over the next five years it is expected to 3 generate US$5.5 trillion of new Gross Strong demand for savings B Continued delivery across key value and protection products Domestic Product, more than the US and creation metrics: new business profit up the other advanced economies combined.
As people move into the middle class, their 2 15 per cent, IFRS profits up 16 per cent, increased wealth and higher income 2 free surplus generation up 18 per cent Attractive demographics provide the opportunity to make financial plans.
Typically the first stage is to provide Economic growth is translating into the B Increased agency activity, up 8 per cent rapid increase of the Asian middle class.
protection for the family and establish and improved productivity, up 8 per cent a regular savings plan through a life Between 2009 and 2020 it is estimated that there will be over 1.2 billion people insurance policy.
B Successfully added major new Social welfare provisions vary by who will have been elevated from rural distribution partner with Thailands subsistence to urban lifestyles.
Families market but generally fall well below the Thanachart Bank levels people need to sustain their lifestyles in the event of a personal 4 Growing Asia middle class B Commenced operations in Cambodia, tragedy such as the diagnosis of a critical opened representative office in 000m% illness.
Also, while basic medical services Myanmar 5 75 may be provided by the state, there can 66% 61%61% be a high level of out-of-pocket expenses, 60 4 B Expanded Eastspring Investments creating demand for financial solutions 60% platform with operation and approvals 3 45 54% to significantly improve an individuals 190% to distribute funds in Europe 28% 2 30 experience through access to private 330% medical services.
Therefore, critical illness Market overview 1 15 and medical riders are popular additions Asias economic transformation has 0 0 to life insurance policies.
2009 2020 2030 generated material increases in personal Traditionally Asians would have relied Asia as a percentage of world middle class wealth and has created significant demand 5 Asia as a percentage of world population on their children to provide for them in their for products that provide solutions to Asia retirement, but increasingly people are individuals financial planning needs.
Rest of the world making their own financial provisions and life insurance policies are a popular part of a retirement plan.
Once the savings and protection solutions are in place, there is the opportunity to invest.
Single premium insurance policies are also important in more developed markets and it is also likely that customers will increasingly seek access to different asset classes through mutual funds as their wealth grows and their financial needs become more sophisticated.
Share of medical expenses paid 6 out-of-pocket, 2011 % 60 59 56 56 50 42 35 35 33 31 16 11 9 US UK Japan Singapore India Vietnam Philippines Indonesia Malaysia China Hong Kong Korea Taiwan 22 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report Our businesses and their performance continued Our markets Korea Japan China UAE Taiwan Hong Kong India Vietnam Cambodia Thailand Philippines Malaysia Singapore Indonesia Key Our sweet spot markets Other Asian markets Evolving regulatory environment Success is defined by metrics that ensure attractive and, through Eastspring Each Asian market has evolved its own we deliver both volume and value.
Investments, we are able to take advantage regulatory regime depending on the of exciting growth opportunities.
heritage of the industry, experiences and Market participation We also continue to plan for the longer developmental priorities.
Each market is unique and our overarching term by selectively investing in new countries Regulators across the region are generally regional strategy is very specifically tailored where we see opportunities based on positive keen to promote the growth of the life to opportunities that reflect the many demographic trends.
In Cambodia our new insurance industry, as they appreciate the differences in each country, including its life business has made a good start and the social utility of providing financial security stage of economic development, cultural relationship with our distribution partner to individuals and the way insurers channel preferences, regulation, the competitive ACLEDA Bank is working well.
We have also unproductive cash savings into long-term landscape and our own risk appetite.
opened a representative office in Myanmar.
However, they Markets with highly attractive economic are imposing higher standards on the industry and demographic characteristics represent Life insurance distribution and monitoring compliance more actively, the greatest potential for us, which at present Prudential Corporation Asia is well positioned with increasing focus on the quality of advice we collectively term the sweet spot.
This in terms of its scale and diversity of distributors provide and the suitability of the comprises Indonesia, Hong Kong, Singapore, distribution.
Almost 460,000 agents produce products offered.
Although assessments of Malaysia, Vietnam, Thailand and the around 60 per cent of sales and the remaining solvency can vary considerably market by Philippines.
We have strong market positions 40 per cent comes mainly from partnership market, there is increasing convergence on in all of them, including five countries where distribution agreements that include access risk-based calculations.
we have the leading market share.
to 15,700 active bank branches throughout The life insurance markets in India and the region.
At the core of our distribution What we do and how we do it China, while attractive in terms of scale, are model is our appreciation of the importance Although Prudential has been operating in more challenging for non-domestic life of face-to-face interaction and the need to Asia for almost 90 years, we began building insurers to participate in.
Working within provide customers with high quality advice.
our business in earnest in 1994 with the these constraints, Prudential Corporation Asia Our success with agency is driven by a establishment of Prudential Corporation has two joint ventures with leading market relentless focus on quality and professionalism, Asia.
Since then Prudential Corporation shares in these countries and is very well starting with the initial recruitment and Asia has entered new markets, added placed as these markets continue to develop.
We actively manage agency activity considerable agency scale and launched Since 2008 we have fide-emphasised excluding India, up 33 per cent since 2009 bank distribution, developed product Korea and Taiwan, as the mass life insurance and agency productivity excluding India, capabilities particularly unit-linked and markets are currently driven by product and up 13 per cent per annum since 2009. built a customer-centric brand anchored distribution options that are not attractive to We have exclusive distribution on the tag line Always Listening, Always us and consequently we have concentrated agreements with a number of banks Understanding.
on developing successful niche positions.
including Standard Chartered Bank and Today Prudential Corporation Asia is In 2013 we announced our intention to sell UOB.
In 2013, we also added Thanachart focused on leveraging this platform to grow our Japan life business, subject to regulatory Bank, significantly increasing our in a disciplined way for the benefit of our approvals.
However, the mutual fund distribution reach in Thailand.
Success in customers, shareholders and communities.
industries in these markets are highly bancassurance depends on the ability to Strategic report Our businesses and their performance Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 23 Our sweet spot markets Singapore 1 Hong Kong 4 Malaysia 1 Indonesia 1 Unmatched platform with Professional agency Resilient distribution Well positioned to capture scale and geographic reach complemented by a unique platform emerging opportunity in range of bank partners Bumi segment B 327 agency offices in 137 cities B Leading insurer with scale in B Full year 2013 saw active agency and bank distribution B 42 per cent of industrys B 62 per cent of industrys agency numbers increase Bumi agents licensed agents B Full year 2013 saw 5 per cent by 9 per cent and productivity increase in active manpower B Pioneer in linked policies B Hi-tech agency training increase by 10 per cent and a 30 per cent increase with riders for flexible and licensing B Fast growing bancassurance in productivity savings and protection B All-in-one product solution with Standard Chartered 7 B Successful partnership with B 26 per cent market share combines protection, Bank, UOB and Maybank Standard Chartered Bank of Takaful Sharia compliant investment and savings B Market leading Prushield now in 16th year life business B Conventional and product drives customer B Product innovations drive Takaful options acquisition new customer acquisition B Value-added services such B Expanding high net and repeat sales as PRUhospital friend worth segment Philippines 1 Vietnam 1 Thailand 9 Rapidly scaling up Long-term industry leader Excellent bancassurance distribution platform B Industry number one B More than doubled agency since 2007 B Access to over 800 size in less than two years branches nationwide B 32 per cent of industrys B Expanding across country agents: productivity B Rapid activation of new increased by 16 per cent partnership with B Improving efficiency in full year 2013 Thanachart Bank 80 per cent of policies now processed straight through B Building bancassurance: B Launched 15 new products eight partners and access on first day of partnership B Market leader in linked to 260 branches with protection policies Prudentials rank in insurance market by new business APE.
Based on formal competitors results releases, local regulators, insurance associations and informal industry exchange market share data.
Thailand market position and market share are post-acquisition of Thanachart Life.
24 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report Our businesses and their performance continued Cha-Ching money-smart kids A financial literacy programme that includes three-minute cartoons to teach children four key money management concepts: earn, save, spend and donate.
B Developed with world-leading experts Dr Alice Wilder PhD and Turner Broadcasting B One of Cartoon Networks highest rated shows in Asia B 60 million page views on website B Takes the dialogue to children aged seven to 12, engages entire family B Over 70,000 children have participated in school engagement programmes activate relationships quickly and focus Asset management Children and Plan International with two on long-term customer solutions through Eastspring Investments, Prudentials asset main objectives: to enable communities in-branch, face-to-face advice-based selling.
management business in Asia, manages to better cope with disasters, and to help investments for Prudentials Asia, UK and children receive a better start to their Products US life companies and also has a broad education through the First Read initiative.
Our product portfolio is centred on providing base of third-party retail and institutional More than 170,000 people in Cambodia, a robust financial safety net to customers at clients.
It has extended distribution reach Indonesia, the Philippines, Thailand and a reasonable price.
The product mix reflects to the US and Europe.
Vietnam are expected to benefit from these this with around one third of premiums Eastspring Investments was awarded programmes over a three-year period.
directed to health and protection products, the Best Asset Management Company of In November 2013, the Philippines one third to unit-linked products and one the Year South-east Asia at The Asset suffered one of the worst disasters in its third to participating products.
This profile Triple A Investor and Fund Management history, Typhoon Haiyan.
Prudential has shows that we are fide-risking our customers Awards 2013.
Eastspring Investments also mobilised resources and committed to lives while also fide-risking the business from received multiple accolades for its provide US$2 million 1.25 million to the the shareholders perspective.
investment capabilities, including five fund immediate disaster relief and longer-term Over 90 per cent of our new business managers across four markets rated as community rebuilding efforts.
top 10 2013 Most Astute Investors in Asian currency bonds by The Asset Benchmark Notes Customers Research: and the business in Malaysia was 1 The comparative results have been adjusted Prudential Corporation Asia has over named Best Group in Equity by The Edge from those previously published for the 12 million life insurance customers and Lipper Malaysia Fund Awards 2014. retrospective application of the new and 19 million in-force policies.
We actively amended accounting standards.
In addition, following its reclassification as held for sale at manage customer satisfaction levels across Corporate social 31 December 2013, operating results exclude the multiple indicators, but key statistics are the responsibility activities result of the Japan life insurance business.
numbers of customers who keep their policies Prudential is a committed member of the Comparatives have been retrospectively adjusted on a comparable basis.
our retention rate is 93 per cent, and the communities where we operate and through 2 Excluding the 2012 one-off gain of 51 million number of customers who buy more policies the Prudence Foundation, we drive social from the sale of Groups holding in China Life from us in 2013, 40 per cent of APE sales responsibility activities, with a focus on Insurance Company in Taiwan.
3 Prudential estimates based on IMF data were from existing customers.
This reflects providing disaster relief, promoting financial October 2013. the success of our advice-driven approach literacy, and childrens education.
4 Source: The emerging middle class in and shows that customers appreciate the During 2013, Prudential extended its developing countries, Homi Kharas Brookings Institute March 2010.
value of the products we provide.
highly successful childrens financial literacy 5 Source: UN Department of Economic and Social Innovations in service are also important to programme, Cha-Ching: for example, this Affairs Population Division.
Some are technology has now been adopted in the Philippines as to 2030.
6 World Health Organisation Global Healthy based such as e-submissions and automated part of the school curriculum.
For Hong Kong underwriting, but another key component In April 2013, the Prudence Foundation Food and Health Bureau, Government of Hong is innovation with the human touch such as announced a series of four multi-country Kong 2010.
For Taiwan data as of year 2006.
7 As at 30 September 2013. programmes in partnership with Save the Strategic report Our businesses and their performance h A t s g : s s e n e t t e o a m r p t t t a S i s n m d n a i e s g o t e e i d n m l U i e u n t b : Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 25 United States: build on strength Our strategy and operating principles Prudentials strategy of build on strength in the US is well established and continues to focus on: Balanced metrics and disclosures B Capitalising on the baby-boomer retirement opportunities: B Maintaining a balanced product suite Focus on throughout the economic cycle: Disciplined customers & capital allocation distribution B Streamlining operating platforms, driving further operational efficiencies: and B Conservative, economic-based Proactive risk management approach to pricing and risk management.
J acksons strategy remains Performance highlights focused on providing value 1 New business pro t IFRS operating pro t to its customers and driving shareholder value while operating within a conservative 1,086m 1,302m risk management framework.
873m 1,003m 815m 761m This approach has enabled us 664m 750m to successfully navigate the 675m 485m significant macroeconomic and financial market challenges of the last six years and ensured 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 a continuation of our strong performance in 2013.
Net cash remittances Growth in statutory admitted assets 122m US$ 294m 170.9bn US$ 249m 142.8bn Mike Wells 200m US$ US$ 107.6bn President and Chief Executive Officer US$ 97.5bn 81.0bn 80m 39m 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 One-o release of excess surplus To find out more about Jackson www.
com U n i t e e t a d f : r o a e K i c l s i u e A n s c g c d a o m : 26 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report Our businesses and their performance continued able to provide the baby-boomers with positive demographic trends, these Performance highlights long-term retirement solutions.
activities have the potential to lead to B Cash remittance of 294 million exceeded overall contraction in the industry, and 2013 cash objective of 260 million US economic environment likely further market share adjustments, In 2013, the US economy began to see as customers and distributors seek insurers B Continued strong returns on early signs of improvements, with that offer consistency, stability and shareholder capital across all key unemployment rates steadily decreasing, financial strength.
financial metrics and the housing market continuing to show signs of recovery.
Reflecting this, the S&P Regulatory environment B Elite Access sales of 2,585 million 500 Index rose 30 per cent, its best The financial services industry continues US$4,045 million in first full year after performance since a 31 per cent jump to deal with a multitude of emerging launch, making Jackson the most in 1997, and longer-dated Treasury yields regulatory initiatives in response to the successful player in the non-guarantee also began to climb in 2013 ahead of the financial crisis.
Many of these broader variable annuity market reduction in the Federal Reserves financial services initiatives specifically quantitative easing programme.
While impact the insurance industry.
Within the B Successfully managed sales of variable interest rates remained well below insurance industry, we are seeing evolving annuities with guarantees in line with historical averages at year end, an upward supervisory structures, new global group risk appetite move in Treasury yields, if sustained, would supervision standards, focus on the be beneficial to the financial performance reduction of systemic risk, and amplified B Successfully integrated REALIC of the US insurance industry.
focus on enterprise risk management as well including achievement of financial targets as initiatives in the area of financial reporting.
Competitive landscape While discussions are clearly still under way B Awarded World Class Certification by We continue to see significant shifts in across many initiatives, this is resulting in Service Quality Measurement Group market share amongst the larger annuity significant resources being expended across and Highest Customer Satisfaction by participants.
Jacksons market share of the industry.
Finding the appropriate path Industry award the eighth consecutive annuities with living benefits has remained through all of the regulatory changes clearly year of recognition for customer service relatively steady, while some larger players remains a challenge.
performance in these two categories have consciously pulled back and others What we do and how we do it are now re-entering the market.
We have Market overview also seen a general trend of product Jacksons long-term strategy consists of Baby-boomer retirement changes in this market that have reduced capitalising on the profitable growth opportunities investment flexibility and or increased fees opportunities created by the demands for The United States is the worlds largest for optional benefits.
Several insurers with retirement income products due to the retirement savings market with total assets challenging legacy blocks of variable demographic transitions within the worlds 2 in the annuity sector of over US$2.5 trillion.
annuity business continue to implement largest retirement market.
Jackson takes a Each year, many of the 77 million babypolicy changes to help mitigate the risk of disciplined approach to this opportunity boomers reach retirement age, which is their back book of business, including fee by leveraging its distinctive distribution triggering a shift from savings accumulation increases on older benefits, changes to capabilities and asset liability management to retirement income generation of more the availability of investment options, expertise to offer prudently priced annuity 3 than US$10 trillion of accumulated wealth subsequent premium restrictions on products aligned with our risk appetite.
This demographic in-force contracts and buy back offers continue to see strong consumer demand transition constitutes a significant to their existing policyholders.
Despite for our products and will continue to drive opportunity for those companies that are product innovation as a way of meeting the needs of customers and generating shareholder value.
With a long-term focus on balancing the needs of multiple stakeholders, Jackson has forged a solid reputation among advisers for financial stability, innovative products and market leading wholesale support.
Our relentless pursuit of excellence has earned us a leading position within the industry.
Product suite Jackson develops and distributes products that address the retirement needs of our customers through various market cycles.
These include variable annuities, fixed annuities, fixed index annuities, and separately managed accounts.
As would be expected in the current, historically low interest rate environment, variable annuities continue to outsell fixed rate products.
The main attraction of a variable annuity product is the optional lifetime guarantee where customers can access a stream of payments with downside Strategic report Our businesses and their performance Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 27 protection while still being able to invest the purchase of Reassure America Life High-quality information technology in a broad range of assets, as well as the Insurance Company REALIC has systems are critical for providing awardbenefit of tax deferral on the investment contributed significantly, to shape winning customer service.
We leverage growth within the product.
The breadth Jacksons earnings while helping to technology to minimise processing errors of our product offering, strength of our diversify Jacksons overall risk profile.
and reduce the time required to process distribution relationships, and our ability We continue to proactively balance new business and commissions.
The to maintain financial stability through the value, volume, capital and balance sheet flexibility of our information technology crisis and remain as a consistent presence strength across our suite of product systems contributes to our ability to within the market, have resulted in Jackson offerings which allows us to compete manufacture, distribute and service 4 being the number one writer of variable effectively throughout the economic cycle.
an unbundled product design unique annuities in the US.
Additionally, Jackson developed Distribution capabilities This focus on our operational platforms, and launched Elite Access in March 2012.
Our distribution teams set us apart from and the efficiencies achieved as a result, Elite Access is a variable annuity without our competitors within the markets in has provided us with among the lowest guarantees, offering customers tax which we compete.
Jacksons wholesaling general and administration expense to deferred growth and access to a wide force is the largest in the industry, asset ratio relative to competitors.
In less supporting thousands of advisers across than two years after its launch, Elite Access multiple channels and distribution outlets.
Disciplined approach is the eighth best-selling variable annuity Our wholesalers provide extensive training Jackson operates within a well-defined product in the US.
As of third quarter of to these advisers and in 2013 focused risk framework aligned with the overall 2013, Jackson offers three of the top 10 training efforts around its newest product, Prudential Group risk appetite.
The type best-selling variable annuity products Elite Access, with a total of 374 Elite Access and number of products we sell remains across the industry.
meetings and over 10,000 advisers in balanced with the acceptance of risks we The success of Elite Access has helped attendance.
Our conservative and disciplined increase the diversification of our product alternative investments, economic updates economic approach to pricing is designed mix with 31 per cent 2012: 17 per cent and tax and trusts education.
to achieve both adequate returns on our of our 2013 variable annuities sales not National Planning Holdings, an affiliate products and sufficient resources to 5 featuring living benefit guarantees.
As a of Jackson, is the seventh largest support our hedging programme.
percentage of total sales, variable annuities independent broker-dealer network in the Our hedge philosophy has not changed with living benefit guarantees are at their country.
Leveraging the collective strength in 2013.
Jackson is able to aggregate lowest since 2008. of the four broker-dealers within the financial risks across the company, obtain While sales of fixed annuities and fixed network, National Planning Holdings a unified view of our risk positions, and index annuities have been lower recently is able to meet the specific needs of three actively manage net risks through in line with the market, they still make up key distribution channels: independent economically-based hedging programmes.
a significant portion of our balance sheet representatives, financial institutions, A key element of our core strategy is to and earnings.
Jackson stopped selling life and tax and accounting professionals.
protect the company from severe economic insurance products in 2012: however, we We offer registered representatives and scenarios while maintaining adequate continue to look for opportunistic bolt on investment advisers access to industryregulatory capital.
We benefit from the fact acquisitions to diversify our earnings and leading mutual fund asset management that the competitive environment continues balance sheet risks further.
Most recently, companies, insurance carriers, and to to favour companies with good financial thousands of brokerage products.
National strength ratings and a strong track record Planning Holdings provides significant of financial discipline, both key elements Variable annuity sales US$bn benefits for Jackson by being an outlet of our long-term strategy.
for Jackson products and providing market intelligence.
20.9 19.7 6.4 Curian is Jacksons retail asset 3.4 management arm, distributing investment 16.3 14.5 solutions which include separate accounts, mutual funds, mutual fund wraps and exchange traded funds through an online platform.
Curian gives financial advisers efficient access to a broad range of 2012 2013 investment solutions that are developed with institutional-level investment manager Without living bene ts due diligence, portfolio construction and With living bene ts asset allocation resources.
Elite access sales US$m Notes Operational efficiencies 1 Comparatives adjusted for retrospective We support our industry-leading 201% application of the accounting policy change for distribution teams with award-winning 4,045 deferred acquisition costs implemented in 2012.
2 According to LIMRA, US Individual Annuities customer service.
Jackson was awarded by Survey Participants Report Q3 2013.
Service Quality Measurement Group, Inc. 3 Source: US Census Bureau.
World Class Certification in customer 4 Based on total annuity sales, LIMRA, US satisfaction and received the Highest Individual Annuities Survey Participants 1,345 Report Q3 2013.
Customer Satisfaction by Industry award, 5 Investment News Broker-Dealer Rankings achieving the top rating for the financial April 2013 as reported at the 2013 Investor 2012 2013 industry, for the eighth consecutive year.
A s h s t : g e s t n e o t e m a p r t t t a S i s n m d n a i e o s g t i e e d n l m U i u e b n t : 28 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report Our businesses and their performance United Kingdom: focus Our strategy and operating principles The strategy in the UK business continues to be one of focus: Balanced B Selective participation: metrics and disclosures B Capital discipline: B Sustainable cash generation: Focus on B Delivering value through cost and Disciplined customers & capital persistency management: and allocation distribution B Provision of market leading with-profits investment returns to our customers.
Proactive risk management O ur ability to deliver value to our Performance highlights customers and the resulting New business pro t IFRS operating pro t market franchise served us well in 2013 where, despite the impact 365m 736m 735m 719m 723m of regulatory changes, retail new 108m 657m 63m 25m 313m 23m 31m 297m 657m 656m business profit was resilient, 39m 30m 260m 705m 700m 710m 274m 267m 230m 29m 257m cash generation increased and 231m 7m our strong capital position was 223m maintained.
co. uk U n i t e e t d a f : r o a K e i c l s i u e A n s c g c a d o m : Strategic report Our businesses and their performance Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 29 Performance highlights Ageing population with 57 per cent of liquid assets held by over-55s 3,4 5,6 B 2013 cash objective of 350 million Old age dependency ratio % Liquid assets by age, total c1tn achieved B Two Five Star ratings for excellent 55 53 1 51 service, achieved for third 49 45 consecutive year 40 37 35 32 31 31 30 18 54 55 B Winner of the Company 2 of the Year award B Robust performance despite significant regulatory change B Diversified distribution model focusing sponsored schemes and require help to The changing regulatory landscape on intermediaries, Prudential Financial convert their wealth into sustainable lifetime The UK life and pensions industry has Planning our direct advice service income.
In contrast, the next generation of undergone considerable regulatory and and individual customers via mail, email savers is typically under-funded as the market change in 2013, with the and telephone responsibility for retirement provision has appointment of two new industry shifted substantially away from government regulatory bodies, the phasing in of B Continued strong performance of and employers, and towards the individual.
auto-enrolment for company pensions and with-profits These customers, and helping them the introduction of the ABI Code on accumulate savings, constitutes a significant Retirement Choices.
The implementation B Launch of Prudential Polska opportunity for long-term savings and of the recommendations of the Retail 12 branches and 481 financial retirement income providers at a time when Distribution Review has changed the planning consultants the ability of the state to intervene is distribution landscape and providers, Market overview significantly diminished.
distributors, advisers and their clients In the UK we focus on those areas of the The changing face of saving in the UK continue to adjust to the new environment.
The UK market is characterised by an ageing market where we are able to bring superior The Financial Conduct Authoritys value to our customers and where we enjoy population and a concentration of wealth in Thematic Review into the UK annuity the 50 age group, many of whom have built a competitive advantage, primarily in market, which ran throughout 2013, with-profits and annuities.
up substantial pension funds in employerconcluded in February 2014 with the announcement that it was launching a further study to examine competition and choice in the retirement income market as a whole.
We continue to support both regulatory and other initiatives to improve consumer experience and outcomes.
These new developments represent major changes to the way business is conducted in a number of areas of the markets in which we operate in the UK, and impact not only insurance and investments providers, but also distributors and consumers.
What we do and how we do it Valuable customer franchise With a pedigree stretching back over more than 165 years the Prudential UK business has built the foundation of the Groups iconic brand and its cash, capital and credit ratings performance.
Our approach in the UK is driven by a focus on providing long-term value to our customers based on our longevity and experience, multi-asset investment capabilities and our financial 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050 30 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report Our businesses and their performance continued strength.
Our long-standing trusted market, where the added complexity and With-profits fund outperforming competitors brand favourably positions us to help greater focus on financial strength is better 5, 10 and 15 year gross cumulative risk-averse customers save with confidence suited to our strengths.
7 return to end 2013 and then to translate their accumulated wealth into dependable retirement income, Broad distribution 178% through our range of market leading Prudential has developed a diversified 15 years with-profits and annuity products.
Our distribution model focusing both on 119% 10 years strong brand franchise has also been central financial advisers and the individual 67% to our successful health and protection customer through a direct non-advised 5 years associates PruHealth and PruProtect.
channel and its own financial planning arm Prudential WP We continue to focus on meeting Prudential Financial Planning.
The advent 89% 15 years customer needs: of the Retail Distribution Review saw a 117% significant structural shift away from the 10 years Offering a range of ways to do business 83% traditional routes to market such as with us through intermediaries, through 5 years bancassurance, which when combined our Prudential Financial Planning partners FTSE 100 index with a 20 per cent reduction in the number providing advice to customers in their 130% 8 of financial advisers operating in the UK, 15 years homes, or by telephone and internet: has resulted in lower access to advice, 101% 10 years Innovative products such as our Income particularly for customers from lower 58% wealth demographics.
We prepared well Choice Annuity which provides an 5 years Company A WP alternative to the traditional fixed income in anticipation of these changes and are 130% strongly placed to remain a key and active annuity and is especially attractive in a 15 years low-interest rate environment: provider in our chosen markets, with our 106% chosen distribution partners.
10 years Our market leading PruFund investment 59% Our direct advice channel, Prudential range with optional guarantees to suit 5 years Financial Planning, continues to establish its Company B WP customers attitude to risk: and presence, focusing primarily on the financial 106% 15 years planning needs of our existing direct Continuing to improve our service 88% year-on-year for both customers and customer base.
By the end of 2013, two years 10 years from launch, adviser numbers reached 196. intermediaries.
Prudential UKs focus on 42% 5 years continuing to deliver excellent customer Prudential Polska, our new life Company C WP company, opened for business in March service was recognised at the 2013 Financial Adviser Service Awards, where 2013.
Poland is one of Europes fastest In addition to our customers, our growing economies with an expanding we retained our two 5-Star ratings in the shareholders also continue to benefit from Life & Pensions and Investment categories.
Headquartered in Warsaw, the steady performance of our with-profits the business now has 12 branches across based products and the cash they generate.
Strong product capability the country and 481 financial planning The chart above shows the outperformance consultants.
The agency sales network will Prudential is a leader in its chosen markets, of our with-profit funds when compared to benefiting from a strong investment track continue to be rolled out to more major those of our peers.
This performance has Polish cities and towns during 2014. record, a financially strong with-profits allowed us to add an estimated 2 billion to fund and a recognised reputation for Prudential UK & Europe will continue to with-profits policies in the year.
Policyholders focus on its core strengths of with-profits and developing innovative products such as will typically see year-on-year increases of PruFund and Income Choice Annuity.
annuities while utilising its highly regarded between 5 per cent and 8 per cent in brand franchise in order to help its consumers We have a competitive advantage in accumulating with-profits policy values over with-profits and we are confident that transfer their accumulated wealth into the past year.
demand will remain strong as customers In Corporate Pensions, we continue continue to seek products which mitigate the Notes to focus on securing new members and 1 Awarded in the Investment and Life and volatility of the market, while still providing a Pensions categories at the Financial Adviser incremental business from our current steady return over the medium to long term.
portfolio of customers and on additional We have a well-established individual 2 Awarded at the 23rd annual Money Marketing voluntary contribution plans within the annuity business, sourced from maturing Financial Services Awards 2013.
3 UN Population Statistics, Prudential analysis.
public sector, where we now provide pension policy customers.
The strength of 4 Old Age Dependency Ratio Population Above schemes for 69 of the 99 public sector our with-profits proposition also continues to the Age of 65 Population within the age authorities in the UK.
drive good external demand for our Income bracket of 15 to 64 100.
5 HMRC UK Personal Wealth Statistics based on Prudential has a solid track record and Choice Annuity, which offers customers 2008-2010 ONS Wealth and Asset Survey WAVE the core capabilities to succeed in the bulk relatively attractive returns in the current 2, and ONS Population data statistics.
Our ability to develop sustained low interest rate environment, 6 Liquid wealth consists of the wealth held in cash, banks, building societies or shares: the structures and bespoke solutions puts us with the potential for income growth.
18 to 54 segment also includes liquid wealth at a distinct competitive advantage to We provide a comprehensive range not attributed to any particular age bracket.
develop our participation in a market that of risk managed investments, including 7 Prudential, Financial Express.
All figures to has around 1 trillion of liabilities where 31 December 2013.
The with-profits gross with-profits bonds and pensions, which performance is gross of tax, charges and the trustees are likely to be keen to fide-risk continue to outperform competitors effects of smoothing.
Cumulative returns for their balance sheets.
We will continue to develop company A, B and C have been calculated We are selective in the transactions internally based on annual returns gathered our with-profits proposition, enhancing the from publicly available sources: these may differ undertaken based on strict return on capital range of investment choices available to from figures quoted by the company.
Our preferred participation policyholders and developing our presence 8 Financial Services Authority December 2011 segment is at the large premium end of the in the Individual Savings Account market.
Strategic report Our businesses and their performance A s s h t e : g t s n e o m t e p a r t t a t i S s n m d n a e i o t g s i d e n e l U i m u b e n t : Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 31 Asset management: optimise Our strategy and operating principles Prudential has a strategy of optimising the value of M&Gs asset management capabilities by allowing the business to Balanced metrics and focus on the generation of superior disclosures long-term returns for investors.
Through its proven ability to convert investment performance into significant fund flows, M&G is able to increase its Focus on Disciplined customers & capital exposure to rising markets and so maximise allocation distribution revenue from the long-term stock of funds under management.
Proactive risk management The pillars of M&Gs business that support M&Gs objective is to produce B Innovative investment ideas which this strategy are: meet client needs and a proven ability superior long-term investment to convert these ideas into significant returns for its clients B People an environment that attracts, fund flows: and individual and institutional fosters and retains talented individuals: B Diversification by asset class, client investors and its shareholder, B Performance an investment-led type, fund and investment strategy the Prudential Group.
It is business focused on the delivery of and country.
the commercialisation of long-term returns through active investment management: this investment performance through the acquisition of Performance highlights new fund flows that produces M&G external net ows M&G European retail funds attractive profits and cashflow under management Institutional for the Prudential Group.
com U n i t e e t a d f : r o a e K i c l s i u e A n s c g c d a o m : 32 Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report Our businesses and their performance continued in multiple ways, from segregated By total UK assets under management, Performance highlights mandates through to pooled funds.
They M&G is the second largest retail fund B Record external funds under 3 are often attracted to investment strategies manager with a market share of management of 126 billion originally developed by M&G for 5.5 per cent.
In Europe, where M&G has Prudentials long-term insurance funds.
distributed funds for just over 10 years, B 64 per cent growth in European retail As in previous years, M&G has a strong it has over 23 billion of assets under funds to 23.7 billion under management pipeline of institutional business still to management and a market share of 2 fund.
Products designed to help fill the gap 0.4 per cent.
B Record 2013 profits of 395 million left by the decline in long-term commercial bank loans continue to attract considerable Markets backdrop over the past year B Recognised for its investment interest, while opportunities to lend to Equity markets in developed countries rose performance with numerous awards, medium-sized companies and to pre-crisis levels during 2013, while bond including Real Estate Manager, Fixed infrastructure projects are improving.
Emerging Income Manager and Investment Regulators across Europe are seeking to markets, however, suffered a series of Manager of the Year at both the improve the quality of investment products setbacks as concerns about slowing Financial News Awards 2013 and and advice, mainly by bringing greater economic growth in China and the tapering European Pensions Awards 2013 transparency to the industry.
In the UK the of quantitative easing in the US weighed Retail Distribution Review has led to clearer heavily on investor sentiment.
Market overview disclosure of investment charges, as well European investors continue to favour The European asset management market as ensuring that customers rather than fixed income and mixed asset funds, while is the second largest in the world with total providers pay for advice by outlawing in the UK the bond sector saw several 2 assets of 5.8 trillion.
Demand for asset commissions for new business.
The full periods of net redemptions as savers management services is expected to consequences of this guidance, which is moved more of their money into equities.
continue to grow as governments and not fully effective until April 2014, are still employers increasingly pass the What we do and how we do it unclear.
European policymakers are responsibility for retirement planning and considering similar changes and some M&G has been managing money on behalf other long-term savings to individuals.
countries have already followed the of investors for more than 80 years.
We Asset managers with records of strong UKs lead on commissions, such as have long believed that our active investment performance and wellThe Netherlands.
approach to investment selecting stocks regarded brands are in a good position It is still too early to offer a definitive on a conviction basis rather than following to attract flows of new money.
assessment of the impact of the Retail a market index produces superior returns The UK asset management industry, Distribution Review, although we do over the longer term.
2 M&Gs core market, is the second expect more focus in the market on price.
In the retail market M&G operates a largest national market in the world with In the past few weeks, platforms have range of UK domiciled funds which are 3 770 billion of assets and is a global centre begun to disclose their own service pricing now distributed across Europe and Asia.
of excellence for investment management and any special fund fees agreed with asset Today, clients outside the UK account for and a major source of funding for the managers.
Those managers with strong more than a third of M&Gs retail assets UK economy.
brands and a reputation for investment under management.
Across its chosen markets, M&G serves performance will be expected to better In the institutional market, M&G seeks the needs of both retail and institutional withstand any such pressures on asset to leverage investment strategies which investors.
Retail clients favour pooled management fees.
have been developed originally for funds such as open-ended investment Prudentials insurance funds in order to companies which they buy directly from M&Gs retail market position attract external business.
M&G or more typically through an Retail fund markets are highly fragmented, Today M&G is an international asset intermediary such as an independent with no single company dominating.
This manager with operations in 18 countries financial adviser or discretionary fund reflects the competitive nature of the and retail products which are distributed manager.
Institutional clients, such as business and the multiplicity of providers.
pension funds and local authorities, invest Strategic report Our businesses and their performance Prudential plc Annual Report 2013 33 M&G funds under management income and property so that we can long-lease properties with in-built inflationalways offer investment solutions to our related rental streams, which draws upon clients as market conditions and investor our combined real estate and fixed income 244bn 228bn sentiment change.
This Fund, which 201bn 198bn 116bn has total investor commitments of over 174bn 109bn 109bn Equities: our fund managers have the 104bn 2.1 billion, has delivered an annualised freedom to develop their own investment return of 7.4 per cent above RPI over the 59bn 57bn approaches.
Their main strength lies in five years to 31 December 2013.
It had a 48bn 47bn 39bn 67bn stock selection, focusing on fundamental record year in 2013 in terms of transaction 55bn 44bn 42bn 31bn company analysis.
M&Gs size and activity, completing on nine transactions 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 standing enables our fund managers to with a total end value of 625 million.
develop an effective dialogue with the Of this amount, 235 million were Internal management teams of the companies developments, thus demonstrating the Institutional Retail in which they invest.
Funds ability to take on sizeable development financings an area in which Our success is evident in the fact that we Fixed income: M&G is one of Europes the banks have reduced their activities.
have achieved positive external net flows largest fixed income investors.
Our fund This brings the Funds development for 11 years in a row, reflecting the managers benefit from one of the regions transaction total to 370 million over the attractiveness of our diverse fund offering largest and most experienced in-house life of the fund to date.
and strong investment performance credit research teams, whose knowledge delivered for our customers.
M&G recorded covers the full range of fixed income Diversification net flows of 9.5 billion during 2013 investment, from the management of M&G has pursued business diversification compared to net flows of 16.9 billion in sovereign debt and corporate bond across: 2012, a record level which included a single portfolios, through to leveraged finance, Asset class: expertise across equities, low-margin institutional mandate of real estate finance, direct lending and fixed income, real estate and mixed- 7.6 billion.
Included in 2013 net flows are infrastructure.
asset strategies: total net retail flows of 7.3 billion, into a diversified range of funds including 10 retail Real estate: M&G Real Estate is a leading Client type: retail customers and funds that attracted net flows of at least global property investor and manager institutional clients including pension 100 million each during 2013. covering all major real estate sectors.
We funds, sovereign wealth funds, and actively manage our assets, drawing on our Prudentials own long-term insurance People long heritage of expertise and knowledge funds: Our investment edge is our people.
We and our extensive network of contacts.
Investment strategy: Over 60 pooled employ more than 1,700 people operating This approach enables the business to retail funds covering domestic, global from offices across Europe, Asia and in identify and capitalise on attractive and emerging market strategies, 13 of Southern Africa.
We take pride in investment opportunities.
During 2013 which have funds under management attracting, developing and retaining M&G returned to the UK residential of over 1 billion.
Institutional clients people of the highest calibre.
In return, property market for the first time in benefit from a wide range of pooled they are committed to working with us to 30 years with a 105 million investment and or segregated fixed income, equity deliver high performance in serving the in London housing.
and real estate strategies: and long-term needs of our customers.
Our investment teams are primarily based A history of innovation Country: M&G is an international asset in our headquarters in London, where they Since launching the UKs first open-ended manager with operations in 18 countries.
benefit from the provision of high-quality fund in 1931, we have brought a succession Retail products are distributed in 20 support staff and investment of new investment strategies to the retail jurisdictions, with over a third of retail infrastructure: from analysts and dealers to and institutional markets.
In combination funds under management sourced from operations, risk and compliance.
Reflecting with this tradition of innovative investment outside the UK.
the need for local expertise in real estate, thinking, M&G has a proven ability to we have specialist real estate teams in Paris, convert ideas into significant fund flows.
Frankfurt, Luxembourg, Singapore, Seoul It is these two qualities in combination that and Tokyo in addition to London.
Recent investment success stories Meeting customers needs include the M&G Optimal Income Fund, A committed focus on long-term one of the first truly global flexible bond investment returns means that the interests funds for retail investors.
The fund has of M&G and its customers are always attracted 17.3 billion of assets since its aligned, whether clients are individual launch in 2006.
Similarly, the M&G Global savers, institutional investors or the funds Dividend Fund, which invests in companies of Prudentials insurance operations.
around the world that consistently grow M&G has a strong investment brand, built their dividends, has reached 8.9 billion over decades and based on a reputation for in five years.
honesty, innovation and a commitment to Recent innovations for institutional building long-term wealth for our investors.
third-party clients have focused on Notes 1 Excludes Prudential Capital.
investment strategies to manage long-term 2 Source: Lipper FMI Fund File as at Investment expertise inflation-linked liabilities.
M&Gs investment expertise spans all the successfully runs the M&G Secured 3 Source: Investment Management Association principal asset classes equities, fixed Property Income Fund, a portfolio of as at 31 December 2013.
