Strategic report Our business The private wealth industry Rathbones in context Our market 548 billion of assets We manage 20.2 billion, The UK asset management industry was responsible managed in the UK by private equating to an approximate client wealth managers.
for 5.4 trillion of funds at the end of 2012 an increase of 6.5% since the end of 2011 and it is estimated this The UK market comprises Our discretionary investment will have increased further, by another 7%, to circa circa two million individuals management client portfolios 1 5.8 trillion by the end of 2013.
The industry comprises with liquid assets of range in size from 100,000 100,000. our stated minimum a number of distinct sectors.
There are an additional We provide investment Our market % estimated 530,000 high management services to over net worth individuals with 41,000 clients.
6 liquid assets of 500,000, 9% Over 50% of the money 10% and around 100,000 with 548bn we manage is in client 490bn investible assets of relationships of greater 2 million.
15% The top 47 charity fund We manage 2.68 billion of 778bn managers look after circa charity-related funds, mostly in 5 50 billion.
respect of small and medium 100% 31% 1 sized charities.
5,427bn 1,694bn Around 778 billion is We manage 1.8 billion within managed in investment funds our unit trust business.
930bn Over 150 companies offer We employ over 880 wealth management services individuals across the group.
It is estimated that 18% fund management firms in 987bn the UK directly employ over 1 50,000 people.
1 The City UK Fund Management 2013 report 2 MDRC UK high net worth 2013 report Private client funds industry in which Rathbone Investment 3 Private Asset Managers directory 2013 Management operates 4 Charitable Finance, November 2013 please note, this is not an exhaustive list of charity fund managers Retail clients industry in which Rathbone Unit Trust Management operates Institutional other including soverign wealth funds, local authorities, charities and companies industry in which Rathbone Investment Management's Specialist Charity Team operates 4 Institutional insurance companies 5 Institutional corporate pension funds 6 Alternatives including hedge funds, property funds and private equity funds Rathbone Brothers Plc, through its subsidiaries Rathbone Investment Management and Rathbone Unit Trust Management, is an important part of the industry, providing wealth management solutions for the private client, retail and charity sectors of the UK fund management industry.
The following table helps to put this in context.
6 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2013 Strategic report Our business Our industry managed by an individual who is personally accountable to them.
We are one of the largest investment houses in the UK The UK private client wealth management industry remains in terms of discretionary funds under management.
heterogeneous in terms of the many different cultures, structures, investment styles and business models in place The competitive landscape at the numerous firms operating within it.
Our independence UK market by discretionary assets under management AUM and culture are inextricably linked to our business model, 1 at 31 December 2012 allowing us to develop the business in line with our 5 Discretionary AUM Total AUM underlying philosophy that private clients want a tailored m m and professional service suitable for their personal needs.
Coutts & Co 49,652 51,721 A discretionary and bespoke approach to investment Brewin Dolphin 18,200 26,000 management best allows us to provide this.
Rathbones 15,698 16,700 Within this industry there are three principal and Lloyds TSB Private Banking 13,885 13,885 4 Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management 10,336 25,839 very distinct service offerings for private clients and charities 3 HSBC 10,308 29,954 seeking an investment management service: discretionary, 4 Smith & Williamson 9,767 13,023 advisory and self-directed.
Each will appeal to a different Investec Wealth & Investment 9,758 12,840 type of client, often with very different needs.
Our Cazenove Capital Management 9,000 9,000 discretionary investment management service is where Quilter Cheviot 6,059 6,732 clients give our investment managers complete discretion Close Brothers Asset Management 5,489 8,854 over all investment decisions relating to their portfolios.
UBS Wealth Management 5,123 26,963 In contrast, an advisory client is either responsible for 1 Source: Private Asset Managers directory 2013 2 Barclays Wealth and St Jamess Place Wealth Management total AUM: 50.2bn and generating their own investment ideas, or at the very least 34.8bn respectively do not provide a breakdown of their discretionary AUM 3 Combined data for HSBC Global Asset Managers and HSBC Private Bank confirming their agreement to those suggested to them by 4 Includes assets other than private client discretionary or advisory portfolios ie assets their wealth manager.
A client opting for a self-directed under administration, charities, institutional, pensions which distorts proportion of discretionary AUM figure service will be entirely responsible for their own investment Private Asset Managers directory estimate decisions, relying on resources made available to them via a share dealing platform or the media.
For many years, Our independent unit trust business, Rathbone Unit Rathbones has focused on a discretionary service that is Trust Management, is a boutique asset manager operating in dynamic, and appeals to those clients who may not wish, or the retail client market providing a focused range of wellhave little time to deal with the complexities of managing performing unit trusts designed to service the retail market.
their own investments to a greater or lesser extent.
This is a highly competitive, fast-paced and expanding sector, Discretionary clients value the trusted relationship that they served both by firms of a similar size as well as multi-national develop with their investment manager over time, during firms.
Our funds under management account for a market which their portfolio will be professionally managed to share of 0.3%, and our efforts to improve the balance of our reflect their risk appetite and will respond to life events fund range over the last few years, has positioned us well for or changing family circumstances.
The unit trust team also provides an important Many firms operating in the private client wealth contribution to the Rathbone Investment Management industry seek to provide investment management as part investment process.
of a wider holistic wealth solution, such that a clients In recent years the UK wealth management market investment portfolio becomes one element within an overall has been subject to significant change in relation to regulation, financial planning or private banking package.
Whilst we merger and acquisition activity and corporate change.
In spite focus on the provision of discretionary investment of this, Rathbones has benefited from a period of stability, management services, we are also able to provide a number during which we have consistently invested in the business, of complementary services including financial planning, enhancing front office systems, improving operational client loans and trust services should they be required.
efficiencies and developing our investment process, in order We believe that this approach allows us to provide the to improve our client service, increase scalability and support highest-quality service to our clients in our particular area solid future organic growth.
of expertise, working alongside other professional advisors as our clients require.
We provide services to a wide range of clients.
Our whole of market, flexible and non-prescriptive approach to portfolio construction is another key differentiator amongst many of our peers, attracting clients who are seeking a bespoke, rather than model-based, investment portfolio built around their specific requirements and circumstances, and Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2013 7 Strategic report Our business Our business model Relevance Our investment services are designed to meet the needs of Our vision is to be the UKs leading independently-owned each client and their financial goals.
provider of investment management services to private clients The rigour we apply to understanding our and trustees.
clients circumstances and the depth of our investment We aim to build trusted relationships with our process ensures our clients receive relevant advice.
clients and be accountable to them for how we manage their money.
We believe our focus on a discretionary investment management service is the ideal way to deliver outstanding Our services client service, value for money, and investment excellence.
We aim to create value for our shareholders and Investment Management employees through a combination of organic growth, earnings-enhancing acquisitions, positive investment Rathbone Investment Management manages over 90% of performance and effective cost management.
its clients accounts on a discretionary basis.
Client accounts often include ISAs, SIPPs and trusts.
We operate a wholeOur values of-market approach to investment and investment in in-house funds is neither encouraged nor discouraged, with under 2% Responsibility of Rathbone Investment Managements total funds under Our clients trust us to protect their financial future.
Living up management invested in funds managed by Rathbone Unit to this expectation is important to us.
Our personal service is underpinned by a wellRelationships researched, robust investment process which informs and Our clients receive exceptional service and peace of mind supports our investment managers as they tailor portfolios through a direct relationship with the person accountable for to each individual clients needs.
See our case study on their investments.
page 26 for more detail on how our investment process is structured.
Our business model Independent ownership The direct ownership of our businesses gives us the freedom to reinvest into our core offering.
We invest in processes and systems that support the business as well as the high-calibre people that deliver it.
Our high staff shareholding helps to incentivise our employees to ensure the continuing success of the company.
Direct relationship with All round investment service An outstanding High-quality systems investment managers investment process The investment systems we The subsidiary businesses An absence of relationship of Rathbone Brothers Plc Our investment process is provide to our investment managers are industry-leading managers allows our collectively offer whole-offundamental to the services investment managers to market investment options to we provide, guiding the thinking and a programme of continual investment and development build close and long-lasting clients with investible assets of our investment managers relationships with their clients.
ranging from 1,000 to over whilst allowing enough ensures they support our 100 million.
flexibility to ensure that people in delivering the For our clients, this direct individual clients objectives outstanding service our clients access to the person We value our clients existing are met.
accountable for their financial relationships and investments is often the are always happy to work See our investment process See our front office systems reason they come to and alongside advisers to best case study on page 26. case study on page 24. stay with us.
Growth Focusing on these aspects of our business ensures we are able to grow our funds under management through organic growth, earnings-enhancing acquisition and investment performance.
This in turn drives shareholder value.
8 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2013 Strategic report Our business Our services Investment Management The Rathbone Unitised Portfolio Service Our clients represents an investment opportunity for clients with fewer investible assets 25,000 or more and is an Rathbone Investment Management serves three main client attractive proposition for financial intermediaries groups: private clients, charities and trustees making up the looking after smaller investors clients.
majority of our group funds under management.
Within the Our ethical investment service, delivered by retail sector, Rathbone Unit Trust Management offers a Rathbone Greenbank Investments, continually develops its range of unit trusts and OEICs to private investors with extensive expertise to ensure that both financial and ethical 1,000 or more to invest, providing a credible investment issues are integrated within portfolios to meet the overall solution to smaller retail clients, and the intermediaries objectives of clients.
Rathbone Investment Management Internationals Jersey office provides clients with access Split of funds under management % to offshore investment management services.
Rathbone Investment Management 92 Banking services Rathbone Unit Trust Management 8 As a licensed deposit taker, we are able to offer our clients a range of banking services including currency, payment services, fixed interest term deposits and loans often for bridging purposes secured against investment portfolios and other assets.
Financial planning Rathbone Pension & Advisory Services is independent Our investment management business consists of Rathbone Investment Management and, through our of over 41,000 clients predominantly managed on a chartered financial planners, advises our clients on discretionary basis, representing a total of 20.2 billion of financial planning options.
These include retirement and funds under management.
Over 85% of these funds are inheritance tax planning and we also offer and administer managed for private clients and trustees, with investment the Rathbone SIPP.
portfolios for private clients often including a mix of ISA, trust and pension accounts.
Trust and tax services Rathbone Trust Company provides advisory and Our charities team works with over 1,000 compliance services in relation to taxation, probate and charities and not-for-profit organisations, with funds under trusts, together with family office support.
management totalling 2.7 billion, over half of which is managed on behalf of charities focusing on education, Unit Trusts religion or the disadvantaged and disabled.
Our ethical team manages 640 million.
Together, these two teams Our unit trusts and open-ended investment companies manage over 15% of our funds under management and in OEICs cover the UK stock market, embracing small, 2013 we embarked on a programme of internal medium and large companies to achieve growth and reorganisation to more closely align our charity and ethical income.
In addition, we manage an ethical bond fund, a investment teams under a specialist services banner, strategic bond fund and a global equity fund focused on allowing resources to be more effectively deployed to international opportunities.
support the growth of this area of our business through Our in-house research team works closely with our focused marketing initiatives and targeted business unit trust fund managers and provides support to both this development.
business and to the core investment management business, forming an integral part of our investment process.
Rathbone multi asset funds provide the building blocks for the collective investment management solutions for private clients, delivered via the Rathbone Unitised Portfolio Service.
These funds are available to investors with as little as 1,000 to invest.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2013 9 Strategic report Our business Our clients Service type % Our reputation as one of the leading discretionary investment managers in the UK continues to attract new Discretionary 93.8 clients looking for a personal and professional service.
Many Non-discretionary 6.2 of these clients are referred to us by our existing clients, with whom we have built long-standing relationships, in some instances spanning generations.
Others have been referred by a professional intermediary an independent financial adviser, lawyer or accountant or have been happy to join us when we have recruited their existing investment manager.
Our targeted marketing campaigns have also had some success in attracting new clients.
We hold 3.6 billion in accounts managed on behalf of the clients of financial intermediaries.
Account type % Over the last few years we have continued to build on and develop business-to-business relationships with intermediary Private clients 40.6 Trust and settlements 14.5 firms across the UK.
In 2013 38% of new client accounts ISAs 13.5 were introduced by over 300 intermediaries, equating to Charities 13.1 some 413 million.
Pensions including Our unit trusts are distributed in the UK mainly SIPPs 10.9 through financial intermediaries and third party platforms.
Other 7.4 Within this sector investment performance is very carefully analysed and our improved three and five year fund performance should prove beneficial in attracting inflows from both intermediaries looking to invest on behalf of their clients and individuals managing their money on a self-directed basis via a platform.
Likewise, our multi asset Account size % funds provide an important investment solution for smaller 10 million 16.9 portfolios.
More recently, we have won a 95 million 5 10 million 7.6 corporate mandate to manage funds in respect of the 1 5 million 31.4 Scottish Life pension funds and we see relationships of this 500,000 nature as a potentially rich source of new business for the 1 million 18.4 unit trust team.
250,000 499,999 14.9 Up to 249,999 10.8 Our employees Continuity of service is important to our clients and this is best achieved by employing quality individuals who are Our principal distribution channels are summarised well-motivated and confident to promote and represent the in the table below.
Turnover amongst our employees, and our investment managers in particular, remains extremely low, Rathbone Investment Rathbone Unit equating to 6% across the business, and 4% in respect of Management Trust Management investment teams for 2013.
When combined with careful recruitment and some select corporate acquisitions this has Type of client provided not only high levels of continuity for our clients and Private client Retail clients Trustees their advisers, but also positive growth in the investment Specialist services management business.
charity, ethical Principal distribution channels Client referral Financial intermediaries Direct marketing Third party platforms Panel relationships Corporate mandates Financial intermediaries 10 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2013 Strategic report Our business Our shareholders Operational efficiency We proactively engage with the market and our shareholders Our operational efficiency is an important feature of to ensure that they remain well-informed regarding our our overall service and as in previous years we will progress and performance, and over the course of the year maintain our programme of continuous improvement we sought the views of a number of our largest shareholders across our operations and IT platforms.
More specifically in respect of remuneration.
At the start of 2013 we we will undertake a significant software upgrade to our appointed a second broker, Peel Hunt, to work alongside key document management system in order to improve Canaccord Genuity.
In 2013 we also introduced short videos functionality and also plan to deliver an enhanced version on our website designed to complement the release of both of our online client service.
our full year and interim results.
In addition to our results roadshows in February and August our investor relations Leadership development programme included roadshows to both East Coast USA and Dublin, as well as a number of regional UK visits.
We also We will seek to reinforce senior management to ensure that hosted our first investor day in November which was our key support functions are appropriately resourced for attended by a number of our larger shareholders: this was strategic growth.
Our training focus will continue to be well-received and we hope it will become a regular event.
directed towards both professional and management We seek to provide stable dividend growth and development.
We also aim to develop the organisational will only increase our dividend if we believe that it will be structure of the front office to promote teamwork and sustainable.
We believe dividend cover should normally be optimal client service.
1 times to 2 times earnings, depending on the economic cycle.
Our dividend payout ratio for 2013 is 64% 2012: 71%.
Growth initiatives We will continue to search actively for high-quality corporate Looking at 2014 acquisition and recruitment opportunities that fit our culture and are within our risk appetite.
In terms of organic growth, There are four key themes to the leadership agenda for 2014: we plan to invest further in specialist areas of the investment management business that are already demonstrating positive Investment process momentum, for example charities and ethical.
In addition we will concentrate our business development activity on Over the course of the year we will continue the roll-out of increasing relationships with IFAs, professional intermediaries our proprietary front office systems, in particular our asset and our strategic partnership with Vision Independent allocation modelling software.
We intend to support our Financial Planning Limited and Castle Investment Solutions investment managers further by strengthening our in-house Limited see note 20 to the consolidated financial statements.
research function, as well as our core investment process and the investment risk management capability.
We also wish to improve our investment performance reporting by achieving independent accreditation.
Our performance 160 137.9 140 120 95.2 100 85.4 80 61.6 60 49.0 46.2 40 30.1 43.9 44.9 20 0.0 0.8 0.0 0 31 December 2008 31 December 2009 31 December 2010 31 December 2011 31 December 2012 31 December 2013 Rathbone Brothers Plc Total Shareholder Return FTSE All Share Total Shareholder Return Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2013 11 %
