Governance Directors Chairman Executive directors Mark Nicholls Andy Pomfret Title: Chairman Title: Chief Executive Appointment: 1 December 2010 Appointment: 1 August 1999 Age: 64 Age: 53 Board committees: Re N Board committees: E N Mark Nicholls is a lawyer and corporate financier.
Andy Pomfret qualified as a chartered accountant with After studying law at Cambridge he took articles at Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. now KPMG.
Prior to Linklaters before joining S G Warburg in 1976.
He became a joining Rathbones in July 1999, he spent over 13 years with director in 1984 and head of investment banking in 1994.
In Kleinwort Benson as a corporate financier, venture capitalist 1996 he joined Royal Bank of Scotland and became head of and latterly finance director of the investment management their private equity group, leaving in 2003 to pursue a plural and private banking division.
He became chief executive in career.
He is currently chairman of the West Bromwich October 2004.
He is also a non-executive director of Building Society and a non-executive director of Northern Graphite Enterprise Trust plc and a director of the Wealth Investors Company PLC.
He became chairman following the Management Association.
He chairs the groups executive AGM in May 2011 and is considered to be independent.
and social and environmental committees.
He is to retire on 28 February 2014.
Philip Howell Title: Deputy Chief Executive Chief Executive from 1 March 2014 Appointment: 1 December 2013 Age: 58 Board committees: E N Following an early military career, Philip spent over 30 years in the investment banking and private banking sectors, undertaking a range of leadership roles as well as gaining considerable general management experience.
He was with Barclays for 24 years, which included leadership assignments in Asia and South Africa, and subsequently as head of strategy and corporate development focused on the international and private banking divisions.
Before joining Rathbones, he continued his involvement in private wealth management, firstly as chief executive of Fortis Private Banking and subsequently of Williams fide Bro.
He is to succeed Andy Pomfret as chief executive on 1 March 2014.
44 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2013 Governance Directors Executive directors Paul Stockton Board committees Title: Finance Director The principal board committees Appointment: 24 September 2008 are the audit, executive, nomination, Age: 48 remuneration, and group risk Board committees: E committees.
The board has delegated full authority to the executive committee, subject to a list of matters which are reserved for decision by the full board.
The other board committees have formal terms of reference, which are reviewed and Paul Stockton qualified as a chartered accountant with approved by the board on an annual Price Waterhouse now PwC in 1992.
These are available on request from the companys registered office Old Mutual Plc as group financial controller, becoming and on the group website.
director of finance in 2001 and finance director of Gerrard Limited eight months later.
Following the sale of Gerrard to A Audit committee Full details of its role are set out in the Barclays in 2003, he left in 2005 and has since worked for audit committee report on page 66.
Euroclear in Brussels and as a division finance director of the Pearl Group.
He joined Rathbones in August 2008 and is E Executive committee Full details of its role are set out also a non-executive director of the Financial Services in the executive committee report on Compensation Scheme.
N Nomination committee Paul Chavasse Full details of its role are set out in the nomination committee report on Title: Head of Investment page 69.
Management Appointment: 26 September 2001 Re Remuneration committee Age: 49 Full details of its role are set out in the Board committees: E remuneration report on page 54.
Ri Group risk committee Full details of its role are set out in the group risk committee report on Paul Chavasse started his career working for the page 53. institutional fund management arm of NatWest, which was later merged with Gartmore.
After a period in the private client businesses of NatWest and Coutts, his final role before joining the group as chief operating officer in 2001 was as head of NatWest Portfolio Management in Bristol.
He became head of investment management in March 2012.
Commitee membership Executive Audit Remuneration Nomination Group risk Mark Nicholls Andy Pomfret Philip Howell Paul Stockton Paul Chavasse David Harrel Oliver Corbett James Dean Kathryn Matthews Committee member Committee chairman Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2013 45 Governance Directors James Dean Non-executive directors Title: Non-executive Director Independent David Harrel Appointment: 1 November 2013 Title: Senior Independent Director Age: 56 Appointment: 1 December 2007 Board committees: A Re N Ri Age: 65 Board committees: A Re N Ri James Dean is a chartered accountant with over 20 years experience working in financial services.
Prior to pursuing a plural career, James worked in a variety of roles at Ernst & David Harrel was one of the founding partners of Young over a period of 14 years, including holding the S J Berwin LLP in 1982, and was made senior partner in position of managing partner for the UK Financial Services 1992.
He relinquished this role in 2006 and is now a Audit Practice for four years.
He holds a number of other consultant to the firm.
David has a variety of other non-executive directorships including Liverpool Victoria appointments.
He is non-executive chairman of Fairpoint Friendly Society and The Stafford Railway Building Society.
Group plc, a member of the board of the English National Opera and a trustee of the Clore Duffield Foundation.
He is chairman of the remuneration committee.
Kathryn Matthews Title: Non-executive Director Independent Oliver Corbett Appointment: 6 January 2010 Title: Non-executive Director Age: 54 Independent Board committees: A Re N Ri Appointment: 7 March 2006 Age: 49 Board committees: A Re N Ri Kathryn Matthews has spent her entire career in investment management, most recently as chief investment officer, Asia Pacific ex Japan for Fidelity International.
Prior to that, Oliver Corbett is the chief financial officer of LCH.
Clearnet she held senior appointments with William M Mercer, AXA Group Limited.
He is a chartered accountant and worked for Investment Managers, Santander Global Advisers and Baring SG Warburg, Phoenix Securities later Donaldson Lufkin and Asset Management.
She is a non-executive director of Royal Jenrette and Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, where he was London, Hermes Fund Managers Limited, Aperam S. A. managing director of investment banking.
He was group and J P Morgan Chinese Investment Trust Plc, chairman of finance director of Novae Group plc from October 2003 to Montanaro UK Smaller Companies Investment Trust Plc November 2012.
He is chairman of the audit committee.
and is on the board of trustees of the Nuffield Trust.
She is chairman of the group risk committee.
46 46 Rathbone Brothers Plc Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2013 Report and accounts 2013
