Governance Executive committee report Executive committee chairmans statement What we have done Please see the chief executives statement on page 4.
Our main focus is on the implementation of the agreed strategy and on the day-to-day management of the group.
We discuss the management and performance of the Committee members operating businesses including their strategy, financial results and regulatory compliance and growth initiatives.
We agree Our current members and their responsibilities are the annual business plan and budget prior to its submission as follows: to the board for approval.
Our people are our main asset and so HR matters and Board members: learning and development are important agenda items.
The maintenance of and investment in our core IT and operations Andy Pomfret chief executive infrastructure are significant costs to the business and so are Philip Howell deputy chief executive subject to regular review.
The prioritisation of projects and allocation of resources is closely reviewed.
Paul Stockton finance director We also have oversight of marketing and investor Paul Chavasse head of investment management.
relations and are closely involved in the day-to-day relationship with our regulators.
We review significant Other members: reporting to regulators, shareholders and other stakeholders.
We receive updates from internal audit on their work Ian Buckley senior risk officer, chief executive of schedule and discuss any significant issues they raise the trust business and chairman of the pension and following their work.
We regularly review the current risk advisory business register and potential future risks to the business.
Andrew Butcher chief operating officer Non-committee members are regularly invited to attend part of a meeting to report on a particular aspect of Mike Webb chief executive of the unit trust business.
The head of internal audit may attend any meeting whilst the minutes are provided to senior members We formally meet each month.
These formal meetings are of the risk management team.
Non-executive directors may minuted and copies of the minutes are sent to committee also attend meetings, which is particularly useful as part of a members and to the board.
Details of attendance by the new directors induction process.
directors on the committee are set out on page 50.
Ad hoc and informal meetings are held as required.
Andy Pomfret Chairman of the executive committee Role and responsibilities of the committee 19 February 2014 The committee has been delegated the full powers of the board subject to a list of matters which are reserved for decision by the board.
This list is reviewed annually and approved by the board.
52 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2013
