Governance Approval of strategic report The strategic report for the group comprises the following sections of the report and accounts: Chairmans statement Chief executives statement Our business Strategy and key performance indicators Risk management Rathbones performance Segmental review Financial position Liquidity and cash flows Corporate responsibility report.
The strategic report has been drawn up in accordance with, and in reliance upon, applicable English company law, in particular Chapter 4A of the Companies Act 2006, and the liabilities of the directors in connection with this report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
The strategic report contains certain forwardlooking statements, which are made by the directors in good faith based on the information available to them at the time of their approval of this annual report.
Statements contained within the strategic report should be treated with some caution due to the inherent uncertainties including but not limited to those arising from economic, regulatory and business risk factors underlying any such forward-looking statements.
The strategic report has been prepared by Rathbone Brothers Plc to provide information to its shareholders and should not be relied upon for any other purpose.
The strategic report has been prepared for the group as a whole, and therefore gives greater emphasis to those matters which are significant to the company and its subsidiaries when reviewed as a whole.
By Order of the Board Andy Pomfret Chief Executive 19 February 2014 70 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2013 Governance Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the report and accounts The directors are responsible for preparing the annual Disclosure of information to the auditor report and the consolidated and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and The directors who held office at the date of approval of regulations.
this directors report confirm that, so far as they are each Company law requires the directors to prepare aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the consolidated and parent company financial statements for companys auditors are unaware: and each director has each financial year.
Under that law they are required to taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a prepare the consolidated financial statements in accordance director to make him or herself aware of any relevant audit with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and information and to establish that the companys auditor is have elected to prepare the parent company financial aware of that information.
statements on the same basis.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give Statement as a result of the Disclosure and a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the group and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
Authority In preparing each of the consolidated and parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the financial statements, prepared in accordance with consistently: the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and and profit of the parent company and its undertakings prudent: included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and state whether they have been prepared in accordance with the strategic report and directors report include a fair IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and view of the development and performance of the business prepare the financial statements on the going concern and the position of the issuer and the undertakings basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together and the parent company will continue in business.
with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain By Order of the Board the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Andy Pomfret parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial Chief Executive statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably 19 February 2014 open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a strategic report, directors report, directors remuneration report and corporate governance report that complies with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the groups website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The board confirms that the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the groups performance, business model and strategy.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2013 71
