Strategic report Strategy and key performance indicators Strategic objectives How we achieve our aims Our brand is well-recognised service standards and sound To provide high-quality investment and known for focusing on risk control.
bespoke discretionary management, tax, trust and pension Our unit trust and multi asset investment management.
funds provide a wider range services for private individuals, of solutions to clients and Our model prioritises the importance of a direct their advisors.
client relationship with the Our complementary tax, investment manager trust and financial planning responsible for managing services support the a clients portfolio.
investment management Our robust investment business and deepen process enables investment client relationships.
managers to invest across a Our continual investment in broad range of asset classes employees and systems helps and geographies.
Our operational and support functions are largely managed in-house by an experienced team, ensuring the highest Our ongoing investment Our conservative treasury To provide a growing in infrastructure drives cost policy operates within clear efficiency, improves client risk-based guidelines.
stream of dividend income for service and supports Our aim is to manage capital organic growth.
shareholders, delivered through and liquidity at optimal levels Our pursuit of inorganic in light of market conditions, steady and consistent growth growth opportunities that fit regulatory requirements and our culture increases growth opportunities.
Our strong aspiration is to Our intention to maintain our ensure we meet or exceed underlying operating margin regulatory requirements.
at or around 30% balances cost income decisions.
Our risk management framework promotes management accountability for operational and business risks.
Our policy is to encourage Our learning and To provide an interesting and directors to build up a development training activity meaningful shareholding promotes the highest stimulating career environment over a five year period.
professional and personal standards at all levels.
for staff, including a commitment Our share-based savings schemes are offered to Our recruitment practice that all employees share in the all employees.
ensures that new employees fit our culture and share equity and profits of the business.
Our aim is to provide our ethos.
competitive and fair benchmarked remuneration Our intent is to foster high which attracts, retains levels of employee retention and motivates.
to ensure continuity of client service.
Our remuneration schemes ensure that behaviour is aligned with shareholder and client interests.
