Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 59 Board members During 2013 the Board was comprised of nine Directors, made up of the Chairman, Chief Executive and four other Executive and three Independent Non-Executive Directors.
We continue to believe that we have a talented and substantial team in place to support our continued growth.
However, as the Group continually grows and diversifies, we will regularly review the Board composition to ensure it meets the needs of the business.
Non-Executive Directors Martin Bolland Gillian Sheldon Non-Executive Chairman Senior Independent Director Joined the Board in March 2008 Joined the Board in September and became Chairman on 1 January 2012 and was appointed Senior 2010.
A Chartered Accountant, Independent Director on Martin previously held a number 1 January 2013.
She is currently of senior operational positions a senior banker at Credit Suisse.
within the Lonrho Group and Gillian has substantial experience was also a founder and partner of advising boards across a wide of Alchemy Partners for 11 years.
range of complex situations and Martin continues to be a Senior transactions.
Gillian joined Credit Adviser to Alchemy Partners.
Suisse in 1997 having worked for He is also currently Chairman seven years at NM Rothschild & of PD Parks Holdings Limited Sons.
Gillian is also a Trustee of Parkdean Holidays.
BBC Children in Need, appointed in September 2012.
Committee memberships: Nomination Committee Chair Committee memberships: Audit and Risk Committee Nomination Committee Martina King Remuneration Committee Non-Executive Director Joined the Board in January 2005.
Paul Bowtell Martina is CEO of technology Non-Executive Director company Featurespace.
Martina previously held a number Joined the Board in June 2010 of senior positions in marketing and and is currently Chief Financial online media, including Managing Officer of Gala Coral Group.
Director of Aurasma, a division of Paul was previously on the board Autonomy, Yahoo!
and Capital of Tui Travel PLC as Chief Financial Radio.
Her broad knowledge Officer and was also on the board and extensive experience of of First Choice Holidays PLC.
He is management, new technology a Chartered Accountant and has and sales and marketing brings extensive experience across the UK a different range of expertise to retail sector, having held a number the Board.
Martina is also Nonof senior positions with British Gas, Executive Director of Cineworld PLC WH Smith and Forte.
Paul brings and Debenhams Plc.
Martina will significant financial and commercial retire from the Board following the knowledge to the Board.
He is AGM in May 2014. also a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee Committee memberships: at SThree PLC and will be stepping Audit and Risk Committee down at the AGM of SThree in Nomination Committee April 2014.
Remuneration Committee Chair Committee memberships: Audit and Risk Committee Chair Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee 60 | Capita plc Board members Executive Directors Paul Pindar Andy Parker Chief Executive Chief Executive until 28 February 2014 from 1 March 2014 Joined Capita in 1987 from 3i after Joined Capita in 2001 and was advising Capita on its management appointed to the Board in January buy-out.
He became Chief 2011 as Joint Chief Operating Executive in 1999.
Andy was appointed Accountant, Pauls responsibilities Deputy Chief Executive on 1 June included managing and developing 2013 and Chief Executive from Capitas business to achieve the 1 March 2014.
Companys strategic objectives and During 2013 Andy oversaw the he had overall responsibility for our majority of Capitas non-financial charitable approach.
Andy has held Paul was appointed Non-Executive various positions across the Group Chairman of Integrated Dental including Divisional Director for Holdings.
Paul retires from the Capitas ICT, Health and Business Company and steps down from the Services Division and held a Board on 28 February 2014 after number of senior finance director 27 years.
positions including three years as Senior Divisional Financial Director.
Gordon Hurst Andy is a Chartered Accountant Group Finance Director and has extensive commercial and financial experience.
Andy had Joined Capita in 1988 and was joint Board responsibility for clients appointed to the Board as and employees with Vic Gysin Commercial Director in February during 2013.
He assumes overall 1995 and then as Group Finance responsibility for our charitable Director in 1996.
Gordon was also approach from 1 March 2014. appointed Company Secretary in 2000.
A Chartered Accountant, Gordon has Board responsibility for Maggi Bell our overall corporate responsibility Business Development Director policy and specific responsibility Joined Capita in January 1999 for our environment, health and and was appointed to the Board safety approach and supplier in August 2008.
He chairs the Business various positions across Capita, Services Associations Finance and including running our recruitment Taxation Committee.
businesses and leading the Business Services and Corporate Services Vic Gysin Divisions.
She has been head of Joint Chief Operating Officer our Group Sales and Marketing activities since January 2005.
Joined Capita in 2002 and was She is responsible for driving appointed to the Board in January forward business development 2011.
Vic oversees Capitas financial across the Group, including services operations, Customer managing our major sales team.
Management and International and She has Board responsibility for the Professional Services Divisions.
community, third sector and Vic has held various positions SME engagement.
across the Group including being Divisional Director for Capitas Insurance and Investor Services Dawn Marriott-Sims and Integrated Services Divisions.
Joint Chief Operating Officer Since joining Capita he has overseen from 1 January 2014 the successful implementation and Joined Capita in 2000 and from delivery of a number of our key 2011 until 31 December 2013 held contracts.
Vic is an experienced the position of Executive Director business director with strong of Workplace Services Division.
Prior to this, Dawn was Managing Vic had joint Board responsibility for Director of Capitas Resourcing & clients and employees with Andy Development Division, and prior to Parker in 2013 and now with Dawn that Managing Director of Capitas Marriott-Sims in 2014.
He also IT Resourcing, Managed Services, has responsibility for the Group Internal Resourcing and Learning & HR function.
Dawn has over 20 years experience within the employee services sector including implementation and development of major programmes and for securing and delivering services to both public and private sectors clients.
Dawn is on the board of Institute for Collaborative Working, a not-for-profit organisation.
