Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 1 20 million adults will use their mobiles to pay for goods and services by the end of the decade, with the value of purchases tripling from current levels to 5 14.2bn in 2018.
The number of people aged 65 is projected to rise by 49% in the 6 next 20 years to over 16 million.
Spend on adult social care in England increased 19% in real terms over the 10 years to 7 2012 13 to 17bn.
Access to the internet using a 2 2013 Spending Review.
mobile phone more than doubled 3 Department for Education, March 2013.
4 between 2010 and 2013, from Office for National Statistics, 2013.
4 5 Centre for Economics and Business Research, 2013.
6 Age UK December 2013 and Office for National Statistics 2011.
7 The Health and Social Care Information Centre HSCIC 2013.
2 | Capita plc Consumers of services are demanding much Improving customer service and retention Analytics and customer insight are vital to more, so organisations achieving service transformation.
We use appropriate data to track behaviours and trends which help to manage customer contact volume, improve customer need to adapt and flex.
experience, increase retention and drive sales opportunities and growth.
We have enhanced our capability in this area by increasing our We have grown our specialist resources, for example, the acquisition of Euristix, a data analytics and risk management business.
see page 28 skills and capabilities to help our clients meet these demands...
Supporting flexible service delivery There is a rapid acceleration of online, mobile and social media use by citizens and customers.
This presents a significant technical and customer service challenge for organisations to provide a consistent and integrated experience across the growing range of different contact points.
We are using our expertise to support this transition across both private and public sectors.
see page 29 Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 3 Increasing productivity and efficiency A key part of Capitas proposition is the large scale transfer and management of employees and the delivery of behavioural change.
This underpins our ability to create a working environment and culture which motivates employees and maximises productivity, supporting people through change.
In 2013, Working with charities and SMEs we enhanced our capability with the acquisition of UK based learning and Our suppliers are an important source of new development specialist business, Blue Sky.
ideas, innovation and specialist skills and in 2013, 64% of our supplier base was comprised see page 28 of small and medium-sized businesses SMEs.
We aim to use a diverse range of suppliers and recognise that working with smaller, local businesses, social enterprises and third sector organisations makes good business sense.
see page 49 Designing user-centred services A key element in our service models is to understand the behaviours and motivations of the end-users of the service.
As part of all major bids, we undertake customer journey workshops and research and draw on this knowledge to create efficient, quality services which are relevant to those using them.
see page 27 4 | Capita plc Were enabling our clients to flourish and give their customers the best experience possible.
Together we are helping people and organisations thrive now and tomorrow, and this drives our growth... Department for Work and Pensions DWP We are delivering assessments in central England, Wales and Northern Ireland for Personal Independence Payment PIP, the BMW new disability benefit that replaces Disability Capita has a contract to manage the first Living Allowance DLA.
PIP helps with some of customer interaction centre for BMWs the extra costs caused by long term ill-health prestigious electric car series, BMW i. or a disability and is designed to capture the The Capita team played a fundamental role impacts of a persons condition on their daily in the launch of the innovative and industry life.
We have worked with claimants, DWP, leading BMW i3 earlier this year, successfully and a range of charities and disability groups to managing over 5,000 customer contacts who create a service which ensures that claimants have shown an interest in BMW i products.
needs are at the centre of the We transformed the customer experience, assessment process.
nurturing customers through the entire buying process with a full range of contact streams including: inbound, outbound, email, letter and webchat.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 5 Fire Service College In 2012, we were selected by the Department of Communities and Local Government to take on the Fire Service College FSC, the UKs largest provider of specialist operational fire and rescue training.
We are developing the FSC into a leading-edge training facility, using new technology which will remove the cost and logistical barriers normally associated with staging complex, physical training exercises involving multiple emergency services.
The acquisition of immersion and gamification business, G2G3, is bringing valuable innovation Staffordshire to the FSC.
Southampton City Council County Council Working with Southampton City Council, we We are delivering a full range of educational are addressing the changes in the way in which support services for schools and academies citizens are accessing services.
We are through an innovative partnership, Entrust, introducing the latest innovation in customer with Staffordshire County Council.
management and ICT and providing residents Launched in April 2013, Entrust is targeting and businesses with increased access to online significant growth through securing new local services which support the Councils long term authority, school, academy and further and goals and generate significant savings.
higher education clients across the UK and has already secured over 240 new service line customers including over 110 outside of the Staffordshire region.
O2 We are supporting Telefnica UK O2 in enhancing and expanding digital services for its customers.
As part of our 10-year strategic partnership, Capita is running and managing O2s customer management centres.
We are designing services around customers evolving needs, introducing new capabilities quickly and ensuring a continued focus on excellent customer experience.
6 | Capita plc The way that we operate and manage our growth through our consistent business model, drives our financial performance and supports our business goal of delivering long term value to all our stakeholders...
Capita is the UKs leading provider of customer and business process management BPM services.
We play a key role in our clients operations, delivering their customer management, administration and professional support services.
This strategic report explores our business strategy and model, and reports on how we are performing against our goal of delivering value to all our stakeholders.
