Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 85 The Committee considers pay and employment conditions The Committee may also agree that the Company will of employees in the Group when determining Executive meet certain re-location and incidental expenses as it Directors remuneration policy considers appropriate.
When considering the Executive Directors remuneration In the event of the appointment of a new Non-Executive structure and levels, the Committee reviews base salaries and Director, remuneration arrangements will normally be in line annual bonus arrangements for the management team, to with the structure set out in the Policy table for Non-Executive ensure that there is a consistent approach across the Group.
However, the Committee or the Board as appropriate The Annual Bonus Plan operates on a similar basis across the may include any element listed in the Policy table on page 81 senior management team and aims to encourage a high level to 83, or any other element which the Committee considers of employee share ownership.
The key difference in the Policy is appropriate given the particular circumstances excluding for Executive Directors is that remuneration is more heavily any variable elements, with due regard to the best interests weighted towards long term variable pay than other employees.
This ensures that there is a clear link between the value created for shareholders and the remuneration received by Directors service agreements and payments for loss of office the Executive Directors.
The Committee regularly reviews the contractual terms of the The Committee did not formally consult with employees in service agreement to ensure these reflect best practice.
respect of the design of the Executive Director Remuneration Policy, although the Committee will keep this under review.
The service contracts for Executive Directors are for an indefinite period and provide for a one-year notice period.
They do Directors recruitment and promotions not include provisions for predetermined compensation on The Committee takes into account the need to attract, retain termination that exceed one years salary, pension and benefits.
and motivate the best person for each position, while at the There are no arrangements in place between the Company and same time ensuring a close alignment between the interests its Directors that provide for compensation for loss of office of shareholders and management.
All Directors are appointed for an indefinite period but are subject to annual re-election at the The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be Annual General Meeting.
granted excluding awards to compensate for remuneration arrangements and contractual terms forfeited on leaving the All Executive Directors service agreements are terminable on previous employer to new Executive Directors in the year of 12-months notice.
In circumstances of termination on notice the recruitment shall be limited to the maximum limit allowed Committee will determine an equitable compensation package, within the Policy table.
having regard to the particular circumstances of the case.
The Committee has discretion to require notice to be worked If a new Executive Director was appointed, the Committee would or to make payment in lieu of notice or to place the Director on seek to align the remuneration package with the Policy approved garden leave for the notice period.
by shareholders, including the maximum limit for the annual bonus and LTIP set out in the Policy table.
However, flexibility The annual bonus may be payable in respect of the period of the would be retained to offer remuneration on appointment outside bonus plan year worked by the Director: there is no provision the Policy if the Committee believe it may be appropriate to for an amount in lieu of bonus to be payable for any part of the make buy-out awards or payments in respect of remuneration notice period not worked.
This will be at the discretion of the arrangements and contractual terms forfeited on leaving a Remuneration Committee.
The Committee would look to replicate the DAB deferred shares will vest on the date of leaving other than arrangements being forfeited as closely as possible and in doing in circumstances of dismissal for gross misconduct.
so, would take account of relevant factors including the nature of For entitlement to shares under the deferred annual bonus the remuneration and contractual terms, performance conditions and the time over which they would have vested or been paid.
matching award and long term incentive arrangements, the rules contain discretionary provisions setting out the treatment of The Committee would seek to structure awards on recruitment to be in line with the Companys remuneration framework so far awards where a participant leaves for designated reasons i. e. participants who leave early on account of injury, disability as practical but, if necessary, the Committee may also grant such awards outside of that framework as permitted under Listing or ill health, death, a sale of their employer or business in which they were employed, statutory redundancy, retirement or Rule 9.4.
2. any other reason at the discretion of the Committee.
In these The initial notice period for a service contract may be up to circumstances, a participants awards will not be forfeited on 24 months, which is longer than the policy of a 12-month notice cessation of employment and instead will continue to vest on the period, provided it reduces to 12 months within a short space normal vesting date or earlier at the discretion of the Committee, of time.
subject to the performance conditions attached to the relevant For an internal appointment, any incentive amount awarded awards.
The awards will, other than in exceptional circumstances, in respect of a prior role may be allowed to vest on its original be scaled back pro rata for the period of the performance period terms, or adjusted as relevant to take into account the worked by the Director.
Any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may continue.
