Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 81 to balance performance-related pay between the achievement Remuneration Policy of financial performance objectives and delivering sustainable This part of the remuneration report sets out the Companys performance: creating a clear connection between Remuneration Policy the Policy and has been prepared in performance and reward and providing a focus on sustained accordance with The Large and Medium-sized Companies and improvements in profitability and returns Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013. to provide a significant proportion of performance-linked The Policy has been developed taking into account the principles pay in shares allowing senior management to build a of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 and the views of significant shareholding in the business and, therefore, aligning our major shareholders and describes the policy to be applied management with shareholders interests and the Groups from the date of its approval onwards.
The Policy will be put to a performance, without encouraging excessive risk-taking.
binding shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM to be held on 12 May 2014 and, subject to shareholder approval, will take formal effect Consideration of shareholder views from the conclusion of the AGM.
The Company is committed to maintaining good communications with investors.
The Committee considers the Policy overview AGM to be an opportunity to meet and communicate with The Committee is responsible, on behalf of the Board, for investors, giving shareholders the opportunity to raise any establishing appropriate remuneration arrangements for the issues or concerns they may have.
In addition, the Committee Executive Directors and other senior management in the Group.
will seek to engage directly with major shareholders and their In setting the Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors, representative bodies should any material changes be proposed the Committee ensures that the arrangements are in the best to the Policy.
interest of both the Group and its shareholders, by taking into In formulating the Policy and the changes to the remuneration account the following general principles: structure for Executive Directors for 2014, letters containing to ensure total remuneration packages are simple and fair in our draft proposals were sent to our top 10 shareholders who design so that they are valued by participants represented more that 50% of our shares held and also to the to ensure that total remuneration is highly performance industry bodies.
Meetings were offered and were held with the orientated majority of those contacted.
We received overwhelming support for the changes proposed for 2014.
Policy table The following table sets out the key aspects of the Policy.
Element of pay Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance framework Base salaries To attract and retain Normally reviewed annually in December There is no prescribed maximum Individual and business talent by ensuring base with any changes usually effective in monetary annual increase to base performance are salaries are sufficiently January.
Review takes into account: salaries considerations in setting competitive.
salaries in similar companies and The Committee is guided by the comparably-sized companies general increase for the broader workforce but on occasion may Remuneration Policy recognise an increase in certain economic climate circumstances such as, assumed additional responsibility, an increase market conditions in the scale or scope of the role.
Group performance Larger increases may also be considered appropriate if a Director the role and responsibility of the has been initially appointed to the individual Director Board at a lower than typical salary employee remuneration across the The Committee may award salary broader workforce.
increases at other times of the year The Committee may award salary if it considers it to be appropriate.
increases at other times of the year if it considers it to be appropriate.
82 | Capita plc Directors remuneration report Policy table continued Element of pay Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance framework Annual Bonus Performance The bonus scheme is reviewed annually Maximum opportunity of 200% of Executive Directors and Deferred measures are to ensure that bonus opportunity and salary.
performance is Annual Bonus selected to focus performance measures continue to measured over a DAB Plan Executives on support the business plan.
Stretching one-year period relative delivery of the Group targets are set at the start of each to challenging targets business plan for the financial year for selected measures financial year.
of Group financial Performance against targets is reviewed performance following completion of the final accounts for the period under review 50% of the bonus will be paid at target 50% of any bonus earned is delivered in performance and shares deferred for three years under the 100% for maximum DAB plan with the remainder delivered performance.
No in cash or deferred shares at the payment will be Executive Directors discretion made at below target Dividends that accrue during the vesting performance.
period may be paid in cash or shares at the time of vesting Clawback provisions apply to DAB for overpayments due to material abnormal write offs of an exceptional basis not included in normal underlying profit before tax and EPS.
Long Term Designed to reward LTIP awards are usually granted in the The plan limit in respect of a Performance is Incentive and retain Executives form of nil cost options.
financial year is 165,000 shares or measured over a Plan LTIP over the longer term 300% of salary whichever is the three-year period Award levels for each award are set by while aligning their higher.
relative to challenging the Committee at a level appropriate, interests with those targets for selected in the Committees opinion, with the of shareholders measures of Group individuals performance and experience.
financial performance To balance Performance targets applying to LTIP performance awards are relevant to business plan Full details will be pay between the priorities and aligned with shareholder published in the annual achievement interests.
report on remuneration of financial for the relevant year Full details of the operation of the LTIP performance are set out on page 90 25% of the awards vest objectives at a threshold vesting and delivering Vesting dependent on the achievement point rising to 100% sustainable of performance conditions measured vesting at a maximum stock market over a three-year period vesting point.
outperformance Performance targets are reviewed To encourage share annually by the Committee and are ownership and set appropriate to the economic provide further and political outlook and risk factors alignment with prevailing at the time, ensuring that shareholders.
such targets remain challenging in the circumstances, whilst remaining realistic enough to motivate and incentivise management Clawback provisions apply to LTIP for overpayments due to material abnormal write offs of an exceptional basis not included in normal underlying profit before tax and EPS.
Closed Plans A one-off plan for A matching award was made following Details of the matching award The matching awards Paul Pindar the pledging of his personal shareholding are set out in the annual report have a performance Co-Investment 1m at the time of the award.
The on remuneration on page 91. target of total Plan Designed to reward pledged shares were made up of shares No further awards will be granted shareholder return Paul Pindar over within his existing holding and also new under this plan.
compared to the FTSE the longer term shares 100 index over a fixed while aligning his four-year period and interests with those Clawback provisions apply for an underlying financial of shareholders.
overpayments due to misstatement or performance underpin error and other circumstances.
One-third will vest for achieving median TSR and straight-line vesting between median and upper quartile.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 83 Policy table continued Element of pay Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance framework Deferred Designed to reward A matching award of shares linked A maximum match of two An EPS growth target Annual Bonus and retain Executives to their deferred bonus shares and shares for each gross share deferred has been used for the Plan Matching over the longer term the matching award is subject to under the Annual Bonus Plan.
plan and the last award whilst aligning their performance targets measured over a will be made in early interests with those three-year period.
2014 in respect of 2013 of shareholders.
bonus award 33% of the awards vest at a threshold vesting point rising to 100% vesting at a maximum vesting point.
Benefits Designed to be Benefits include pension provision Benefit provision varies between Not  with or allowance, car allowance, private different Executive Directors related.
benefits available medical insurance, travel and property Whilst there is no maximum level to employees hire.
Executive Directors can also set by the Committee, benefits in the Group.
participate in all-employee share plans provision will be set at a level the Additional benefits may be provided Committee considers appropriate in future, for example, re-location and be based on individual expenses, which are not currently circumstances provided.
Participation in the Companys HMRC-approved all-employee share plan will be limited by the maximum level prescribed by HMRC.
Pensions Designed to be Pension contributions are paid into the 5% of salary either into Capita Not  with Groups defined contribution scheme defined-contribution scheme or as a related.
benefits available non-pensionable cash allowance.
As part of the review it was agreed that to employees where requested the Executive Directors in the Group.
may take a pension allowance of up to 5% of salary rather than payment into a pension.
Non-Executive Set to attract Reviewed periodically by the Board As for the Executive Directors Not performanceDirectors fee and retain Nonthere is no prescribed maximum related.
Fee levels set by reference to market Executive Directors monetary annual increase.
The rates, taking into account the with required Committee is guided by the general individuals experience, responsibility, skills, experience increase for the broader workforce time commitments and the pay and and knowledge so but on occasion may recognise an conditions in the workforce that the Board can increase in certain circumstances, effectively carry out No NED participate in the Groups such as assumed additional its responsibilities incentive arrangements or pension plan responsibility or an increase in the through the or receives any other benefits other scale or scope of the role provision of market than where travel to the Companys An aggregate annual sum of competitive fees.
registered office is recognised as a 500,000 and increased only taxable benefit in which case a NED may to take account of the effect of receive grossed-up costs of travel as a inflation or as nearly thereto benefit.
as is convenient as measured by the Retail Price Index or such index as the Directors consider appropriate or such other amount as the Company may by ordinary resolution decide.
The annual bonus performance measures are focused on Group financial measures which are selected annually consistent with key priorities for the Group.
The LTIP performance measures, EPS, ROCE and share price performance, reward significant long term returns to shareholders and long term financial growth.
Targets are set on sliding scales that take account of internal strategic planning and external market expectations for the Company.
Only modest rewards are available for achieving threshold performance with maximum rewards requiring substantial outperformance of challenging strategic plans approved at the start of each year.
The Committee operates long term incentive arrangements for the Executive Directors in accordance with their respective rules, the Listing Rules and the HMRC rules where relevant.
The Committee, consistent with market practice and the scheme rules, retains discretion over a number of areas relating to the operation and administration of the plans.
These include but are not limited to the following: who participates the timing of the grant of award and or payment the size of an award up to individual and plan limits and or a payment discretion relating to the measurement of performance in the event of a good leaver scenario or a change of control or reconstruction of the Company determination of a good leaver in addition to any specified categories for incentive plan purposes adjustments required in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring and special dividends the ability to adjust existing performance conditions for exceptional events so that they can still fulfil their original purpose.
