Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 81 to balance performance-related pay between the achievement Remuneration Policy of financial performance objectives and delivering sustainable This part of the remuneration report sets out the Companys performance: creating a clear connection between Remuneration Policy the Policy and has been prepared in performance and reward and providing a focus on sustained accordance with The Large and Medium-sized Companies and improvements in profitability and returns Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013. to provide a significant proportion of performance-linked The Policy has been developed taking into account the principles pay in shares allowing senior management to build a of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 and the views of significant shareholding in the business and, therefore, aligning our major shareholders and describes the policy to be applied management with shareholders interests and the Groups from the date of its approval onwards.
The Policy will be put to a performance, without encouraging excessive risk-taking.
binding shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM to be held on 12 May 2014 and, subject to shareholder approval, will take formal effect Consideration of shareholder views from the conclusion of the AGM.
The Company is committed to maintaining good communications with investors.
The Committee considers the Policy overview AGM to be an opportunity to meet and communicate with The Committee is responsible, on behalf of the Board, for investors, giving shareholders the opportunity to raise any establishing appropriate remuneration arrangements for the issues or concerns they may have.
In addition, the Committee Executive Directors and other senior management in the Group.
will seek to engage directly with major shareholders and their In setting the Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors, representative bodies should any material changes be proposed the Committee ensures that the arrangements are in the best to the Policy.
interest of both the Group and its shareholders, by taking into In formulating the Policy and the changes to the remuneration account the following general principles: structure for Executive Directors for 2014, letters containing to ensure total remuneration packages are simple and fair in our draft proposals were sent to our top 10 shareholders who design so that they are valued by participants represented more that 50% of our shares held and also to the to ensure that total remuneration is highly performance industry bodies.
Meetings were offered and were held with the orientated majority of those contacted.
We received overwhelming support for the changes proposed for 2014.
Policy table The following table sets out the key aspects of the Policy.
Element of pay Purpose and link to strategy Operation Maximum opportunity Performance framework Base salaries To attract and retain Normally reviewed annually in December There is no prescribed maximum Individual and business talent by ensuring base with any changes usually effective in monetary annual increase to base performance are salaries are sufficiently January.
Review takes into account: salaries considerations in setting competitive.
salaries in similar companies and The Committee is guided by the comparably-sized companies general increase for the broader workforce but on occasion may Remuneration Policy recognise an increase in certain economic climate circumstances such as, assumed additional responsibility, an increase market conditions in the scale or scope of the role.
Group performance Larger increases may also be considered appropriate if a Director the role and responsibility of the has been initially appointed to the individual Director Board at a lower than typical salary employee remuneration across the The Committee may award salary broader workforce.
increases at other times of the year The Committee may award salary if it considers it to be appropriate.
increases at other times of the year if it considers it to be appropriate.
