86 | Capita plc Directors remuneration report In the event of a change of control, all unvested awards under the Responsibilities of the Committee deferred annual bonus and long term incentive arrangements The Committee is responsible for determining and agreeing would vest, to the extent that any performance conditions with the Board the policy on Executive Directors remuneration, attached to the relevant awards have been achieved.
The awards including setting the over-arching principles, parameters and will, other than if the Committee determines otherwise, be governance framework and determining the initial remuneration scaled back pro rata for the proportion of the performance package of each Executive Director.
In addition, the Committee period worked by the Director prior to the change of control.
monitors the structure and level of remuneration for the senior For the DAB deferred shares, all will vest on the event of a change management team and is aware of pay and conditions in the of control.
workforce generally and sets the Chairmans fee.
Non-Executive Directors terms of engagement Members and activities of the Remuneration Committee Non-Executive Directors are appointed by letter of appointment The members of the Remuneration Committee during 2013 for an initial period of three years.
Each appointment is were Martina King Chair, Gillian Sheldon and Paul Bowtell.
terminable by three-months notice on either side.
At the end of All members were Non-Executive Directors.
None of the the initial period, the appointment may be renewed by mutual Committee members have day-to-day involvement with the consent, subject to annual re-election at the AGM.
business nor do they have any personal financial interest, except as shareholders, in the matters to be recommended.
The Deputy The service agreements and Non-Executive Directors letters of Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
appointment are available for inspection during normal business The number of formal meetings held and the attendance by each hours at the Companys registered office, and available for member is shown in the table on page 65.
The Committee also inspection at the AGM.
held informal discussions as required.
Satisfaction of options External advice received When satisfying awards made under its share plans, the Deloitte LLP was, following a review, appointed by the Company uses newly issued, treasury or purchased shares Remuneration Committee during 2012 to provide advice as appropriate.
During the year, the Dilution Committee received independent and objective advice from Deloitte primarily on market practice and in relation to the All awards are made under plans that incorporate the overall restructuring of executive remuneration packages.
Deloitte was dilution limit of 10% in 10 years.
The estimated dilution from paid 53,000 in fees during 2013 for these services charged on existing awards, including executive and all-employee share a time plus expenses basis.
Deloitte is a founding member of awards, is approximately 6.11% of the Companys share capital the Remuneration Consultants Group and as such, voluntarily as at 31 December 2013. operates under the code of conduct in relation to executive In drafting this section of the remuneration report, the remuneration consulting in the UK.
In addition, other practices Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration of Deloitte, separate from the executive remuneration practice, payments and payments for loss of office including exercising has provided services to the Group in respect of tax, property, any discretions available to it in connection with such payments advice to internal audit and other ad hoc advisory projects notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy set out during the year.
above where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the Policy came into effect or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a Director of the Company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a Director of the Company.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration and, in relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
The Committee may make minor amendments to the Policy set out above for regulatory, exchange control, administrative or tax purposes or to take account of a change in legislation, without obtaining shareholder approval for that amendment.
Annual report on remuneration This part of the remuneration report has been prepared in accordance with The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 and paragraphs 9.8.
The annual report on remuneration will be put to an advisory shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM.
The information on pages 78 to 92 has been audited as indicated.
