Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 73 Other statutory and regulatory information Strategic report Group activities The Company is required to prepare a fair review of the business Capita is the leading UK provider of business process of the Group during the financial year ended 31 December 2013 management solutions and integrated professional support and of the position of the Group at the end of the financial services to organisations across the public and private sectors.
year and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties The Groups 11 chosen markets are: in the public sector central facing the Group known as a strategic report.
The purpose government, local government, education, health, justice and of the strategic report is to enable shareholders to assess how emergency services and defence, and in the private sector life the Directors have performed their duty under Section 172 of and pensions, insurance, financial services, retail, utilities and the Companies Act 2006 duty to promote the success of the telecoms and other private sector.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the On behalf of its clients, Capita aims to improve service strategic report can be found in pages 1 to 57.
Details of the quality, reduce costs of service delivery and enable clients to Groups business goal, strategy and model are on pages 6 and 7. transform the way that they deliver services to their customers.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the corporate The services that Capita provides are essential to the smooth governance report can be found in pages 61 to 77. running and success of its clients operations.
Capita designs, successfully implements and manages tailored service solutions, Corporate governance report ranging across administration, information technology, financial, The corporate governance statement as required by Rule 7.2.
1 of human resources, property and customer service functions.
the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Capita maintains leading positions in the majority of its Rules is set out on pages 61 to 77. markets due to its scale and ability to draw on this wide base of professional services, detailed market knowledge and extensive Management report business process transformation and change management skills.
8 of the Financial A review of the development of the Group and its business Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules, this activities during the year is contained in the strategic report Directors report and the strategic report on pages 1 to 92 on pages 1 to 57.
Our divisional operations and financial comprise the management report.
performance are detailed on pages 31 to 46.
Events after the balance sheet date Profits and dividends There were no events after the balance sheet date.
The Group underlying profit before taxation amounted to Appointment, re-appointment and removal of Directors 475.0m 2012: 417.0m.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 17.8p share 2012: 15.6p per share to be paid on Directors are appointed and may be removed in accordance with 28 May 2014 to ordinary shareholders on the Register on 22 April the Articles of Association of the Company and the provisions of 2014.
This gives a total dividend for the year of 26.5p per share the Companies Act 2006.
All Directors are subject to election at the first Annual General The employee benefit trust has waived its right to receive a Meeting after their appointment and to re-election at intervals dividend on the shares being held within the Trust.
of no more than three years in accordance with the Code and the Companys Articles of Association.
However, all Directors Conflicts policy apart from Paul Pindar and Martina King will retire and will offer Under the Companies Act 2006, Directors are under an themselves for re-election Dawn Marriott-Sims for election at obligation to avoid situations in which their interests can the Annual General Meeting in May, in accordance with the UK or do conflict, or may possibly conflict, with those of the Corporate Governance Code.
In response to the conflicts of interest provisions, a No person, other than a Director retiring at the meeting, shall comprehensive project was undertaken in 2008 to identify and be appointed or re-appointed a Director of the Company at any disclose any conflicts of interest that have arisen or may arise general meeting unless he she is recommended by the Directors.
Procedures were implemented for evaluating No person, other than a Director retiring at a general meeting as and managing conflicts that have been identified in a way that set out above, shall be appointed or re-appointed unless between ensures that decisions are not compromised by a conflicted seven and 35 days notice, executed by a member qualified to Director.
In addition, the Companys Articles of Association vote on the appointment or re-appointment, has been given give the Board the power to authorise matters that give rise to the Company of the intention to propose that person to actual or potential conflicts.
The Board reports annually for appointment or re-appointment, together with notice on the Companys procedures for ensuring that the Boards executed by that person of his her willingness to be appointed powers of authorisation of conflicts are operated effectively and or re-appointed.
that the procedures have been followed.
A policy for ongoing identification and disclosure of conflicts is in place and is kept under regular review.
74 | Capita plc Other statutory and regulatory information The Board has authorised the conflict of Gordon Hurst being a Directors interests trustee of both the Capita Pension and Life Assurance Scheme Details of Directors interests in the share capital of the Company and the Capita Group Money Purchase Scheme, and gave are listed on page 89. specific guidance on this conflict going forward.
Gordon Hurst did not participate in the discussion or vote on the guidance Share capital given.
No other conflicts of interest declared were material to the At 20 February 2014, 669,880,515 ordinary shares of 21 15p Board.
All conflicts of interest are reviewed on an annual basis by each have been issued and are fully paid up and are quoted the Board and are revisited as part of the year-end process by the on the London Stock Exchange.
10,765,823 shares are held in Directors.
None of the Directors of the Company had a material treasury and the total voting rights equated to 659,114,692. interest in any contract with the Company or its subsidiary During the year ended 31 December 2013, options were undertakings, other than their contracts of employment.
exercised pursuant to the Companys share option schemes, resulting in the allotment of 1,402,641 new ordinary shares.
Major shareholders 10,917 shares have been allotted under these schemes since the At 31 December 2013, the Company had received notifications end of the financial year to the date of this report.
0.3% of the that the following were interested in accordance with the DTRs: issued share capital is held within an employee benefit trust for the use of satisfying employee share options.
% of voting rights as at Number Number The share price at 31 December 2013 was 1,038p.
The highest Number 31 December of shares of shares Shareholder of shares 2013 direct indirect share price in the period was 1,057p and the lowest was 762p.
BlackRock Inc 34,483,013 5.23 34,483,013 The Company renewed its authority to repurchase up to 10% of its own issued share capital at the Annual General Meeting in Invesco Limited 137,426,761 20.85 137,426,761 May 2013.
During the year the Company did not purchase any Legal & General 19,924,558 3.02 17,089,329 2,835,229 shares 2012: nil.
Group Plc Veritas Asset 39,682,540 6.02 39,682,540 Going concern Management The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to UK Limited affect its future development, performance and position are set This figure includes a contract for difference CFD for 2,286,691. out in the strategic report on pages 1 to 57.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing On 20 February 2014, the Company had received notifications facilities are described on pages 40 to 45.
In addition, note 26 that the following were interested in accordance with the DTRs: to the financial statements on page 120 includes the Groups % of voting objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, its Number rights as at Number of Number of Shareholder of shares 20 February 2014 shares direct shares indirect financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities, and its exposures to credit BlackRock Inc 36,153,457 5.49 36,153,457 risk and liquidity risk.
Invesco Limited 131,365,538 19.93 131,365,538 The Group has considerable financial resources together with Legal & General long term contracts with a wide range of public and private Group Plc 19,818,538 3.01 16,892,470 2,926,068 sector clients and suppliers.
As a consequence, the Directors Veritas Asset believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business Management risk successfully.
UK Limited 42,647,140 6.47 42,647,140 After making enquiries, and in accordance with the FRCs This figure includes a contract for difference CFD for 1,848,678.
Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
Disabled persons It is the Groups policy to give full consideration to suitable applications for employment of disabled persons and to ensure that any reasonable adjustments are made to either workplace or job content to accommodate a persons disabilities.
Disabled employees are eligible to participate in all career development opportunities available to employees and will be supported to do so.
Opportunities also exist for employees of the Group who become disabled to continue in their employment with any reasonable adjustments being made or to be retrained for other positions in the Group.
Strategic report Governance Accounts Capita plc | 75 Employee involvement The main financial risks, to which the Group has exposure, are interest rate risk, liquidity risk, credit risk and foreign currency risk.
Capita is committed to involving all employees in the performance and development of the Group.
Its approach The Group borrows in selected currencies at fixed and floating to employee development offers continual challenges in rates of interest and makes use of interest rate swaps and the job, learning opportunities and personal development.
currency swaps to generate the desired interest profile and to The Group supports employees through a comprehensive manage its exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
range of key business and management skills and personal In respect of liquidity risk, the Group aims to maintain a balance development programmes through the Capita Academy and between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use Capita Manager Academy.
At the same time our businesses of multiple sources of funding including bonds, bank loans, provide business-specific training for all employees relevant loan notes, finance leases and overdrafts, over a broad spread to their role.
In addition, the Group supports the achievement of maturities.
of professional qualifications including a range of National In respect of credit risk, the Group trades only with recognised, Vocational Qualifications.
It is the Groups policy that all The Group encourages all of its employees to participate fully in clients who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit the business through open dialogue.
Employees receive news of verification procedures.
In addition, receivable balances are the Group through: frequent email notices: internal notice board monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Groups statements: the Group employee intranet, Capita Connections, exposure to bad debt is not significant.
and regular email updates on business performance from both With respect to credit risk arising from the other financial assets Divisional and Group Directors.
Capita Connections enables of the Group, such as cash, financial investments and derivative employees to manage their work more efficiently and to share instruments, the Groups exposure to credit risk arises from information within and between business units and employees default of the counterparty.
The Group manages its operations are encouraged to contribute news, views and feedback.
to avoid any excessive concentration of counterparty risk and The Group maintains a strong communications network and the Group takes all reasonable steps to seek assurance from the employees are encouraged, through its open door policy, to counterparties to ensure that they can fulfil their obligations.
discuss with management matters of interest to the employee and subjects affecting day-to-day operations of the Group.
The Group is not generally exposed to significant foreign currency risk, except in respect of its overseas operations in India Capita has an established employee share plan designed to and South Africa, which generates exposure to movements in the promote employee share ownership and to give employees the Indian Rupee and South African Rand exchange rates.
The Group opportunity to participate in the future success of the Group.
seeks to mitigate the effect of this exposure by entering forward In keeping with its belief that employees are the Groups most currency instruments, including non-deliverable forward valuable asset, the Group operates employee awards schemes contracts, to fix the sterling cost of highly probable forecast both at Group and divisional level.
These celebrate the core transactions denominated in Indian Rupees and South African values that embody the organisation and reward employees Rand.
Further details of the Groups financial instruments can for service excellence, teamwork, leadership, cost saving and be found in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements on efficiency and charitable support and community engagement.
Political donations Qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the The Group did not make any political donation or incur any benefit of Directors political expenditure during the year.
Under the Companies Act 2006, companies are under an Green house gas emissions obligation to disclose any indemnities which are in force in favour of their directors.
The current Articles of Association of Details of the Groups greenhouse gas emissions are set out on the Company contains a provision that enables the Company page 50 of the strategic report.
to indemnify the Directors of the Company in respect of certain Financial instruments liabilities and costs that they might incur in the execution of their duties as Directors.
Such provisions have been in force during the The Groups financial instruments primarily comprise bonds, year and are in force at the date this report is approved.
Copies of bank loans, finance leases and overdrafts.
The principal purpose the relevant extract from the Articles of Association are available of these is to raise funds for the Groups operations.
In addition, for inspection at the registered office of the Company during various other financial instruments such as trade creditors and normal business hours on any weekday and will be available at trade debtors arise directly from its operations.
From time to the venue of the 2014 Annual General Meeting from 15 minutes time, the Group also enters into derivative transactions, primarily before the meeting until it ends.
interest rate swaps, currency swaps and forward exchange contracts, the purpose of which is to manage interest risk and currency risk, arising from the Groups operations and its sources of finance.
76 | Capita plc Other statutory and regulatory information Powers of Directors Restrictions on transfer of shares The business of the Company shall be managed by the Directors The Companys Articles of Association allow Directors to, in who are subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, their absolute discretion, refuse to register the transfer of a share the Articles of Association of the Company and to any directions in certificated form unless the instrument of transfer is lodged, given by special resolution, including the Companys power to duly stamped, at the registered office of the Company, or at repurchase its own shares.
such other place as the Directors may appoint and except in the case of a transfer by a recognised person where a certificate The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by has not been issued in respect of the share is accompanied by a special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
the certificate for the share to which it relates and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to show the Change of control right of the transferor to make the transfer.
They may also refuse All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions in relation to register any such transfer where it is in favour of more than to a change of control.
Outstanding options and awards would four transferees or in respect of more than one class of shares.
normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a share in that time.
uncertificated form in any case where the Company is entitled to refuse or is exempted from the requirement under the Capita has a number of borrowing facilities provided by various Uncertificated Securities Regulations to register the transfer.
banks and other financial institutions.
Capitas bank debt contains a change of control provision under which the banks Annual General Meeting may require immediate repayment in full on change of control.
The 2014 Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company The bonds issued by Capita contain a change of control provision will be held at Deutsche Bank, Winchester House, 1 Great which requires the Group to offer to prepay the bonds in full if Winchester Street, London, EC2N 2DB, on 12 May 2014.
At the a change of control event occurs and Capita does not obtain an AGM a number of resolutions will be proposed.
The resolutions investment grade credit rating.
are set out in the Notice of Meeting, which is sent to There are no other significant contracts in place that would take shareholders with the 2013 annual report and accounts and effect, alter or terminate on a change of control of the Company.
includes notes explaining the business to be transacted and is also available on the Companys website at www.
Rights and restrictions attaching to shares In May 2013 shareholders granted authority for the Company Under the Companys Articles of Association, holders of ordinary to purchase up to 65,533,675 ordinary shares which will expire shares are entitled to participate in the receipt of dividends pro at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
No shares were purchased rata to their holding.
The Board may propose and pay an interim during 2013.
A resolution to renew this authority will be put to dividend and recommend a final dividend, in respect of any shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
accounting period out of the profits available for distribution In May 2013 shareholders also granted authority for the under English law.
A final dividend may be declared by the Company to issue up to 216,261,127 ordinary shares which will shareholders in the general meeting by ordinary resolution, expire at the conclusion of the 2015 AGM.
1,402,641 Shares were but no dividend may be declared in excess of the amount issued during 2013.
A resolution to renew this authority will be recommended by the Board.
put to shareholders at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
At any general meeting a resolution put to vote at the meeting The Directors consider that each of the resolutions are in the shall be decided on a poll.
On a poll every member who is best interests of the Company and the shareholders as a whole present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share and recommend that shareholders vote in favour of all of of which they are the holder.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
