Board of Directors Chairman Senior Independent Director Lord Rothschild, OM GBE Michael Marks CBE Jacob Rothschild has chaired RIT since its flotation in Michael Marks joined the Board of the Company as 1988.
He is also Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
non-executive Director in September 2004 and became its Senior Independent Director in July 2010.
He is a Having left NM Rothschild & Sons in 1980, Jacob member of the Conflicts, Nominations and Remuneration developed the business of RITs predecessor companies, Committees.
co-founding companies in money management, insurance and investment, including Global Asset Management and He is the Chairman of NewSmith Capital Partners LLP, St Jamess Place plc.
He served as Deputy Chairman of which he founded in 2003.
He was formerly Co-Head of BSkyB Plc for five years, to 2008.
He serves on a number the Global Equities business of Merrill Lynch, which he of family office advisory boards as well as chairing his own joined in 1995 and where he subsequently held positions as Family Office and the Rothschild Foundation.
He is also Chief Operating Officer of Merrill Lynch Europe, Middle East the Honorary Vice Chairman of La Compagnie Financire and Africa.
He was subsequently named Executive Saint-Honor, the holding company of the Edmond fide Chairman.
He was also Executive Vice President of Merrill Rothschild Group.
Lynch & Co. Inc. Michael began his career at Smith Bros. in 1958, where he became a director in 1975 and Chief In addition to his career in finance he has been involved in Executive of Smith New Court in 1987.
He was a nonpublic service including the arts, heritage and philanthropy executive director of Old Mutual plc from February 2004 to having chaired The National Gallery, The National Heritage May 2007 and a non-executive director of London Stock Memorial Fund and The Heritage Lottery Fund.
Non-Executive Directors Independent Lord Douro John Cornish John Cornish joined the Board of the Company as nonLord Douro joined the Board of the Company as nonexecutive Director in January 2008.
He is Chairman of the executive Director in July 2010.
He is Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and the Valuation Committee and a Conflicts and Remuneration Committees and a member of member of both the Remuneration and Conflicts Committees.
the Audit and Risk Committee and Nominations Committee.
He is a chartered accountant and was a partner at Deloitte LLP where he led the firms services to the investment trust He has broad experience in banking and finance, having industry.
He served as Chairman of Framlington Innovative served as Chairman of Sun Life and Provincial Holdings Growth Trust plc for four years until 2010 and currently he is a from 1995 to 2000 and of the Framlington Group from 1994 director of Henderson EuroTrust plc, RCM Technology Trust to 2005.
He is currently a director of Compagnie Financire plc and Strategic Equity Capital plc.
Richemont, Sanofi, and was until 2011 a director of Pernod Ricard and Abengoa Bio-Energia.
He is currently a member of the International Advisory Board of Abengoa SA.
He is Chairman of Richemont Holdings UK Limited.
He is also Chairman of the Council of Kings College, London.
He was a member of the European Parliament from 1979 to 1989.
20 Report and Accounts December 2013 RIT Capital Partners plc | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Board of Directors Non-Executive Directors Independent Mike Power Mike Wilson CBE Mike Power joined the Board of the Company as a Mike Wilson joined the Board of the Company as a nonnon-executive Director in January 2014 and is a member executive Director in October 2013 and is a member of of the Audit and Risk and Valuation Committees.
He was a non-executive director at St. Jamess place plc He is Joint Founder and Life President of St. Jamess from 2005 to 2013 where he was chair of the Risk Place plc and Chairman of the St Jamess Place Committee and a member of the Audit Committee.
He has worked in the financial services remains on the board of St Jamess Place International plc, industry over many years and was a director of Allied which he joined in September 2012, and chairs the Dunbar and BAT Industries before jointly founding Compliance and Risk Committee.
Mike has a number of J. Rothschild Assurance now St Jamess Place in 1991. other advisory positions, including the Financial Reporting Following 13 years as Chief Executive of St Jamess Lab of the Financial Reporting Council, and has written Place he was appointed Chairman, a role he held until extensively on risk and governance issues.
He is an FCA, an the end of 2011. associate member of the UK Chartered Institute of Taxation Mike was a non-executive Director of Vendme Luxury and an honorary fellow of the Institute of Risk Management.
Group plc and Chairman of the Mental Health He also holds honorary doctorates from the Universities of Association for many years.
In 2010 he became a Uppsala, Sweden and St Gallen, Switzerland.
director of the newly formed research charity MQ: Transforming Mental Health.
Lord Myners CBE Sandra Robertson Paul Myners joined the Board of the Company as Sandra Robertson joined the Board of the Company as non-executive Director in August 2010 and is a member non-executive Director in July 2008 and is a member of of the Audit and Risk and Valuation Committees.
He is Chairman and partner of Autonomous Research and She is Chief Investment Officer of Oxford University Cevian Capital UK.
He is also a non-executive director of Endowment Management.
Before her appointment at Ecofin Water & Power Opportunities, OJSC MegaFon Oxford in 2007, she spent the previous 14 years at and The Co-operative Group.
Paul is a former Chairman of Wellcome Trust, where she became Co-Head of Portfolio Marks & Spencer and Land Securities.
served as a member of the Court of the Bank of England and a member of the Investment Committee of Singapores sovereign wealth fund.
He was a Treasury minister in the last British government.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2013 21 Board of Directors Non-Executive Directors Non-Independent Honorary Vice Chairman Jean Laurent-Bellue Baroness Ariane fide Rothschild Jean Laurent-Bellue joined the Board of the Company as Ariane fide Rothschild was appointed as Honorary Vice non-executive Director in March 2012.
He is Group Secretary General of Edmond fide Rothschild She holds various board positions across the Edmond fide Holdings in Geneva and Board member of the Banque Rothschild Group, including Edmond fide Rothschild Prive Edmond fide Rothschild.
He joined LCF Edmond fide Group Holding, Banque Prive Edmond fide Rothschild, Rothschild Group in 2004 as a member of the Executive Holding Banque Edmond fide Rothschild, Siaci SaintBoard of La Compagnie Financire Edmond fide Honor, Banque Prive Edmond fide Rothschild Europe Rothschild Banque.
He was Chairman of the Executive and Barons & Baronne Associs.
Board of Edmond fide Rothschild Corporate Finance from Ariane started her career as a trader in foreign exchange 2004 until 2009 when he became General Secretary at and metals with Socit Gnrale in Australia and in Compagnie Financire Saint Honor.
She then joined US insurance corporation AIG Previously, he was a member of the Executive Board and successfully developed the groups trading of Clinvest the Investment Banking arm of the operations in Europe.
The Honorary Vice Chairman is not a Director of the The Board has determined that he is not independent Company.
due to his senior role with the Edmond fide Rothschild Group, with which the Company has a joint venture.
Hannah Rothschild Hannah Rothschild joined the Board of the Company as a non-executive Director in August 2013.
Hannah has been involved with media for the past twenty years and her productions have won numerous awards at international film festivals.
In addition, she is a nonexecutive Director of Windmill Hill Asset Management Limited, a Director of Five Arrows Limited, and serves as a Trustee of the Rothschild Foundation.
As well as her career in media, she has been involved in public service, in particular the arts, where she serves as a Trustee of the National Gallery and the Tate.
22 Report and Accounts December 2013 RIT Capital Partners plc
