| Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Directors Report Directors Report: Statutory and Other Disclosures Asset Allocation.......... page 10 Corporate Directors Key Performance Governance................ page 24 Shareholdings............... page 40 Indicators page 7 Audit Information........ page 31 Board of Directors...... page 20 Corporate Dividends.................... page 15 Net Asset Value............ page 1 Business Review Responsibility............... page 8 Financial Instruments.
page 78 Status of the and Future Conflicts of Interest.... page 25 Investment Approach... page 6 Company.................... page 27 Developments.............. page 3 Debt and Leverage..... page 15 Risk Management and Internal Control.... page 28 The section above identifies where certain information required to be disclosed in the Directors Report, is shown within other sections of the Report and Accounts, starting on the page indicated.
Additional statutory disclosures are set out below.
Directors The Directors at the date of this report are listed on pages 20 to 22.
During the year ended 31 December 2013: Hannah Rothschild was appointed as a Director on 15 August 2013: and Mike Wilson was appointed and James Leigh-Pemberton resigned as Directors on 1 October 2013.
Subsequent to the year-end Mike Power was appointed to the Board on 23 January 2014.
Investment Policy The Companys Corporate Objective is: to deliver long-term capital growth, while preserving shareholders capital: to invest without the constraints of a formal benchmark, but to deliver for shareholders increases in capital value in excess of the relevant indices over time.
The Companys Investment Policy is: to invest in a widely diversified, international portfolio across a range of asset classes, both quoted and unquoted: to allocate part of the portfolio to exceptional managers in order to ensure access to the best external talent available.
Asset Allocation and Risk Diversification The Board continues to allocate the Groups assets across a diversified range of asset classes, geographies, industries and currencies.
There are no external restrictions on the allocation of assets.
The portfolio is further diversified through the use of external managers with different mandates.
Exposures are monitored and managed by JRCM under the supervision of the Board.
Gearing The Company maintains structural gearing principally through credit facilities.
At 31 December 2013, the Sterling equivalent of the drawn indebtedness was 197 million, representing net gearing calculated in accordance with AIC guidance of 5.2%.
The maximum indebtedness that the Company is empowered to incur under its Articles of Association is five times its adjusted capital and reserves.
Further information is shown under Debt and Leverage on page 15.
Investment Managers Fees Fee structures within the long-only equity funds, whether structured as segregated accounts or otherwise typically involve a 1% per annum management fee with a 0% to 10% performance fee.
The hedged equity funds are slightly higher typically a 1% to 2% management fee and a 15% to 20% performance fee.
Private equity fees are structured differently and will usually have a 1% to 2% annual charge, often based on commitments in early years and declining over time with realisations, as well as a 20% carried interest above an 8% hurdle.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2013 43 Directors Report Share Capital At 31 December 2013, the issue share capital comprised 155,351,431 1 ordinary shares.
Further details are shown in note 20 on page 73.
During the year ended 31 December 2013, 30,810 ordinary shares were repurchased for cancellation.
No ordinary shares were issued.
The existing authority for the repurchase of shares expires at the Companys AGM on 30 April 2014.
A replacement authority is to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM, as explained in the separate Notice of the meeting.
Major Holders of Voting Rights As at 31 December 2013, the following notifications had been received from the holders of 3% or more of the voting rights conferred through the direct or indirect holding of the Companys ordinary shares of 1 each.
of voting rights % of voting rights Major holders of voting rights Direct Indirect Direct Indirect 1,2 Five Arrows Limited 6,757,835 4.35 Investec Wealth & Investment Limited 6,211,196 3.99 1 Lord Rothschild 3% 7,111,053 3% 4.58 1 Hannah Rothschild 3% 14,125,908 3% 9.09 1 The Rothschild Foundation 12,293,839 7.91 1 Some or all of these holdings form part of Lord Rothschild and Hannah Rothschilds interests disclosed on page 40 under Directors shareholdings.
Due to certain of their interests being held through trusts, some of the above interests are in respect of the same shares where more than one Major Holder of Voting Rights listed is a trustee and or beneficiary of the trust concerned.
2 Includes shares held by a subsidiary.
As at 26 February 2014, the above table remained unchanged save for the interest of Investec Wealth & Investment Limited, which had decreased the number of its voting rights held to 6,060,678 3.90%.
There are no restrictions or significant agreements that may restrict, on a change of control, transfer of securities in the Company or the voting rights attaching to those securities.
The shares of the Company qualify for inclusion within an Individual Savings Account ISA.
Stewardship Code The Company supports the applicable principles of the Stewardship Code published by The Financial Reporting Council.
The Companys Stewardship Policy may be viewed on its website.
Save for voting rights on the Companys investments held in segregated accounts by external managers who have control on the voting of those shares, the Companys investment department determines voting on resolutions of directly-held investee companies and funds, as described in the Companys Stewardship Policy.
Monitoring of directly held investments is also carried out by the investment department which is responsible for elevating any matters of concern to the Investment Committee of JRCM.
Active intervention appropriate for the circumstances will be considered where it is in the Companys best interests.
The Company does not publish its voting record as it invests as principal rather than agent.
Cross Holdings The UKLA Listing Rules also require closed-ended investment companies to disclose quarterly all of their investments in other listed closed-ended investment funds... which themselves do not have stated investment policies to invest no more than 15% of their total assets in other listed closed-ended investment funds.
The Group discloses such investments when necessary, but does not restrict its own investment policies in this manner.
44 Report and Accounts December 2013 RIT Capital Partners plc | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Directors Report Annual General Meeting The Companys AGM will be held on Wednesday 30 April 2014 at 11:00 am at Spencer House, 27 St Jamess Place, London SW1A 1NR.
The Notice is set out in a separate document circulated to shareholders, which may be viewed on the Company's website: www.
Other The Company seeks to agree the best possible terms on which business will take place with its suppliers.
It is the Companys policy to abide by such terms.
The Company had no trade payables at the year-end period ended 31 December 2012: nil.
The Company maintained a qualifying third party liability insurance for its Directors and Officers throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the financial report and accounts.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors With regard to the preparation of the Report and Accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2013, the Directors have confirmed to the auditors that: so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware: and they have taken the steps appropriate as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Statement under the UKLA Disclosure and Transparency Rules Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 20 to 22 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the Group and the Companys financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and loss of the Group and Company: and the Directors Report contained in the Report and Accounts includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
By Order of the Board J Rothschild Capital Management Limited Company Secretary 5 March 2014 RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2013 45 Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013
