| Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | J Rothschild Capital Management JRCM is a wholly-owned subsidiary of RIT and acts as RITs manager.
Directors of JRCM are listed below: Chairman Lord Rothschild Executive Directors Non-Executive Director Francesco Goedhuis Chairman, Executive Committee & Head of Special Situations Rick Sopher Andrew Jones Chief Financial Officer Jonathan Kestenbaum Chief Operating Officer Roberto Ruhman Ron Tabbouche Investment Director Day-to-day management of the business is delegated to an Executive Committee chaired by Francesco Goedhuis.
The biographies of the Executive Committee can be found below.
Francesco Goedhuis Andrew Jones Andrew Jones is the Chief Financial Officer and Chief Francesco Goedhuis is Chairman of the Executive Risk Officer.
Prior to joining RIT in 2008, he spent three Committee and is Head of Special Situations.
He joined RIT years in venture capital and four years at Nomura, as the Principal in the Chairmans Office in 2010.
Previously, advising on its private equity investments as well as risk, he was in New York working for the Economics Nobel global corporate development and strategy.
He qualified Laureate Robert Merton and the former Vice Chairman of J. P. as a chartered accountant with Deloitte where he Morgan, Roberto Mendoza at IFL, commercialising financial specialised in valuation advice.
academic theory on both the buy and sell sides.
Ron Tabbouche Jonathan Kestenbaum Ron Tabbouche is the Investment Director.
He was Jonathan Kestenbaum is the Chief Operating Officer.
Until previously the Head of Investments for Managed Portfolios 2011 he was Chief Executive of Five Arrows Limited.
At the age of 26, he joined GAMs Investment also an adviser to philanthropic foundations connected to Committee, working with Gilbert fide Botton, its co-founder.
He was previously Chief Executive of More recently, he led the overall investment strategy of NESTA the National Endowment for Science, Technology multi-billion dollar funds across a broad range of asset and the Arts.
Prior to that he was Chief of Staff to the classes.
He is also the principal investment adviser to Chairman of Apax Partners, Sir Ronald Cohen.
In January philanthropic foundations connected to Lord Rothschild.
2011 Jonathan was appointed to The House of Lords and became Lord Kestenbaum of Foxcote.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2013 23
