Our Strategy & Business Model Introduction ince inception, we have participated in This section forms part of the new Strategic Report, which follows further developments in the reporting S70% of the market upside but only 38% framework for UK listed companies.
Our aim is to of the market declines.
This has resulted provide a clear and succinct overview of our strategy in our NAV per share compounding at and business model in particular: 11.7% per annum: a meaningful What we are trying to achieve Strategic Aims outperformance of global equity markets.
How we go about it Investment Approach crisis.
However we recognise that such market timing is unlikely to be sustainable in the long term.
How well we have done Measuring Performance and KPIs We believe that our approach of active management of equity exposure, combined with early identification of How we structure our remuneration Incentive opportunities and themes across asset classes is more Structure and likely to lead to an asymmetric return profile.
We would Our governance and risk management hope to display healthy participation in up markets, and reasonable protection in down markets.
Over time, this Strategic Aims should allow us to compound ahead of markets Our strategic aims are best illustrated by our throughout the cycles and produce a high quality return.
Corporate Objective: It is also exactly what we have achieved in the past.
to deliver long-term capital growth, while preserving Since inception, we have participated in 70% of the shareholders capital: to invest without the market upside but only 38% of the market declines.
constraints of a formal benchmark, but to deliver for This has resulted in our NAV per share compounding shareholders increases in capital value in excess of at 11.7% per annum: a meaningful outperformance of the relevant indices over time.
We believe this accurately reflects our long-term aim.
Investment Approach However we consider a degree of clarification may These strategic aims are expressed in more practical assist shareholders in understanding what we are terms in our Investment Policy: trying to achieve for them over time - in particular because we differ from many other trusts who aim to to invest in a widely diversified, international be fully invested in equities.
portfolio across a range of asset classes, both quoted and unquoted: to allocate part of the portfolio to The most important aspect of our objective is longexceptional managers in order to ensure access to term capital growth while preserving shareholders the best external talent available.
We believe that investors entrusting us with their hard-earned capital should consider us as a core It is this policy which guides us as we manage your feature of a multi-generational wealth creation portfolio.
So, while we remain at our core an equity approach.
The essence of our investing DNA is about house, we nonetheless have the freedom and the protecting and enhancing families wealth.
agility to invest your portfolio across multiple asset classes, geographies, industries and currencies.
This There may be times when we will deliberately place has been the basis of our successful style over many protection of shareholders funds ahead of growth years - combining thematic investing with individual as happened during the latter stages of the dot com securities: and private investments with public era and also in the run up to the most recent financial stocks.
The long-term success of your Company has been drawn from a distinctive blend of individual stocks, private investments, equity funds, currency e would hope to display healthy positioning and a strong macro-economic overlay.
Wparticipation in up markets, and reasonable protection in down markets.
Over time, this should allow us to compound ahead of markets throughout the cycles and produce a high quality return.
6 Report and Accounts December 2013 RIT Capital Partners plc | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Our Strategy & Business Model We believe the extent of our global reach and network he long-term nature of our aims and of contacts allows us to maximise our ability to deploy capital wisely.
We seek to achieve an optimum blend Tapproach allows us to be patient.
of the skills of an in-house team focusing on the broad macro-economic outlook, stocks and private The second change we made is to the underlying investments with the best external managers.
currency assumptions for the index.
The MSCI World Index had a natural Sterling weighting of around 9%.
The long-term nature of our aims and approach allows As a Sterling-denominated company we consider this us to be patient.
For example, in relation to private investments, we are not constrained by the typical provides too low a natural starting point and are industry model of a limited life partnership.
This therefore using a blended index consisting of 50% of means we can hold such investments over the the ACWI measured in Sterling and 50% of the ACWI long term and choose to exit at the optimum time.
In measured in local currencies.
addition, we aim to avoid being forced sellers of Management are tasked with investing the portfolio stocks if we are comfortable with their underlying to deliver a high quality NAV return over time.
Ultimately however the return to our shareholders is through share price growth and dividends.
We Measuring Performance and KPIs therefore also consider the TSR as our third KPI.
While we believe our success can only really be measured over the long term, we also recognise that Incentive Structure providing shareholders with a comparator against Following a careful review during 2013, our which to measure our performance over shorter Remuneration Committee has made a small number periods is important.
of revisions to our incentive structure to ensure we can attract, motivate and retain the high quality The strategic aims highlighted on the previous page individuals we need to deliver on our long-term reflect the desire to produce real capital growth and to strategic aims.
The revised remuneration policy is exceed markets.
We therefore have established the now structured to ensure it is better aligned with and following targets or Key Performance Indicators KPIs : reinforces these strategic aims.
Absolute Outperformance: NAV total return in Executives and key staff will continue to participate in excess of RPI plus 3% per annum: two plans: 2.
Relative Outperformance: NAV total return in 1.
The Annual Incentive Scheme AIS excess of the ACWI: and 2.
Share price total return TSR.
The AIS is designed to incentivise executives and key The first of these KPIs reflects the desire to produce staff through a share in the total NAV outperformance strong absolute returns with a meaningful premium against the Absolute Outperformance hurdle and the above inflation.
This is measured The second reflects our unconstrained global annually and includes longer term features such as a investment approach and the desire to beat markets.
three year high watermark and as well as significant This year we made two small changes following a deferral into RIT shares.
In addition the Remuneration careful review.
Consistent with many investment Committee retains the ability to make discretionary companies, we decided to adopt the ACWI rather awards for individual performance, as well as the than the MSCI World Index.
The former includes ability to clawback elements of previous awards if Emerging Markets with an approximate necessary.
Payments under this scheme are capped 13% weighting and we believe is a more accurate at 0.75% of NAV or 0.25% if the NAV has declined.
comparator for our global, unconstrained approach.
The Company also retains an LTIP which provides a longer term incentive of up to 10 years using Share Appreciation Rights, which vest if RITs TSR is above the hurdle of RPI plus 3.0% over three years.
RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2013 7 Our Strategy & Business Model In reviewing the overall incentive structure and he long-term success of your practice, the Remuneration Committee determines the appropriate balance between shorter term and TCompany has been drawn from a long-term aims, as well as the need for robust risk distinctive blend of individual stocks, management.
private investments, equity funds, currency positioning and a strong macroFurther details are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 42. economic overlay.
Our Governance Structure of the nature and level of risk within the portfolio Our Chairman, Lord Rothschild, is responsible for the using qualitative and quantitative methods.
executive leadership of the Board and the Company.
During the year Mike Wilson and Hannah Rothschild Operational risks include those related to legal, joined the board, with James Leigh-Pemberton regulatory, taxation and other areas where internal or leaving to take up the role of chairman of UK Financial external factors could result in financial or reputational Investments.
In January 2014, Mike Power also loss.
These are managed by JRCM with regular joined the Board.
reporting to and review by the Audit and Risk Committee and the Board.
RIT is a self-managed investment company.
The management of the investment portfolio and the In common with other similar businesses, investment business has been delegated to JRCM, a 100% decisions are made by a small number of key owned subsidiary which acts as the Companys individuals.
If for any reason the services of these manager.
individuals were to become unavailable, there could be a significant impact on our business.
This 'key JRCM is also chaired by Lord Rothschild, with an man' risk is monitored and managed by the Board, Executive Committee responsible for managing the which has established procedures in place for the day-to-day running of the business.
As part of a mitigation of these risks.
restructuring of the private investments business, Graham Thomas left the company.
His role as The Board is responsible for the Groups system of Chairman of the Executive Committee was assumed internal control although it has delegated the by Francesco Goedhuis, who also now leads the supervision of the system to the Audit and Risk private investments business.
Such systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve In order to enhance our governance the JRCM Board business objectives and, as such, can provide only was restructured, with a number of its members reasonable and not absolute assurance against any stepping down to join a new International Advisory material misstatement or loss.
Corporate Responsibility Full details of the Board and the Executive Committee The Board is responsible for ensuring that good are provided on pages 20 to 23. standards of corporate responsibility are adopted within the Group through appropriate Social, Risk Management and Internal Control Environmental and Ethical SEE policies.
Day-to-day The principal risks facing RIT include financial risks responsibility resides with JRCM.
The ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing these risks is the The Companys Corporate Objective and Investment ultimate responsibility of the Board and the Audit and Policy do not incorporate specific SEE requirements Risk Committee.
Day-to-day management is or restrictions, however as an investment trust, the undertaken by JRCM within parameters set by the Board considers that the Companys direct SEE Board.
We consider the largest environmental impact is the emissions resulting from business travel As an investment company, RIT is exposed to and from our premises.
Where possible, executives financial risks inherent in its portfolio which are will only travel where alternatives such as video primarily market-related and common to any portfolio conference facilities are not practical.
In relation to its with significant exposure to equities.
premises, the Company monitors and has taken steps to reduce its emissions and also implement recycling The risk appetite is set by the Board with portfolio risk of materials.
This involves careful assessment 8 Report and Accounts December 2013 RIT Capital Partners plc | Company Highlights | Strategic Report | Governance | Financial Statements | Other Information | Our Strategy & Business Model Emissions required to be reported in respect of the The Group operates an ethics policy which applies to year ended 31 December 2013 were calculated using all staff, including in relation to social and human 1 the 2013 fuel conversion factors provided by Defra, rights issues.
The Board is also supportive of moves and were as follows: towards greater diversity.
At the year-end, the RIT Board consisted of nine Directors of whom two were Intensity Ratio: women.
Within the wider Group the senior CO2 tonnes management level included 11 men and two women.
Source CO2 tonnes per employee The overall employee base is split between 51 men Scope 1 Gas 42 0.6 and 20 women.
Scope 2 Electricity 210 2.8 Total 252 3.4 By Order of the Board 1 Department for Environment, Food & Rural Affairs.
J Rothschild Capital Management Limited Company Secretary, 5 March 2014 RIT Capital Partners plc Report and Accounts December 2013 9
