DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES STATEMENT The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual The Directors confirm that they have complied with the Report and Financial Statements in accordance with above requirements in preparing the Financial Statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper The Companies Law requires the Directors to accounting records, which disclose with reasonable prepare Financial Statements for each financial year.
accuracy at any time, the financial position of the Under the Listing Rules, the Directors are required to Company and to enable them to ensure that the prepare the Financial Statements in accordance with Financial Statements comply with Companies Law.
IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Under the They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets Companies Law, the Directors must not approve the of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give for the prevention and detection of fraud, error and non a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company compliance with law and regulations.
and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
The maintenance and integrity of the Companys In preparing these Financial Statements, International website www.
com is the responsibility Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: of the Directors.
The work carried out by the Auditors select suitable accounting policies and then apply does not involve considerations of these matters and, them consistently: accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any change that may have occurred to the Financial Statements make judgements and estimates that are reasonable since they were initially presented on the website.
and prudent: Legislation in Guernsey governing the preparation state whether applicable accounting standards have and dissemination of the Financial Statements may differ been followed, subject to any material departures from legislation in other jurisdictions.
disclosed and explained in the Financial Statements: and All companies with a premium listing of equity shares in the UK are required under the Listing Rules to report prepare the Financial Statements on a going concern on how they have applied the Corporate Governance basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Code in their Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Company will continue in business.
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT OF THE DIRECTORS IN RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT Each of the Directors, whose names are set out on pages that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to 13 to 15 in the Report of the Directors section of the make himself aware of any relevant audit information Annual Report, confirms to the best of their knowledge and to establish that the Companys Auditors are that: aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with provisions of section 249 of the Companies Law.
IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual loss of the Company: Report and Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Having taken advice from the Annual Report includes a fair review of the the Audit Committee, the Directors consider the Annual development and performance of the business and the Report and Financial Statements, taken as a whole, as position of the Company, together with a description fair, balanced and understandable and that it provides of the principal risks and uncertainties faced: the information necessary for shareholders to assess the the Directors confirm that the Annual Report and Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Financial Statements, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced By order of the Board and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy: and so far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant Sir Robert Wilson Richard Hayden audit information of which the Companys auditors Chairman Director are unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps 13 February 2014 13 February 2014
