OUR APPROACH REL invests exclusively in the global energy industry, with a particular focus on the exploration and production and midstream sectors.
The Company may also make investments in other energy sub-sectors including energy services and power and coal, but will not do so during the investment period including any extension thereof of Fund V. REL is well positioned to take advantage of, and benefit from, the large number of investment opportunities being driven by continued growth in global energy demand, the North American energy revolution, asset rationalisation by larger companies, and growing deepwater exploration success rates.
Since REL, through the Partnership, invests alongside the Private Riverstone Funds in all Qualifying Investments in which the Private Riverstone Funds participate, REL presents a unique opportunity for public market investors to gain exposure to Riverstones investments in the very attractive global energy sector.
INVESTMENT POLICY Asset Allocation The Company acquires its interests in each and ii the Investment Manager agree that the Qualifying Investment at the same time or as investment ratio should be adjusted for specific near as practicable thereto as, and on substantially Qualifying Investments.
the same economic and financial terms as, the For each Private Riverstone Fund subsequent relevant Private Riverstone Fund.
to Fund V which is of a similar size as Fund V The Company and the current Private i. e. $7.7 billion and has a similar investment Riverstone Fund, Fund V, invest in each Qualifying policy to the Company, Riverstone seeks to Investment in which Fund V participates in a ratio ensure that subject to the investment capacity of of one-third to REL to two-thirds to Fund V. the Company at the time, the Company and the This investment ratio is subject to adjustment Private Riverstone Fund invest in Qualifying on a case-by-case basis a to take account of the Investments in an investment ratio of one-third liquid assets available to each of the Company to REL to two-thirds to the Private Riverstone and Fund V for investment at the relevant time Fund or in such other ratio as the Companys and any other investment limitations applicable independent Directors and the Investment to either of them or otherwise and b if both i a Manager agree at or prior to the first closing majority of the Companys independent Directors of such Private Riverstone Fund.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Such investment ratio may be adjusted by The Company invests in public or private agreement between the Companys independent securities, may hold controlling or non-controlling Directors and the Investment Manager on positions in its investments and may make subsequent closings of a Private Riverstone Fund investments in the form of equity, equity-related having regard to the total capital commitments instruments, indebtedness or derivatives or a raised by that Private Riverstone Fund during combination of any of them.
The Company does its commitment period, the liquid assets available not permit any investments to be the subject of to the Company at that time and any other stock lending or sale and repurchase of shares.
investment limitations applicable to either of them.
The Investment Manager typically seeks Diversification to ensure that the Company and the Private Riverstone Funds dispose of their interests in No one investment made by the Company, through Qualifying Investments at the same time, on the Partnership, may at the time of the relevant substantially the same terms, and in the case of investment represent more than 25 per cent.
of partial disposals, in the same ratio as the relevant the Companys gross assets, including cash holdings, Qualifying Investment was acquired, but this may measured at the time the investment is made.
The Company utilises the Partnership and its In addition, the Company may at any time subsidiary undertakings or other similar investment make investments consistent with its investment holding structures to make investments and this policy independent from Private Riverstone limitation does not apply to its ownership interest Funds, which may include investments alongside in any such subsidiary undertaking nor, for the Riverstone employee co-investment vehicles avoidance of doubt, to the Companys interest in or other Riverstone managed or advised the Partnership.
In such cases, approval by the Board is required.
