REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The Directors hereby submit the Annual Share Capital Report and Audited Financial Statements At incorporation on 23 May 2013, the Company for the Company for the period ended issued one founder Ordinary Share of no par value.
On 29 October 2013, the Company issued 71,032,057 Ordinary Shares of no par value at 10 per Ordinary Share in an initial public offering raising a total of General Information $1,138 million.
A further 5 million Ordinary Shares will be issued on a deferred basis, raising a further Riverstone Energy Limited is a company limited by 50 million, as set out below.
Details of the issue were shares, which was incorporated on 23 May 2013 in set out in the Prospectus dated 24 September 2013, Guernsey with an unlimited life and registered with the which is available from the Companys website Commission as a Registered Closed-ended Collective www.
Investment Scheme pursuant to the POI Law.
It has been listed on the London Stock Exchange since 29 October The Company has one class of Ordinary Shares.
The registered office of the Company is Heritage issued nominal value of the Ordinary Shares represents Hall, PO Box 225, Le Marchant Street, St Peter Port, 100 per cent.
of the total issued nominal value of all share Guernsey, GY1 4HY, Channel Islands.
Under the Companys Articles of Incorporation, on a show of hands, each Shareholder present in person or by proxy has the right to one vote at general meetings.
On a poll, each Shareholder is entitled to one vote for Principal Activities every share held.
The principal activity of the Company is to act as an Shareholders are entitled to all dividends paid by the investment entity through the Partnership and make Company and, on a winding up, providing the Company privately negotiated equity investments in the energy sector.
has satisfied all of its liabilities, the Shareholders are The Companys investment objective is to generate entitled to all of the surplus assets of the Company.
The long-term capital growth by investing in the global Ordinary Shares have no right to fixed income.
energy sector, with a particular focus on opportunities KFI, one of the Cornerstone Investors in the in the global exploration and production and midstream Company, pays for and acquires its Ordinary Shares in energy sub-sectors.
two equal tranches of 50 million.
The first tranche was paid on Admission at which time 5 million Ordinary Shares were issued to KFI.
The second tranche will Business Review become payable upon the earlier of i such time as the Company has invested or committed 50 per cent.
of A review of the Companys business and its likely future the aggregate net proceeds of the issue, calculated using development is provided in the Chairmans Statement on KFIs total subscription monies: and ii the second pages 6 to 7 and in the Investment Managers Report on anniversary of Admission, at such time, a further 5 million pages 8 to 11.
Ordinary Shares will be issued to KFI.
The Company and KFI are party to an Off-Market Listing Requirements Acquisition Agreement dated 23 September 2013, pursuant to which, upon the failure by KFI to pay the Since being admitted on 29 October 2013 to the Official second tranche of subscription monies when requested List of the UK Listing Authority, maintained by the to do so by the Company in accordance with its FCA, the Company has complied with the applicable Cornerstone Subscription Agreement, the Company may Listing Rules.
elect to force a sale of, or a compulsorily repurchase of, such Ordinary Shares as equates in value to the second tranche of subscription monies which is unpaid valued Results and Dividend by reference to the then market price of the Ordinary Shares for nil consideration.
The results of the Company for the period are shown in the audited Statement of Comprehensive Income KFI has the right to pay the second tranche of on page 30. subscription monies to the Company at any time after Admission, and prior to the due date for payment.
The Net Asset Value of the Company as at 31 December 2013 was $1,139 million.
The terms of the Off-Market Acquisition Agreement, which is governed by Guernsey law, were The Directors do not recommend the payment approved by special resolution of the Company dated of a dividend in respect of the period ended 23 September 2013.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Board of Directors Sir Robert Wilson 70, Chairman and Non-executive Independent Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board and became Chairman in May 2013 Experience: Sir Robert Wilson is the Chairman of the Company, a Senior Adviser at Morgan Stanley and a Non-executive Independent Director of GlaxoSmithKline plc.
Sir Robert served as Chairman of BG Group plc from January 2004 until May 2012.
He was previously Executive Chairman of Rio Tinto plc where he became Chief Executive in 1991 and was Executive Chairman from 1997 until his retirement in 2003.
From 2003 to 2009, Sir Robert was also Non-executive Chairman of The Economist Group.
Sir Robert is a UK resident.
Committee Membership: Nomination Committee Chairman, Management Engagement Committee Chairman Peter Barker 64, Non-executive Independent Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board in September 2013 Experience: Mr Barker was former California Chairman of JPMorgan Chase & Co. a global financial services firm, from September 2009 until his retirement on 31 January 2013, and a member of its Executive Committee in New York.
Mr Barker was also a former Advisory Director of Goldman, Sachs & Co. from December 1998 until his retirement in May 2002, and a Partner of Goldman, Sachs & Co. from 1982 to 1998, heading up Investment Banking on the West Coast, having joined Goldman, Sachs & Co. in 1971.
Mr Barker is President of the Fletcher Jones Foundation and has held numerous directorships.
He is currently on the board of Fluor Corporation, Avery Dennison Corporation, the W. M. Keck Foundation, the Irvine Company, Franklin Resources, Inc. and the Automobile Club of Southern California.
Mr Barker was also formerly a Director of GSC Investment Corp. Mr Barker is also a Trustee of Claremont McKenna College, having formerly been its Chairman, and was previously Chair of the Los Angeles Area Council of the Boy Scouts of America.
Mr Barker is a U. S. resident.
Committee Membership: Audit Committee Member: Nomination Committee Member: Management Engagement Committee Member Lord Browne of Madingley 65, Non-executive Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board in May 2013 Experience: Lord Browne is a Partner and Managing Director of Riverstone and is based in London.
Lord Browne joined Riverstone in 2007 and is co-head of Riverstones Renewable Energy Funds.
Prior to joining Riverstone, he spent 41 years at BP.
He joined BP in 1966, became Group Treasurer in 1984, became Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of BP Exploration in 1989 and in September 1991 joined the Board of The British Petroleum Company plc.
He was appointed Group Chief Executive in June 1995 and following the merger of BP and Amoco, became Group Chief Executive of the combined group in December 1998 remaining in this position until May 2007.
Lord Browne was appointed the UK Governments Lead Non-Executive Board member in June 2010 and in addition to serving on the boards of a number of portfolio companies in which Other Riverstone Funds have investment interests, is also the Chairman of a variety of corporate, advisory and charitable boards and is a member of the L1 Energy Advisory Board.
Lord Browne is a director of Pattern Energy Group Inc. and is a UK resident.
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED Board of Directors continued Patrick Firth 52, Non-executive Independent Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board in May 2013 Experience: Mr Firth qualified as a Chartered Accountant with KPMG Guernsey in 1991 and is also a member of the Chartered Institute for Securities and Investment.
He has worked in the fund industry in Guernsey since joining Rothschild Asset Management CI Limited in 1992 before moving to become Managing Director at Butterfield Fund Services Guernsey Limited subsequently Butterfield Fulcrum Group Guernsey Limited, a company providing third party fund administration services, where he worked from April 2002 until June 2009.
He is a Non-executive Director of a number of investment funds and management companies, including BH Credit Catalysts Limited, ICG Longbow Senior Secured UK Property Debt Investments Limited and JZ Capital Partners Limited.
Mr Firth is a resident of Guernsey.
Committee Membership: Audit Committee Member: Nomination Committee Member: Management Engagement Committee Member James Hackett 59, Non-executive Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board in May 2013 Experience: Mr Hackett is a Partner and Managing Director of Riverstone and was, before becoming a director of the Company, Executive Chairman of the Board of Anadarko Petroleum Corporation, a global oil and natural gas exploration and production company.
Mr Hackett was named Executive Chairman of Anadarko in May 2012, after serving as Chief Executive Officer since 2003 and Chairman of the Board since January 2006.
He also served as Anadarkos President from December 2003 to February 2010.
Before joining Anadarko, Mr Hackett served as President and Chief Operating Officer of Devon Energy Corporation.
Mr Hackett is a Director of Cameron International Corporation, Fluor Corporation, Bunge Limited, is a member of the L1 Energy Advisory Board and is the former Chairman of the Board of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas.
Mr Hackett is a U. S. resident.
Committee Membership: None Richard Hayden 68, Non-executive Senior Independent Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board in May 2013 Experience: Mr Hayden serves as Non-executive Chairman of Haymarket Financial LLP.
Prior to joining Haymarket Financial LLP in 2009, Mr Hayden was Vice Chairman of GSC Group Inc and Global Head of the CLO and Mezzanine Debt business.
Previously, Mr Hayden was with Goldman Sachs from 1969 to 1999, became a Partner in 1980, and was Vice Chairman prior to joining GSC Group Inc in 2000.
Mr Hayden held a variety of senior positions during his time at Goldman Sachs, including Deputy Chairman of Goldman Sachs International Ltd and Chairman of the Global Credit Committee.
He was also a member of the firms Commitments Committee, Partnership Committee and the Goldman Sachs International Executive Committee.
Mr Hayden has served on a number of corporate and advisory boards and is currently a Non-executive Director of Deutsche Boerse and Chairman of the TowerBrook Capital Partners Advisory Board.
Mr Hayden is a UK resident.
Committee Membership: Audit Committee Chairman Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Pierre F. Lapeyre 51, Non-executive Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board in May 2013 Experience: Mr Lapeyre is a Founder and Senior Managing Director of Riverstone.
Prior to founding Riverstone, Mr Lapeyre was a Managing Director of Goldman Sachs in its Global Energy and Power Group.
Mr Lapeyre joined Goldman Sachs in 1986 and spent his 14-year investment banking career focused on energy and power, particularly the midstream, upstream and energy service sectors.
Mr Lapeyres responsibilities at Goldman Sachs included client coverage and leading the execution of a wide variety of M&A, IPO, strategic advisory and capital markets financings for clients across all sectors of the industry.
While at Goldman Sachs, Mr Lapeyre served as sector captain for the midstream and energy services segments, led the groups coverage of Asian energy companies and was extensively involved in the origination and execution of energy private equity investments on behalf of the firm.
Mr Lapeyre was responsible for managing Goldman Sachs leading franchise in master limited partnerships.
He was also asked to lead the groups agency and principal investment effort in energy power technology.
At Goldman Sachs Mr Lapeyre had relationship and deal execution responsibilities for a broad range of energy clients.
Mr Lapeyre serves on the boards of directors or equivalent bodies of a number of portfolio companies in which Other Riverstone Funds have investment interests.
Mr Lapeyre is a U. S. resident.
Committee Membership: None David M. Leuschen 62, Non-executive Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board in May 2013 Experience: Mr Leuschen is a Founder and Senior Managing Director of Riverstone.
Prior to founding Riverstone, Mr Leuschen was a Partner and Managing Director at Goldman Sachs and founder and head of the Goldman Sachs Global Energy and Power Group.
Mr Leuschen joined Goldman Sachs in 1977, became head of the Global Energy and Power Group in 1985, became a Partner of that firm in 1986 and remained with Goldman Sachs until leaving to found Riverstone.
Mr Leuschen has extensive M&A, financing and investing experience in the energy and power industry.
Mr Leuschen was responsible for building the Goldman Sachs energy and power investment banking practice into one of the leading franchises in the global energy and power industry.
During this period, Mr Leuschen and his team participated in a large number of the major energy and power M&A transactions worldwide.
Mr Leuschen also was a founder of Goldman Sachs leading master limited partnership franchise.
Mr Leuschen also served as Chairman of the Goldman Sachs Energy Investment Committee, where he was responsible for screening potential capital commitments by Goldman Sachs in the energy and power industry and was responsible for establishing and managing the firms relationships with senior executives from leading companies in all segments of the energy and power industry.
Mr Leuschen also serves on the boards of directors or equivalent bodies of a number of portfolio companies in which Other Riverstone Funds have investment interests.
Mr Leuschen is a U. S. resident.
Committee Membership: None Dr Tidu Maini 70, Non-executive Independent Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board in May 2013 Experience: Dr Maini currently serves on a number of corporate and advisory boards including as a member of the Executive Committee of and Advisor to Qatar Foundation Endowment and as Special Envoy for the Office of Her Highness Shiekha Moza Bint Nasser of Qatar.
From January 2002 to June 2007, Dr Maini was Pro Rector for Development and Corporate Affairs at Imperial College London.
Dr Maini has 30 years experience in the management of technology companies in the defence, electronics, energy and information and communication technology sectors.
Dr Mainis extensive executive experience includes the management of businesses in Europe, U. S. Asia and the Middle East including as a former Deputy Chairman of GEC Marconi and as a senior executive at both Schlumberger and Sema Group.
Dr Maini is a resident of Qatar.
REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED Shareholdings of the Directors Directors and Officers Liability The Directors and their beneficial interests in the shares Insurance of the Company as at 31 December 2013 are detailed The Company maintains insurance in respect of below: directors and officers liability in relation to their acts Ordinary Shares of on behalf of the Company.
Insurance is in place, effective 10.00 each held Per cent.
Director 31 December 2013 31 December 2013 2 Sir Robert Wilson 20,000 0.028 2 3 Substantial Shareholdings Peter Barker 5,000 0.007 Lord John Browne As at 31 December 2013, the Company had been 2 3 Patrick Firth 4,000 0.006 notified, in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure James Hackett and Transparency Rules, of the following substantial 2 4 Richard Hayden 10,000 0.014 voting rights as shareholders of the Company.
Nature of David Leuschen Shareholder Shareholding Holding Holding 2 Dr Tidu Maini 5,000 0.007 AKRC 1 1 Investments LLC 20,908,815 29.4 Indirect Mr Lapeyre and Mr Leuschen have a beneficial interest in REL 1,2 Coinvestment, LP which as at the period end held 5,000,000 shares.
Hunt 6,167,885 8.7 Direct 2 Kendall Family Non-executive Independent Directors.
1,3 3 Investments, LLC 5,000,000 7.0 Direct Ordinary Shares held jointly with his spouse.
4 REL Coinvestment, LP 5,000,000 7.0 Direct Senior Independent Director.
1 Casita, L. P. 5,000,000 7.0 Direct There have been no changes to the Directors 1 Held by a Cornerstone Investor shareholdings since 31 December 2013.
2 Held in aggregate by Hunt 3 Excludes second tranche of 5 million shares see Note 12 Directors Authority to Buy In addition, the Company also provides the same Back Shares information as at 31 January 2014, being the most current At the AGM to take place on 14 May 2014, the Company information available.
will seek authority to make market purchases of up to a Per cent.
Nature of maximum of 14.99 per cent.
of the issued share capital of Shareholder Shareholding Holding Holding the Company.
Any buy back of the Companys Ordinary AKRC Shares will be made subject to Companies Law and 1 Investments LLC 20,908,815 29.4 Indirect within any guidelines established from time to time by 1,2 Hunt 6,167,885 8.7 Direct the Board.
The making and timing of any buy backs will Kendall Family be at the absolute discretion of the Board and not at the 1,3 Investments, LLC 5,000,000 7.0 Direct option of the Shareholders.
Purchases of the Companys REL Coinvestment, LP 5,000,000 7.0 Direct Ordinary Shares will only be made through the market 1 Casita, L. P. 5,000,000 7.0 Direct for cash at prices below the prevailing Net Asset Value of the Companys Ordinary Shares as last calculated 1 Held by a Cornerstone Investor where the Directors believe such purchases will enhance 2 Held in aggregate by Hunt shareholder value.
Such purchases will also only be made 3 Excludes second tranche of 5 million shares see Note 12 in accordance with the Listing Rules which provide that the price to be paid must not be more than 5 per cent.
above the average of the middle market quotations for The Directors confirm that there are no securities in the Companys Ordinary Shares for the five business days issue that carry special rights with regards to the control before the shares are purchased unless previously advised of the Company.
The Companys issued share capital consists of 1 In accordance with the Companys Articles of 71,032,058 Ordinary Shares.
Under the Companys Incorporation and Companies Law, up to 10 per cent.
of Articles of Incorporation, on a show of hands, each the Companys Ordinary Shares may be held as treasury Shareholder present in person or by proxy has the right shares.
The Company did not purchase any shares for to one vote at general meetings.
On a poll, each treasury or cancellation up to the date of this report.
shareholder is entitled to one vote for every share held.
1 Does not include KFIs second tranche of 5 million shares at 50 million see Note 12.
Independent Auditor Going Concern Ernst & Young LLP has been the Companys external The Company has invested $1,130 million of the issue 1 auditor since the Companys incorporation.
This is the proceeds into the Partnership, retaining $11.8 million.
A resolution will be proposed at the This amount is adequate to meet the Companys liabilities forthcoming AGM to re-appoint them as auditor and as they fall due over the going concern horizon.
The authorise the Directors to determine the auditors Partnership has $930.5 million of uncommitted cash and remuneration for the ensuing year.
U. S. treasury bills and has no material going concern risk.
In light of the above, the Directors are satisfied that it is The Audit Committee will periodically review the appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing appointment of Ernst & Young LLP and the Board the financial statements.
Further information on the work of the auditor is set out in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 24 to 26.
Financial Risk Management Policies and Objectives Articles of Incorporation Financial Risk Management Policies and Objectives are The Companys Articles may only be amended by special disclosed in Note 15. resolution of the shareholders.
Principal Risk and Uncertainties Non-mainstream Pooled Investments Principal Risk and Uncertainties are discussed in the The Board notes the changes to the FCA rules Corporate Governance Report on page 23. regarding the restrictions on the promotion to retail investors of unregulated collective investment schemes Subsequent Events and close substitutes referred to as non-mainstream pooled investments, which came into effect on On 30 January 2014, Liberty II signed an agreement to 1 January 2014.
On the basis of advice received, the acquire approximately 53,000 net acres and approximately Board has concluded that the Companys Ordinary 4,000 Boepd net in the Williston Basin in North Dakota.
Shares are not non-mainstream pooled investments for The acquisition is expected to require approximately the purposes of these rules, meaning that the restrictions $55-65 million net from REL of the initial $100 million on promotion imposed by the rules do not apply.
commitment pending financing arrangement and is It is the Boards intention that the Company conducts expected to close in March 2014.
REL made a its affairs so that these restrictions will continue to $13.3 million deposit on 30 January 2014.
will continue to target acquisitions in the Bakken and Three Forks formations as it furthers the development of the acquired properties.
General Partners Performance Allocation Annual General Meetings The General Partners Performance Allocation is The AGM of the Company will be held at 10.00 am calculated under the terms of the RELIP Limited GMT on 14 May 2014 at Lefebvre Place, Lefebvre Street, Partnership Agreement and as described in the St Peter Port, Guernsey, Channel Islands.
Details of the Prospectus dated 24 September 2013. resolutions to be proposed at the AGM, together with As of 31 December 2013, no amounts have been paid explanations, will appear in the notices of meetings to or accrued in respect of the Performance Allocation.
be distributed to Shareholders listed on the register as at The Performance Allocation will be calculated on a 31 December 2013 together with this Annual Report.
quarterly basis, which will be taken into account when Members of the Board, including the Chairman and the calculating the fair value of the Companys investment Audit Committee chairman, will be in attendance at the in the Partnership.
AGM and will be available to answer shareholder questions.
By order of the Board Change of Control There are no agreements that the Company considers significant and to which the Company is party that would take effect, alter or terminate upon change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
Sir Robert Wilson Chairman 13 February 2014 1 Includes 1.5 million KFI financing charge see Note 12.
