INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT A TRACK RECORD BUILT OVER OUR 14-YEAR HISTORY Riverstone has developed a track record of sponsoring and advising private investment vehicles that have provided strong investment returns and multiples of equity by investing in the exploration and production and midstream sectors, generated over periods of varying economic conditions and different commodity price cycles.
The global energy industry continues to go through very substantial change, driven in large part by the North American energy revolution and the exponential growth of the industrys capital needs.
The continued refinement of horizontal drilling techniques plus the growing deep water exploration success rates are among the macro tail winds that are driving our global investment opportunity.
Key Drivers: About the Investment Manager Appointed in September 2013, the Investment The industry is being transformed as the North Manager, an affiliate of Riverstone, provides American shale revolution creates numerous advice to the Company on the origination exciting investment opportunities.
and completion of new investments, on the Larger companies are under constant pressure management of the portfolio and on realisations, to rationalise assets.
as well as on funding requirements.
Growing success rates of deepwater exploration.
Investment Strategy Historical under-investment in energy The Investment Managers objective is to achieve infrastructure.
superior risk adjusted returns through investing Macro-drivers make energy investment a very primarily in the exploration and production and attractive proposition, particularly in shale gas, tight midstream energy sectors.
The energy sector is oil, energy infrastructure, orphaned assets and certain global and a significant component of virtually offshore basins such as the Gulf of Mexico.
Prevalent market drivers of economic expansion, population growth, The Investment Manager, through its affiliates, development of markets, deregulation and has an outstanding track record of building businesses privatisation will continue to create opportunities with exceptional management teams and of globally for investors in energy.
delivering consistently strong returns and significant outperformance against both crude oil and natural gas benchmarks.
The Company aims to capitalise on the opportunities presented by Riverstones pipeline of investment opportunities.
Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The Investment Manager utilises its extensive Liberty Resources II LLC industry expertise and relationships to thoroughly REL, through the Partnership, has partnered with evaluate and investigate investment prospects and Fund V to form Liberty Resources II LLC uses its significant experience in conducting due Liberty II along with Liberty IIs management diligence, valuing assets and all other aspects of team.
Separate Riverstone affiliated funds previously deal execution, including financial and legal completed a similar transaction with Liberty IIs structuring, accounting and compensation design.
management team resulting in a successful sale of The Investment Manager also draws upon its the assets at 1.7x Gross MOIC and a Gross IRR extensive network of relationships with industryof 28 per cent.
focused professional advisory firms to assist with due diligence in other areas such as legal, The Company, through the Partnership, has accounting, tax, employee benefits, environmental, committed $100 million to Liberty II.
Liberty II engineering or insurance.
will principally operate in the Bakken Shale and will apply the management teams expertise in Investment Portfolio Summary well completion design and execution to a proved and underdeveloped resource play.
Among other The Investment Manager has reviewed several potential areas of focus, Liberty II will likely potential exploration and production, and target the DJ Basin, where we believe certain play midstream investments since RELs admission.
types are conducive to Liberty IIs proprietary Thus far, two exploration and production technical completion approach.
investments have been completed as further discussed below.
The Investment Manager As of 31 December 2013, the Company continues to maintain a strong pipeline of through the Partnership, had not invested any of investment opportunities and expects to make the $100 million commitment in Liberty II.
a number of further commitments in 2014.. INVESTMENT MANAGERS REPORT CONTINUED On 30 January 2014, Liberty II signed an of the underlying investment.
If there is any agreement to acquire approximately 53,000 net divergence between the Riverstone valuation acres and approximately 4,000 Boepd net in the policy and RELs valuation policy, the Partnerships Williston Basin in North Dakota.
The acquisition is proportion of the total holding will follow RELs expected to require approximately $55-65 million valuation policy and the Fund V proportion will net from REL of the initial $100 million follow the Riverstone valuation policy.
Valuations commitment pending financing arrangement determined by Riverstone are disclosed quarterly and is expected to close in March 2014.
made a $13.3 million deposit on 30 January 2014.
Riverstone values its investments using Liberty II will continue to target acquisitions in the common industry valuation techniques, including Bakken and Three Forks formations as it furthers comparable public market valuation, comparable the development of the acquired properties.
merger and acquisition transaction valuation, and discounted cash flow valuation.
Eagle Energy Exploration LLC For development-type investments, REL, through the Partnership, has partnered with Riverstone also considers the recognition of Fund V to form Eagle Energy Exploration LLC appreciation of subsequent financing rounds, if Eagle II along with Eagle IIs management any, or if subsequent financing rounds are below team.
Separate Riverstone affiliated funds previously original cost, the investment is valued at the completed a similar investment with Eagle IIs down round.
For those early stage privately held management team resulting in a successful sale companies where there are other indicators of a of the assets at approximately 4.1x Gross MOIC decline in the value of the investment, Riverstone and a Gross IRR of 57 per cent.
will value the investment accordingly even in the The Company, through the Partnership, has absence of a subsequent financing round.
committed $50 million to Eagle II with the right Riverstone reviews the valuations on a to commit an additional $50 million for a total quarterly basis with the Riverstone investment commitment of $100 million.
Eagle IIs primary committee as part of the valuation process.
Ernst & strategy is to accumulate acreage for delineation Young LLP attends the valuation review meetings and development in the Mid-Continent region that are relevant to the Company as part of their of the United States.
Eagle IIs management has statutory audit process.
deep connections with local operators and access to proprietary deal flow in the region.
With this Formation and Initial Expenses advantageous sourcing position, the generally decreasing cost of entry in the region, and the The formation and initial expenses of the Company management teams operating experience in the have been paid in full by the Investment Manager.
play, Eagle II is poised to capture attractive returns.
In some circumstances, this may be repayable in full by the Company see Note 13.
Currently, $1 million of the $100 million commitment has been invested in Eagle II.
Eagle II Investment Management Fee is currently evaluating several exploration and development projects.
The Investment Manager has agreed to deduct from its annual Investment Management Fee Valuation all fees, travel costs and related expenses of the Directors exceeding certain specified annual limits The Investment Manager is charged with the see Note 14. responsibility of valuing the assets held by REL and the Partnership.
The Partnership has directed The annual limits are subject to adjustment that securities and instruments be valued at their by agreement between the Investment Manager fair value.
RELs valuation policy follows the and the Company acting by its independent IFRS accounting standards and IPEV Valuation Directors.
Based on the NAV as of 31 December Guidelines.
Riverstone values each underlying 2013, the maximum amount of annual fees, investment in accordance with the Riverstone travel and related expenses of the Directors is valuation policy, the IFRS accounting standards $899,541.
The maximum amount pro-rated for and IPEV Valuation Guidelines.
The value of the period 29 October 2013 to 31 December 2013 RELs portion of that investment is derived by was $155,263.
multiplying its ownership percentage by the value Riverstone Energy Limited Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Williston Basin in North Dakota.
The acquisition is Uninvested Cash expected to require approximately $55-65 million 1 Of the $1,140 million of cash raised in the net from REL of the initial $100 million 2 IPO, $1,130 million has been invested into commitment pending financing arrangement the Partnership for investment purposes.
The and is expected to close in March 2014.
REL Partnership maintains deposit accounts with made a $13.3 million deposit on 30 January 2014. several leading international banks.
In addition, Liberty II will continue to target acquisitions in the the Partnership invests a portion of its cash Bakken and Three Forks formations as it furthers deposits in short-term U. S. treasury bills.
RELs the development of the acquired properties.
treasury policy seeks to protect the principal value of cash deposits utilising low risk products with The investment pipeline for REL remains top tier counterparts.
robust with several actionable exploration and production and midstream investments in various In connection with the listing of REL on stages of review and negotiation.
Several current the London Stock Exchange, all proceeds of the industry themes continue to drive the investment offering were converted to U. S. dollars.
All cash opportunity set for REL.
These include the deposits referred to above are denominated in North American shale revolution, historical U. S. dollars.
Additionally, RELs functional under-investment in energy infrastructure, currency and Financial Statements are all continued pressure for larger companies to presented in U. S. dollars.
The Partnerships first rationalise assets, and the growing success rates two commitments, Liberty II and Eagle II are and democratisation of deepwater exploration.
both denominated in U. S. dollars.
REL expects The Investment Manager continues to believe foreign exchange to have nominal impact on its that this is a market where patience and a business and overall financial results.
disciplined approach to investment are likely to be well rewarded.
Subsequent Events and Outlook On 30 January 2014, Liberty II signed an Riverstone International Limited agreement to acquire approximately 53,000 net 13 February 2014 acres and approximately 4,000 Boepd net in the 1 Does not include KFIs second tranche of 50 million see Note 12.
2 The Company retained $10 million of cash raised in the IPO to meet liabilities over the Companys going concern horizon.
