RBS at a glance 13 UK Retail UK Corporate Customer story Stormy weather The UK suffered from terrible weather at the end of 2013, which caused serious damage and destruction.
Adverse weather can have a dramatic effect on a business loss of property and stock, failing systems, supply chain failures and halted trading pushing them into financial difficulty, impacting employees and local communities.
To help ease the pressure for businesses who have been directly or indirectly affected, we launched a 250 million UK Storm Business Fund.
Interest-free loans can be provided for three months to viable and eligible businesses, whether or not they are existing customers maximum of 250k per loan.
Short-term, interest-free financing can be provided to cover, for example, cost of repairs and replacement stock while businesses wait for insurance claims to be paid.
UK Corporate Chris Sullivan Performance highlights 2013 2012 Chief Executive Return on equity % 7.9 14.5 Cost:income ratio % 50 44 Loan:deposit ratio % 80 82 Risk-weighted assets bn 86.1 86.3 Contribution 23% to Core income Performance overview Building a better bank that serves customers well Operating profit was down 41% at 1,060 million.
Excluding 410 million impairments To reinforce its commitment to supporting related to the creation of RCR, operating the UK economy, RBS appointed Sir Andrew profit was down 18%.
Large to lead an independent review of Impairments included an additional 410 its lending standards and practices.
UK We are a leading provider of banking, million related to the creation of RCR.
Corporate has undertaken to implement all finance and risk management services to the Excluding this, impairments were 7% lower the Independent Lending Reviews corporate and SME small and medium-sized than in 2012. recommendations and is adopting enterprise sector in the United Kingdom.
We Excluding the impact of increased a revised strategy to accomplish this.
offer a full range of banking products and impairment losses related to the creation of Support for SME customers included prorelated financial services.
active Statements of Appetite sent to over Net interest income fell in a lower interest 12,000 customers, resulting in approximately rate environment.
6 billion of new loan offers.
Continued run-off of property and shipping, outweighed growth in other sectors, leaving For further loan balances down 5%.
