14 Customer story Network connection Every entrepreneur knows the power of networking to build connections and contacts.
Taking that network to the next level takes time and effort, things which are often in short supply.
Coutts were able to bring the right people to the table However, Coutts focus on adding value to every relationship can also help bring the right people together.
When one client was looking to diversify into renewables and food security in the Middle East, Coutts were able to bring the right people to the table, providing a catalyst for the clients growth opportunities and showing the value of our inter-connected world.
Wealth Rory Tapner Performance highlights 2013 2012 Chief Executive Return on equity % 12.0 13.1 Cost:income ratio % 77 75 Loan:deposit ratio % 45 44 Risk-weighted assets bn 12.0 12.3 Contribution 6% to Core income Performance overview Building a better bank that serves customers well Operating profit was 9% lower at 221 million.
2013 saw a major shake-up of the UK financial Income was 7% lower, with net interest advice landscape with the implementation income declining over the year, reflecting of the Retail Distribution Review.
Deposit margins welcomed Coutts new fully compliant adviceWe provide private banking and investment improved in the fourth quarter following a led model, where advisers must achieve the services in the UK through Coutts & Co and repricing initiative.
more stringent Level 6 rating, in excess of the Adam & Company: offshore banking through Assets under management rose 3%, but Level 4 minimum required by the Financial RBS International, NatWest Offshore and Isle total client assets and liabilities managed Conduct Authority.
Work continued to of Man Bank: and international private banking by the division declined by 2% following the streamline client-facing processes and drive through Coutts & Co Ltd. repricing initiative.
Expenses were 4% lower, partly reflecting reduced headcount and tight discretionary cost management.
For further information 138 see page
