RBS at a glance 15 Wealth International Banking Customer story Straight ahead TomToms navigation and location systems are used by customers in over 35 countries.
To comply with finance regulations, they had to implement a standard format for payments across the Single Euro Payments Area.
Used by customers in over 35 countries They also wanted to use this as an opportunity to make payments more efficient and reduce risk.
They worked closely with RBS to make a number of changes to their internal processes and thanks to meticulous planning and communication, the changes were successful.
TomTom now has one, single payment process for suppliers across the world.
International Banking John Owen Performance highlights 2013 2012 Chief Executive Return on equity % 3.9 9.1 Cost:income ratio % 73 66 Loan:deposit ratio % 91 91 Risk-weighted assets bn 49.0 51.9 Contribution 9% to Core income Performance overview Building a better bank that serves customers well Operating profit decreased by 53% to 279 million, with cash management With business conditions still challenging income depressed by the decline in LIBOR as themes of low interest rates and margin interest rates.
Excluding impairments of compression continue, International Banking 52 million related to the creation of RCR, remained focused on cost discipline We offer a core banking proposition to multioperating profit was down 44%.
The division continued national corporates and financial institutions Expenses were reduced by 5%, as to strengthen its balance sheet, reducing by providing debt financing, risk management International Banking kept costs under risk-weighted assets by 6%, despite the and transaction services.
We work with clients tight control and achieved timely run-off introduction of more severe credit risk models.
to find the best product mix to execute their of discontinued businesses.
Customer deposits declined by 15% in line RBS received a number of awards for trade with a change in Group funding strategy.
finance and cash management services.
For further information 140 see page
