06 We are here to serve our customers.
From the end of 2008 we have drastically changed as a business our balance sheet has reduced by 1,191 billion, our capital ratios strengthened, our conduct and risk management framework overhauled.
As a result, we are smaller, safer and stronger with a clearer focus.
However, there was a clear need to unite the bank behind a single purpose and common set of values.
Our purpose Our purpose: Serve customers well.
Our vision: We want to be trusted, respected and valued by our customers, and values shareholders and communities.
Our future is not about us, its about our Our values: customers.
We needed to ensure that this ran through the bank from boardroom to branch.
Serving customers Doing the right thing We exist to serve customers.
We spent time with colleagues across the We earn their trust by focusing on their We take risk seriously and manage bank debating what should be at the core needs and delivering excellent service.
of our ambition to build a bank known for its We prize fairness and diversity and exercise consistent, high quality customer service.
Working together judgement with thought and integrity.
We agreed on a single, simple purpose to We care for each other and work best serve customers well.
We want to be trusted, as one team.
Thinking long term respected and valued by our customers, shareholders and communities.
To do this we We bring the best of ourselves to work and We know we succeed only when our have put a common set of values at the heart support one another to realise our potential.
Our values are not We do business in an open, direct and new, but capture what we do when we are at sustainable way.
All this comes together in Our Code.
Our purpose and values 07 We have a programme of change in place conversation with their leader, and 93% of launched Our Values Awards for all our that embeds a working culture which those have a better understanding of the employees and nominations were submitted celebrates challenge when business relevance to their part of the business.
of examples where people were living the decisions or behaviours are not in line values and serving customers well.
We have engaged We made fundamental, lasting changes to our employees to stimulate ideas and the way we do business by re-writing our New Leadership Standards were developed change that ultimately results in material code of conduct and policy framework.
Our to align them directly with our values.
These improvements to the customer experience.
Code was an important milestone in our focus standards support Our Code and provide on the customer and our values.
Our Code us with a clear view of what is expected At the beginning of 2013, a personalised included a new decision making tool the YES from leaders and is being built into how letter launching the new purpose and values Check.
It is a simple guide to help employees we recruit, develop and reward them.
was signed by the members of our Executive check whether they are making the right Committee and sent to all of our employees.
decision in line with our purpose and values.
We have made progress but we need Employees were invited to engage in an Mapped back to regulatory principles, the to continue to have a rigorous focus on open debate online to discuss the new YES Check was another important recognition how to serve customers well, and work to values 25,000 joined that conversation.
that the decisions we take everyday impact fully embed our values in everything we our customers and our communities.
Our employees believe in the goals Regional leadership workshops were of RBS and already 1 in 2 people have designed to build understanding and We have continued to professionalise seen a change in how their team works.
engagement for more than 3,000 of our our customer facing staff, committing leaders.
Those leaders then engaged to accredit them against professional More information on our progress in 2013 to locally to help their people understand standards by the end of 2014. build an engaged and inclusive workforce how the purpose and values were relevant will be available in our RBS Sustainability to their business area.
By September, We also changed the way we recognise 2013 Report at rbs.
66% of staff had been involved in a the best behaviours in the bank.
