08 The RBS business model is that of a UK-focused retail and commercial bank.
Our market leading customer franchises in the UK serving personal, business and corporate customers form the anchor of the RBS strategy.
Our wholesale banking operations in the corporate and institutional business enhance and complement the proposition to our commercial customers.
Our major source of income in our retail and opportunities, and we aim to target our Our business commercial banking businesses is net interest investment to maximise these opportunities.
This is the difference between the model and income we earn from the loans and advances Over the period 2009-2013, the RBS strategic we have made to our personal, corporate and approach has focused first and foremost on strategy institutional customers and on our surplus rebuilding financial resilience: funds and the interest we pay on deposits reducing total assets, principally through placed with us by our customers and our debt the run-off of Non-Core: securities we have issued.
We also earn fees reducing risk concentrations: from financial services and other products reducing dependence on short-term we provide to our customers as well as rental wholesale funding while achieving a income from assets we lease to our customers.
deposit-led funding model: and reducing balance sheet leverage.
Our Markets business earns income from client driven trading activities particularly Rates, This emphasis was necessary in order to Currencies, Asset-Backed Products and Credit.
correct historical weaknesses and to set RBS on a sound footing, but it left us Our leading customer franchises serve 24 falling short in our ability to build long-term million customers globally, of which more than shareholder value on the foundation of serving 70% are in the UK.
We aim to provide them our customers and meeting more of their with a comprehensive range of products, financial needs.
delivered through a number of channels, which are increasingly digital.
In 2013 we have refocused our Markets and International Banking businesses to deliver a We do business in competitive markets but we targeted wholesale banking proposition to UK have strong franchises and good growth corporates and global financial institutions.
Our business model and strategy 09 Strategic review well as those US and Asian multinationals Addressing costs and returns On 1 November 2013 RBS announced a full with substantial trade and investment links Key to achieving this is a significant reduction review of its customer-facing businesses, its in the region, with debt financing, risk in RBSs costs and complexity.
Transforming IT and operations, and its organisational and management and trade services, focusing the bank to deliver this involves rationalising decision-making structures.
As a result of on core product capabilities that are of most and simplifying systems, based on a target this review, we have announced a refreshed relevance to our clients.
strategic direction with the ambition of building Examples of these measures include: a bank that earns its customers trust by Ulster Bank in Northern Ireland will benefit The number of technology platforms we use serving them better than any other bank.
from a closer integration with our personal, will be reduced by over 50%.
business and commercial franchises in Great We will move from 50 core banking systems Business structure Britain, while continuing to operate under the to around 10.
RBS will be structured to deliver this ambition Ulster Bank brand.
We are continuing to From 80 payment systems currently by organising itself around the needs of its review our business in the Republic of Ireland maintained we will move to approximately 10. customers, so as to combine customer groups with a view to being a challenger to the Our property portfolio will be reduced from with similar needs into business units able systemic banks in Ireland.
25 million square feet to 18 million square to deliver co-ordinated services.
The seven feet, including significant reductions in existing operating divisions will be realigned The reorganised bank will be a UK-focused central London.
into three businesses: retail and corporate bank with an international We will maintain a similar level of investment Personal & Business Banking will serve footprint to drive its corporate business.
It will spending but directed at customerUK personal and affluent customers be managed as one bank, with one strategy.
facing process improvements, instead of together with small businesses generally maintaining inefficient legacy infrastructure.
reporting up to 2 million turnover, with Each of the three businesses is built on more business bankers moving back into franchises that have the potential to be the This simplification is intended to deliver branches.
number one bank for their respective customer significant improvements to services delivered Commercial & Private Banking will groups.
Each is designed to: to our customers but at the same time serves serve commercial and mid-corporate Serve customer needs better than the as the cornerstone of a programme designed customers and high net worth individuals, existing operating divisions.
to bring our cost base down from 13.3 billion deepening relationships with commercial Help eliminate duplication of costs in front in 2013 to 8 billion in the medium term, clients operating overseas through and back offices.
including the impact of business exits such its market-leading trade and foreign Position RBS to deliver a sustainable overall as Citizens Financial Group and Williams & exchange services while connecting our return on tangible equity of 12% plus in the Glyn, the bank levy, restructuring costs and, private banking brands more effectively long term.
from 2015, the EU resolution fund charge.
to successful business owners and This plan will take RBS towards a cost:income entrepreneurs.
A more detailed review of component business ratio of around 55%, moving towards 50% in Corporate & Institutional Banking will serve lines continues within each business, and the longer term.
Bringing our cost base back our corporate and institutional clients further updates will be provided over the into alignment with the reduced scale of our primarily in the UK and Western Europe, as course of the year.
business underpins our potential to deliver improved returns in future years.
The costs to achieve this plan will total approximately 5 billion over 2014 to 2017: Personal & Commercial & Corporate & of this approximately 1 billion has already Business Banking Private Banking Institutional Banking been committed to previous plans related CEO Les Matheson Alison Rose Donald Workman primarily to Citizens, Williams & Glyn and the previous restructuring announced for Markets.
RWAs profile % 1 35% 30% 35% Approximately 0.6 billion relates to the costs Operating profit profile % 1 50% 30% 20% of achieving asset reductions and realisations in Markets as we reshape this business over Target RoE 1 15% 15% 10% 2 the next three to five years.
Notes 1 All business targets refer to steady state performance 2018 2020.
10 Measures Future performance will be reported against both customer and financial measures.
Measure 2013 Medium term Long term Customer Service 1 25% of businesses at #1 All businesses at #1 Trust #1 trusted bank in the UK People Great place to work Engagement index Global Financial Services norm 2 Efficiency Cost:income ratio 73% 3 55% 3 50% 3 Costs 13.3 billion 8 billion 3 Returns Return on tangible equity 4 Negative 9-11% 12% Capital strength Common Equity Tier 1 ratio 5 8.6% 12% 12% Leverage ratio 5 3.5% 3.5-4% 4% Notes: 1 Measured by Net Promoter Score, with the exception of Corporate & Institutional Banking, which will use customer satisfaction.
NPS nets the percentage of promoters loyal enthusiasts of the company and the percentage of detractors unhappy customers to give a measure of customer advocacy.
2 Global Financial Services norm currently stands at 82%.
3 Including bank levy, restructuring charges and, from 2015, the EU resolution fund charge.
4 Calculated with tangible equity based on CET1 ratio of 12%.
6 This table contains forecasts with significant contingencies.
Please refer to Forward Looking Statements and Risk Factors.
Delivery of 2009-2013 Strategic Plan Progress versus Strategic plan In 2009 RBS set out a five year strategic plan aimed at restoring RBS to standalone strength.
Key Measures Worst point 2012 2013 The plan was built on four business objectives: Value drivers Core Core To base RBS on enduring customer franchises, with each business capable of Return on equity 1 31% 2 8.9% 4.6% generating a sustainable return in excess of Cost:income ratio 97% 3 59% 64% its cost of capital: To deliver the RBS strategy from a stable Risk measures Group Group risk profile and balance sheet, with each Core Tier 1 ratio 4% 4 10.3% 10.9% banking business self-funding 100% loan:deposit ratio : Loan:deposit ratio 154% 5 100% 94% To deliver an attractive blend of profitability, Short-term wholesale funding STWF 297bn 6 42bn 32bn stability and sustainable growth from the chosen business mix: and Liquidity portfolio 7 90bn 6 147bn 146bn Management hallmarks to include an open, Leverage ratio 8 28.7x 9 15.0x 14.4x investor-friendly approach: discipline and proven execution effectiveness: strong risk management: and central focus on serving Notes: our customers well.
1 Based on indicative Core attributable profit taxed at standard rates and Core average tangible equity per the average balance sheet 89% of Group tangible equity based on RWAs at 31 December 2013 : We set out key measures and have consistently 2 Return on tangible equity for 2008: reported on our progress against these over 3 Year ended 31 December 2008: the course of the five year plan.
Progress 4 As at 1 January 2008: against the risk measures has been strong, 5 As at October 2008: with all targets exceeded, in some cases by 6 As at December 2008: very large margins.
Progress against value 7 Eligible assets held for contingent liquidity purposes including cash, Government issued securities and other eligible securities with central banks: drivers, however, has not lived up to our 8 Funded tangible assets divided by total Tier 1 capital: and expectations at the time the plan was 9 As at June 2008. established, with deterioration in both return on equity and cost:income ratio.
