RBS at a glance 17 Ulster Bank US Retail & Commercial Customer story System success Our new Branch Image Capture BIC teller system has helped create a much better customer experience.
Cheques and documents can now be scanned at the teller window, with transactions being balanced there and then in front of the customer.
That means fewer errors and corrections as well as helping to reduce fraud.
The system helped create a much better customer experience BIC supports our goal of becoming our customers primary banking partner through greater convenience, more privacy and fewer errors.
Now we have a truly functional tool that delivers efficiency and security for our customers.
US Retail & Commercial Bruce Van Saun Performance highlights 2013 2012 Chief Executive, RBS Citizens and Return on equity % 1 7.2 8.9 Head of RBS Americas Cost:income ratio % 1 73 71 Loan:deposit ratio % 91 86 Risk-weighted assets bn 56.1 56.5 Contribution Note 1 Excludes the litigation settlement and net gain on sale of Visa B Shares in 2012.
15% to Core income Performance overview Building a better bank that serves customers well Operating profit of $1,012 million was down 15%, with low short-term interest On 1 November 2013 RBS announced plans rates continuing to limit net interest margin to accelerate the initial public offering of RBS expansion while rising long-term rates Citizens Financial Group RBSCFG into the We provide financial services primarily in slowed mortgage refinance volumes.
It is expected that by the the Northeastern, Mid-Atlantic and Midwest Average loans and advances were flat, with end of 2016 RBSCFG will be a standalone United States through the Citizens Bank, commercial loan growth of 5% partly offset regional bank, wholly owned by public Charter One and RBS Citizens brands.
We by run-off of long-term fixed rate consumer shareholders.
RBSCFG commenced a number are engaged in retail and corporate banking products.
of actions in 2013 aimed at improving financial activities.
Impairment losses increased by $99 million performance, driving profitable growth by to $244 million.
focusing on the customer and delivering an enhanced experience.
For further information 146 see page 18 Customer story Weighing anchor Peel Ports Group, one of the UKs biggest port operators, handles over 65 million tonnes of cargo a year.
An RBS backed refinancing programme has enabled the development of Liverpool2, the new deep sea container terminal in the Port of Liverpool, costing in excess of 300 million.
The benefit of this investment is hugely positive.
As one of their most important sites, this investment in growth will assist the UKs shipping industry to remain globally competitive as well as acting as a catalyst for future development.
Its believed Liverpool2 will help create around 5,000 jobs in Merseyside, including additional apprenticeships a great boost for the local economy.
Markets Peter Neilson Suneel Kamlani Performance highlights 2013 2012 Co-CEO Co-CEO Return on equity % 5.0 9.6 Cost:income ratio % 79 66 Risk-weighted assets bn 64.5 101.3 Contribution 17% to Core income Performance overview Building a better bank that serves customers well Operating profit fell by 889 million, 59% to 620 million with income falling by 26%, In 2013, Markets launched and executed a partly offset by significant cost reductions.
strategy aimed at reducing risk, tightening The fide-risking of Markets resulted in a 36% controls, consolidating the geographic footprint reduction in risk-weighted assets.
and reducing complexity by refocusing on the Currencies income increased but returns franchises core strengths.
The division met We provide financing, risk management and from the Rates business were subdued.
or exceeded all internal targets for reducing advisory services to RBS corporate and Costs fell by 11%, reflecting a reduction in controllable costs, risk-weighted assets and institutional clients.
headcount of 1,000 evenly split between the balance sheet, while meeting revenue front and back office and tightly controlled and income expectations.
Lower income in discretionary expenses.
2013 compared with 2012 reflected both the Third party assets were reduced by 72 billion strategic scaling back of the balance sheet and down 25% and risk-weighted assets by risk reduction in a difficult market environment 37 billion down 36%.
with client activity limited by uncertainty over monetary policy in the US.
For further information 150 see page
