20 OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES INSURANCE IS OFTEN PERCEIVED AS COMPLEX TO UNDERSTAND.
UNDERPINNING OUR STRATEGY ARE A NUMBER OF PRINCIPLES WHICH AIM TO ADDRESS THE CONCERNS INVESTORS AND OTHER STAKEHOLDERS HAVE ABOUT THE INSURANCE SECTOR.
Through achieving our strategic priorities, Appropriate use of reinsurance is made we aim to build a business which stands 1 to reduce exposure to catastrophe and out within the insurance sector due to its other insurance risk.
During the year PRUDENTLY MANAGED prudent management, balance sheet strength we increased our reinsurance buying to Our aim is to manage our business in and clarity of communication.
We are protect shareholders from the extreme a conservative manner to ensure that present in many of the most attractive weather events we encountered.
shareholders are not overly exposed to insurance markets in the world and we Using external independent bodies to volatility or unexpected risks.
In practical either have, or are building, profitable check our work and ensure standards terms this means ensuring that: market-leading positions in these markets.
During 2013, in addition We continue to work hard to improve Risks are identified early with sensible to the use of KPMG, our external auditor, the efficiency of the business without mitigating actions put in place.
This is we employed experts in reviewing compromising our high standards for why we were especially disappointed our handling of the Irish issues, and in customer service.
when the issue in Ireland emerged in 2013. reviewing the adequacy of our reserves Through the successful execution of We set very high standards for our people across the world.
these strategic priorities, we will deliver to maintain and when people fall short value to shareholders through above average of those standards we are committed returns on a growing tangible net asset base, to taking decisive action.
as well as through our dividend policy.
Accounting policies and treatments are set to ensure that an appropriately prudent view is maintained.
For instance during 2013 we adjusted our assumptions for discounting liabilities to more closely reflect the low yield environment.
Asset allocation and investment management policies are cautious.
We are largely invested in investment grade sovereign and corporate bonds with minimal exposure to higher volatility classes such as equities.
RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 21 2 WELL RESERVED One of the biggest risks any insurance company runs is to ensure that reserves are adequate.
When we write insurance business we make assumptions about the likely level of claims and book reserves to ensure that we put aside sufficient amounts to pay these claims when they fall due.
Our philosophy is to ensure that these reserves are booked to the prudent side of our best estimates of the likely claims.
This involves ensuring 3 that claims are correctly assessed and involves the use of actuarial modelling COMFORTABLY CAPITALISED to ensure that we have an informed view In addition to any margin in claims reserves, of the likely future cost of claims.
insurance companies need to ensure that At the end of every quarter we they hold sufficient capital to deal with the undertake a full review of the adequacy of inherent uncertainties in the insurance our claims reserves and, where appropriate, world.
Going forward, we are ensuring make adjustments to the reserves.
This can that we hold sufficient capital to withstand lead to either reserve strengthening or, if all but an extreme shock to our business.
experience is better than we have planned, There are several ways to measure reserve releases.
Our track record is good capital adequacy within an insurance with nine years of positive reserve releases, company.
Our lead regulator, the PRA, 4 although in every year there are some focuses on two measures.
Firstly, the portfolios which require strengthening.
Insurance Groups Directive IGD or EASY TO UNDERSTAND During 2013, we still delivered positive Solvency I ratio and secondly, the Individual We recognise that insurance is a complex reserve development despite significant Capital Assessment ICA ratio.
In addition business and that this complexity sometimes strengthening of reserves in Ireland and we run an internal economic capital puts off investors from investing in the sector.
assessment model ECA which assesses We are committed to improving the simplicity In early 2014, we asked Towers Watson, the likely capital requirements of the group and depth of disclosure about the business the actuarial firm, to undertake an independent in an extreme stressed scenario.
to help investors understand the strategy external review of our reserves.
They Going forward we will aim to maintain and prospects for the Group.
concluded that RSAs actuarial indication a strongly capitalised balance sheet with During 2013 we have: net claims reserves fall within a range of a focus on tangible shareholders equity.
reserves regarded as reasonable by them.
If capital levels fall and our target ratios Prepared and delivered investor briefings Our own assessment of the margin are breached, we will take remedial action.
on our Scandinavian and Canadian in reserves the difference between our Any capital above target levels will be an businesses which have been made available actuarial indication and the booked reserves indication of the surplus capital in the to all investors through online channels.
in the financial statements is 5% of total Group available for investment or return Improved the quality of disclosure on booked claims reserves.
prior year reserve releases to demonstrate the sustainability of this income stream.
Introduced new disclosure on regional allocation of capital and regional returns on capital to help investors understand the relative performance of each region.
Provided full and open disclosure on the issues we uncovered in Ireland.
Engaged with all investors, both large institutions and smaller retail investors, through a proactive programme that included meeting with around 450 investors during 2013.
We remain committed to this programme of improved disclosure and to making ourselves available to investors to help them with their investment decisions.
22 OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 5 FOCUSED ON MARKETS WHERE WE CAN ACHIEVE PROFITABLE GROWTH We remain committed to active management of our portfolio.
We have an attractive portfolio of businesses which provide a good mix of exposure to developed markets as well as high growth developing markets.
Where we do not believe that we can achieve attractive returns for shareholders in a market we will take decisive action to remediate that business or, in more extreme circumstances, exit from that market.
Where we see opportunities to deploy additional capital in a market, we will seek to do so, providing the Groups capital standards are not breached.
Scandinavia Canada UK and Western Europe Emerging Markets We are the number three We have a top four position in We are one of the largest The emerging markets continue P&C insurer in Sweden and Canadas P&C insurance market, commercial insurers in the to offer an attractive mix Denmark, and number seven up from 10th position in 2005.
UK and have a sizeable personal of growth and improving in Norway.
These markets are Were uniquely positioned in lines business.
Many of these very profitable with a highly terms of distribution in the insurance market has been a markets are characterised by a consolidated market structure.
Canadian marketplace with an tough environment in which rising middle class with increasing The market structure has been established offering across to operate, we know that when disposable income and insurable very stable for a number of years intermediated, direct and affinity economic conditions improve, assets which, together with with market shares changing channels which means that we it is a market that offers the prospect for fast growing very little.
Distribution is almost are attractive to a broad base attractive returns.
We are a insurance penetration, provides exclusively via direct channels of customers.
We have built leading Commercial Property exciting opportunities.
We are and there is a tendency for a speciality business with insurer in the UK and we have particularly attracted to Latin customers to buy most of their leadership positions in chosen a leading Marine business.
America where we have a strong insurance from a single provider.
segments, and we have a proven In personal lines, our Household presence across the region.
We have demonstrated a track record of acquisitions and Pet businesses benefit We are the number one insurer consistent track record of strong and outperformance.
Our from our strong relationships in Chile, number three in profitability with combined ratios 2012 acquisition of LUnion with some of the UKs most Uruguay, and a leading insurer in the high 80s.
RSA is the only Canadienne in Quebec recognised retailers, and offer in Argentina.
We also have Global insurer with significant completes our footprint across good returns on capital.
The UK a leading Marine business retail and commercial operations the entire country.
We have a insurance market is mature with in Brazil, and businesses in in Scandinavia.
As such, we track record of good financial high penetration and, therefore, Mexico and Colombia.
believe that this gives us strategic performance with combined growth prospects are linked to advantage in terms of sharing ratios normally in the low 90s.
the outlook for wider economic expertise from the rest of the All of these place us in a great growth.
On an underlying basis Group with the Scandinavian position to take advantage of we would expect to grow in line business, as well as helping industry trends going forward.
with anticipated low single-digit financial performance through market growth.
access to the Groups reinsurance programme and capital diversification.
RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 23 6 7 EFFICIENT COST BASE THINK CUSTOMER In order to maximise profits for our At RSA we aim to put customers at the heart shareholders we need to ensure that we of everything we do, and its something weve are effective at managing our cost base.
been committed to for over 300 years.
This is something that we do on an ongoing Delivering for our customers is an basis, for example: important part of our strategy.
We believe in building strong and profitable long-term In Scandinavia we are implementing a relationships with our customers, new product system which, in addition encouraging them to buy more, stay to reducing our costs, will improve the longer and recommend us.
With increasing quality of our products and service.
competition and challenging market In the UK, we have delivered a 13% conditions, we believe that delivering for our reduction in headcount in the last customers is more important now than ever.
In 2013, we launched a new programme to re-engage all our people to Think In Canada, we have successfully completed Customer.
We want to ensure that all our the integration of LUnion Canadienne people remain highly focused on innovation which we acquired in 2012.
Not only and continuous improvement of the will this lead to a more efficient business customer experience, using timely and through synergy benefits, but also gives relevant customer insight.
Our new customer us increased exposure to the highly programme works hard to ensure this.
programme includes rolling out a new set of values which underpin how we will deliver Looking ahead to 2014, we will continue for our customers now, and in the future.
to seek opportunities to reduce our cost base.
This programme will continue to roll out during 2014.
To ensure we remain on track with our commitment to delivering for our customers, we use key goals such as Net Promoter Score NPS and Customer Engagement to measure our performance over time.
