10 MARKET DYNAMICS INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION MARKET DYNAMICS AS A GLOBAL INSURER WE ARE ABLE TO WRITE BUSINESS IN 140 COUNTRIES.
THIS GIVES US A UNIQUE PERSPECTIVE ON THE MACRO TRENDS IN THE GLOBAL PROPERTY AND CASUALTY SECTOR.
MARKET OVERVIEW THE TRENDS THAT SHAPE OUR WORLD Our role is to help protect our customers Customers needs are constantly changing from the risks they encounter in everyday both in terms of what they buy and how life.
The global property and casualty they buy it.
Our product range continues P&C market currently generates USD to evolve as we respond to these changing 1,992bn of premiums each year source: needs.
Furthermore we continue to respond Swiss Re Sigma.
As the world becomes to changing distribution trends.
The pace of a more wealthy place and more customers internet adoption varies across the world, are seeking to insure their assets and but in all countries we are seeing growing liabilities, our market continues to grow.
demand for online sales and service we are RSA operates across much of the global responding by recycling the capabilities we market.
The world is returning to growth have in more mature markets for example following the global financial crisis, although the UK into those areas which are only in some emerging market countries healthy just beginning to adopt online purchase growth has continued throughout the crisis.
of insurance for example Scandinavia and In 2012, the global P&C market grew by Emerging markets.
2.6% which is almost back to pre-crisis Technology is also driving change in our levels source: Swiss Re Sigma.
As the Competition remains strong across volume and availability of data around the the world.
Our markets range from highly world continues to grow, we are increasingly concentrated to highly fragmented although looking to integrate new data into our we see increased competition in most, processes.
For example, we are working as new entrants seek to capture the value with Ingenie, a telematics provider, in the in our developed markets as well as accessing UK to explore how data on driving style the exciting growth in emerging markets.
can inform our underwriting decisions.
Weather frequency and severity appears to be increasing across the world.
In 2013, we suffered some of the worst natural catastrophes in recent years including heavy flooding in Canada and windstorms in Europe.
We are working hard to understand these changing weather patterns and to RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 11 ensure that risks are effectively priced and claims can be managed quickly.
The need to develop a lower carbon economy is driving demand in our renewable energy business.
One effect of the global financial crisis THE DIVIDE BETWEEN has been to create a world with prolonged MATURE MARKETS... low interest rates in many of the countries In many of our mature markets, we operate in.
Lower rates means lower insurance has been a part of investment income, which means we need most customers lives for many to ensure that underwriting returns improve.
They understand the Finally, we are seeing an increasing AND EMERGING MARKETS benefits that insurance can offer burden of regulation in many of the markets In our emerging markets, insurance and are increasingly looking for we operate in as regulators respond to a post is less mature.
As customers low prices, tailored products crisis world.
This creates pressure on cost assets and liabilities increase they and high levels of customer and capital but also means we increasingly are looking to buy protection, service from brands they trust.
need to look at our businesses as stand-alone often for the first time.
For these entities as well as part of the overall Group.
customers education, ease of access and simple products are key to continuing to drive growth.
RISING ENERGY UBIQUITOUS RISING BIG CONSUMPTION INTERNET PERSONAL ECONOMIC WEALTH DATA PENETRATION RECOVERY new economies rapid urbanisation LOW INTEREST POPULATION RATES EXPLOSION MORE VOLATILE GLOBAL WEATHER ECONOMIC GROWTH EMERGING MIDDLE AGEING CLASSES POPULATION Serving the global community The global trends in this map are affecting insurance markets across the world.
As a global insurer we work with our partners to anticipate and understand these trends, and improve our business model...... whilst respecting local differences.
But each of the markets we operate in are different different cultures, legal and regulatory structures, distribution models and product demands.
Our business needs to be flexible to ensure that we tailor our model to reflect the demands of local communities.
12 MARKET DYNAMICS INTRODUCTION STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION OUR MARKET UNITS We operate in 32 countries which we organise into four regions.
2 1 CANADA UNITED KINGDOM the next few years.
The prospects for As the worlds 11th largest economy, Canada AND WESTERN EUROPE further energy and food price rises, as well has been an attractive and stable economic The UK economy has shown clear signs of as eventual upward pressure on interest environment for some time now.
It has recovery in 2013 and is now leading the major rates, may serve to dampen this.
outperformed the G7 in terms of GDP economies in the West.
Growth of close In Italy, the economy shrank in 2013, growth over the past decade, and prospects to 2.5% is forecast for 2014.
Whilst the but is forecast to return to modest growth for future growth are good.
services sector is leading the recovery, in 2014 as the government tackles the Canada has a significant general the UK manufacturing and construction significant budget deficit.
In Ireland, the insurance market with premiums of sectors are also picking up.
economy has emerged strongly from approximately $43bn, or 2.5% of GDP.
Despite this, consumers are still recession following the wide ranging It is a stable and consolidating industry price conscious, and consumer spending austerity measures and is forecast to that has been growing steadily at around is expected to recover only gradually over grow in excess of 2.5% in 2014.
4% over the last five years, despite a recessionary period, and average global insurance growth of less than 2%.
As the worlds second largest country, Canada has a wide geographic spread of risk.
It broadly divides into four regions, with the spread of insurance impacted by varying geographic, socioeconomic and regulatory dynamics.
The Atlantic region consists of four provinces with a small and rural population.
Quebec is the second largest P&C market, but is the most profitable.
Ontario constitutes the largest population and GDP, and therefore it is the largest P&C market.
Of note is the size of the Ontario Auto market which accounts for 25% of the total industry premiums.
Lastly, the West, which consists of four provinces, and is the fastest growing economic and insurance region in Canada, given expansion in its rich resource sector.
The largest line of business across Canada is personal auto, which is the only provincially rate-regulated insurance product in the country.
This means that insurers cant compete with a single national product, and auto rates can take up to six months to be approved.
Additionally, primary auto insurance is provided by government insurers in the provinces of British Columbia, Saskatchewan, Manitoba and partially in the province of Quebec.
1 RSA ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 13 3 SCANDINAVIA Together, the three Scandinavian countries where we are present represent approximately 800bn of GDP and comprise 20 million people.
Denmark, Norway and Sweden are generally perceived as financially safe economies, and all three countries have been top-rated among the leading major credit rating agencies.
All countries have small open economies very dependent on export.
They all recovered well after the 2009 downturn, and have already reached the pre-crisis level when measuring export per capita.
This is expected to improve even further into 2014.
There is a very consolidated insurance market structure across the region with the top four firms controlling between 60% and 80% of the market.
Most players are big in two of the three countries, and smaller in the third.
Also, in our two largest markets, Sweden and Denmark, the market structures have been very stable for many years.
Whilst the product mix across P&C is similar to the rest of the world, there are some special product areas, like Sickness and Accident insurance, Workers Compensation and Renewable Energy, that are more unique to Scandinavia.
2 In terms of distribution, there is virtually no broker activity in Personal lines.
A lot of business is still sold by agents selling face to face but the dominant channel is direct 4 to customers through call centres.
Perhaps surprisingly, the number of EMERGING MARKETS Buoyant new car sales are expected in customers completing a sale on the internet Whilst growth prospects in Emerging Markets the UAE 10% compound growth over is pretty low.
This currently stands at around are cooling they remain relatively strong.
the next three to five years.
Whilst In Latin America, medium-term In Asia, Hong Kong is expected to a large proportion of customers actually economic growth of between 2 and 5% is deliver economic growth of 23% in the do go online to get an initial quote, they tend expected across the region.
The non-life market in to want to complete the sale over the phone.
rates are at historic lows and are expected Singapore is fiercely competitive, whilst Nevertheless, we expect the level of to remain stable.
Whilst interest rates we are seeing increasing specialty lines completion online to steadily increase have declined they remain stable and are activity from London and European in the future.
significantly higher than in US and Western insurers across the region.
In Commercial lines, around 6070% Europe.
Exchange rate volatility has been a of business is written directly, with a majority feature across the region.
Our assets and of the customers using Agents.
Brokers are liabilities are well matched by country which an important distribution channel but only means that the primary foreign exchange represent around 3035% of business.
exposure we face is on translation of results IMAGES into Sterling.
1 Surveyor in Uruguay In Central and Eastern Europe, the 2 Windfarm in Denmark economic environment has been steadily improving with good growth prospects across the region.
Interest rates and unemployment are stable.
The introduction of the Euro in Latvia in 2014, and Lithuania in 2015, is expected to drive increases in foreign investments.
Across the Middle East, growth of around 57% continues to be strong and is supported by high oil prices and Government action in response to the Arab Spring.
