Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc Report of the Directors The Directors present their annual Report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2013.
The Corporate Governance Statement on pages 21-25 forms part of this Report.
Information disclosed in the Strategic Report The following matters required to be disclosed in this Report under the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 are covered in the Strategic Report on pages 10 to 13: the Companys financial risk management, objectives and policies as well as its exposure to price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk by reference to note 20 to the accounts on page 40 : and an indication of likely future developments in the Companys business.
Revenue and Earnings The net revenue return for the year after taxation was 5,000,000 2012: 4,916,000, equivalent to a return of 3.08 pence per share 2012: 3.37 pence per share and the Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend for the year ended 30 September 2013 of 3.35 pence per share 2012: 3.35 pence per share, payable on 4 February 2014 to shareholders on the Register on 3 January 2014, subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
Directors and their Interests The Directors of the Company and their biographical details can be found on the inside front cover of this Report.
All Directors held office throughout the year under review with the exception of Mr Robert Boyle, who resigned as a Director on 28 June 2013.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, one third of the Companys Directors are required to retire by rotation each year.
The Companys policy on tenure also requires annual retirement for Directors who have served more than nine years on the Board.
Notwithstanding these provisions, the UK Corporate Governance Code requires all directors of FTSE 350 Companies to retire annually.
Therefore all Directors will retire at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The Board has assessed the independence of all Directors.
Rupert Carington and Mr Binyon are considered to be independent in character and judgement, notwithstanding that they have served on the Board for more than nine years.
The Board supports the re-elections of The Hon.
Rupert Carington, Mr Robert Binyon, Mr Anthony Fenn, Mrs Rosemary Morgan and Mr Nicholas Smith, as it considers that each of these Directors continues to demonstrate commitment to his her role and provides a valuable contribution to the deliberations of the Board through his her knowledge of the Asia Pacific region and the investment industry.
It therefore recommends that shareholders vote in favour of their re-election.
The Directors interests in the Companys share capital at the beginning and end of the financial year ended 30 September 2013, including those of connected persons, all of which were beneficial, were as follows: Ordinary shares Ordinary shares of 10p each at of 10p each at 30 September 1 October Director 2013 2012 The Hon.
Rupert Carington 94,960 94,960 Robert Binyon 48,000 48,000 Robert Boyle N A 15,000 Anthony Fenn 12,000 12,000 Rosemary Morgan 2,579 Nil Nicholas Smith 20,000 20,000 Mr Boyle resigned as a Director on 28 June 2013.
The information in the above table has been audited see Independent Auditors Report on pages 26 to 28.
There have been no changes in the above holdings between the end of the financial year and the date of this Report.
Share Capital Details of changes in the Companys share capital during the year are set out in note 13 on page38.
As at the date of this Report, the Company had 169,700,716 Ordinary shares of 10p each in issue.
No shares were held in Treasury.
Accordingly, the total number of voting rights in the Company at the date of this Report is 169,700,716.
Changes to share capital during the year under review are detailed in note 13 on page 38.
14 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc Report of the Directors Substantial Share Interests As at the date of this Report, the Company has received notifications in accordance with the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5.1.
2R of the following interests in 3% or more of the voting rights attaching to the Companys issued share capital: Percentage of Number of total voting Ordinary shares rights City of London Investment Management Limited 28,669,541 16.89 Investec Wealth & Investment Limited 18,681,951 11.01 Lazard Asset Management LLC 11,831,078 6.97 Schroders plc 8,483,667 4.99 Investment Manager Following their annual review, the Directors consider the continuing appointment of the Investment Manager on the terms of the existing investment management agreement to be in the best interests of the Company.
Schroders provides the Company with considerable investment management resource and experience, thereby enhancing the ability of the Company to achieve its investment objective.
The investment management agreement can be terminated by either party on 12 months notice or on immediate notice in the event of certain breaches or the insolvency of either party.
At the date of this Report no such notice had been given by either party.
The Investment Manager is entitled to a fee at a rate of 1.00% per annum on assets up to and including 100 million, of 0.95% per annum on assets between 100 million and 300 million, 0.90% per annum on assets between 300 and 400 million and of 0.85% per annum on assets above 400 million, payable quarterly in arrears and calculated by reference to the value of the Companys assets under management net of current liabilities other than short term borrowings at the end of the preceding quarter.
The Managers periodic charge, in respect of Schroder funds in which the Company invests, are rebated to the Company so that no double charging occurs.
No investments in Schroders funds were held during the year ended 30 September 2013.
The investment management fee payable in respect of the year ended 30September 2013 is shown in note 4 to the accounts on page35.
Schroder Investment Management Limited was entitled to receive a fee of 91,000 per annum plus VAT for corporate secretarial services provided to the Company for the year ended 30 September 2013 30 September 2012: 89,000 plus VAT.
The fee continues to be subject to annual adjustment in line with changes in the Retail Prices Index.
Corporate Social and Environmental Policy The Companys primary investment objective is to achieve optimal financial returns for shareholders, within established risk parameters and regulatory constraints.
Provided that this objective is not compromised in the process the Board does, however, believe that it is also possible to develop a framework that, in the interests of our shareholders, allows a broader range of considerations, including environmental and social issues, to be taken into account when selecting and retaining investments.
The investment process therefore contains a review of research into the environmental, social and ethical stance of companies.
Where potential financial or reputational risks are identified, their materiality is assessed and given due consideration by the Manager when selecting or retaining investments.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions As the Company outsources its operations to third parties, it has no greenhouse gas emissions to report.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Report of the Directors, the Corporate Governance Statement, the Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they have prepared the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements respectively.
15 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc Report of the Directors The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are set out in the inside front cover of this Report, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and net return of the Company: the Report of the Directors includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces: and Considers that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Going Concern The Directors believe that, having considered the Companys investment objective see inside front cover, risk management policies see note 20 to the accounts on pages 40 to 44, capital management policies and procedures see note 21 to the accounts on page44, expenditure projections and the fact that the Companys investments comprise readily realiseable securities which can be sold to meet funding requirements if necessary, that the Company has adequate resources, an appropriate financial structure and suitable management arrangements in place to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For these reasons, they consider that there is reasonable evidence to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Independent Auditors The Companys Auditors,  LLP, have expressed their willingness to remain in office and resolutions to re-appoint them as Auditors to the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Provision of Information to the Auditors The Directors at the date of approval of this Report confirm that, so far as each of them is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
Anti-Bribery Policy The Company continues to be committed to carrying out its business fairly, honestly and openly and continues to operate an anti-bribery policy which aims to prevent bribery being committed by Directors and persons associated with the Company on the Companys behalf and to ensure compliance with the Bribery Act 2010.
Annual General Meeting AGM The following information is important and requires your immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt about the action you should take, you should consult an independent financial adviser, authorised under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000.
If you have sold or transferred all of your Ordinary shares in the Company, please forward this document with its accompanying form of proxy at once to the purchaser or transferee, or to the stockbroker, bank or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for onward transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
The AGM will be held on Thursday, 30 January 2014 at 11.30 a. m. The formal notice of the AGM is set out on page 45.
Special Business to be proposed at the AGM Resolutions relating to the following items of special business will be proposed at the AGM.
Resolution 12 Authority to Make Market Purchases of the Companys own Ordinary shares Special Resolution At the AGM held on 29 January 2013, the Company was granted authority to make market purchases of up to 21,174,452 Ordinary shares of 10p each for cancellation.
No shares have been bought back under this authority and the Company therefore has remaining authority to purchase up to 21,174,452 Ordinary Shares.
This authority will expire at the AGM.
16 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc Report of the Directors The Directors believe it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to have a general authority for the Company to buy back its Ordinary shares in the market as they keep under review the share price discount to net asset value and the purchase of Ordinary shares.
A special resolution will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM to give the Company authority to make market purchases of up to 14.99% of the Ordinary shares in issue on 13 December 2013.
The Directors will exercise this authority only if the Directors consider that any purchase would be for the benefit of the Company and its shareholders, taking into account relevant factors and circumstances at the time.
Any shares so purchased would be cancelled.
The authority to be given at the 2014 AGM will lapse at the conclusion of the AGM in 2015 unless renewed or revoked earlier.
The maximum purchase price that may be paid for an Ordinary share will not be more than the greater of 5% above the average of the middle market values of the shares, as taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List, for the five business days preceding the date of purchase and the higher of the price of the last independent trade in the shares and the highest then current independent bid for the shares on the London Stock Exchange.
The minimum price will be 10p, being the nominal value per Ordinary share.
Resolution 13 Amendments to the Companys Articles of Association Special Resolution Set out below is a summary of the main differences between the current Articles and the amended Articles, which will take effect in the event that the Shareholders approve the special resolution numbered 13 in the Notice of the AGM to amend the Articles: The Company is no longer required to include a prohibition on distributing capital profits in its Articles, following HM Governments reform of the tax and company law rules affecting investment trusts.
This prohibition has been removed in the New Articles.
It is no longer necessary for a company to have an authorised share capital and the Company is therefore taking the opportunity to remove the upper limit of the Companys share capital included in its current Articles and all references to authorised share capital have therefore been removed.
The existing Articles give the Company authority to consolidate and or sub-divide its shares by ordinary resolution.
Under the Companies Act 2006 it is no longer necessary for this authority to be given in a companys articles of association.
This provision has therefore been removed.
The Companies Act 2006 has changed the requirements for calling a general meeting on short notice, for making such a notice available on a website and for the content of a notice calling a general meeting.
The New Articles include these requirements of the Companies Act 2006.
The Companies Act 2006 requires a Company that is listed on the Official List to publish the results of a poll on its website.
The New Articles reflect these provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
All references to the Subscription Shares have been removed following the final exercise date on 31 December 2012.
The Articles have been amended, so that the Board may authorise a depositary appointed by or in respect of the Company on the terms and conditions prescribed in the rules implementing the Alternative Investment Fund Managers Directive 2011 61 EU in the United Kingdom the AIFM Rules, together with any further requirements that may be prescribed by the Board, to discharge itself of liability, where the Company holds assets in a country other than the United Kingdom, and the law of that country does not satisfy certain delegation requirements that are specified in the AIFM Rules.
Other technical changes have been made so that the Articles conform to the Companies Act 2006 and other legislation applicable to companies, as currently in force and current best practice.
Copies of the Amended Articles are available from the Company Secretary and will be on display at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours on any weekday English public holidays excepted.
They will also be available for inspection by any person attending the AGM.
Recommendation The Board considers that all the resolutions to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM are in the best interests of the Company and shareholders as a whole.
Accordingly, the Board unanimously recommends to shareholders that they vote in favour of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM, as they intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
By Order of the Board Schroder Investment Management Limited Company Secretary 13 December 2013 17
