Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc Strategic Report Introduction The Strategic Report contains a review of the Companys business including the business model, the principal risks and uncertainties it faces, an analysis of its performance during the financial year and its future development.
Business Model The Company carries on business as an investment trust.
It has been approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust in accordance with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010, by way of a one-off application and the Company will continue to conduct its affairs in a manner which will enable it to retain this status.
The Company is domiciled in the UK and is an investment company within the meaning of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company is not a close company for taxation purposes.
It is not intended that the Company should have a limited life, but the Directors consider it desirable that the shareholders should have the opportunity to review the future of the Company at appropriate intervals.
Accordingly, the Articles of Association of the Company contain provisions requiring the Directors to put a proposal for the continuation of the Company to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting of the Company in 2016 and thereafter at five yearly intervals.
Investment Objective The principal investment objective of the Company is to achieve capital growth through investment primarily in equities of companies located in the continent of Asia excluding the Middle East and Japan, together with the Far Eastern countries bordering the Pacific Ocean, with the aim of achieving growth in excess of the MSCI All Countries Asia excluding Japan Index in Sterling terms over the longer term.
Relationship with the Investment Manager Schroder Investment Management Limited the Manager and or Schroders, which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority FCA, provides investment management, accounting and company secretarial services to the Company under the terms of an investment management agreement.
Schroders also provides general marketing support for the Company and manages relationships with key investors, in conjunction with the Chairman, other Board members or the corporate broker as appropriate.
The Companys assets are managed in line with appropriate restrictions placed on Schroders by the Board.
These restrictions include limits on the type and relative size of holdings which may be held in the portfolio and on the use of gearing, hedging, cash, derivatives and other financial instruments.
Schroders, in its capacity as Company Secretary, liaises with the Companys corporate broker to assist in the implementation of the Companys discount management policy.
The Company Secretary also advises the Board on key relationships with other third party service providers and ensures regular review of the services provided by these parties.
All services carried out by Schroders are subject to regular reporting to and monitoring by the Board or its Committees.
Strategy Investment Strategy The Board has delegated management of the Companys portfolio to Schroders, who manages the portfolio with the aim of helping the Company to achieve its investment objective.
Details of the Managers strategy, and other factors that have affected performance during the year, are set out in the Investment Managers Review on pages 6 and 7.
Investment Policy The Company principally invests in a diversified portfolio of companies located in the continent of Asia excluding the Middle East and Japan for the purposes of this paragraph the region.
Such countries include Hong Kong China, Singapore, Taiwan, Malaysia, South Korea, Thailand, India, The Philippines, Indonesia, Pakistan, Vietnam and Sri Lanka and may include other countries in the region that permit foreign investors to participate in investing in equities, such as in their stock markets or other such investments in the future.
Investments may be made in companies listed on the stock markets of countries located in the region and or listed elsewhere but controlled from within the region and or with a material exposure to the region.
10 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc Strategic Report The portfolio is predominantly invested in equities, but may also be invested in other financial instruments such as put options on indices and equities in the region.
The Company does not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes.
The Company may invest up to 5% of its assets in securities which are not listed on any stock exchange but would normally not make such an investment except where the Manager expects that the securities will shortly become listed on a stock exchange.
In order to maximise potential returns, gearing may be employed by the Company from time to time.
Where appropriate the Directors may authorise the hedging of the Companys currency exposure.
While the Articles limit the amount of gearing the Company may have to a maximum of the Companys adjusted capital and reserves, Directors do not anticipate net effective gearing levels in excess of 20% of shareholders funds.
Spread of Investment Risk Risk in relation to the Companys investments is spread as a result of the Manager monitoring the Companys portfolio with a view to ensuring that the portfolio retains an appropriate balance to meet the Companys investment objective.
The key restrictions imposed on the Manager are that: a no more than 15% of the Companys total net assets, at the date of acquisition, may be invested in any one single company: b no more than 10% of the Companys total net assets, at the date of acquisition, may be invested in other listed investment companies unless such companies have a stated investment policy not to invest more than 15% of their gross assets in other listed companies: c no more than 15% of the Companys total net assets may be invested in open-ended funds and: d no more than 25% of the Companys total net assets may be invested in the aggregate of unlisted investments and holdings representing 20% or more of the equity capital of any company.
The Investment Portfolio on pages 8 and 9 demonstrates that, as at 30 September 2013, the Manager held 67 investments spread over several countries and in a range of industry sectors.
The largest investment, Samsung Electronics, represented 6.1% of shareholders funds at 30 September 2013.
At the year end, the Company did not hold any unlisted investments, and did not hold any open-ended funds.
The Company had an interest amounting to 3.5% of shareholders funds in REITs, which are closed ended investment companies.
The Board therefore believes that the objective of spreading risk has been achieved in this way.
Performance An outline of performance, market background, investment activity and portfolio strategy during the year under review, as well as the outlook, is provided in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 and 5 and the Investment Managers Review on pages 6 and 7.
Gearing The Company utilises a credit facility, currently in the amount of US$75 million 30 September 2012: US$75 million, which increases the funds available for investment through borrowing gearing.
Measuring Success Key Performance Indicators The Board has adopted long term key performance indicators KPIs which assist it in measuring the development and success of the Companys business.
The KPIs focus on the following areas: the measurement of the success of the Companys investment objective of providing growth in excess of the benchmark index: the management of the discount: and the rate of expenses incurred by shareholders in the running of the Company.
Investment Performance In order to measure the Companys investment performance, quarterly reports, including commentary on its view of markets, the impact of stock selection decisions and other attribution analysis, portfolio activity and strategy and outlook for the portfolio and the markets are provided by the Manager and form the basis of discussions at every board meeting.
On a regular basis, the Board also reviews the investment processes of the Manager and considers reports from its broker on the perception of shareholders and the market on the Managers performance and the Companys strategy.
For the year ended 30 September 2013, the Company produced a total return on net asset value of 1.9% compared to a total return of 5.3% for the benchmark.
A chart showing the Companys ten-year performance against the benchmark to 30 September 2013 can be found on page 3 of this Report.
Country distribution can be found in the Investment Managers Review on pages 6 and 7.
11 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc Strategic Report Discount Management The shares of the Company generally trade at a discount to net asset value and the management of this discount is a key factor for the Board.
The Board has therefore adopted a second KPI, which measures the success of the Boards strategy to limit volatility in the discount.
As the discount is a function of the balance between the supply and demand for the Companys shares, a principal objective for the Board is to ensure that, through Schroders marketing team and the Companys stockbrokers, potential shareholders and their advisers continue to be kept informed of the Companys progress and the ways they can invest in it.
Share buy-backs are a more direct way of managing the discount.
The discount of the Companys share price to its underlying net asset value and the discounts of peer group companies are monitored.
As more particularly described in the Chairmans Statement, the Board considers the use of its share buy-back authority on a regular basis and has adopted guidelines which outline circumstances in which the Company is prepared to buy back shares.
During the year ended 30 September 2013, 4,700,000 2012: nil shares were repurchased and cancelled.
At 30 September 2013, the Companys share price stood at a discount of 9.2% to capital only net asset value.
During the year under review the discount averaged 9.6%.
Control of Ongoing Charges The Board has adopted a third KPI which assists it in keeping the ongoing charges of the Company under review.
An analysis of the Companys costs, including management fees, Directors fees and general expenses, is submitted to each Board meeting.
The Ongoing Charges figure for the year ended 30 September 2013 representing the management fee and all other operating expenses excluding finance costs, expressed as a percentage of the average daily net asset values during the year was 1.10% 2012: 1.18%.
The Ongoing Charges figure is calculated in accordance with guidance issued by the AIC in May 2012.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Board has adopted a matrix of key risks which affect its business and a robust framework of internal control which is designed to monitor those risks to enable the Directors to mitigate them as far as possible and which assists in determining the nature and extent of the significant risks the Board is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
A full analysis of the Directors system of internal control and its monitoring system is set out in the Corporate Governance Statement.
The principal risks are considered to be as follows: Financial Risk The Company is exposed to the effect of market fluctuations due to the nature of its business.
A significant fall in regional equity markets would have an adverse impact on the market value of the Companys underlying investments.
The Board considers the portfolios risk profile at each Board meeting and discusses with the Manager appropriate strategies to mitigate any negative impact of substantial changes in markets.
The Company invests in underlying assets which are denominated in a range of currencies and therefore has an exposure to changes in the exchange rate between Sterling and other currencies, which has the potential to have a significant effect on returns.
While the Directors consider the Companys hedging policy on a regular basis, the Company did not engage in currency hedging to reduce the risk of currency fluctuations and the volatility of returns which might result from such currency exposure during the year ended 30 September 2013.
The Company may invest in put options on indices and equities in the region, to protect part of the capital value of the assets against market falls.
The Company utilises a credit facility, currently in the amount of US$75 million, which increases the funds available for investment through borrowing.
Therefore, in falling markets, any reduction in the net asset value and, by implication, the consequent share price movement is amplified by the gearing.
The Directors keep the Companys gearing under constant review and impose strict restrictions on borrowings to mitigate this risk.
The Companys gearing continues to operate within pre-agreed limits so that gearing does not exceed 20% of shareholders funds.
A full analysis of the financial risks facing the Company is set out in note 20 on pages 40 to 44.
Strategic Risk Over time investment vehicles and asset classes can become out of favour with investors or may fail to meet their investment objectives.
This may be reflected in a wide discount of the share price to underlying asset value.
Directors periodically review whether the Companys investment remit remains appropriate and continually monitor the success of the Company in meeting its stated objectives.
Further details may be found under Investment Performance and Discount Management above.
12 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc Strategic Report Accounting, Legal and Regulatory Risk In order to continue to qualify as an investment trust, the Company must comply with the requirements of Section 1158 of the UK Corporation Tax Act 2010.
Should the Company not comply with these requirements, it might lose investment trust status and capital gains within the Companys portfolio could, as a result, be subject to Capital Gains Tax.
Breaches of the UK Listing Rules, the Companies Acts or other regulations with which the Company is required to comply, could lead to a number of detrimental outcomes and damage the Companys reputation.
Breaches of controls by service providers, including the Manager, could also lead to reputational damage or loss.
The Boards system of internal control seeks to mitigate the potential impact of these risks and it also relies on its advisers to assist it in ensuring continued compliance.
Gender Representation on the Board The composition of the Board as at 30 September 2013 is set out in the Report of the Directors on page 14.
The Boards approach to diversity is set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 23.
Future Developments The future performance of the Company depends upon the success of the Companys investment strategy in the light of economic factors and equity market developments.
Further comments on the outlook for the Company for the next twelve months are set out in both the Chairmans Statement on page 4 and the Investment Managers Review on page 6.
Corporate Social and Environmental Policy As an investment company, the Company has no direct social, environmental or human rights responsibilities: its policy is focused on ensuring that its portfolio is properly managed and invested.
The Company has however adopted a Corporate Social and Environmental policy, details of which are set out in the Report of the Directors on page 15.
By Order of the Board Schroder Investment Management Limited Company Secretary 13 December 2013 13
