Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc Investment Managers Review The net asset value per share of the Company recorded a total return of 1.9% over the twelve months to end September 2013.
This was below the performance of the benchmark, the MSCI All Country Asia ex Japan Index, which rose 5.3% over the same period.
Following a positive trend in the first half of the Companys financial year, the second half witnessed disappointing returns.
For the period as a whole, regional markets offered a return of 5.3% in sterling terms over the full twelve months, having been over 10% up in the first six months.
The correction through the summer reflected a number of factors including the anticipation Performance of the MSCI AC Asia ex Japan Net Dividends Reinvested of tapering of asset purchases Index in GBP and USD 30 September 2012 to 30 September 2013 by the US Federal Reserve, a stronger dollar and sizeable 125 investor redemptions from MSCI AC Asia ex Japan NDR USD MSCI AC Asia ex Japan NDR GBP emerging market equities and 120 bonds.
These factors inevitably impacted the Asian regional 115 stock markets given the 110 importance of global investor flows, and the monetary linkages 105 between the regional currencies and the US dollar which tends to 100 be a safe haven during periods of uncertainty in the region.
95 Worries about tighter liquidity 90 conditions in Asia coincided with Sep-12 Oct-12 Nov-12 Dec-12 Jan-13 Feb-13 Mar-13 Apr-13 May-13 Jun-13 Jul-13 Aug-13 Sep-13 downward revisions in regional Source: Thomson Financial Datastream as at 30 September 2013 growth forecasts and deteriorating leading indicators.
This happened despite the stabilization in the developed economies, and reflected slowing domestic confidence and continued caution in the corporate sector.
The exception has been China where a relaxation in credit and selective infrastructure spending has stabilized growth, but at the expense of further increases in debt.
Country returns of the MSCI AC Asia ex Japan Net The shift in investor sentiment after Bernankes May Dividends Reinvested Index in GBP 30 September tapering statement was most dramatic in emerging 2012 to 30 September 2013 ASEAN markets.
These had seen some of the greatest declines in borrowing costs since the global financial crisis of 2008, and had been 13.9 Philippines favourite destinations for foreign bond investors 19.2 13.3 chasing returns in a low rate environment.
Hong Kong 13.6 12.4 Consequently, the unwinding of these exposures China 12.7 5.8 has hit these markets, and all except the Taiwan 7.1 Philippines registered poor returns over the year, 5.6 Malaysia 13.0 with Indonesia down almost 20% in sterling terms 5.0 AC Asia ex JP 7.6 due to the weakness in the local currency, the 4.4 Korea 1.3 rupiah.
3.9 Singapore Free 6.5 India was the other notable laggard in the region, 0.7 Thailand 2.8 with weakness in the rupee again the key factor.
-12.7 India 4.0 Current account and fiscal deficits left the country -19.1 3.7 Indonesia -1.8 very vulnerable to a drying up in global liquidity.
This along with stubbornly high inflation hampered Returns in GBP Returns in local currency attempts by the Reserve Bank of India to cut Source: Factset interest rates which would provide respite to bad debt and interest margin pressures in the banking sector and help arrest the slowdown in investment spending.
A lack of clear policy leadership from central government dampened sentiment further.
Performance and Portfolio Activity The Company generated a total return of 1.9% over the fiscal year, which lagged the benchmark index return of 5.3%.
The main headwinds to performance were stock selection in Hong Kong, India where the portfolio was more heavily weighted toward domestically oriented stocks and, to a lesser extent, the Philippines.
These adverse factors were partly offset by strong stock selection in Thailand and Indonesia.
Country allocation was a small negative overall, with the underweight to China and Australian exposure more than offsetting the benefit of overweighting in Hong Kong and underweighting of Indonesia.
Approximately 2% of the shortfall was due to dilution to the net asset value from the final subscription share exercise which took place during the year.
6 Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc Investment Managers Review Through the year, the Company has moved from a modestly geared to net cash position, with the most significant reductions made in Singapore and Australia.
We have added in China, but remain significantly underweight, and Hong Kong.
Outlook and Policy There are some big questions facing Asia.
There are doubts surrounding growth and some of the regional currencies, but the most significant is the pace and extent of a US led tightening in credit conditions.
A stronger US dollar and perception of tighter money are never good for Asian asset values, and it is difficult to paint a positive near-term picture.
The concern over tapering may have got ahead of itself in the short-term, but the regional markets will remain very much hostage to perceptions of global liquidity conditions and interest rate trends.
We are in an uneasy market phase where the best of liquidity is behind us, but earnings growth support is unclear.
However, one should not lose sight of the fact that if higher US treasury yields are harbinger of economic spring for the global economy, then plenty of Asian companies and markets stand to benefit.
A number of commentators have drawn parallels between now and the Asian crisis of 1997 98.
We believe this ignores the very different fundamentals of the region.
Most economies are in much healthier financial condition in terms of positive current accounts and trade balances, high foreign exchange reserves, lower external debt and strong government and corporate balance sheets.
Those that do have some financial weaknesses such as India and Indonesia have already been punished fairly harshly by investors.
Meanwhile, Asias equity markets do not look expensive in terms of historical valuations.
As the markets have corrected, we are seeing an increasing number of stocks at attractive discounts to analysts fair value, while still conscious of the potential overhang from hotter money still sitting in the region.
Amid all the recent volatility, China has perhaps benefited from winning in the least ugly contest over the summer.
A controlled capital account undoubtedly helps at least in the short-term during a time of dwindling global liquidity.
Meanwhile, those looking for some kind of economic restructuring have drawn some modest comfort from recent pronouncements from the Chinese leadership on the need to promote consumption and services as key growth drivers.
Those looking for growth have also responded to recent moves to institute some limited stimulus and a recovery in leading indicators.
We remain concerned over the composition of growth, and still struggle to find stocks from a bottom-up point of view.
We remain underweight in China and, while looking to add to strongly financed companies with attractive prospects for growth, we find more opportunities elsewhere in the region.
In terms of other opportunities in the region, we believe a number of financials in the region offer attractive fundamental value, particularly in Hong Kong and are reflecting fully the risks from potential tapering in the Untied States.
We continue to look for opportunities in the domestic demand sensitive markets of Emerging ASEAN and India, while also finding good value in the regions exporters among industrials and information technology particularly in North Asia, where there is scope for better revenue momentum and an expansion in Country Weights Schroder AsiaPacific Fund plc vs what are currently relatively depressed margins.
MSCI AC Asia ex Japan Index However, the implications of the decline in the Benchmark Japanese Yen will require close monitoring.
Net Asset Value Weightings % Index Weight % Market 30-Sep-13 30-Sep-12 30-Sep-13 While we believe the Asian markets offer sound HK 31.4 27.7 13.0 long term value, and stand at valuations generally China 8.5 5.1 25.0 associated with a much greater level of financial Korea 16.8 17.3 20.6 stress than we envisage over the coming year, there Taiwan 11.1 11.2 14.8 is plenty of scope for volatility given the still fragile Singapore 8.2 15.2 6.8 Malaysia 4.8 state of the global economy and high debt levels in Indonesia 1.6 3.1 3.0 the developed world.
Furthermore, some areas of Thailand 6.8 7.3 3.2 credit excess need to be worked through within the Australia NZ 1.9 6.7 region.
Consequently, the Company is not geared India 7.0 8.2 7.6 Philippines 2.4 1.9 1.2 at the current time so as to provide flexibility should Other 1.0 2.0 general market weakness provide attractive Other net assets 3.3 -5.7 opportunities to deploy liquidity.
Total 100.0 100.0 100.0 Source: Schroders, 30 September 30, 2013 Schroder Investment Management Limited 13 December 2013 7
