Strategy We are a global asset management business diversified by asset class, sales channel and region.
Our goals are aligned with those of our clients and shareholders to create value over the long term.
We achieve our goals by: Measurable by: Benefits: Risks: Results: key performance indicators are in bold Our expectations for 2014: 2013 2012 Delivering consistent Targeting at least 60 per cent.
Consistent and superior investment Short-term performance can The percentage of assets under 68% We have the strongest investment resources in portfolio management 71% and above-average of assets under management performance is a driver of growth in fall short of targets.
management that outperformed and research the firm has ever had and we expect to meet our performance through to outperform benchmark net new business.
over three years to 31 December performance targets.
disciplined investment or peer group over rolling see 1, overleaf processes and active three-year periods.
We continued to deliver good investment performance in 2013 engagement with and continue to target at least 60 per cent.
companies in which we invest Levels of gross sales: and Developing the investment products Products that do not meet Gross sales 75.6bn 57.6bn Net new business will be significantly influenced by market conditions, Building close Levels of net new business.
and solutions which meet our their objectives can put client but with a broad product range and strong performance, we expect relationships clients needs will lead to increased relationships at risk.
Net new business 7.9bn 9.4bn to generate net inflows in Institutional and Intermediary, and in with clients new business opportunities.
Targeting a cost:net revenue ratio We generate high levels of profit Profitability is likely to Cost:net revenue ratio 65% 70% After the record results of 2013 these ratios may increase somewhat Ensuring of between 65 and 70 per cent.
after tax to reward shareholders decline during periods see 5, overleaf in 2014. operational over a market cycle: and through increasing dividends of market weakness.
efficiency Targeting a compensation and enable continued organic Compensation cost:operating 46% 49% cost:operating revenue ratio investment in our business.
revenue ratio of between 45 and 49 per cent.
see 6, overleaf over a market cycle.
Developing and training Retaining and developing talent Talented people are frequently Employee training 11,648 7,940 Retention has been unusually high during the last three years Retaining and our employees: and is key to organisational stability targeted by competitors number of sessions and could be affected by an improvement in market conditions developing a deep Retaining employees and long-term success.
searching to build their business.
which would cause competitors to recruit more actively.
pool of talent performing at or ahead Employee retention 95% 93% of expectations.
Investment in both organic The long-term creation In the short term, particularly Operational capital 1,070m 957m Seed capital deployed in building a track record in new investment Investing in future growth and acquisition of shareholder value.
during periods of market strategies has increased during 2013 as we continue to develop new Investment capital 677m 926m growth opportunities opportunities throughout weakness, profitability can products and we expect it to remain at this level during 2014. the market cycle, enabled be adversely affected.
of which: Seed capital investments 182m 156m by a strong financial position.
18 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Strategy We achieve our goals by: Measurable by: Benefits: Risks: Results: key performance indicators are in bold Our expectations for 2014: 2013 2012 Targeting at least 60 per cent.
Consistent and superior investment Short-term performance can The percentage of assets under 68% We have the strongest investment resources in portfolio management 71% of assets under management performance is a driver of growth in fall short of targets.
management that outperformed and research the firm has ever had and we expect to meet our to outperform benchmark net new business.
or peer group over rolling see 1, overleaf three-year periods.
We continued to deliver good investment performance in 2013 and continue to target at least 60 per cent.
Levels of gross sales: and Developing the investment products Products that do not meet Gross sales 75.6bn 57.6bn Net new business will be significantly influenced by market conditions, Levels of net new business.
and solutions which meet our their objectives can put client but with a broad product range and strong performance, we expect clients needs will lead to increased relationships at risk.
Net new business 7.9bn 9.4bn to generate net inflows in Institutional and Intermediary, and in new business opportunities.
Targeting a cost:net revenue ratio We generate high levels of profit Profitability is likely to Cost:net revenue ratio 65% 70% After the record results of 2013 these ratios may increase somewhat of between 65 and 70 per cent.
after tax to reward shareholders decline during periods see 5, overleaf in 2014. over a market cycle: and through increasing dividends of market weakness.
Targeting a compensation and enable continued organic Compensation cost:operating 46% 49% cost:operating revenue ratio investment in our business.
Developing and training Retaining and developing talent Talented people are frequently Employee training 11,648 7,940 Retention has been unusually high during the last three years our employees: and is key to organisational stability targeted by competitors number of sessions and could be affected by an improvement in market conditions Retaining employees and long-term success.
performing at or ahead Employee retention 95% 93% of expectations.
Investment in both organic The long-term creation In the short term, particularly Operational capital 1,070m 957m Seed capital deployed in building a track record in new investment growth and acquisition of shareholder value.
during periods of market strategies has increased during 2013 as we continue to develop new Investment capital 677m 926m opportunities throughout weakness, profitability can products and we expect it to remain at this level during 2014. the market cycle, enabled be adversely affected.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 19
