Market developments: longer-term trends Our diversity across investment strategies Continued growth in defined contribution As defined benefit schemes mature, and regions, with access to higher growth the industry continues to see a move to defined contribution pension schemes markets and global distribution channels, and individual personal savings are increasingly important.
has driven gross sales of over 70 billion This market is complex and fragmented in 2013. globally, with increasing use of indextracking products.
We estimate that We have identified a number of key market over 80 per cent.
of defined contribution trends that will continue to evolve through schemes assets are invested in the 2014 and beyond.
Our strategy is to target this area, through the development of Geographies and demographic trends innovative and price competitive products.
Established saving pools and mature markets, such as Europe and the US Decumulation and the insurance remain important to us and we expect the channel opportunity US to remain the largest market for our Insurance companies continue to be industry, representing almost 50 per cent.
an increasingly important distribution of global revenues.
We have significantly partner and together with commercial increased our Distribution resources in the banks, are likely to see the majority US over the last five years, consistent with of decumulation flows that arise as In the short term, there it being a key geographic focus for strategic individuals seek to finance retirement.
We target the US to represent We believe that the retirement of the are encouraging signs of some 20 per cent.
of assets under generation born between 1946 and 1964, renewed investor confidence management over the next five years.
which owns a majority of global wealth, in equity markets.
creates a major opportunity and could Maturing defined benefit pension account for nearly 40 per cent.
of available Massimo Tosato schemes industry flows within mature economies.
Executive Vice-Chairman and Within Institutional, defined benefit DB Global Head of Distribution pension schemes are maturing, driven We expect insurance companies to by the increasing longevity of an ageing continue to outsource asset management population.
We expect the value of and are targeting further growth in this Liability-Driven Investment LDI to double area, particularly in Europe, as the by 2017 and have developed our product insurance industry responds to Solvency II.
range to help schemes that are fide-risking see case study on page 13.
We have good relationships in the insurance sector in the UK and intend to expand this approach globally, by improving our specialist client service and sales teams in this area.
Total Global Wealth 2000-2013, by region Developing economies In 2013, global wealth was estimated North America Europe Asia Pacic China Latin America India Africa to be in excess of US$240 trillion, with US$ trillion 64 per cent.
held in Europe and North 250 America.
Global growth is forecast to increase by 40 per cent.
over the next five 200 years and as developing markets tend to grow faster than developed economies, 150 they are an increasingly important segment of the global economy and are expected to 100 account for a greater share of world wealth.
50 Official institutions, such as sovereign wealth funds and central banks, will 0 continue to accumulate surplus assets 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 and they are an increasingly important Source: James Davies, Rodrigo Lluberas and Anthony Shorrocks, Credit Suisse Global Wealth Databook 2013. institutional market segment.
12 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Strategy Global Middle Income Population Numbers millions 2009 2020 2030 3,500 3,000 2,500 2,000 governing alternative investment funds 1,500 in 2014 and continued debate about 1,000 changes to the UCITS regime.
500 Pressure on revenue margins 0 As a , USA Europe Central and Asia Pacic Sub-Saharan Middle East and well-capitalised firm, where integrity South America Africa North Africa has always been a core principle of how Source: OECD Development Centre we do business, we are well placed to manage these regulatory developments, Asia, Latin America and the Middle East Regulatory change and complexity although these changes increase the cost will continue to represent major growth Our key regulatory risks are outlined base of the industry and change the opportunities for our business, with new in the key risks section on page 41 behaviour of distributors.
As distributors savings flows driven by the emergence and the extent of regulatory change look to maintain their margins this leads of a large and increasingly prosperous globally remains significant.
The to downward pressure on asset manager middle income population.
regulatory change agenda is focused revenue margins.
We expect our increasingly on conduct and culture Intermediary net revenue margins to Changes in client demand within financial services firms, ensuring decrease by approximately 15 per cent.
We continue to see a shift in client that the right products and services over the next three years.
demand, particularly in our Intermediary are provided to clients, as well as business, away from benchmark-focused strengthening financial market In recognition of this pressure, we are funds to outcome-orientated, income, infrastructure to enhance stability.
focused on improving the scale of our absolute return and benchmark-unaware business.
We believe that efficiencies can strategies.
These areas have seen some In the UK, the effect of the Retail be achieved by growing scalable asset of our most successful products in recent Distribution Review RDR is increasing classes as client demand moves from years, most notably, in 2013, the Asian transparency for retail clients as fees are regional to global strategies, with net sales Asset Income and Global Multi-Asset unbundled and the market share of concentrated in a small number of larger Income funds as explained on page 5. execution only platforms is growing.
We have already seen success We will continue to target further growth is becoming a global theme.
Towards the in this area, for example with our in multi-asset solutions.
end of the year, the FCA also consulted on Quantitative Equity Products.
the use of brokerage commissions within We also believe that investor demand for the asset management industry.
We will also continue to invest in our sustainable alpha will continue and we infrastructure and wider business for have developed our product range to In Europe, regulators are focusing on the long term to identify and secure address this trend.
In the short term, a series of measures to address issues operational efficiencies, streamlining and the Schroders Global Investment Trends related to investor protection, derivatives, integrating processes.
This will allow us Report 2014 shows encouraging signs risk management, transparency and to maintain our global institutional and of renewed investor confidence in equity governance.
The regulation of European wholesale coverage and excellent client markets, with almost 60 per cent.
of pooled funds continues to be a focus, service which we believe provides us with respondents planning to buy international with significant work required to prepare a competitive advantage while continuing equities in 2014. for the implementation of new rules to reward shareholders.
Flight Path Swift wins Investment Innovation of the Year Award Higher costs and management requirements have historically meant that only larger defined benefit pension schemes have been able to access a tailored flight path to achieve a better funding and lower risk position.
In May 2013, we launched Schroders Flight Path Swift, a new Liability-Driven Investment LDI solution to allow smaller pension schemes to access fide-risking strategies in an affordable and straightforward way.
A range of products and services from Schroders is blended to help clients achieve their investment objectives.
A pension schemes funding level is monitored on a daily basis with risk and growth assets reduced and liability risk protection increased when growth triggers are reached.
This unique approach led to Flight Path Swift winning the award for Investment Innovation of the Year at the UK Professional Pensions Awards in 2013.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 13 Market developments: longer-term trends continued Schroders is well placed to capitalise investment performance and the ability to provide a full service offering, including on the growth opportunities that exist advisory services, banking, financial planning and a strong investment within the wealth management sector.
A strong brand and reputation are also important in retaining and winning new business.
International clients London is increasingly a base for high net Within the wealth management sector, worth individuals worldwide.
Our London clients emphasise the importance of business is supported by international unbiased high quality advice: service subsidiaries to offer a global service and excellence from people who are experts we see growth opportunities with clients in their field: reputation: transparency of from Europe, the Middle East and Asia.
value: and depth of investment resource.
We believe that Schroders is well placed In Europe, the outlook for the sector to offer all of these attributes to our clients.
is more challenging, particularly in We are able to offer an integrated service Switzerland, with increased regulatory to high net worth clients to address and government pressure to reduce risk their personal saving requirements, and maintain a high capital base.
We covering financial planning, investment expect these trends to impact the future management, deposit taking and lending.
growth potential of the sector over the Wealth managers who understand next few years.
Wealth Management in the UK the needs and preferences of There are over 187,000 high net worth In 2010, the Asia Pacific region overtook their high net worth clients and individuals in the UK, each with investable Europe to become the second largest design their businesses to meet assets of more than 1 million.
The UK wealth management market in terms those needs will have a high net worth market is estimated at of both high net worth individuals 1.2 trillion with modest growth expected wealth and population.
over the next two to three years.
London of this trend, Schroders has a Wealth and the South East of England dominate Management presence in both Singapore Philip Mallinckrodt the market, however, we also expect to and Hong Kong.
Group Head of Wealth Management see regional growth around the UK.
Client service is a key differentiator in the sector.
We believe that client satisfaction is linked to the delivery of excellent Our wealth planning capabilities We enhanced our Wealth Management offering with the addition of a Financial planning team, as part of the acquisition of Cazenove Capital.
Financial planning helps individuals to determine their short and long-term goals and create a balanced plan to meet those goals.
As the financial landscape has changed in recent years, the importance of financial planning has increased as clients seek the best solutions for their investment needs.
Our team of 15 wealth planning specialists provides clients with an integrated and coordinated approach to most aspects of personal wealth management, covering areas such as retirement planning, investment structuring, financial protection, inheritance tax and estate planning.
14 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Strategy Market developments: 2013 overview Developed market equities increased Japanese equities saw some of the best returns as Abenomics and the monetary 26 per cent.
in 2013, benefiting from stimulus programme led to a rapid fall in the yen that boosted exporters.
Overall, record low interest rates and a pick the Nikkei Index returned 56.7 per cent.
Eurozone shares were also strong as the economic backdrop stabilised.
Germany was one of the best performers as its economy strengthened and Angela Equity markets Merkel was re-elected as chancellor.
Developed market equities made strong European shares were supported by gains in 2013, with the MSCI World Index accommodative monetary policy from returning 26.2 per cent.
The year started the European Central Bank, which cut on a positive note after the US government interest rates to 0.5 per cent.
in May reached an agreement on the fiscal cliff.
Overall, US equities gained as economic data the MSCI Europe Index increased 20.1 continued to improve over the course per cent.
of the year, with encouraging trends in employment and the housing market.
The FTSE-100 Index increased 14.4 per cent.
in 2013 as the UK also experienced In light of this stronger economic a pick up in economic growth, supported backdrop, the Federal Reserve by a resurgent housing market.
After a strong performance announced in May that it was considering tapering its quantitative Emerging markets fared less well as in 2013, we believe that easing programme.
This was not the prospect of a tapering of quantitative prospects for equities depend confirmed until December, with easing in the US led to concerns over on continued profit growth tapering starting in January 2014, reduced global liquidity and investors and how companies choose and investors reacted positively to withdrawing from emerging markets.
the statement that interest rates would The MSCI Emerging Markets Index returned to deploy their cash balances.
remain at low levels for a significant only 0.9 per cent.
as many emerging market time after the unemployment rate falls economies experienced slower growth, Peter Harrison below 6.5 per cent.
This helped US with stock markets in Turkey and Brazil Head of Equities equities reach record highs at the end registering some of the sharpest declines.
of the year, with the S&P Composite Index returning 29.6 per cent.
Outlook Equities have been driven higher by a re-rating throughout 2013 and there is a question about how much further this can go.
The performance of equities in 2014 will depend on profits growth, with US corporate profit margins already at record highs.
Cash levels are also high Equities world indices performance and it will be important to see how companies choose to deploy this cash.
FTSE-100 S&P Composite Nikkei Heightened levels of volatility will likely MSCI World MSCI Europe MSCI Emerging Markets be an issue for most markets.
165 155 145 135 125 115 105 95 85 Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 15 Market developments: 2013 overview continued Fixed income markets US Treasuries came under further pressure amid the first US government shutdown since the Clinton era and concerns over quantitative easing tapering.
Global government bond markets also suffered as rising confidence in the global economic recovery saw investors favour riskier assets.
UK Gilt yields and US Treasury yields both Karl Dasher rose to three per cent.
by the end of the Co-Head of Fixed Income year.
Riskier fixed income assets fared better, though still underperformed While we continue to favour equities.
The Bank of America Merrill growth-orientated portfolios, we Lynch Global High Yield Index returned believe that a greater emphasis 8.8 per cent.
on downside risk management Outlook and wealth preservation will serve We expect 2014 to be another year of investors well in 2014. volatility in bond markets as investors anticipate the continued wind-down of Nico Marais quantitative easing globally.
Some sectors, Head of Multi-asset and Portfolio Solutions such as emerging market debt and US municipals, have now priced in attractive real yields.
Opportunities are also emerging Multi-asset Philippe Lespinard in the US long-dated corporate market In 2013, central banks in the US, Japan, Co-Head of Fixed Income as US pensions move closer to a full the UK and Europe made progress in funding position.
Ample liquidity supported a rise in equities and Our focus over the last five years on price-earnings multiples expanded Fixed income investments developing a robust range of unconstrained significantly.
The main source of volatility strategies will help us to navigate better the during the year came from government underperformed equities over risks and opportunities for our clients.
The outlook for emerging markets the year as the prospect of the was less clear than for their developed Federal Reserve reducing its counterparts.
Valuations across a range bond purchases saw investors of assets have cheapened as prices, real exchange rates and yields have adjusted move away from the asset class.
to the financial and economic challenges facing developing economies.
Philippe Lespinard and Karl Dasher Co-Heads of Fixed Income Outlook We expect further economic recovery, Fixed income performance underpinned by liquidity from central % banks, to continue to support equities.
The outcome is by no means certain and UK Benchmark 10-Year Government Index US Benchmark 10-Year Government Index simultaneous tightening by the US and Merrill Lynch Global High Yield Index Merrill Lynch Global Investment Grade Index China could slow global economic growth.
110.0 107.5 105.0 102.5 100.0 97.5 95.0 92.5 Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2012 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 16 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Strategy Emerging Market Debt, Property Commodities and Currencies The performance of UK commercial 2013 saw significant losses in many property continued to improve throughout emerging market bonds and currencies.
The Investment Property Databank Local currency bonds in both Brazil IPD monthly showed a return of 10.5 per and Indonesia fell close to 30 per cent.
for the year and record investment emerging market currencies fell against volumes in the UK of 43.9 billion.
the US dollar, some by as much as 25 per cent.
and external bonds suffered due The prime market in London continued to spread widening and a rise in the US to outperform, but investors are also 10-year bond yields.
China and Turkey recognising value in other cities which offer saw long-term growth drivers impaired good fundamentals and are benefiting on account of over-extended credit cycles, from a more sustained economic recovery.
We believe that Emerging Market eroded competitiveness and external Development of good quality commercial imbalances.
These vulnerabilities were real estate in the UK is at very low levels Debt offers excellent opportunities brought to the fore during 2013 as and demand is driving up rents.
This is for attractive returns, but it is emerging market assets came good for market fundamentals and will frequently subject to high levels under pressure.
increase income returns as well as capital of volatility.
values over the next two to three years.
We believe that Emerging Market Debt offers excellent opportunities for attractive Markets in continental Europe have been Geoff Blanning returns, but it is frequently subjected to varied.
A number of local and overseas Head of Emerging Market Debt high levels of volatility and crises.
investors are actively seeking new and Commodities investments in the recovering German Outlook property market.
Southern European As asset class valuations generally markets, however, still see little improve, future return prospects are improvement in occupational demand rising, although we remain cautious and rental levels are under downward towards key countries such as Turkey pressure.
As the last major European and, most importantly, China, where market to recover, returns in France are patience is still required.
low and values may prove attractive for long-term investors.
Commodity markets have lately been avoided by global investors, which is Outlook surprising given the consensus belief that We expect continued improvement in the world economy is on a solid recovery the UK property market.
The consensus path led by the US.
Commodity prices forecast is for unleveraged total returns of have generally weakened in the past two between 13-15 per cent.
The to three years and investors in commodityrisk is now on the upside but the market related funds have suffered significant average will still hide polarisation losses, although we have mitigated the between winning cities and locations impact given strong risk management and those which may experience little, discipline.
We believe that the tide will if any, recovery.
While there are some inevitably turn again in favour of this downside risks in continental Europe, important asset class.
returns could be strong if sectors with good fundamentals are identified.
Visit Schroders Talking Point for market news and expert views www.
com talkingpoint Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 17
