Group Management Committee and Company Secretary The Board has delegated the authority to manage the business to the Chief Executive who delegates specific responsibilities to members of the Group Management Committee GMC.
This Committee supports the ChiefExecutive in running the business and in the delivery of his and the Boards objectives.
Executive Directors Michael Dobson Richard Keers Philip Mallinckrodt Chief Executive 61 Chief Financial Officer 50 Group Head of Wealth Management 51 Responsible for the management of the overall Responsible for financial management, Responsible for the Groups Wealth Management business and the strategic development of the Group.
riskmanagement, tax, capital and treasury, business and Property Investment team.
Other GMC members Geoff Blanning Karl Dasher Peter Harrison Head of Emerging Market Debt and Commodities 51 Head of North America and Head of Equities 47 Co-Head of Fixed Income 44 Experience: He joined Schroders in 1998 and Experience: He joined Schroders in March 2013 developed the Commodity and Currency investment Experience: He joined Schroders in 2007 as having been CEO of RWC Partners, an asset teams.
He previously managed Global Bond Funds at GlobalHead of Product and became Head of Fixed management business which he joined in 2006.
N M Rothschild and Bankers Trust before developing Income in October 2008.
He previously worked at Hewas Global Chief Investment Officer of and managing Morgan Grenfells first Emerging Market SEIInvestments in various investment roles, including DeutscheAsset Management between 2004 and Debt Fund in 1993.
Chief Investment Officer between 2004 and 2007.
2006 havingpreviously been Chief Investment Officer of Global Equities and Multi-asset at J. P. Morgan.
Responsibilities: He is responsible for the investment Responsibilities: He is responsible for the Groups performance of Emerging Market Debt, Commodities operations in North America and is also Co-Head Responsibilities: He is responsible for Equities within and Currency.
Markus Ruetimann John Troiano Howard Trust Chief Operating Officer 55 Deputy Head of Distribution 55 General Counsel 59 Experience: He joined Schroders in 2004 from Experience: He joined Schroders in 1981 as an Experience: He joined Schroders in 2003 from UBSGlobal Asset Management where he was Global investment analyst and became Head of the US equity Barclays where he held various roles including Group Headof Technology and Portfolio Services.
He established Schroders emerging General Counsel and Board Secretary.
He qualified that he was Chief Operating Officer for Phillips & Drew market equity capability in 1991.
He was appointed asa solicitor with Lovell, White & King, before joining in London from 1988 to 1998.
Global Head of Institutional in 2003 and became Morgan Grenfell in 1985.
DeputyHead of Distribution in September 2012.
Responsibilities: He has global responsibility Responsibilities: He is responsible for the for Institutional Portfolio Services, Fund Services, Responsibilities: As Deputy Head of Distribution, Groups Compliance, Legal and Corporate Information Technology, Change and Project he shares responsibility for the Distribution division, Secretariat functions.
including sales, marketing, product development and product management.
50 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Massimo Tosato Executive Vice-Chairman and Global Head of Distribution 59 Responsible for the Groups global Distribution function, including sales, marketing, product development and product management.
Philippe Lespinard Nico Marais Richard Mountford Co-Head of Fixed Income 50 Head of Multi-asset and Portfolio Solutions 50 Head of Asia Pacific 55 Experience: He joined Schroders in 2010 as Chief Experience: He joined Schroders in March 2011 Experience: He joined Schroders in 1980 as a UK Investment Officer Fixed Income.
He was previously from BlackRock, where he was Head of Global equities analyst and held a number of investment aPartner at Brevan Howard and Chief Investment Active Portfolio Management in the Multi-asset client rolesbefore becoming Regional Managing Director Officer at BNP Paribas Asset Management.
His investment career forSouth East Asia in 1991.
In 2004, he was appointed began in 1989 at the South African Reserve Bank Head of UK Distribution and in 2008 became Global Responsibilities: Within the Investment division, before joining the World Bank in 1994.
He joined Head of Intermediary Sales.
he is jointly responsible for Global Fixed Income.
Barclays Global Investors in 2000 and held various investment roles.
Responsibilities: He is responsible for the Groups operations in the Asia Pacific region.
Responsibilities: He is responsible for the Multi-asset and Portfolio Solutions business within the Investmentdivision.
Graham Staples Company Secretary 52 Experience: He joined Schroders in 2004.
Previously, he has held senior company secretarial, compliance and business development roles at Barclays, Computershare and NatWest.
Responsibilities: Secretary to the Board of Schroders plc and the GMC.
He is responsible for the Groups governance, advising the Board and GMC onallgovernance matters.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 51
