Our business model Superior investment Our operating segments performance and excellent client service are key to growing assets under management.
Asset Management Our business model Employees Assets under management 2,925 people 232.8bn Schroders objective is to add value to our clients capital to help them Investment meet their future needs.
Clients include corporate and state pension Equities Fixed Income funds, government funds, financial institutions, charities and individuals.
Meeting the long-term financial Multi-asset Emerging Market needs of these clients has never Debt, Commodities and Property been more important.
We strive to create innovative products and solutions which Client service through our worldwide offices help clients meet their goals.
Our success is linked inextricably to the success of our clients in that it is only by meeting their objectives that Institutional clients Corporate pension plans our business will prosper.
Stemming Insurance companies from the stable ownership structure Official Institutions Schroders has enjoyed throughout its 210-year history, we have a longterm focus in relation to investing, building client relationships and growing our business.
Infrastructure Group Manages investment capital of 677m For more information on our wider corporate responsibilities see page 42.
22 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Strategy We have two operating segments: Asset Management and Wealth Management, which are supported by several infrastructure functions.
The Group segment includes investment capital and treasury management activities.
See page 24 Wealth Management See page 26 Assets under management Employees Assets under management 232.8bn 595 people 30.1bn Tier 1 capital ratio of 27 per cent.
Distribution Highly personalised investment management service Customised investment solutions geared to client-specific financial goals Product development Portfolio management and Deposit taking and cash Product specialist sales resources wealth planning capability management Custody and execution Specialised lending Sales specialists, client servicing, marketing and communications Client service through our worldwide offices Wealth Management in 15 locations Intermediary clients Wealth Management clients and relationships High net worth individuals Banks Family offices Independent financial advisers Charities Insurance companies Individual pension plans Platforms Supports the business in delivering superior investment performance and excellent client service.
It consists of information technology, operations, finance, risk management, human resources, legal, compliance and internal audit.
The non-operating Group segment is focused on capital management, governance and corporate management.
Allocates capital to seed new investment strategies before bringing them to the Institutional or Intermediary market.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 23 Our business model continued Asset Management Investment The Investment division comprises We have a broad range of products and performance that meets or exceeds client portfolio management, research and solutions that meet investor demand at objectives within specific risk parameters.
dealing functions across Equities, different phases of the economic and We primarily assess investment Fixed Income, Multi-asset and Emerging market cycle.
All investment activities performance relative to benchmark and Market Debt, Commodities and Property.
are managed with the aim of delivering peer group over a rolling three-year period.
Product range by asset classes Equities Fixed Income Multi-asset Emerging Market Debt, 323 employees 191 employees 118 employees Commodities and Property Equities includes single country, Fixed Income employs fundamental Multi-asset offers a comprehensive 106 employees regional and global funds, small and quantitative approaches and range of customised solutions, We manage emerging market and mid-cap funds and defensive is based on research-intensive, pooled products and advisory debt, commodities, currency strategies to reduce market risk.
We specialise in providing and agriculture funds.
a consultative, solutions-based approach for clients.
Our Property business manages a wide range of open and closed-end property funds.
Assets under management Assets under management Assets under management Assets under management 119.6bn 43.4bn 52.3bn 17.5bn 2012: 96.3bn 2012: 37.6bn 2012: 42.8bn 2012: 19.0bn Asia Pacic 16% Americas 13% Agriculture and commodities 26% Americas 29% Australia 6% Asia Pacic 8% Asia Pacic 18% Emerging market debt 12% Emerging markets 13% Australia 9% Australia 7% Private equity 6% Europe 10% Europe 5% Property 56% Convertibles 3% Global 12% Funds of hedge funds 2% Europe 15% Japan 3% Global 24% GAIA range 3% Other 2% Insurance-linked 1% LDI 19% Quantitative equities 17% Multi-manager 2% UK 11% UK 17% UK 31% US 4% Investment capabilities Investment capabilities Investment capabilities Investment capabilities Asia Pacific Aggregate and multi-strategy Customised solutions Agriculture Australia Cash liquidity Funds of hedge funds Commodities Emerging markets Convertibles Liability-driven investments Currencies Europe Credit Multi-asset strategies Direct property Global Emerging market debt Structured investments Emerging market debt Japan relative return absolute return Mid and small cap Global Gold and precious metals Quantitative equities Government Private equity funds of funds UK High yield Property securities US Insurance-linked securities Tax-exempt 24 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Strategy Distribution Distribution employs over 600 people Institutional clients Intermediary clients globally, specialising in sales, client service, marketing, product development and We manage segregated accounts for We work closely with both local and global product management, serving both Institutional clients involving diverse strategies distributors across Europe, Asia and the Institutional and Intermediary sales channels.
across equities, multi-asset, fixed income Americas to develop products which meet and alternatives.
their retail clients needs over different stages Distribution works closely with Investment of the market cycle.
and is responsible for the development of our investment products, focusing Location by client domicile Location by client domicile particularly on the risk reward features that deliver the intended results and meet Americas 20% Americas 12% Asia Pacic 27% Asia Pacic 26% the needs of our clients.
We monitor gaps Europe 16% Europe 28% in our product range, launching new UK 37% UK 34% products and retiring products that are no longer in demand.
The majority of our Intermediary assets are in Luxembourg and UK funds.
Domestic ranges in other countries Institutional clients Intermediary clients are important to address local tax, Corporate pension plans Banks regulatory or client requirements.
Endowments Independent financial advisers Government funds Insurance companies 20 countries Insurance companies Online platforms operate fund ranges Local authority pension plans Private banks Sovereign wealth funds Private wealth managers 650 funds Asset Management revenue mandates, and fees in Intermediary Asset Management net revenue 2013 and costs generally exceeding those in Institutional.
Asset Management revenue primarily Management 93% fees comprises fees charged as a percentage Costs include fixed and variable Performance 6% of assets under management.
The level remuneration and non-staff related fees of assets under management changes as costs such as office accommodation, Other fees 1% a result of net new business, investment information technology, operations, legal performance and market levels.
In 2013, Asset Management is also earned from performance fees generated net revenue of 1,247.2 million and from transaction-related revenue.
2012: 1,014.8 million and profit before The revenue margin on assets under tax and exceptional items of 468.6 million management is affected by the business 2012: 348.5 million.
For more information on the financial mix with, for example, higher fees typically performance of Asset Management, earned on equity mandates and lower fees 1,247.2m see page 96. earned on fixed income and multi-asset Asset Management net revenue 2012: 1,014.8m Infrastructure Infrastructure operates across the resources, legal, compliance, corporate enhance our client service capabilities, Group and employs over 1,500 people secretariat and internal audit.
We are advance our risk management solutions in information technology, operations, currently investing substantial sums to and meet new regulatory requirements.
finance, risk management, human support our investors evolving needs, Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 25 Our business model continued Wealth Management Wealth Management offers investment Our banking and treasury services Wealth Management assets under management management, financial planning and enable us to provide a range of finance specialist banking services, including and lending facilities to clients which UK 77% Channel Islands 4% liquidity management and occasional can assist in the overall management Switzerland 15% borrowing requirements, to high net worth of their financial affairs.
Other 4% individuals, family offices and charities.
International Acquisition of Cazenove Capital It is predominantly a UK-centric, LondonAs a result of the acquisition of Cazenove based business, for both domestic and Capital, we expanded our scale and international clients, supported by three capabilities for private clients and charities principal international operations in in the UK, with assets under management the Channel Islands, Switzerland and at 31 December at 23.2 billion.
We also have a presence in complementary fit between the two firms, 2012: 16.3bn the Cayman Islands, Frankfurt, Milan and with a strong shared service culture, Hong Kong.
As the global mobility of high long-term investment approach and net worth individuals increases, this model established heritage.
We will develop allows us to ensure we can meet the our UK business, using the Cazenove For more information on the financial service expectations of our clients.
performance of Wealth Management, see page 96.
We are also one of the UK market leaders Wealth Management revenue in investment management services for and costs charities, with a dedicated specialist team Wealth Management net revenue in this area.
We provide a personal service comprises fees charged as a percentage tailored to meet the present and future of assets under management, transactionneeds of charities and charitable trusts.
related fees, net interest income and fees for specialist banking services.
Wealth Client service proposition Management costs include fixed and Dedicated relationship management variable remuneration and non-staff related is core to our proposition, tailoring our costs such as office accommodation, service to clients individual needs.
Each information technology, operations, legal, client has a dedicated portfolio manager, compliance, risk and audit.
with an average of nearly 20 years experience, which allows clients to build Wealth Management achieved net revenue close relationships and to ensure that their of 150.0 million 2012: 94.4 million and We are one of the UK market leaders in investment management services investment aims are understood fully.
profit before tax and exceptional items of for charities.
Our investment proposition has a The increase reflects an improved consistent focus on delivering strong performance in the Schroders business risk-adjusted returns.
It draws on and the impact of the acquisition of Schroders investment expertise Cazenove Capital in July 2013. and third-party managers, working closely with clients and their Services offered professional advisers.
Discretionary and advisory asset management on behalf of high net We take an active approach to portfolio worth individuals and family offices management and, as part of our wealth Financial planning planning capability, seek to take into Cash management and deposit taking account the changing personal Custody and execution services circumstances of our clients when Specialised lending making decisions over the longer term.
26 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Strategy Group Investment capital The Group segment includes the offices Group segment revenue and costs of the Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Revenue comprises income and net gains Financial Officer, as well as employees on investment capital.
Costs relate to the Cash 21% Fixed Income 30% involved in the management of the offices of the Chairman, Chief Executive Seed capital 27% Groups investment capital and liquidity.
and Chief Financial Officer: Group Multi-asset 15% investment capital and treasury: the Legacy private 5% equity Group capital comprises operating capital Board: and other costs, including those Alternatives 2% required for regulatory and operational associated with governance, corporate purposes and investment capital, surplus management and external and captive to operating requirements.
Investment capital is managed with the The Group segment net revenue was 677m objective of a cash plus 1.5 per cent.
10.4 million 2012: 25.7 million and 2012: 926m return with low volatility.
Individual costs were 19.1 million 2012: investments are diversified across 37.2 million.
After taking account of approved asset classes that are judged interest income of 12.1 million 2012: to be compatible with the investment 11.7 million and the profit from a private objectives, subject to limits as to quantum equity associate of 1.5 million 2012: loss For more information on the financial and value at risk approved by the Board.
of 0.5 million, the segment generated a performance of the Group segment, profit before tax and exceptional items see page 97. of 4.9 million 2012: loss of 0.3 million.
UK and European equities In 2013, we combined our UK and European Equities businesses, creating the new role of Head of UK and European Equities.
Combining our portfolio management and research resources across the UK and continental Europe gives us better insights into developing trends and opportunities which affect the UK and Europe more widely.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 27 Partnerships Building close relationships with our clients A detailed understanding of our clients investment needs leads to enduring relationships.
We manage assets on behalf of institutional and retail investors, financial institutions and high net worth individuals across the world, and offer a comprehensive range of products and services to meet our clients investment objectives.
To access rapidly growing markets and expand our distribution presence, we partner with Axis Bank, the third-largest private sector bank in India: Bank of Communications, one of the top five commercial banks in China: and Nippon Life, the second largest Japanese life insurance company.
28 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Business review Operating review 30 Key risks and mitigations 34 Corporate responsibility 42 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 29
