Board of Directors The Board is accountable to shareholders for the creation and delivery of strong, sustainable, financial performance and long-term shareholder value.
It is responsible for the oversight of the management of the business and for ensuring high standards of corporate governance.
All Directors will stand either for election or re-election at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
Andrew Beeson Michael Dobson Luc Bertrand Chairman 69 Chief Executive 61 Senior Independent Director 63 Appointed Chairman in May 2012, having been Chief Executive since November 2001, having joined Appointed Senior Independent Director in May 2012, a non-executive Director since October 2004 and the Board as a non-executive Director in April 2001. having been a non-executive Director since March 2006. the Senior Independent Director from May 2010 to May 2012.
Experience: He was previously Chief Executive of Experience: He started his career with Bankers Trust Morgan Grenfell Group and a Member of the Board and held various corporate finance positions in New Experience: He was the Founder and Chief Executive ofManaging Directors of Deutsche Bank AG.
York, London and Amsterdam 1974-1980. of the Beeson Gregory Group and subsequently Chairman of Evolution Group plc, following its merger External appointments: Member of the FCA External appointments: He is Chief Executive of with Beeson Gregory.
He was a Founder Director of Practitioner Panel.
Ackermans & van Haaren N. V. an Independent IPGroup plc, and also founded what is now known Director ofING Belgium and a number of not-for-profit asthe Quoted Companies Alliance.
companies: Chairman of the Guberna Belgian Institute: Member of the Advisory Council of INSEAD Belgium: External appointments: None.
and Director of KU Leuven University of Leuven.
Committee membership: Chairman of the Committee membership: Member of the Nominations Nominations Committee.
Richard Keers Philip Mallinckrodt Massimo Tosato Chief Financial Officer 50 Group Head of Wealth Management 51 Executive Vice-Chairman and Global Head of Distribution 59 Appointed a Director and Chief Financial Officer Appointed a Director in January 2009, having joined inMay2013.
He will stand for election at the 2014 Schroders in 1994.
Appointed a Director in August 2001, having joined Annual General Meeting.
Experience: He started his career with Credit Suisse Experience: He is a chartered accountant and was First Boston.
He joined Schroders in 1994, and then Experience: He was a Founding Partner and Chief aSenior Audit Partner of  worked for Citigroup from 2000 to 2002.
He rejoined Executive Officer of Cominvest SpA.
and a Partner LLP PwC until May 2013.
He became a partner of Schroders in 2002. and Managing Director of Euromercantile SpA.
PwC in 1997 andhas 25 years experience in the HewasVice President of the European Fund and audits of global financial services groups.
His External appointments: Member of the International Asset Management Association.
experience includes timespentinPwCs New York, Advisory Council of the Brookings Institution.
External appointments: Member of the International Advisory Board of Columbia Business School and External appointments: None.
aTrustee of the Parasol unit foundation for contemporary art, London.
48 Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Ashley Almanza Robin Buchanan Lord Howard of Penrith Independent non-executive Director 50 Independent non-executive Director 61 Independent non-executive Director 68 Appointed a non-executive Director in August 2011.
Appointed a non-executive Director in March 2010.
Appointed a non-executive Director in November 2008.
Experience: He has held a number of executive Experience: He served as the Senior Partner of Bain Experience: He was previously the Deputy to the positions at BG Group including Executive &Company Inc. in the UK until 2007 and remains Chairman of Lehman in Europe until 1998 and was Vice President UK, Europe and Central Asia aSenior Adviser.
He was Dean and President of thePartner in charge of international fixed income and Chief Financial Officer from 2002 to 2011.
He was also Chairman of Tarchon He is a chartered accountant and holds an Capital Management LLP from 1998 until March 2013.
External appointments: Chairman of Michael Page International plc and a non-executive Director of External appointments: Chief Investment Officer External appointments: He is Chief Executive LyondellBasell Industries N. V. He is a Member of at Beazley plc.
Officer of G4S plc and a non-executive Director theInternational Advisory Council of Recipco and of Noble Corporation.
theRemuneration Committee of Coller Capital Ltd. Committee membership: Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Member of the Committee membership: Chairman of the Audit Committee membership: Member of the Nominations Nominations and the Audit and Risk Committees.
Member of the Nominations and the Audit and Risk Committees.
Nichola Pease Bruno Schroder Independent non-executive Director 52 Non-executive Director 81 Appointed a non-executive Director in September 2012.
Experience: She has 30 years experience in the Experience: He is the great-great-grandson of assetmanagement and stock broking industries.
John Henry Schroder, co-founder of the Schroders Mostrecently she was the Chief Executive and then businesses in 1804.
He joined the Schroder Group in Deputy Chairman of J O Hambro Capital Management London where he worked in the Commercial Banking Ltd. She was a Trustee and Chairman of the and Corporate Finance divisions of J. Henry Schroder Investment Committee and Member of the Audit Wagg & Co Ltd, London.
Committee of Guys and St. Thomas Charity.
External appointments: Director of a number External appointments: Non-executive Member of private limited companies.
oftheExecutive Committee of the Army Board and Chairman of the Army Independent Assurance Committee membership: Member of the Committee.
She is a Member of the Eton College Nominations Committee.
Committee membership: Member of the Nominations and the Audit and Risk Committees.
Merlyn Lowther and Kevin Parry also served on theBoard during 2013.
They stood down from the Board on 2 May 2013 and 5 May 2013 respectively.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2013 49
