Directors Report senior independent director.
The board considers the chairman Directors to be independent in character and judgement and therefore The companys policy on the appointment of directors is there is no reason for Douglas McDougall not to be a member shown on the companys website.
The UK Corporate Governance Code is available from the Financial Reporting Council The directors of the company on 31 October 2013 and their www.
uk biographical details are shown on page 5.
The performance of each director was appraised by the The board nomination committee during the year.
The chairmans The board normally meets eight times throughout the year while performance was appraised in his absence by the other the audit and remuneration committees meet three times each.
directors and the results were communicated to him.
The The nomination committee meets at least annually.
board believes that each director is independent of the management in character and judgement and there are There is a schedule of matters reserved for the board which no relationships with the company or its employees which includes investment strategy, accounting and financial might compromise this independence.
controls, dividends and announcements, capital structure, gearing and major contracts.
In accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors are standing for election or Day to day management, including the selection of investments, re-election at the AGM.
Douglas McDougall and Hamish Buchan is delegated to the companys executive management which have served as directors for more than nine years.
After formal reports directly to the board.
performance evaluation, the board confirms that Douglas McDougall and Hamish Buchan continue to perform effectively Prior to each board meeting, directors are provided with a and with great commitment, consequently it recommends their comprehensive set of papers giving detailed information on the re-election.
Francis Finlay retired from the board on 26 July 2013. companys transactions, financial position and performance.
James Will was appointed to the board on 1 May 2013 on the There is a procedure for directors to seek independent recommendation of the nomination committee.
No external professional advice at the expense of the company and agency was used in the selection process.
James Will stands for training is available to directors as required.
election at the AGM in accordance with the companys articles of association.
The Companies Act 2006 requires that a director of the company must avoid a situation in which he has, or might The appointments of Douglas McDougall and Hamish Buchan have, an interest that conflicts, or may conflict, with the as directors run for one year at a time.
James MacLeod interests of the company.
Each director submits a list of was appointed in September 2005 and Russell Napier was potential conflicts prior to each meeting.
The other board appointed in July 2009 each for initial terms of three years members consider these and recommend whether or not subject to their re-election by shareholders at the first AGM after each potential conflict should be authorised.
James MacLeods appointment was renewed arose during the year whereby an interest of a director in September 2008 and September 2011 and Russell Napiers conflicted with the interests of the company.
appointment was renewed in July 2012.
Directors letters of appointment will be available for inspection at the AGM.
The following table shows the attendance of directors at board and committee meetings for the year to 31 October 2013.
The company maintains insurance in respect of directors and officers liability in relation to their acts on behalf of the company.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination The companys articles of association provide that any director Number of meetings 8 3 3 2 or other officer of the company may be indemnified out of the Douglas McDougall 8 3 3 2 assets of the company against any liability incurred by him as a director or other officer of the company to the extent permitted Hamish Buchan 8 3 3 2 by law.
James MacLeod 8 3 3 2 Russell Napier 8 3 3 2 Corporate Governance Compliance James Will 4 2 1 1 The board has reviewed the principles set out in the UK Corporate Francis Finlay 4 1 n a 1 Governance Code and believes that the way the company is governed is consistent with these principles.
Throughout the year, Francis Finlay retired from the board and James Will was the company complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate appointed to the board during the year.
Francis Finlay attended Governance Code including section 1 except that: all meetings which he was eligible to attend with the exception there is no senior independent director: and of one board meeting and one audit committee meeting.
James the chairman is a member of the audit committee.
Will attended all meetings which he was eligible to attend.
The directors consider that, as all directors are independent and non-executive, there is no compelling case for having a Report & Accounts 2013 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 17 Directors Report continued Nomination committee Going concern There is a nomination committee comprising the whole board.
The accounts of the company have been prepared on a going The committee meets at least annually to review the structure, concern basis.
It is the opinion of the directors that, as most of size and composition of the board and is responsible for the companys assets are readily realisable and exceed its identifying and nominating candidates to fill board vacancies liabilities, it is expected that the company will continue in as and when they arise.
It has written terms of reference which operational existence for the foreseeable future.
are shown on the companys website.
Directors responsibilities Unless nominated by the board, a person nominated as The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report a director is not eligible for election at a general meeting unless and financial statements in accordance with applicable law a shareholder who is entitled to vote at the meeting gives the and regulations.
company secretary at least six clear days written notice of his intention to propose the relevant nominee for election, along United Kingdom company law requires the directors to prepare with a notice in writing signed by the nominee confirming his annual financial statements.
Under that law, the directors have willingness to be elected.
elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice Remuneration committee United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The board has appointed a remuneration committee to Under company law, the directors must not approve the recommend pay and conditions for the board and employees.
accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and It has written terms of reference which are shown on the fair view of the state of affairs of the company and of the returns companys website.
Further details of directors remuneration and cash flows for that year.
are included in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 21 and 22.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: The company aims to provide levels of employee remuneration select suitable accounting policies and then apply them which reward responsibility and achievement and are consistently: comparable with other fund management organisations make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and operating in Scotland.
prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been Every employee is entitled to a salary and other benefits followed subject to any material departures disclosed and including a contributory pension scheme.
In addition, there explained in the financial statements: and is a discretionary performance-related bonus scheme.
prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis For investment staff, bonuses payable depend, inter alia, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will on individual performance, the companys NAV total return continue in business.
and the NAV total return relative to comparator indices and peers.
For other staff, bonuses depend, inter alia, on individual The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting performance and share price total return.
Notice periods for records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys all members of staff range from three to twelve months.
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act Relations with shareholders 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of The company recognises the value of good communication the company and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention with its shareholders.
The management meets regularly with and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
private client stockbrokers and the companys major institutional shareholders.
The board receives regular briefings from the The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity companys broker.
Newsletters are sent to shareholders during of the corporate and financial information included on the the year and are posted on the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial The annual general meeting of the company is the main forum statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
at which shareholders can ask questions of the board and the management.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM and to vote on the resolutions which are contained in the Notice of Meeting on page 47 and which is posted to shareholders at least 21 days prior to the meeting.
Shareholders who cannot attend the AGM are encouraged to vote by proxy on the resolutions.
Proxy voting figures are given at the end of the meeting.
Any shareholder who wishes to ask a question at another time should write to the chairman.
18 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 Directors Report continued The audit committee has reviewed the matters within its terms Voting Policy of reference and reports as follows: The management reviews resolutions put to general meetings it has approved the financial statements for the year to of the companies in which it invests and, wherever practicable, 31 October 2013: will cast its vote, usually by proxy.
it has reviewed the effectiveness of the companys internal controls and risk management: Carbon Emissions it has reviewed the need for a separate internal audit function: The companys carbon emissions result predominantly from its it has recommended to the board that a resolution be consumption of electricity at its single office.
Using Defra proposed at the AGM for the reappointment of the external DECCs GHG conversion factors for company reporting 2013, auditor and it has considered the proposed terms of their emissions for the year to 31 July 2013 were 68.87 tonnes of CO e 2 engagement: 2012: 58.77 tonnes CO e. This equates to 0.16 tonnes of CO e 2 2 it has satisfied itself as to the independence of the external 2012: 0.14 tonnes of CO e per square metre.
2 auditor: and it has satisfied itself that the terms of the Strategic Report By order of the board are consistent with the financial statements.
Annual General Meeting Venue The companys 126th AGM will be held at The Royal College of Physicians of Edinburgh, 9 Queen Street, Edinburgh, EH2 1JQ Steven Hay on Friday 31 January 2014 at 10.30am.
Company Secretary 12 December 2013 Board recommendation The board considers that the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are all in the best interests of the company and of shareholders as a whole and recommends that shareholders vote in favour of them.
Resolutions 1 to 11 are self explanatory.
Resolution 12, set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting on page 47, seeks to renew the authority to repurchase shares until 30 April 2015.
The principal reasons for such repurchases are to enhance the NAV of the shares by repurchasing shares for cancellation at prices which, after allowing for costs, improve the NAV for remaining shareholders and to allow implementation of the companys share buyback policy.
Under the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the maximum price that may be paid on the exercise of the authority must not exceed the higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the shares as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange over the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and, ii the higher price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid.
The minimum price which may be paid is 25p per share.
Resolution 12 will be proposed as a special resolution that requires to be passed by a three-quarters majority of votes cast at the AGM.
Report & Accounts 2013 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 19
