Strategic Report the levels of gearing and gross gearing are monitored closely Status by the board and the manager.
The company applies a ceiling The company is a self-managed global growth investment trust and on gearing of 20%.
While gearing will be employed in a typical is an investment company within the meaning of the Companies range of 0% to 20%, the company retains the ability to lower Act 2006.
HM Revenue and Customs approved the company as an equity exposure to a net cash position if deemed appropriate: investment trust under Sections 1158 and 1159 of the Corporation the company has a policy not to invest more than 15% of total Taxes Act 2010 for accounting periods commencing on or after assets in other listed closed-ended investment funds: and 1 November 2012.
The company continues to satisfy the conditions the company may not make investments in respect of which for such approval.
there is unlimited liability except that the company may sell index futures for efficient portfolio management purposes.
Investment Objective and Policy The company carries on business as a global growth investment Investment policy implementation trust.
Its objective is to provide investors, over the longer term, with During the year under review, the assets of the company were above-average returns through a diversified portfolio of international invested in accordance with the companys investment policy.
equities and to achieve dividend growth ahead of UK inflation.
For details of how the companys absolute performance and relative performance compared to its comparator indices, In order to achieve this objective, the company invests in an please refer to the Management Review on pages 8 to 14. integrated global portfolio constructed through an investment process whereby assets are primarily allocated on the basis of the A full list of holdings is disclosed on page 16 and detailed analyses investment merits of individual stocks rather than those of regions, of the spread of investments by geographic region and industry sectors or themes.
sector are shown on pages 8, 9 and 15.
Further analyses of changes in asset distribution by industry and region over the year including The companys portfolio is actively managed and typically will contain the sources of appreciation and depreciation are shown on pages 70 to 120 listed international equity investments.
Attributions of NAV relative performance, by industry and widely diversified both by industrial sector and geographic location region, against a global equity index are shown on page 12. of investments in order to spread investment risk.
At the year-end, the number of listed holdings was 107.
The top ten Whilst performance is compared against major global and UK indices, holdings comprised 14.3% of total assets 2012: 16.2%.
the composition of indices has no influence on investment decisions or the construction of the portfolio.
As a result, it is expected that the Details of the extent to which the companys objective has been companys investment portfolio and performance may deviate from achieved and how the investment policy was implemented the comparator indices.
are provided in the Chairmans Statement on page 4 and the Management Review on pages 8 to 14.
Since the companys assets are invested globally and without regard to the composition of any index, there are no restrictions on maximum or minimum exposures to specific geographic regions, Additional limitations on borrowings industry sectors or unlisted investments.
However, such exposures Under the companys articles of association, the directors control are reported in detail to, and monitored by, the board at each board the borrowings of the company and its subsidiaries to ensure that meeting in order to ensure that adequate diversification is maintained.
the aggregate amount of borrowings does not, unless approved by an ordinary resolution of shareholders, exceed the aggregate of the Liquidity and long-term borrowings are managed with the aim reserves excluding unrealised capital profits of the company and of improving returns to shareholders.
In pursuing its investment its subsidiaries, as published in the latest accounts.
In addition, objective, from time to time the company will hold certain financial the directors are authorised to incur temporary borrowings in the instruments comprising equity and non-equity shares, fixed income ordinary course of business of up to 10% of the companys issued securities, interests in limited partnerships, structured products and share capital.
Such temporary borrowings are to be for no longer cash and liquid resources.
The company may use derivatives, other than six months.
than in relation to the sale of index futures, for hedging or tactical investment purposes.
The company may only sell index futures Principal risks and uncertainties for efficient portfolio management purposes.
For the avoidance of The principal risks and uncertainties facing the business are doubt, any derivative instrument may only be used with the prior as follows: authorisation of the board.
investment and market price risk: interest rate risk: The company has the ability to enter into contracts to hedge against liquidity risk: currency risks on both capital and income.
foreign currency risk: and credit risk.
The companys investment activities are subject to the following limitations and restrictions: These and other risks facing the company are reviewed regularly under the companys articles of association, up to 40% of by the audit committee and the board.
Further information is given the companys total assets on the last audited balance sheet in Note 17 to the accounts on pages 38 to 43. may be used to make investments of up to a maximum of 8% of the value of total assets in any one company, at the time the investment is made.
Thereafter, individual investments may not exceed 3% of the value of total assets, at the time the investment is made: 6 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic Report continued Performance Buybacks The companys buyback policy is intended to keep the discount Management provides the board with detailed information on the to ex-income NAV at or below 9%.
In calculating the NAV for the companys performance at every board meeting.
Performance purposes of the buyback policy, the companys borrowings are is measured in comparison with the companys peers and taken at their market value so as to ensure that future repurchases comparator indices.
of shares will take into account changes in the value of the borrowings brought about by movements in long-term interest Key Performance Indicators are: rates.
During the year ended 31 October 2013, the company bought NAV total return: back for cancellation a total of 1,878,000 shares representing 1.7% NAV total return against comparators: of shares in issue at 31 October 2012, at a cost of 10,139,000.
NAV and share price total return against peers: discount with debt at market value: dividend growth against UK inflation: and At the AGM on 25 January 2013 authority was granted to ongoing charges ratio.
repurchase up to 14.99% of shares in issue on that date.
The number of shares authorised for repurchase was 16,654,179.
Share buybacks from the date of the AGM to the companys year Dividends end amounted to 1,122,000 shares or 1.01 percentage points of The board may declare dividends, including interim dividends, but the 14.99% authority.
no dividend is payable except out of the companys revenue returns or in excess of the amount recommended by the directors.
Neither unrealised appreciation of capital assets nor realised profits arising Substantial Shareholdings from the sale of capital assets are available for dividend.
At 12 December 2013, the company had been notified of the following holdings in excess of 3% of its shares.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 6.80p and a special dividend of 1.80p per share, both are payable on 5 February 2014.
% of issue With the interim dividend of 4.80p already paid in July 2013, this at date of makes a total of 13.40p for the year.
Based on shares in issue at Shares notification 31 October 2013 the final dividend will cost 7,478,000, and the AXA Investment Managers SA 12,124,110 11.0 special dividend will cost 1,980,000.
The total dividend for the year will cost 14,782,000.
Lloyds Banking Group 6,346,524 5.1 Share Capital Socially Responsible Investing General When investments are made, the primary objective is to achieve the The company had 109,979,926 shares in issue on 31 October best investment return while allowing for an acceptable degree of 2013.
The rights attaching to shares in the company are set out risk.
In pursuing this objective, various factors that may impact on in the companys articles of association which may be amended the performance are considered and these may include socially by the passing of a special resolution of shareholders, that is, responsible investment issues.
by the approval of a majority of not less than 75% of votes cast.
The Financial Conduct Authority rules in relation to non-mainstream Companys Directors and Employees investment products do not apply to the Company.
The table below shows the breakdown of directors, senior managers and employees.
Rights to the capital of the company on winding up 2013 2012 Shareholders would be entitled to the assets of the company in the event of a winding up after the companys other liabilities had Male Female Male Female been satisfied.
Directors 5 0 5 0 Senior Managers 1 0 1 0 Voting Employees 11 10 12 10 On a show of hands, every shareholder present in person or by proxy has one vote and on a poll every member present in person or by proxy has one vote for each share.
The directors have considered the Annual Report and Accounts and believe that taken as a whole it is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for Deadlines for exercising voting rights shareholders to assess the companys performance and strategy.
If a shareholder wishes to appoint a proxy to attend, speak and vote at a meeting on his behalf, a valid appointment is made when the form of proxy together, where relevant, with a notarially certified copy of the power of attorney or other authority under which the form of proxy is signed is received by the companys registrar not less than 48 hours before the start of the meeting or the adjourned meeting at which the proxy is appointed to vote or, in the case of Douglas McDougall a poll taken more than 48 hours after it is demanded, no later than Chairman 24 hours before the time appointed for taking the poll.
In calculating 12 December 2013 these time periods, no account is taken of any day or part thereof that is not a working day.
Report & Accounts 2013 The Scottish Investment Trust PLC 7
