Directors and Managers Directors and Managers Members of the Board come from a broad variety of backgrounds.
The Board can draw on a very extensive pool of knowledge and experience.
Baillie Gifford & Co, a leading 8K investment management rm, who act as Managers and Secretaries to the Company have done so since its formation in 1909.
Directors JPHS Scott Professor JA Kay John Scott, the Chairman, is a former international John Kay has a distinguished record as an economist, investment banker who maintains a number of interests in academic, author and commentator on business, the investment trust sector.
-ohn was appointed a Director in government and economic issues.
-ohn was appointed a 2001 and became Chairman on 31 December 2009.
He is a Director in 2008, he is a Visiting Professor at the London School former executive director of Lazard Brothers & Co. Limited.
of Economics and Investment officer, Stohns College, During his twenty years with Lazard, he was involved with the 8niversity of Oxford.
He is a director of Law Debenture merchant banks corporate advisory activities and its Asian Corporation p. l. c. Value and Income Trust PLC and Audax businesses.
He is currently a director of various companies Properties PLC.
including Martin Currie Pacic Trust plc, -PMorgan Claverhouse Investment Trust plc, Schroderapan Growth Fund plc, Alternative Asset Opportunities PCC Limited and Impax Environmental Markets plc.
He is also chairman of Alpha Insurance Analysts.
MM Gray FC McBain Michael Gray, the Senior Independent Director, joined the Fiona McBain is chief executive of Scottish Friendly Board in 2004 after a successful career in printing and Assurance, a Glasgow based and mutually owned financial technology industries where he gained valuable global services group with over 500,000 policyholders.
As chairman and chief executive he led appointed a Director in 2009.
Before joining Scottish Friendly in the growth of McQueen International over a 17 year period as it 1998, Fiona, a chartered accountant, was employed by Prudential evolved from being a printing company into a global enterprise plc and Arthur Young now Ernst & Young where she spent some providing a range of support services to technology companies.
time working across a number of industry sectors, both in the 8K On McQueens acquisition, he became senior vice president of and in the 8nited States.
She is also a director of the Association Sykes Enterprise Inc. a global NASDAQ quoted outsourcing of Financial Mutuals.
He retired from Sykes in 1999 and has many business, community and sporting interests including being a member of the Advisory Board of The Winning Scotland Foundation.
06 Annual Report 2013 Directors and Managers Managers and Secretaries Scottish Mortgage is managed by Baillie Gifford & Co, an investment management rm formed in 1927 out of the legal rm Baillie & Gifford, WS, which had been Managers and Secretaries to the Company since its formation in 1909.
Baillie Gifford & Co is one of the largest investment trust managers in the 8K and currently manages eight investment trusts.
Baillie Gifford also manage unit trusts and Open Ended Investment Companies, together with investment portfolios on behalf of pension funds, charities and other institutional clients, both in the 8K and overseas.
Funds under the management or WG McQueen advice of Baillie Gifford total over 93 billion at 31 March 2013.
Gordon McQueen, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, Based in Edinburgh, it is one of the leading privately owned brings to the Board first class financial and banking investment management rms in the 8K, with 37 partners and a expertise, as a former finance director of the Bank of staff of over 700.
Gordon was appointed a Director in 2001.
8ntil 2003 The Manager of Scottish Mortgages portfolio isames Anderson, he was an executive director of HBOS plc, Bank of Scotland and a partner of Baillie Gifford, Head of Global Growth and a former Halifax plc, where his main role was chief executive, Treasury.
The Deputy Manager is Tom Slater, also is a director ofPMorgan Mid Cap Investment Trust plc, The a partner and a member of Baillie Giffords Global Growth Team.
Edinburgh Investment Trust plc and Shaftesbury PLC.
The rm of Baillie Gifford & Co is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Management Details Baillie Gifford & Co is appointed as investment managers and secretaries to the Company.
The management contract can be terminated at six months notice.
Management Fee Baillie Gifford & Cos annual remuneration is 0.32% of total assets less current liabilities excluding short term borrowings for investment purposes, calculated and payable on a quarterly basis.
Dr L Yueh Linda Yueh is an economist, broadcaster and author.
Linda was appointed to the Board in May 2012 and stood down on 31 March 2013 following her appointment with the BBC World News as Chief Business Correspondent, a Singapore based position.
A Fellow in Economics at Oxford 8niversity, Linda directs the China Growth Centre at St. Edmund Hall.
She is Adjunct Professor of Economics at the London Business School.
Linda is an associate of both the Globalisation Programme at the Centre for Economic Performance and of the International Affairs, Diplomacy & Strategy Research Centre.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 07
