Directors Report Directors Report The Directors present their Report together with the financial Exposures to any one entity are monitored regularly by the Board.
statements of the Company for the year to 31 March 2013.
At the time of investment the maximum exposure to any one holding is limited to 8% of total assets.
A maximum of 40% of Business Review total assets may be invested in holdings individually exceeding Business and Status 3% of total assets.
These two restrictions do not apply to investment in unit trusts or OEICs, investments by way of rights The Company is an investment company within the meaning of issues or certain government bonds.
The maximum permitted section 833 of the Companies Act 2006. investment in other UK listed investment companies in aggregate The Company carries on business as an investment trust.
approved as an investment trust under section 1158 of the Borrowings are invested in equity markets when it is believed that Corporation Tax Act 2010 for the year ended 31 March 2012, investment considerations merit the Company taking a geared subject to matters that may arise from any subsequent enquiry by position to equities.
Gearing levels, and the extent of equity HM Revenue and Customs into the Companys tax return.
In gearing, both in absolute terms and relative to the peer group, are accordance with recent changes to section 1158, the Company discussed by the Board and Managers at every Board meeting.
has obtained approval as an investment trust from HM Revenue & The portion of borrowings which is not invested in equities may Customs for accounting periods commencing on or after 1 April be invested in xed interest securities.
The Company intends to conduct its affairs so as to enable circumstances the Company will not take out additional it to comply with the ongoing requirements.
borrowings if, at the time of borrowing, this takes the level of Objective effective gearing beyond 130% with net asset value calculated Scottish Mortgage carries on business as an investment trust.
with borrowings at par value.
The investment objective is to maximise total return, whilst also The benchmark is a reference point for judging performance and generating real dividend growth, from a focused and actively emphatically is not a portfolio construction tool.
The portfolio does managed global portfolio.
The equity portfolio is relatively not set out to reproduce the index and there will be periods when concentrated and investments are chosen on their long term performance diverges signicantly from the benchmark.
merits rather than with reference to geographical asset allocation Performance against the benchmark is assessed primarily over a or the composition of an index.
The Company aims to achieve a five year rolling term.
greater return than the FTSE All-World Index in sterling terms Details of investment strategy and activity this year can be found over a five year rolling period.
in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 and 5 and the Investment Policy Managers Review on pages 8 to 13.
A detailed analysis of the Scottish Mortgage is a truly active fund and does not attempt to Companys investment portfolio is set out on pages 17 to 19. track its benchmark index.
Its objective is to maximise total return, Discount whilst also generating real dividend growth, from a focused and The Board recognises that it is in the long term interests of actively managed global portfolio.
Investments are chosen for shareholders to manage discount volatility and believes that the inclusion within the equity portfolio by looking closely at the merits prime driver of discounts over the longer term is performance.
of individual companies in a structured and rational fashion.
The Board does not have a formal discount target at which A global perspective is taken.
Asset allocation is the outcome of shares will be bought back as it believes that the announcement stock selection and not arrived at by making specic allocations of specic targets is likely to hinder rather than help the successful to regions, industries or sectors.
Achieving diversication is a execution of a buyback policy.
Future buybacks will be considered requirement when selecting investments but an unconstrained primarily by reference to the Companys discount relative to its approach is adopted and there are no xed limits set as to peers.
geographical, industry and sector exposure.
Levels of diversity During the year the Company bought back a total of 2,475,000 achieved are monitored by the Board on a regular basis.
shares, all of which are held in treasury, increasing net asset value The number of equity holdings will typically range between 50 and per share by 0.04%.
Between 1 April 2013 and the date of this 100 and are chosen from around the world.
report no further shares have been bought back.
A long term investment horizon is observed and little attention is Performance paid to short term market trends when deciding policy.
This At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of patient approach allows market volatility to be exploited to performance measures to assess the Companys success in shareholders long term advantage.
An average holding period for achieving its objectives.
investments of five years or more is targeted.
The key performance indicators KPIs used to measure the Investment may be made in xed interest securities, convertible progress and performance of the Company over time are securities, funds, unquoted entities and other assets based on established industry measures and are as follows: the individual investment cases.
With prior approval of the Board, the Company may use derivatives for the purpose of efficient the movement in net asset value per ordinary share after portfolio management i. e. for the purpose of reducing, deducting borrowings at fair value : transferring or eliminating investment risk in its investment, the movement in the share price: including protection against currency risk and for investment purposes.
The primary investment focus is on equity investments the movement of net asset value and share price performance compared to the Benchmark: predominantly with good liquidity.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 21 Directors Report the discount after deducting borrowings at fair value : Principal Risks and Uncertainties The Companys assets consist mainly of listed securities and its ongoing charges: principal risks are therefore market related and include market risk earnings per share: and comprising currency risk, interest rate risk and other price risk, dividend per share.
liquidity risk and credit risk.
An explanation of those risks and how they are managed is contained in note 22 to the financial The one, five and ten year records of the KPIs are shown on statements on pages 45 to 50. pages 1, 2, 3 and 20.
Other risks faced by the Company include the following: In addition to the above, the Board considers performance against other companies within the AIC Global Growth Sector.
Regulatory Risk t failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements could lead to suspension of the Results and Dividends Companys Stock Exchange Listing, financial penalties or a The net asset value per share after deducting borrowing at fair qualied audit report.
Breach of section 1158 of the Corporation value increased by 11.6% during the year, compared to an Tax Act 2010 could lead to the Company being subject to tax on increase in the benchmark of 13.8%: the discount was 4.1% at capital gains.
The Managers monitor investment positions and the 31 March 2013. level of forecast income and expenditure to ensure the provisions of section 1158 are not breached.
Baillie Giffords Business Risk & The Board recommends a final dividend of 7.30p per ordinary Internal Audit and Regulatory Risk Departments provide regular share which, together with the interim of 6.70p already paid, reports to the Audit Committee on Baillie Giffords monitoring makes a total of 14.00p for the year compared with 13.00p for programmes.
Major regulatory change could impose disproportionate If approved, the recommended final dividend on the ordinary compliance burdens on the Company.
In such circumstances shares will be paid on 1 -uly 2013 to shareholders on the register representation is made to ensure that the special circumstances at the close of business on 31 May 2013.
The ex-dividend date is of investment trusts are recognised.
Operational Financial Risk t failure of the Managers accounting The Companys Registrars offer a Dividend Reinvestment Plan systems or those of other third party service providers could lead see page 51 and the final date for elections for this dividend is to an inability to provide accurate reporting and monitoring or a 10 -une 2013. misappropriation of assets.
The Managers have a comprehensive Borrowings business continuity plan which facilitates continued operation of There are four debentures in issue, all of which are listed and the business in the event of a service disruption or major disaster.
quoted on the London Stock Exchange and details of which are The Board reviews the Managers Report on Internal Controls and given on pages 42 and 48 to 50.
In addition, multi-currency loan the reports by other key third party providers are reviewed by the facilities are in place which are also shown on page 42.
Managers on behalf of the Board.
During the year The Royal Bank of Scotland plc loan, which had Discount Volatility t the discount at which the Companys shares drawings of 61.0 million was repaid and a new two year 61.0 trade can widen.
The Board monitors the level of discount and million loan has been drawn down with The Royal Bank of the Company has authority to buy back its own shares.
Gearing Risk t the Company may borrow money for investment Since the year end the U$99 million loan with The Bank of New purposes.
If the investments fall in value, any borrowings will York Mellon has been repaid and replaced with a 100 million magnify the extent of this loss.
If borrowing facilities are not multi-currency facility with State Street Bank and Trust Company.
renewed, the Company may have to sell investments to repay borrowings.
Review of the Year and Future Trends All borrowings require the prior approval of the Board and gearing A review of the main features of the year and the investment levels are discussed by the Board and Managers at every outlook is contained in the Chairmans Statement and the meeting.
The majority of the Companys investments are in Managers Review on pages 4, 5 and 8 to 13 respectively.
quoted securities that are readily realisable.
Regulation Employees The Board has been in discussions with the Managers on how The Company has no employees.
The executive responsibility best to address the requirements of the Alternative Investment for investment management has been delegated to Baillie Gifford Fund Managers Directive an EU Directive.
This comes into law in & Co. -uly 2013 although the Company has untiluly 2014 to comply fully with the legislation.
The Directive requires the Company to Social and Community Issues appoint an Alternative Investment Fund Manager AIFM who will As an investment trust, the Company has no direct social or be responsible for portfolio and risk management and will be community responsibilities.
The Company, however, believes that regulated under the Directive.
Having taken external advice, it has it is in the shareholders interests to consider environmental, been agreed that Baillie Gifford is best positioned to act as the social and governance factors when selecting and retaining Companys AIFM.
Details of the Companys policy on socially responsible investment can be found under Corporate Governance and Stewardship on pages 25 and 26.
22 Annual Report 2013 Directors Report Appointments to the Board are made on merit with due regard for Corporate Governance the benets of diversity including gender.
The priority in appointing Compliance new directors is to identify the candidate with the best range of The Board is committed to achieving and demonstrating high skills and experience to complement existing Directors.
The standards of Corporate Governance.
This statement outlines how Board therefore does not consider it appropriate to set diversity the principles of theune 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code targets.
the Code, which can be found at www.
uk, were applied throughout the financial year.
Independence of Directors All the Directors are considered by the Board to be independent The Board confirms that the Company has complied throughout of the Managers and free of any business or other relationship the year under review with the relevant provisions of the Code that could interfere with the exercise of their independent except that the Chairman of the Board is a member of the Audit judgement.
The Board believes it is appropriate for MrPHS Scott to be a member of the Committee as he is considered to be MrPHS Scott, Mr MM Gray and Mr WG McQueen, have served independent and there are no conicts of interest.
on the Board for more than nine years.
The Directors recognise the value of progressive refreshing of, and succession planning The Association of Investment Companies has published its own for, company boards and the Boards composition is reviewed Code of Corporate Governance which provides a framework of annually.
However, the Board is of the view that length of service best practice for investment companies which can be found at will not necessarily compromise the independence or contribution www.
The Board is of the opinion that the Company of directors of an investment trust company, where continuity and has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code.
experience can be a benefit to the board.
The Board concurs with The Board the view expressed in the AIC Code that long-serving Directors The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys affairs.
should not be prevented from being considered as independent.
It has a number of matters reserved for its approval including Following formal performance evaluation, the Board has strategy, investment policy, currency hedging, borrowings, concluded that, notwithstanding their length of service, MrPHS gearing, share buy back policy, treasury matters, dividend and Scott, Mr MM Gray and Mr WG McQueen continue to corporate governance policy.
A separate meeting devoted to demonstrate independence of character and judgement and their strategy is held each year.
The Board also reviews the financial skills and experience are a benefit to the Board.
statements, investment transactions, revenue budgets and performance.
Full and timely information is provided to the Board Meetings to enable the Board to function effectively and to allow Directors There is an annual cycle of Board meetings which is designed to to discharge their responsibilities.
address, in a systematic way, overall strategy, review of investment policy, investment performance, marketing, revenue Following the retirement of Dr Linda Yueh on 31 March 2013 the budgets, dividend policy and communication with shareholders.
Board comprises five Directors, all of whom are non-executive.
The Board considers that it meets sufciently regularly to The Chairman is responsible for organising the business of the discharge its duties effectively.
The table below shows the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The attendance record for the Board and Committee Meetings held executive responsibility for investment management has been during the year.
The Annual General Meeting was attended by all delegated to the Companys Managers and Secretaries, Baillie Directors serving at that date.
Gifford & Co, and, in the context of a Board comprising only non-executive Directors, there is no chief executive officer.
Directors Attendance at Meetings Mr MM Gray is the Senior Independent Director.
Audit Nomination The Directors believe that the Board has a balance of skills and Board Committee Committee experience that enables it to provide effective strategic leadership Number of meetings 6 2 1 and proper governance of the Company.
Information about the Directors, including their relevant experience, can be found onPHS Scott 6 2 1 pages 6 and 7.
MM Gray 6 2 1 There is an agreed procedure for Directors to seek independent ProfessorA Kay 6 2 1 professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
FC McBain 6 2 1 WG McQueen 6 2 1 Appointments Dr L Yueh retired 31 March 2013 41 1 Letters which specify the terms of appointment are issued to new Directors.
The letters of appointment are available for inspection Nomination Committee on request.
The Nomination Committee consists of the independent nonUnder the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, a executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board is Chairman of Director appointed during the year is required to retire and seek the Committee.
The Committee meets on an annual basis and at election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
In such other times as may be required.
The Committee has written accordance with the Code all Directors offer themselves for terms of reference which include reviewing the Board, identifying re-election annually.
and nominating new candidates for appointment to the Board, Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 23 Directors Report Board appraisal, succession planning and training.
The Committee The Board confirms that there is a continuing process for also considers whether Directors should be recommended for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by re-election by shareholders.
The Committee is responsible for the Company in accordance with the guidance Internal Control: considering Directors potential conicts of interest and for making Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
recommendations to the Board on whether or not the potential The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of conicts should be authorised.
The terms of reference are available the Companys risk management and internal control systems on request from the Company and on the Companys pages of the and they have procedures in place to review their effectiveness on Managers website: www.
No significant weaknesses were identied in the year under review.
Performance Evaluation During the year the Board appointed Lintstock, a rm which assists The practical measures to ensure compliance with regulation and companies with the design and execution of board evaluations, to company law, and to provide effective and efficient operations facilitate the performance evaluation of the Chairman, each and investment management, have been delegated to the Director, the Board as a whole and its Committees.
Linstock has Managers and Secretaries, Baillie Gifford & Co, under the terms of no other connection with the Company or the Directors.
The practical measures in relation to provided questionnaires which were tailored to the specic needs the design, implementation and maintenance of control policies of the Company.
and procedures to safeguard the assets of the Company and to manage its affairs properly, including the maintenance of effective The questionnaires addressed, amongst other issues: operational and compliance controls and risk management have Board and Committee composition and expertise: also been delegated to Baillie Gifford & Co.
The Board acknowledges its responsibilities to supervise and control the Quality of Board documentation, administration and third party discharge by the Managers and Secretaries of their obligations.
relationships: Baillie Gifford & Cos Business Risk & Internal Audit and Trust oversight and priorities for change: and Regulatory Risk Departments provide the Board with regular Personal development.
reports on their monitoring programmes.
The reporting Each Director and the Chairman completed the questionnaires procedures for these departments are dened and formalised and the Chairman discussed feedback with each Director.
Baillie Gifford & Co conducts an annual review of its system of internal controls which is The appraisal of the Chairman was led by Mr MM Gray.
documented within an internal controls report which complies The results were considered by the Nomination Committee.
with ISAE 3402 and Technical Release AAF 01 06 t Assurance Following this process it was concluded that the performance of Reports on Internal Controls of Service Organisations made each Director, the Chairman, the Board and its Committees available to Third Parties.
This report is independently reviewed by continues to be effective and each Director and the Chairman Baillie Gifford & Cos auditor and a copy is submitted to the Audit remains committed to the Company.
A review of the Chairmans and other Directors commitments The Companys investments are segregated from those of Baillie was carried out and the Nomination Committee is satisfied that Gifford & Co and their other clients through the appointment they are capable of devoting sufficient time to the Company.
of The Bank of New York Mellon SA NV as independent custodian There was no increase in the overall level of the Chairmans other of the Companys investments.
The custodian prepares a report commitments during the year.
on its internal controls which is independently reviewed by KPMG LLP.
Induction and Training A detailed risk map is prepared which identies the significant New Directors are provided with an induction programme which is risks faced by the Company and the key controls employed to tailored to the particular circumstances of the appointee.
were provided during the year on industry and regulatory matters.
The Directors receive other training as necessary.
These procedures ensure that consideration is given regularly to the nature and extent of the risks facing the Company and that Remuneration they are being actively monitored.
Where changes in risk have As all the Directors are non-executive, there is no requirement for been identied during the year they also provide a mechanism to a separate Remuneration Committee.
Directors fees are assess whether further action is required to manage the risks considered by the Board as a whole within the limits approved by identied.
The Board confirms that these procedures have been in shareholders.
The Companys policy on remuneration is set out in place throughout the Companys financial year and continue to be the Directors Remuneration Report on page 29. in place up to the date of approval of this Report.
Internal Controls and Risk Management Internal Audit The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Companys The Audit Committee carries out an annual review of the need for risk management and internal control systems and for reviewing an internal audit function.
The Committee continues to believe their effectiveness.
The systems are designed to manage rather that the compliance and internal control systems and the internal than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives audit function in place within the Managers and Secretaries and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal against material misstatement or loss.
24 Annual Report 2013 Directors Report control, which safeguards shareholders investment and the KPMG Audit Plc KPMG is engaged as the Companys Auditor.
An internal audit function, Although the Auditor has been in place for over twenty five years, specic to the Company, is therefore considered unnecessary.
the audit partners responsible for the audit are rotated at least every five years in accordance with professional and regulatory Accountability and Audit standards in order to protect independence and objectivity and to The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the Auditor in provide fresh challenge to the business.
Ms Burnet, the current connection with the Financial Statements are set out on pages 30 partner, was appointed a year ago and will continue as partner and 31. until the conclusion of the 2016 audit.
Going Concern KPMG have confirmed that they believe they are independent within the meaning of regulatory and professional requirements In accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils guidance on and that the objectivity of the audit partner and staff is not going concern and liquidity risk, the Directors have undertaken a impaired.
KPMG also act as auditor to the Manager and Ms rigorous review of the Companys ability to continue as a going Burnet will take on the lead relationship partner role with Baillie concern.
A separate audit director is responsible for The Companys principal risks are market related and include the Baillie Gifford audit and KPMG have outlined the procedures market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
An explanation of these that would be put in place in the unlikely event that a conict of risks and how they are managed is contained in note 22 to the interest should arise.
The Committee is satisfied with the Auditors financial statements.
The Companys assets, the majority of which independence.
Non-audit fees for the year to 31 March 2013 are investments in quoted securities which are readily realisable, were 660 and related to the certication of financial information exceed its liabilities signicantly.
The Board approves borrowing for the debenture trustees and 1,663 in relation to the provision limits and reviews regularly the amount of any borrowings and of Indian Tax services.
The Committee does not believe that this compliance with banking covenants.
Accordingly, the financial has impaired the Auditors independence.
statements have been prepared on the going concern basis as it Having considered the experience and tenure of the audit partner is the Directors opinion that the Company will continue in and staff and the nature of the services provided the Committee operational existence for the foreseeable future.
remains satisfied with the Auditors effectiveness.
The Board is Audit Committee therefore recommending that KPMG be reappointed for 2013 14.
An Audit Committee has been established consisting of all The Committee has noted the amendments to the UK Corporate Directors.
Its authority and duties are clearly dened within its Governance Code and, in particular, the recommendation to put written terms of reference, which are available on request from the the external audit contract out to tender at least every ten years.
Company and on the Companys pages of the Managers In accordance with the FRC guidance the Committee will consider website: www.
As the Board believes undertaking a tender process to coincide with the five year that MrPHS Scott is independent and that there are no conicts rotation cycle of the current partner Ms Burnet.
There are no of interest, the Board considers it appropriate for him to be a contractual obligations restricting the Committees choice of member of the Audit Committee.
Mr WG McQueen is Chairman external auditor.
The Committees responsibilities which were discharged during the year include: Relations with Shareholders The Board places great importance on communication with monitoring and reviewing the integrity of the half-yearly and shareholders.
The Companys Managers meet regularly with annual financial statements and any formal announcements institutional shareholders and report shareholders views to the relating to the Companys financial performance: Board.
The Chairman is available to meet with shareholders as reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of internal control appropriate.
Shareholders wishing to communicate with any and risk management systems: members of the Board may do so by writing to them at the making recommendations to the Board in relation to the Companys registered ofce.
appointment of the external auditor and approving the The Companys Annual General Meeting provides a forum for remuneration and terms of their engagement: communication with all shareholders.
The level of proxies lodged developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the for each resolution is announced at the Meeting and is published external auditor to supply non-audit services: on the Companys pages of the Managers website: www.
com subsequent to the meeting.
The reviewing and monitoring the independence, objectivity and notice period for the Annual General Meeting is at least twenty effectiveness of the external auditor: working days.
reviewing the arrangements in place within Baillie Gifford & Co Shareholders and potential investors may obtain up-to-date whereby its staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about information on the Company from the Companys pages of the possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other Managers website: www.
matters insofar as they may affect the Company: reviewing the terms of the Investment Management Corporate Governance and Stewardship Agreement: and The Company has given discretionary voting powers to the Investment Managers, Baillie Gifford & Co.
The Managers vote considering annually whether there is a need for the Company against resolutions they consider may damage shareholders to have its own internal audit function.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 25 Directors Report The Company believes that it is in the shareholders interests to the long term, it is the opinion of the Directors that the continuing consider environmental, social and governance ESG factors appointment of Baillie Gifford & Co as Managers, on the terms when selecting and retaining investments and have asked the agreed, is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
Managers to take these issues into account as long as the Directors Interests investment objectives are not compromised.
The Managers do not exclude companies from their investment universe purely on Ordinary 25p Ordinary 25p the grounds of ESG factors but adopt a positive engagement Nature shares held at shares held at Name of interest 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 approach whereby matters are discussed with management with the aim of improving the relevant policies and managementPHS Scott beneficial 43,808 40,284 systems and enabling the Managers to consider how ESG factors MM Gray beneficial 150,000 150,000 could impact long term investment returns.
The Managers Non-beneficial 12,500 12,500 Statement of Compliance with the UK Stewardship Code can be ProfessorA Kay beneficial 5,000 5,000 found on the Managers website at www.
The FC McBain beneficial 1,158 1,136 Managers policy has been reviewed and endorsed by the Board.
WG McQueen beneficial 1,500 1,500 The Managers are signatories of the United Nations Principles for Dr L Yueh retired Responsible Investment and the Carbon Disclosure Project.
31 March 2013 beneficial 1,378 t Conicts of Interest The Directors at the year end, and their interests in the Company, Each Director submits a list of potential conicts of interest to the were as shown above.
There have been no changes intimated in the Nomination Committee on an annual basis.
The Committee Directors interests up to 9 May 2013. considers these carefully, taking into account the circumstances surrounding them, and makes a recommendation to the Board on Directors whether or not the potential conicts should be authorised.
Board Dr L Yueh, having been appointed to the Board on 3 May 2012, authorisation is for a period of one year.
Having considered the retired on 31 March 2013. lists of potential conicts there were no situations which gave rise All other Directors will retire at the Annual General Meeting and to a direct or indirect interest of a Director which conicted with offer themselves for re-election.
the interests of the Company.
Following formal performance evaluation, the Board considers Bribery Act 2010 that the performance of the Directors continues to be effective The Company has a zero tolerance policy towards bribery and is and each remains committed to the Company.
Their contribution committed to carrying out business fairly, honestly and openly.
to the Board is greatly valued and the Board recommends their The Managers also adopt a zero tolerance approach and have re-election to shareholders.
policies and procedures in place to prevent bribery.
Director indemnification and Insurance Investment Managers The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity in favour of The Board as a whole fulls the function of the Management each of its Directors.
The deeds cover any liabilities that may arise Engagement Committee.
An Investment Management Agreement to a third party, other than the Company, for negligence, default or between the Company and Baillie Gifford & Co sets out the breach of trust or duty.
The Directors are not indemnified in matters over which the Managers have authority in accordance respect of liabilities to the Company, any regulatory or criminal with the policies and directions of, and subject to restrictions fines, any costs incurred in connection with criminal proceedings imposed by, the Board.
The notice period for terminating the in which the Director is convicted or civil proceedings brought by Management Agreement is six months.
Careful consideration has the Company in which judgement is given against him her.
In been given by the Board as to the basis on which the addition, the indemnity does not apply to any liability to the extent management fee is charged.
The Board considers that that it is recovered from another person.
maintaining a low total expense ratio ongoing charges is in the The Company maintains Directors and Ofcers liability insurance.
best interests of all shareholders as lower costs mean higher returns, particularly when compounded over long periods.
The Major Interests in the Companys Shares Board is also of the view that calculating the fee with reference to No.
of ordinary performance would be unlikely to exert a positive influence over 25p shares held the long term performance.
Details of the fee arrangements with at 31 March % of Baillie Gifford & Co are shown on page 37.
Name 2013 issue The Board considers the Companys investment management BlackRock Inc Indirect 21,361,299 8.5 and secretarial arrangements on a continuing basis and a formal D. C. Thomson & Company Limited Direct 12,050,000 4.8 review is conducted annually.
The Board considers, amongst Investec Wealth & Investment Limited Indirect 10,045,268 4.0 others, the following topics in its review: the quality of the personnel assigned to handle the Companys affairs: the There have been no changes to the major interests in the Companys investment process and the results achieved to date: the shares intimated up to 9 May 2013. administrative services provided by the Secretaries and the Ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury shares.
marketing efforts undertaken by the Managers.
Following the most recent review and the good performance particularly over 26 Annual Report 2013 Directors Report Shares will only be re-sold from treasury at or at a premium to Share Capital the net asset value per ordinary share.
Capital Structure Treasury shares do not receive distributions and the Company will The Companys capital structure as at 31 March 2013 consists of not be entitled to exercise the voting rights attaching to them.
284,346,176 ordinary shares of 25p each, of which 251,144,897 are allotted and fully paid and 33,201,279 are held in treasury.
The Directors are seeking shareholders approval at the Annual There are no restrictions concerning the holding or transfer of the General Meeting to renew the authority to purchase up to 14.99% Companys ordinary shares and there are no special rights of the Companys ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury attached to any of the shares.
shares at the date of the passing of the resolution, such authority to expire at the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be Dividends held in 2014.
Such purchases will only be made at a discount to The ordinary shares carry a right to receive dividends.
Interim the prevailing net asset value.
Any such shares purchased shall dividends are determined by the Directors, whereas the proposed either be cancelled or held in treasury.
Under the Listing Rules of final dividend is subject to shareholder approval.
the UK Listing Authority of the Financial Conduct Authority, the maximum price exclusive of expenses that may be paid on the Capital Entitlement exercise of the authority shall be an amount equal to the higher of: On a winding up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the surplus assets will be paid to ordinary shareholders in proportion i 5 per cent above the average closing price on the London to their shareholdings.
Stock Exchange of an ordinary share over the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and Voting ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the Each ordinary shareholder present in person or by proxy is highest current independent bid as stipulated by Article 5 1 of entitled to one vote on a show of hands and, on a poll, to one Commission Regulation EC 22 December 2003 vote for every share held.
implementing the Market Abuse Directive as regards Information on the deadlines for proxy appointments can be exemptions for buy back programmes and stabilisation of found on pages 56 and 57. financial instruments No.
Purchase of Own Shares The minimum price again exclusive of expenses that may be paid will be 25p per share.
Purchases of shares will be made During the year to 31 March 2013 the Company bought back within guidelines established, from time to time, by the Board.
The 2,475,000 ordinary shares nominal value 619,000 representing Company does not have any warrants or options in issue.
Your 1.0% of the called up share capital, excluding treasury shares, at attention is drawn to Special Resolution 11, in the Notice of 31 March 2012, on the London Stock Exchange, all of which are Annual General Meeting.
The total consideration for these shares was 20,767,000.
Between 1 April 2013 and the date of this report no This authority, if conferred, will be exercised only if to do so would further shares have been bought back.
At 31 March 2013 the result in an increase in net asset value per ordinary share for the Company held 33,201,279 treasury shares.
remaining shareholders and if it is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
The principal reasons for such share buy backs are: i to manage imbalances between the supply of and the Authority to Allot Shares and Disapply Pre-emption demand for the Companys shares which may exacerbate any Rights discount of the quoted market price to the published net Resolution 12, which is being proposed as a special resolution, asset value per share: and seeks to give the Directors power to sell ordinary shares held in ii to enhance net asset value for continuing shareholders by treasury see above for cash up to a maximum of 6,278,622 in purchasing shares at a discount to the prevailing net asset aggregate representing 10% of the issued ordinary share capital value.
excluding treasury shares of the Company as at 9 May 2013 without first being required to offer such shares to existing The shares in question were purchased at a price after allowing shareholders pro rata to their existing holdings.
for costs below the net asset value.
As a result of such purchases the net asset value per share of the Company has This power will last until the conclusion of the Annual General increased by approximately 0.04%.
The current authority of the Meeting of the Company to be held in 2014.
Company to make market purchases of up to 14.99% of the The Directors consider that the power proposed to be granted by issued ordinary shares excluding treasury shares expires at the Resolution 12 is advantageous should the shares trade at a end of the Annual General Meeting.
premium to net asset value and natural liquidity is unable to meet Resolution 11, which is being proposed as a special resolution, demand.
The Directors do not intend to use this power to sell seeks to renew the Companys authority to make market shares on a non pre-emptive basis at a discount to net asset value.
purchases of its own ordinary shares for cancellation or to be held At 9 May 2013 the Company held 33,201,279 treasury shares, in treasury.
The Company may hold bought back shares in representing 13.2% of the ordinary shares in issue excluding treasury and then: treasury shares.
a sell such shares or any of them for cash or its equivalent The Directors believe that granting the power to sell treasury under the 2006 Act : or shares in the above circumstances is in the best interests of b cancel such shares or any of them.
shareholders as a whole and recommend that shareholders vote in favour of the resolution.
Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 27 Directors Report Recommendation The Board unanimously recommends you to vote in favour of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Creditor Payment Policy It is the Companys payment policy for the forthcoming financial year to obtain the best terms for all business.
In general, the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on which business will take place and it is its policy to abide by these terms.
The Company had no trade creditors at 31 March 2013 or 31 March 2012.
Disclosure of Information to the Auditor The Directors who held ofce at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditor is unaware and the Directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
Independent Auditor The Auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, is willing to continue in ofce and, in accordance with section 489 and section 491 i of the Companies Act 2006, resolutions concerning their reappointment and remuneration will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Boardohn Scott Chairman 10 May 2013 28 Annual Report 2013
