Managers Review Managers Review We made few changes to your portfolio in 2012 13.
We still own all of the top thirty holdings of a year ago.
Market movements accounted for the bulk of the changes in the rankings of these stocks.
Overall turnover has been little over 10%.
Whilst equity markets have generally moved forward over the year it has been a frustrating period for patient investors looking for strongly growing companies.
Our approach will not change but there is little sign that the markets are willing to abandon their preoccupation with alternating waves of macroeconomic and political hope followed by renewed angst.
In the terrible but revealing jargon of our time this is presented as risk on or risk off with risk dened as short term share price volatility.
Any serious assessment of the long-run competitive prospects of individual companies appears unlikely at the current juncture.
Whilst our portfolio is built upon the attractions of individual This has made China fertile ground for the superb business model companies we think that the opportunities available to us are in of Inditex in which we now have a larger holding.
In such ways turn moulded by the dominant forces in the global economy.
For does the Chinese consumer aid even the rural economy of several years now we have believed that three factors are bedraggled Spain.
especially critical: The rise of China and to a lesser extent other emerging economies.
The underestimated power of structural technological change.
The aws of the Western financial system.
We see no imminent reason to amend this framework.
Our Core Investment Beliefs as set out in last years Review are reiterated in the section following the California Note.
China It is on this topic that we nd ourselves most out of sympathy with current market sentiment.
The disdain shown to Chinese equities wherever they may be listed is but part of a sustained and continuing antipathy towards the stocks of all the major emerging PPR markets.
Brazil, Russia and India have been similarly unpopular.
A luxury goods company, a beneciary of Chinese consumer consumption.
This is an extraordinary contrast with the mood five years ago when the BRIC countries were perceived to be the saviours of the global economy.
Whilst we share some disillusion with the current We remain most excited by the opportunities surrounding the progress of Brazil, India and Russia we have long believed that Chinese internet.
This was the specic area in which we have China is in a class apart.
This conviction has grown rather than been most out of step with the market mood in the last year.
In shrunk over the last year.
Growth has migrated from exports to particular Baidus share price has been extremely weak.
As it domestic demand and from the coasts to the underdeveloped began the year as our largest holding this has obviously had a heartlands.
Wages have risen as has productivity.
Ination is substantial impact on our NAV.
We do not intend to retreat from subdued.
Naturally further progress is needed in several areas our belief in the company and its management.
Baidu has been from corruption to pollution but the underlying transformation has investing heavily in replicating its dominance of desktop search in been impressive.
We cannot expect China to grow at 10% per the booming mobile business.
This seems to us to be very annum as it has in the past.
We do not want it to do so with the sensible.
It has been characteristic of the last year that equity dramatic export surpluses of that era.
The current trend of 7% markets are deeply intolerant of any investment spending by growth and burgeoning import demand contribute far more to the companies that crimp immediate profit growth.
We nd this both health of the global economy than the unbalanced and immature remarkably short term even by recent standards and deeply boom of the past.
disturbing in its implications for corporate behaviour and the The future drivers of the Chinese economy are reected in the global economy.
In the course of the year we have participated in portfolio.
As imports have grown we have maintained significant a placing of unquoted convertible preference shares in Alibaba.
exposure to international companies that have the skills and vision This is Chinas dominant e-commerce enterprise.
On its peak to enable them to ourish in China.
PPRs luxury goods have been trading day last year Alibabas gross merchandise volumes ran at a major beneciary of the conspicuous consumption of the newly double that of the entire 8S e-commerce sector on Cyber wealthy Chinese consumer but broad gains in disposable income Monday.
Alibaba too will continue to invest fearlessly and have opened up prospects for classic middle class purchases.
Its reticence about a full IPO reects both this characteristic and its strong cash-ows.
08 Annual Report 2013 Managers Review Technology We are appending a note by Tom Slater describing his extended stay in Silicon Valley last autumn.
It describes areas of potential interest in the future.
It may be worth adding a few words on The greatest current developments.
Here too the dominant characteristic is encouragement of the year has been extreme impatience and intolerance of even the most modest and the continued temporary halt in earnings gratication.
Thus we have seen the progress in rise and dramatic fall of Apple with a loss approaching $300bn in genomic science.
capitalization over the last seven months although it is hard to see that future prospects have changed substantively.
Such a pattern has been replicated from the high-prole lurches in Facebooks share price to similar but less heavily observed gyrations in cloud-computing company Rackspace.
The only surprise is that Amazon has thus far avoided such dramatic share price swings albeit with quite sufficient volatility around results.
This is remarkable as Amazon is more dedicated to the pursuit of much deferred rewards than any other quoted company in our experience.
It is possible that it has a shareholder base that tries to match this pleasing perspective.
The greatest encouragement of the year has been the continued progress in genomic science.
Prices for sequencing continue to plunge, diagnostic improvements are following and gradually health systems and pharmaceutical behemoths are adjusted to a new world.
Illumina continues to lead this technology.
We are pleased it has preserved its independence.
Western Financial Flaws There is little sign that banks have become less complex, less greedy or less dangerous.
Conclusion Regulatory changes have been piecemeal and hardly Although the last 12 months have seen a modest improvement in distinguished by their own simplicity.
All we are left with is the stock markets the atmosphere remains acutely nervous and hope that the combination of the savage lesson of 2008 9 and a confidence low.
Only those stocks and those countries perceived gradual push for more equity within the banks has dampened the to be the safest and most stable have enjoyed consistent rallies.
Even in America politics and economic data points continue to Over the last year more attention has been paid to the aws of fray emotions.
The corporate sector has as yet proven unwilling to government nances than those of banks.
At times conventional re-invest its extraordinary cash riches t perhaps unsurprisingly interpretations appeared lacking in common sense.
It has always given the suspicion investors have shown when any such seemed improbable that the ECB and Germany were willing to ambitions have been mooted.
At the same time prior optimism walk away from the continued existence of the euro.
That it was about emerging markets has been leeched away by the drip-drip believed to be so appears to us to owe more to the lurid of underperformance and redemptions.
Yet all this seems to imaginings of the London establishment than to serious analysis.
America is recovering t Equally it is becoming increasingly probable that the gospel of however inelegantly.
The risk of extreme outcomes in Europe has austerity that has so appealed to so many in conservative financial been shown to be lower than once feared.
China has transformed and political sectors is self-defeating in practice.
That it appears itself and in doing so assisted the global economy.
Above all there historically and evidentially questionable is becoming increasingly are truly great, growing and sustainable companies available to us obvious.
Structural reform accompanied by the pursuit of growth at alluring prices.
rather than consolidation appears the appropriate policy in almost all the developed world.
-ames Anderson Manager of Scottish Mortgage 10 May 2013 Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 09 Managers Review Alibaba Group Chinas dominant e-commerce enterprise.
Tencent Atlas Copco Tencents WeChat logo.
Intuitive Surgical Inditex Continued advance in diagnostic Zara High Street Store.
technology and robotic surgery techniques.
2012 Intuitive Surgical, Inc. Our portfolio is built upon the attractions of individual companies.
10 Annual Report 2013 Managers Review California Note The model of capitalism that exists on the West Coast of the United States has produced several of the largest holdings in our portfolio.
I spent the autumn there visiting existing holdings, thinking about the emerging technologies and meeting early stage companies that may become significant in future years.
Despite the efforts of many imitators, the San Francisco Bay Area distributing their products.
It seems very unlikely that there will be remains the most important centre for the generation and growth any let-up in the assault on high-street retail anytime soon.
The influence of such companies Payments is increasing rapidly in both geographic reach and economic A variety of venture-funded companies are seeking to reinvent the impact.
The personal computer reached the upper income tier of way we pay for goods and services.
The underlying idea is that if the developed world.
Over the coming decade, computers in the mobile computing devices become widespread, consumers may form of smartphones are likely to be in the hands of billions of use online methods to pay for goods in the ofine world.
This level of ubiquity transforms the opportunity set for would be attractive to retailers as it would give them more those that can harness the technology.
It is not just the scale of information about their customers and allow them to better target this change that is impressive.
The way consumers access their advertising budget.
However, the user experience of swiping internet services is moving at astonishing speed.
It is plausible a payment card is straightforward and well understood.
To that within the next two years the majority of access will be from change behaviour, the key will be providing sufficient incentive.
Several ideas are being pursued, the most promising of which Today in the Western world there are four dominant platforms in seems to me to be the elimination of physical checkout and the the consumer internet: Amazon, Google, Facebook and Apple.
Through our holding in eBay we We currently own shares in all of them.
Whilst a lot is written in the currently have exposure to the largest online payments business media about the skirmishes between these companies, it appears in the world, PayPal.
This is a remarkable business which has to us that their core businesses encounter limited competition.
continued to grow rapidly despite its already significant scale and They are growing rapidly.
Their management teams have thus far a relatively lackluster pace of product development.
The huge been highly successful in navigating the shift towards mobile investment in infrastructure that has been required to get PayPal access and it seems no coincidence that three of the four are run to its current base of 120m users in 190 countries now represents by their founders.
From IBM to Microsoft to Hewlett Packard to a significant asset and a major hurdle for new players.
Following a Intel it is striking that long periods of dominance in technology change in leadership there seems to be a marked acceleration in have coincided with the reigns of founder-managers.
In the the pace of product development at PayPal.
This leaves it well consumer internet in particular, having a CEO who is very close to placed to benefit from future growth in its addressable market product development seems likely to be a critical factor as user despite the emergence of new and innovative competition.
behaviour continues to evolve so quickly.
Enterprise Spending time with some of the areas venture capitalists provided The technologies that have been created by the recent wave of a perspective on some of the most interesting areas of early stage innovation in consumer internet are being adapted and developed investment.
In general the companies they are investing in build on for the enterprise marketplace.
The latest consumer websites are top of the big four consumer platforms.
This allows them to driven by software architecture and interfaces that have great minimise development costs and also to acquire users rapidly.
Whilst most of the existing Instagram, a mobile photo sharing service recently acquired by enterprise software companies are built around providing systems Facebook, provides an example.
Prior to acquisition, its user base of record in areas such as accounting or human resources, the grew from 10m people to 30m in six months.
It served these users next generation of businesses are utilising the data that exists with just 13 employees and a modest amount of capital.
This outside of such a structured environment.
Inexpensive storage prole isnt unusual for a breakthrough consumer internet service.
techniques mean that huge volumes of data can be retained and E-commerce the technologies to make the most of this information are starting E-commerce remains an area of active interest for early stage to emerge.
Typically, Amazon has been at the forefront of funding and new business models are emerging.
However there understanding the implications of these changes.
It is now seems little that might challenge the dominance of Amazon in the commonplace for new technology companies to outsource their distribution of any item with a universal product code.
Amazons computing infrastructure to Amazon rather than investing in reputation for investing large sums of money over long periods of servers or data centres.
Similarly, Rackspace is rapidly becoming time in order to reinforce its dominance has informed the the worlds largest IT department providing an outsourced service behaviour of the venture capital community, which is unwilling to for those companies that no longer want such distractions.
Instead the new generation of The historic core functions of enterprise software are also being e-commerce companies are nding other ways to serve challenged by companies employing more modern approaches.
They are designing and sourcing their own goods.
Workday was founded in 2005 by the former management of Often they are collapsing inefficient legacy supply chains by Peoplesoft and listed on the stock market recently.
Its centrallycutting out intermediate layers.
They are re-inventing physical hosted software is accessed via a webpage to deliver accounting retail merchandising online and developing alternative ways of and human resources systems.
Centralisation allows for much Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 11 Managers Review greater efficiency.
Because all users are running the latest version Electricity Consumption of the software, support costs are lowered and development Whilst much of the innovation we invest in is implemented by cycles are shortened.
com has achieved a similar feat software companies, there are exceptions.
The efficiency with in customer relationship management and is trying to broaden the which computers use electrical power has been doubling every application of its software to manage online marketing.
eighteen months for the past sixty years equating to a 100-fold improvement every decade.
It is this progress that has enabled laptop computing and subsequently the smartphone market.
If a modern-day MacBook Air operated at the energy efficiency of computers from 1991, its fully charged battery would last 2.5 seconds.
In recent years, the contribution of one of our holdings, ARM, to microprocessor designs has been increasingly important to this trend.
Its designs are used in over 90% of mobile phone handsets as they offer the best trade-offs between performance and power consumption.
Their technology continues to drive down power requirements and the implications of this progress continuing are fascinating.
University laboratories are already producing sensors that use 60 microwatts when active.
In metropolitan areas, this amount of power can be harvested from ambient radio and TV signals.
Without the need for batteries you get sensors that run indefinitely.
Such distributed computing power could signicantly reduce our energy consumption by Electricity r using existing resources to increase efficiency.
increasing the efficiency with which we use existing resources.
We are continually trying to improve our investment approach.
Whilst we base ourselves in Edinburgh, in part to get away from Healthcare the noise and compulsion to act that are present in major financial Healthcare seems like an industry ripe for disruption through centres, spending time in the parts of the world that are innovative technology.
However the regulatory environment and producing great companies is a fabulous opportunity to learn.
We unionised workforce are off-putting to the venture capitalist are told by the efficient market theorists that future outcomes are community, which creates a difficult funding environment for down to chance and the best we can hope for is to diversify our start-ups.
Whilst Intuitive Surgical is nominally a healthcare portfolio.
Engaging with the entrepreneurs who are out there company, it is headquartered in Silicon Valley, its research and creating value by building new companies reveals a very different development is lead by an engineer, not a doctor, and its robots view of the world.
They dont leave things to the chance run over a million lines of software code.
To date, these outcomes of normal distributions and believe that they must build instruments have employed articial intelligence to recreate open the future for themselves.
Most will fail experimentation and surgery using minimally invasive techniques.
The future might look failure is a badge of honour but the returns that accrue to the quite different.
Developments in diagnostic technology mean that winners can be very large.
Our belief is that by developing our clinical targets will get smaller.
Targeting nerves or vessels will knowledge of the potential winners at an earlier stage of their require precision beyond the abilities of most human surgeons.
development cycle we will be able to do a better job at investing Equally the ability to distinguish between different tissue types can in them for our shareholders in the future.
be beyond the scope of the human eye and new visualisation techniques are required.
Over the coming decade we should anticipate that these technologies will expand the realm of what is Tom Slater surgically possible.
Deputy Manager of Scottish Mortgage 10 May 2013 12 Annual Report 2013 Managers Review Our Core Investment Beliefs Whilst fund managers claim to spend much of their careers assessing the competitive advantage of companies they are notoriously reluctant to perform any such analysis on themselves.
The tendency is to cite recent performance as evidence of skill despite the luck, randomness and mean-reverting characteristics of most such data.
If this does not sufce then attention turns to a discussion of the high educational qualications, hard work and exotic remuneration packages that the fund manager enjoys.
Sometimes the procedural details of the investment process are outlined with heavy emphasis on risk controls.
Little attention is given to either the distinctiveness of the approach or the strategic advantages the manager might enjoy in order to make imitation improbable.
We think we should try to do better than this.
We are long term in our investment decisions.
It is only over periods of at least five years that the competitive advantages We are Growth stock investors.
and managerial excellence of companies becomes apparent.
It is these characteristics that we want to identify and support.
We own companies rather than rent shares.
We do not regard sufficient confidence in our top-down asset allocation skills to ourselves as experts in forecasting the oscillations of wish to override stock selection.
We do not have enough economies or the mood swings of markets.
Indeed we think confidence in our market timing abilities to wish to add or that it is hard to excel in such areas as this is where so many remove gearing at frequent intervals.
We do, however, have market participants focus and where so little of the value of strong conviction that our portfolio should be comparatively companies lies.
Equally Baillie Gifford is more likely to possess concentrated, and that it is of little use to shareholders to tinker competitive advantages for the good of shareholders when it around the edges of indices.
We think this produces better adopts a long term perspective.
We are a 100 year old investment results and it certainly makes us more committed Scottish partnership.
We think about our own business over shareholders in companies.
We suspect that selecting stocks decades not quarters.
Such stability may not be exciting but it on the basis of the past their current market capitalization is a does encourage patience in this most impatient of industries.
policy designed to protect the security of tenure of asset We only judge our investment performance over five year plus managers rather than to build the wealth of shareholders.
In truth it takes at least a decade to provide Companies that are large and established tend to be internally adequate evidence of investment skill.
They are often vulnerable to assault by more ambitious and vibrant newcomers.
The investment management industry is ill-equipped to deal with the behavioural and emotional challenges inherent in We are Growth stock investors.
Such has been the preference todays capital markets.
Our time frame and ownership for Value and the search to arbitrage away minor rating structure help us to ght these dangers.
We are besieged by differentials that investors nd it very hard to acknowledge the news, data and opinion.
The bulk of this information is of little extraordinary growth rates and returns that can be found signicance but it implores you to rapid and usually futile today.
The growth that we are particularly interested in is of an action.
This can be particularly damaging at times of stress.
explosive nature and often requires minimal xed assets or Academic research argues that most individuals dislike indeed capital.
We think of it as Growth at Unreasonable financial losses twice as much as they take pleasure in gains.
Prices rather than the traditional discipline of Growth at a We fear that for fund managers this relationship is close to Reasonable Price.
We need to be willing to pay high multiples tenfold.
Internal and external pressures make the avoidance of of immediate earnings because the scale of future potential loss dominant.
This is damaging in a portfolio context.
We and returns can be so dramatic.
On the stocks that ourish need to be willing to accept loss if there is an equal or greater the valuation will have turned out to be derisorily low.
On the chance of almost unlimited gain.
others we will lose money.
We are very dubious about the value of routine information.
We believe that it is our first duty to shareholders to limit fees.
We have little confidence in quarterly earnings and none in the Both the investment management fee equivalent to 0.32% views of investment banks.
We try to screen out rather than and ongoing charges 0.51% are low by comparative incorporate their noise.
In contrast we think that the world standards but at least adequate in absolute terms.
We think offers joyous opportunities to hear views, perspectives and that the malign impact of high fees is frequently visions that are barely noticed by the markets.
The difference between ongoing charges of in Shanghai to futurists in California there is more in the 0.5% and one of 1.5% may not appear great but if the investment world than the Financial Times or Wall Street perspective is altered to think of costs as a percentage of Journal describe.
expected annual returns then the contrast becomes obvious.
If annual returns average 10% sadly they have not in recent We are global in stock selection, asset allocation and years then this is the difference between removing 5% or attribution.
We are active not passive t or far worse t index 15% of your returns each year.
Nor do we believe in a plus in stock selection.
Holding sizes reect the potential performance fee.
Usually it undermines investment upside and its probability or otherwise rather than the performance.
It increases pressure and narrows perspective.
combination of the market capitalization and geographical location of the company and its headquarters.
We do not have Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC 13
