120 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Shareholder information Dividends Share dealing service Dividends are normally paid twice a year.
The proposed final dividend Carillion offers its UK shareholders, Shareview Dealing, a telephone in respect of the year to 31 December 2013 will be payable on and internet share dealing service operated by Equiniti.
For telephone 13 June 2014 to those shareholders on the register on 16 May 2014. purchases and sales call 0845 603 7037 between 8.30am and 4.30pm, Monday to Friday, or log on to www.
For the A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP will also be offered.
sale of shares, you will need your shareholder reference number as shown on your share certificate.
For those shareholders who prefer not to participate in the DRIP, arrangements can be made to pay your dividends automatically Multiple accounts on the shareholder register into your bank or building society account.
This service has a If you have received two or more sets of the documents concerning the number of benefits: Annual General Meeting this means that there is more than one account in your name on the shareholder register, perhaps because either your there is no chance of the dividend cheque going missing in name or your address appear on each account in a slightly different the post way.
For security reasons, Equiniti will not amalgamate the accounts the dividend payment is received more quickly as the cash is paid without your written consent, so if you would like any multiple accounts directly into your account on the payment date without the need to combined into one account, please write to Equiniti at the address given wait for the cheque to clear: and on page 121. you will help Carillion to improve its efficiency by reducing printing and cheque clearing costs.
co. uk is a service offered by Equiniti that enables If you wish to register for this service please call Equiniti on the number you to check your holdings in many UK companies and helps you to detailed below to request a dividend mandate form.
You can also notify Equiniti of a change of address or a change to dividend mandate instructions.
Results You can register for this portfolio service which is easy to use, secure Half-year to 30 June 2014: announced August 2014. and free as long as you have access to the internet by logging on to Full year to 31 December 2014: announced March 2015. www.
co. uk and following a simple registration process.
Shareholder enquiries Electronic proxy appointments Equiniti maintain the share register of the Company.
If you have any For the AGM to be held on 7 May 2014, you may, if you wish, queries concerning your shareholding, or if any of your details change, register the appointment of a proxy electronically by logging on to please contact Equiniti: the website www.
Equiniti You will need your voting reference numbers the three 8-digit Aspect House numbers shown on your form of proxy.
Alternatively, if you have Lancing registered for a Shareview portfolio, log on to your portfolio at West Sussex www.
co. uk and click on the link vote under your BN99 6DA Carillion plc details, then follow the on-screen directions.
Telephone 0871 384 2522 Please note that any electronic communication that is found to Textphone for shareholders with hearing difficulties 0871 384 2255 contain a computer virus will not be accepted.
ShareGift Lines are open 8.30am to 5.30pm, Monday to Friday.
ShareGift is a charity share donation scheme for shareholders, administered by the Orr Mackintosh Foundation.
It is especially for Calls to this number cost eight pence per minute, plus network extras.
those who may wish to dispose of a small parcel of shares whose value makes it uneconomic to sell on a commission basis.
Further information can be obtained at www.
Warning to shareholders Boiler room scam If you receive an unsolicited investment approach you should: Carillion is aware that shareholders have received unsolicited telephone calls from fraudulent organisations offering to buy Carillion confirm the correct names of the person calling and the plc shares at a substantial premium to the prevailing market price.
organisation they represent: These calls are usually from overseas organisations targeting UK check that they are an authorised firm with the Financial shareholders.
These operations are commonly known as boiler room Conduct Authority FCA by calling 0845 606 1234 or by visiting scams and the brokers who call shareholders can be extremely www.
uk register and contact the firm using the details persuasive and persistent.
on the register: report the matter to the FCA by calling 0845 606 1234 or by Boiler room scams usually come out of the blue, with most fraudsters visiting www.
uk consumers: cold-calling investors after taking their details from publicly available if the calls persist, hang up.
shareholder lists, but the high-pressure sales tactics can also come by other means such as email or post.
The scam is designed to sound Please be aware that fraudsters will often use the name of a attractive, but typically at some point in the process the perpetrator legitimate organisation or organisations, sometimes in combination usually asks for money in advance of concluding the main transaction, with others so that the organisation may sound familiar to you.
for example by way of a pre-payment or vendor bond.
The transaction They may have also created a scam website, so simply checking is never concluded, and the shareholder loses the money.
that an organisation appears to have a presence on the web is not a guarantee that you are dealing with a legitimate organisation.
If you deal with an unauthorised firm, you will not be eligible to receive payment under the Financial Services Compensation Scheme.
If you have already paid money to share fraudsters, you should contact Action Fraud on 0300 123 2040.
