16 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Vision, values, strategy and risk management In this section 08 Introduction 10 Market review 14 Integrated business model 16 Vision, values, strategy and risk management Vision and values Strategy Risk management Operational risk management Principal risks and uncertainties 20 2013 Key Performance Indicators 22 Outlook Overview 01-05 Strategy 06-22 Performance 23-37 Governance 38-72 Financials 73-124 17 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 To support our strategy for growth we have refreshed our vision and values.
Our vision To be the trusted partner for providing services, delivering infrastructure and creating places that bring lasting benefits to our customers and the communities in which we live and work.
Our values We care We respect each other and we do things safely and sustainably.
Its good for our people, our business and our local communities.
We achieve together We value the contribution of each individual and we work together to build strong, open and trusting partnerships.
We improve We listen, learn and adapt our ideas and experience into better solutions and service for our customers.
We deliver We set ourselves stretching goals, taking pride in doing a great job and helping our customers and partners to succeed.
Strategy Our strategy is to achieve sustainable, profitable growth by investing in our people and capabilities building long-term, trusted partnerships transferring knowledge and skills to new and existing markets so we can expand our services and infrastructure activities providing a selective high-quality construction capability Risk management Carillion has rigorous operational risk management policies and processes to identify, mitigate and manage strategic Group-wide risks and risks specific to our individual business units and contracts, including economic, social, environmental and ethical risks.
Carillion has a Group Head of Risk who is responsible for: Advising on strategic risks affecting the Group Conducting independent risk appraisals of all projects prior to them being submitted totheMajor Projects Committee, which is a Committee of the Board with delegated authority to sanction major commitments and transactions, including capital expenditure, major contracts and business acquisitions and disposals, up to specified levels of risk, beyondwhich they are referred to the Board Overseeing risk training across the Group.
Our risk management processes are applied to every aspect of our operations, from choosing the geographies in which we operate, our market sectors and the contracts for which we bid, to the selection of our customers, partners and suppliers.
We also apply them to every stage ofa contract, from its inception to completion, in order to deliver value-for-money services for our customers and the cash-backed profit we expect.
18 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Vision, values, strategy and risk management continued Overview 01-05 Strategy 06-22 Performance 23-37 Governance 38-72 Financials 73-124 19 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Operational risk management The Groups structure for managing operational risk is illustrated below: Carillion plc Board Business Integrity Committee Audit Committee Major Projects Committee Strategic Group-Wide Risks Performance Review Meetings Group Risk Forum Business Unit Risk Managers Contract Risk Managers Contract Performance Monitoring Tenders for New Contracts Principal risks and uncertainties The Groups principal risks Potential impact Mitigation Continuing to win contracts Failure to achieve targets for Continually analysing our markets to ensure we understand the in our existing and new revenue growth, cash-backed opportunities they offer target markets and profits and earnings Listening to our customers to ensure we understand their needs geographies, consistent Continually seeking to differentiate our offering with our strategy for growth to ensure it meets customers needs and on satisfactory terms Implementing annual efficiency and cost reduction programmes and conditions to remain competitive Behaving in accordance with our values to support our objective of being the partner of choice for our customers Managing major contracts to Failure to achieve the margins, Applying well-defined selectivity criteria to ensure we take ensure that they are delivered profits and the cash flows we expect on contracts only where we understand and can manage the on time, to budget and to the from contracts, with consequent risks involved required standards damage to our brand reputation Applying our rigorous policies and processes to monitor and manage contract performance Ensuring we have high-quality people delivering projects Managing our pension An increase in liabilities would reduce The Groups main defined benefit pension schemes have been schemes to ensure that Carillions net assets and adversely closed to future accrual scheme liabilities are within affect the markets valuation of The Groups main pension schemes have entered into a longevity a range appropriate to our Carillion and its share price swap which hedges the financial risks of future increases in the capital base longevity of 9,000 pensioners in these schemes see page 31 Regularly reviewing our investment policies to ensure that employee and company contributions, together with scheme benefits, remain appropriate Attracting, developing and Failure to deliver high-quality services Developing and implementing leadership, personal development retaining excellent people to our customers, with consequent and employee engagement programmes that encourage and effects on profits, brand reputation support all our people to achieve their full potential and our ability to win new contracts and achieve our targets for growth Maintaining high standards Adverse effects on employee morale Applying rigorous risk management processes supported of performance in respect leading to increases in employee by robust business continuity plans of security, including cyber dissatisfaction and employee An ongoing commitment to Target Zero, our programme security, Health & Safety and turnover rates, together with the to eliminate reportable accidents, including implementing other statutory requirements loss of customer, supplier and management systems that conform to Occupational Health & partner confidence and consequent Safety Assessment System 18001 damage to our brand reputation Implementing thorough, mandatory staff training programmes to support the delivery of our objectives and to ensure compliance with our statutory obligations and policies in respect of ethics and values Selecting high-quality Failure to deliver contracts on time Applying selectivity criteria to ensure we choose partners and joint venture and supply and to budget, with consequent suppliers that satisfy our standards for quality, reliability and chain partners damage to our brand reputation financial stability 20 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 2013 Key Performance Indicators In this section 08 Introduction 10 Market review 14 Integrated business model 16 Vision, values, strategy and risk management 20 2013 Key Performance Indicators 22 Outlook Overview 01-05 Strategy 06-22 Performance 23-37 Governance 38-72 Financials 73-124 21 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Carillion continues to be a recognised leader in sustainability in How we performed in relation to the five Key Performance our sector.
A key measure of this is our ranking in Business in the Indicators we set for 2013 Communitys Corporate Responsibility Index.
In 2013, we achieved To be an employer of choice that attracts, develops and retains the Platinum Big Tick ranking, a new ranking that sits above Platinum, excellent people.
the ranking we received each year from 2008 to 2012.
In 2013, As the skills, knowledge and commitment of our people are we also became one of the top 10 UK companies in tackling climate 1 fundamental to Carillions success, we continued to focus on improving change, through our Carbon Disclosure Project CDP score of employee engagement throughout 2013.
This included more extensive 92A, which placed us in both the CDP Disclosure and Performance and direct employee communication, led by our Chief Executive, Leadership Indices.
Richard Howson, through his monthly newsletters to all employees and regular telephone conference calls with up to 1,600 managers and Our Annual Sustainability Report won the FTSE 250 Sustainability supervisors across the Group.
In 2013, we set up an international action Reporting category in this years PwC Building Public Trust Awards.
group to address the feedback received through our annual employee Through our proactive approach we estimate that we delivered survey The Great Debate, which has led to a number of changes, some 20 million of additional profit to the Group in 2013 through including the introduction of improved flexible working arrangements environmental and social sustainability savings, in line with our that are open to all.
We have also significantly improved maternity pay 2020 sustainability strategy.
We report in more detail on our arrangements to support our drive for greater diversity at all levels and sustainability performance in the sustainability section of this report we will develop this further in 2014. on page 34 and in our Annual Sustainability Report, which will be published in April 2014.
We have continued our very successful Leadership and Futures programmes, underpinned by job-family career management, to To improve customer satisfaction encourage people to make their careers with Carillion.
Through In 2013, we formally adopted Net Promoter Score NPS, an international a pan-Carillion working group, we engaged our employees in standard that allows us to measure customer satisfaction and developing new company Values, which are featured on page 17 benchmark ourselves against other organisations and the wider of this report.
We have also refreshed The Great Debate survey business world.
Customers are asked in surveys and interviews to and our recently announced partnership with Barnardos, one of indicate how likely they are to recommend Carillions services to others.
the leading childrens charities, will offer new opportunities for our NPSs range from -100 to 100 and our score in 2013 was 33, which people to volunteer and engage with the communities in which we was ahead of our target of 30.
We believe our score compares work, which our people tell us makes Carillion an attractive employer.
favourably with those of others in our market sectors.
We also use the NPS model to gather feedback and information to help us improve the To be a recognised leader in Health & Safety and sustainability services we provide for our customers.
Our objective of reducing accidents to zero remains at the core of our Health & Safety agenda and we target zero accidents each and To reduce costs and improve efficiency to support margins every day.
If an accident does occur, we ensure we learn from it and Carillion has ongoing cost reduction and efficiency programmes across target zero the next day.
We continue to invest in programmes to all our business units and central functions.
Rigorous cost management engage, educate and train all our people, backed by strong, visible and a relentless focus on efficiency have continued to support our leadership, including Directors Safety Tours and Safety Action Groups, ability to provide customers with offerings that are attractive in terms together with safety audits.
Through our hazard reporting programme, of price, as well as quality.
This was evident in our ability to continue Dont Walk By, everyone in Carillion is encouraged to report for winning contracts in 2013 in line with our selective approach, despite immediate action anything they consider to be unsafe and in 2013 challenging market conditions, while maintaining our underlying over 1.5 million Dont Walk By reports were raised by employees and operating margin at a healthy 5.6 per cent.
To deliver cash-backed profit after adjusting for the In 2013, we changed our Key Performance Indicator from the effect on working capital of having largely completed the Accident Frequency Rate based on the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases planned rescaling our UK construction activities in 2012. and Dangerous Occurrences Regulations, to the Lost Time Incident Strong cash management remains a priority and this has been Frequency Rate LTIFR, which is the internationally accepted measure particularly important during the rescaling of our UK construction of performance a change that we said we intended to make in our activities.
Contrary to our expectations at the beginning of 2013, 2012 Annual Report.
In 2013, our LTIFR per 200,000 hours worked we had to continue rescaling our UK construction activities throughout was 0.29, which represented a 44 per cent improvement on our the year, in order to ensure these activities remain aligned in size to performance in 2012 when our LTIFR was 0.52. the UK market.
However, we believe that by the end of 2013 rescaling was complete and that the revenue run-rate in UK construction We deeply regret that one fatal accident occurred on a Carillion had stabilised.
This has resulted in a significant improvement in our work site in 2013, when an employee was fatally injured as a result of a second-half working capital performance, with full-year cash flow vehicle from a public road losing control and entering the site while he from operations representing 75 per cent of full-year underlying profit was carrying out highway maintenance work in Alberta, Canada.
This from operations 2012: 43 per cent and second-half cash flow from personal tragedy has been deeply felt by all his colleagues in Carillion.
operations representing 128 per cent of second-half underlying profit from operations 2012: 44 per cent.
During 2013, two prosecutions of Carillion companies were completed 1 CDP is an international, not-for-profit organisation providing the only global by the Office of Rail Regulation and the Health & Safety Executive.
system for companies and cities to measure, disclose, manage and share vital The first concerned a fatal accident in 2003 when an employee was environmental information.
crushed in moving parts of a railway machine.
The second concerned an accident to a motorcyclist in 2010 when he collided with barriers erected to manage traffic during highway maintenance work.
