08 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Introduction In this section 08 Introduction 10 Market review Having completed the 14 Integrated business model 16 Vision, values, strategy and rescaling of our UK risk management 20 2013 Key Performance Indicators construction activities and 22 Outlook the restructuring of our energy services business, I believe we are now well positioned to deliver growth over the medium term.
Richard Howson, Group Chief Executive Business reshaped As expected, market conditions remained challenging in 2013 and we continued to respond to this by: completing the rescaling of our UK construction activities and the restructuring of our energy services business, to ensure these remain aligned to the size of their respective markets developing and strengthening our positions in new and existing markets that offer opportunities for growth diversifying our support services offering to enable us to enter new growth markets.
As a result, we have reshaped our business and created a platform from which I believe we can now take the Group forward.
To achieve this we have also adjusted our strategy, refreshed our Vision and Values and set new targets for growth, about which we say more on pages 16 and 17.
Overview 01-05 Strategy 06-22 Performance 23-37 Governance 38-72 Financials 73-124 09 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 By the year end, we had successfully completed the rescaling of our UK construction activities, which we began in 2010, with a stabilised revenue run-rate from these activities.
Rescaling has created a strong, We say more about the high-quality construction business in the UK, which is capable of achieving growth, while continuing to be selective in terms of the contracts we have won in contracts for which it bids in order to maintain its operating margin above the industry average.
2013 and the outlook for our We also completed the restructuring of our energy services business, in line with the announcement we made in our Third Quarter Interim business segments in the Management Statement on 3 October 2013, in response to both the Green Deal and Energy Company Obligation markets being Performance section of considerably smaller in size than both the industry expected and the UK Government predicted at the beginning of 2013, when these this report on pages 23 to 33, markets were created by UK Government legislation.
and about the markets we At the same time, we have successfully developed and strengthened our positions in new and existing markets that offer good opportunities are targeting going forward for growth.
For example, having entered the support services market for oil sector customers in late 2012, through the acquisition of the on pages 10 to 12.
Bouchier Group in Canada and by winning a major contract for Petroleum Development Oman in the Middle East, in 2013 we won further substantial contracts in this sector, notably for Shell in the UK, Market review Performance Qatar and Canada.
Pages 10 to 12 Pages 23 to 33 In the UK we continued to win support services contracts for both public and private sector customers, including Local Authorities, as a number Health & Safety and sustainability of these Authorities look to the private sector for help in reducing costs Our commitment to being a recognised leader in Health & Safety and in and improving efficiency.
We became the preferred bidder for a sustainability continues to be an integral part of our strategy for growth.
number of substantial support services contracts for private sector Providing a safe working environment for all our people and ensuring customers, including Royal Bank of Scotland and Arqiva, and this is the safety of those who work with us or are affected by what we do, is particularly pleasing as relatively few large contracts for private sector our first priority and fundamental to our wider responsibility of customers have come to market in recent years.
We have also delivering sustainable solutions for our customers that create positive continued to be successful in winning support services contracts for impacts on the environment and on the communities in which we infrastructure, particularly in the rail and telecommunications sectors.
Our Health & Safety and sustainability strategies and programmes are published in our Annual Sustainability Report in In line with our strategy of enhancing and diversifying our support April.
However, a summary of our performance can be found in this services offering, we acquired John Laing Integrated Services JLIS report on pages 34 to 37. on 18 October 2013 for a gross consideration of 17.5 million or 13.4 million net of 4.1 million of cash held by JLIS at acquisition.
Our people JLIS provides support services across the UK local government, We have also continued to invest in developing and attracting excellent education, police, health, library and rail sectors.
Combining the people to create a vibrant, diverse and flexible workforce, which is skills and knowledge of JLIS with those of Carillion has enhanced fundamental to the success of our business.
This consistently features our existing capabilities and taken us into new sectors that offer among our annual Key Performance Indicators, on which we report opportunities for growth.
In particular, we have continued our drive towards greater diversity in our business.
At 31 December 2013, the In Canada, we have also continued to focus on opportunities for growth Group had a total of 41,304 employees of which some 16,000 were in our support services business and secured significant new contracts female and 25,000 were male.
Of the 493 senior managers in the in the natural resources sector, notably the oil sector, and in highways Group, 57 were female and 436 were male.
The Carillion plc Board maintenance.
Growth in support services is also coming from our Public comprised six male and two female Directors.
Of the 83 members Private Partnership PPP projects as these move from construction into of the Chief Executives Leadership team and their direct reports, the operational phase.
To deliver medium-term growth in construction 14 were female and 69 were male.
in Canada, we remain focused on bidding for PPP projects, especially in the health sector, as these continue to account for a substantial Retirement of our Chairman proportion of Canadas large PPP investment programme.
As our Chairman has said in his Statement on page 5, he plans to retire from the Board at the Companys AGM on 7 May 2014, having served In the Middle East, the construction markets continue to offer as Chairman for nine years.
Under Philips chairmanship, Carillion has opportunities for growth and we expect the pace of contract awards delivered substantial growth in revenue, profit and dividends, driven to increase going forward, notably in Oman, Qatar and Saudi Arabia by the Groups transformation from being primarily a UK construction in the short-term, and in the medium-term in the United Arab Emirates, company into an international, integrated support services company especially given the additional investment that is now expected in Dubai with a substantial portfolio of PPP projects, high-quality construction following its success in being chosen to host Expo 2020.
We are also capabilities and sector-leading expertise in delivering sustainable seeing an increasing number of opportunities for our support services projects and services.
I should like to thank Philip personally and on businesses in the Middle East, notably for facilities management in the behalf of the Board for the outstanding contribution he has made to oil and health sectors and in highways maintenance.
