Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 75 The performance measures and targets that are set for the Annual Bonus Plan and Share Plan Policy Executive Directors annual bonus and PSP awards are carefully The Committee will operate the annual bonus plan, deferred selected to align with the Companys strategic and key bonus plan, PSP and allemployee share plans according to the performance indicators.
rules of each respective plan and consistent with normal market practice and the Listing Rules, where relevant.
The Committee For the annual bonus financial and strategic measures are will retain flexibility in a number of areas regarding the operation reviewed and selected by the Committee annually.
The measures and administration of these plans, including but not limited to selected and weighting between them may vary annually the following: depending on the key priorities of the business for the year ahead.
Who participates in the plans.
Robust and demanding targets will be set annually taking into When to make awards and payments.
account the economic environment, market expectations and the How to determine the size of an award, a payment, or when Companys budget and business plan for the year ahead.
EEV and how much of an award should vest.
operating profit is used to assess financial performance as this How to deal with a change of control or restructuring of the measure reflects a number of key metrics including new business, Group.
persistency, retention of funds under management and cost In the case of stated good leaver reasons or otherwise, whether control.
The balance is determined based on strategic measures a director is a good bad leaver for incentive plan purposes and set annually on a balanced scorecard basis.
whether and what proportion of awards vest at the time of leaving or at the original vesting date s as relevant.
The Company has used a comparative TSR measure and EPS How and whether an award may be adjusted in certain growth targets for the PSP for a number of years in line with the circumstances e. g. for a rights issue, a corporate restructuring Groups strategy of delivering profitable growth and superior or for special dividends.
The Committee will continue to review the choice of performance measures and the The Committee also retains the discretion within the policy to appropriateness of targets prior to each PSP award being made adjust targets and or set different measures and alter weightings and will set robust and stretching measures for any alternative for the annual bonus plan and the PSP if events happen that cause measures used.
For the EPS growth measure stretching targets it to determine that the original targets or conditions are no will be set annually taking into account the economic longer appropriate and the amendment is required so that the environment, market expectations and the Companys budget and targets or conditions achieve their original purpose and are not business plan at that time.
For the comparative TSR measure the materially less difficult to satisfy.
Committees policy is to set threshold vesting for median performance rising to full vesting for upper quartile performance.
The use of discretion would where relevant be explained in the The Committee will assess annually the appropriateness of the Annual Report on Remuneration and may, as appropriate, be TSR comparator group.
subject to consultation with the Companys major shareholders.
No performance targets are set for the SAYE and SIP awards as Awards made prior to the Effective Date these form part of all employee arrangements designed to For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Policy Report, encourage employees across the Group to purchase shares in the authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments Company.
entered into with current or former Directors that have been disclosed to shareholders in previous remuneration reports.
This Shareholding Guidelines includes all historic awards that were granted under any current Executives are required to build and maintain a shareholding or previous share schemes operated by the Company but remain equivalent to 150% of base salary.
Until the threshold is reached, outstanding detailed on pages 87 to 89 of this Report and which 50% of vested shares from the PSP and other share awards less will remain eligible to vest based on their original award terms.
tax liability must be retained.
Executives are also required to Details of any payments to former Directors will be set out in the hold a further 50% of salary in shares and or in one or more SJP Annual Remuneration Report as they arise.
funds, thus providing further alignment with shareholders and clients.
