44 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued suppliers The Stewardship Code is a set of principles or guidelines first St. Jamess Place believes in treating all our stakeholders fairly.
released in 2010 and updated in 2012 by the Financial Reporting We also believe in the benefits to be gained from building Council, directed at institutional investors who hold voting rights long-term relationships based on mutual trust.
As a result, many in United Kingdom companies.
Its principal aim is to ensure that of our key suppliers have been associated with the Group for a institutional investors, who manage other peoples money, number of years and we have been able to cultivate very strong actively engage in corporate governance in the interests of their and mutually beneficial relationships.
Key examples of the beneficiaries the shareholders.
St. Jamess Place requires that positive and beneficial relationships we have been able to establish our fund managers should comply with these principles in full with major suppliers are those with our providers of outsourced and as part of our oversight of the fund managers we undertake a administration services: IFDS, Capita and State Street.
More generally, we expect all our suppliers to act in accordance the environment with the standards embedded in our culture, and will undertake St. JamessPlace is committed to managing the Groups due diligence on new service providers to ensure we are environmental impact through effective management of our comfortable with their approach to socially responsible energy systems, travel, water usage and waste recycling.
We are particularly pleased that many of our recognise the effect our business can have on climate change and suppliers share our desire to make a positive and lasting difference we take a positive approach to managing our business activities, to the lives of those less fortunate than ourselves, and we are very whilst at the same time encouraging all Partners and staff to grateful to all those who have provided support to the St. Jamess consider their own personal impact on the environment.
Place Foundation, both through donations and through active participation in many of the events.
We measure our environmental data from October to September and the following tables summarise both our absolute and St. Jamess Place has always placed great reliance on the support normalised CO e emissions in recent years for our core business 2 of third party suppliers and the continued success of our business activities, using 2013 conversion rates as provided by DEFRA for reflects, amongst other things, our success in cultivating and all our emission categories.
We also report on levels of paper managing successful relationships with suppliers.
We are pleased recycled and water usage.
The data has been checked and verified to have signed up to the Prompt Payment Code which is by RSK.
encouraged by the Department of Business Innovation and Skills BIS and demonstrates a commitment to good practice between Growth in staff numbers caused us to miss our target for Absolute organisations and their suppliers.
Signatories to the Code commit Emissions related to business travel.
However, we beat out targets to paying their suppliers within agreed and clearly defined terms, on all other measures and were significantly ahead of our three and commit also to ensuring that there is a proper process for year targets on all the key Normalised Emissions measures.
dealing with any issues that may arise.
A reduction in the number of buildings during the period contributed to the relative reduction in water usage, while the Our Investments relative reduction in paper recycled reflected an overall reduction As a result of the success of our business, St. Jamess Place is now in paper usage as a consequence of the introduction of our investing over 44 billion of assets on behalf of our clients.
This Electronic Business Submission system.
We will be reviewing our gives us influence on stockmarkets and we recognise our objectives in 2014 and setting new targets for the next period.
responsibility for managing these investments in a socially responsible fashion.
As described under the section Our Business Model and Strategy, our investment management approach is at the heart of our investment proposition to clients, and this involves an active approach to selecting and monitoring fund managers from around the world, whilst retaining appropriate oversight responsibilities.
Our fund managers will each have their own standards for how they manage their portfolios responsibly, but as part of our oversight we require that they all meet a minimum requirement.
