Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 7 The St. Jamess Place Partnership embers of the St. Jamess Place Partnership play the leading geographic distribution of Partners Mrole in delivering our wealth management service to the mass-affluent market.
This market is growing and in 2014 there will be 9.1 million UK individuals with between 50,000 and 5 million investable assets.
Further, it is estimated this marketplace will grow over the next four years to 10.7 million individuals with 2,100 billion investable assets Source: Datamonitor.
5% Our Partners, so called because of the way they work in partnership with both their clients and their colleagues, have, on average, over 17 years experience.
We are pleased that our Partnership includes some of the most experienced and able professionals working in wealth management today.
Whilst all 2% of our Partners are experienced advisers, some have expertise 23% in specific and highly technical areas.
If an individuals circumstances require additional expertise, Partners will consult with, and if necessary introduce, a specialist colleague.
Partners also often work alongside other professional advisers, providing a complementary service and a fresh perspective.
13% 4% 4% 4% St. Jamess Place has chosen to promote our services exclusively through the Partnership.
This reflects the confidence we have in our Partners ability to build and maintain long-term working 23% 10% relationships with their clients, and so to be able to provide clients with sound financial advice.
However, it also provides clients with 16% clarity of responsibility in relation to their financial dealings.
St. Jamess Place works with our Partners to establish long-term relationships and take responsibility for the financial needs of our clients.
We believe establishing long-term relationships is important, and it is a key part of our culture.
Clients need to be able to place reliance on financial advice and so, being able to call upon the services of an adviser who understands their individual personal circumstances is important.
By establishing long-term relationships, the adviser can ensure the advice is appropriate and clients will benefit from a source of trusted advice as their financial needs evolve over the years.
Our Partners are distributed throughout the United Kingdom, enabling face to face advice relationships to be delivered to all our clients, wherever they may be.
Finally, we are committed to supporting our Partners ongoing professional development to ensure that they remain appropriately qualified, technically able and equipped to deliver a first class service to their clients.
As a result, we are happy to guarantee the suitability of the advice that they give when recommending any of the wealth management products and services provided by companies in the St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Group.
