Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 93 Directors Report The Directors present their Report and the Annual Report and Our Directors Accounts and the audited consolidated Financial Statements of Details of the Directors as at 24February2014 and their the Group for the year ended 31 December 2013.
All of the biographies are shown on pages 52 and 53.
Brief particulars of the Directors were in office throughout the financial year and up to Directors membership of the Board committees are contained in the date of signing this report with the exception of Steve Colsell, the Corporate Governance Report on pages 59 to 67.
Charles Gregson, Sue Harris, Alison Hewitt and Mike Power, as detailed below.
Sue Harris and Alison Hewitt were appointed nonindependent Nonexecutive Directors on 1 June 2013, as representatives of The information that fulfils the Companies Act requirements of Lloyds Banking Group LBG pursuant to the Relationship the Strategic Report can be found in the following sections: Agreement between the Company and LBG.
They replaced SteveColsell who resigned from the Board on 1 June 2013.
Principal risks and uncertainties The Risk and Risk Management Under the Relationship Agreement, LBG was entitled to appoint section on pages 36 and 37. up to two Nonexecutive Directors to the SJP Board.
The Internal control and risk Strategic Report on pages 34 Relationship Agreement terminated in accordance with its terms management and 35. on 13December 2013 following the sale by LBG of its major shareholding in SJP and, as a consequence, Sue Harris and Performance and development Chief Executives Statement on AlisonHewitt resigned from the Board on 31 December 2013. of the business during the pages 2 to 4, the Chief Financial year and position at the end of Officers Report on pages 12 to Simon Jeffreys and Roger Yates were appointed to the Board the year 14 and the Financial Review on as independent Nonexecutive Directors on 1 January 2014. pages 16 to 33.
CharlesGregson and Mike Power resigned from the Board Information on likely future Chief Executives Statement on 31December 2013. developments on pages 3 and 4, the Chief Financial Officers Report The Companys current Articles of Association require that any on page 14 and the Financial Director appointed during the year to fill a casual vacancy must Review on pages 22, 28 and 32. stand for reappointment at the next Annual General Meeting and Directors and Officers The Corporate Governance that, at each Annual General Meeting, all those Directors who Indemnity and Insurance Report on page 57. were elected or last reelected at or before the Annual General Financial and nonfinancial KPIs Key Performance Indicators on Meeting held in the third calendar year before the current year, pages 10 and 11. shall retire from office by rotation.
Directors can be removed from office by an ordinary resolution of shareholders or in certain Environmental, employee and The Corporate Social other circumstances as set out in the Articles of Association.
social community matters Responsibility Report on pages 39 to 45.
In accordance with the recommendations of the UK Corporate Contractual or other Page 95.
Governance Code, the whole Board of Directors will retire by arrangements essential to the rotation at the Annual General Meeting in 2014.
Before a business of the Company Director is proposed for reelection by shareholders, the Chairman considers whether his or her performance continues to Results and Dividends be effective and whether they demonstrate commitment to the The consolidated statement of comprehensive income is on page role.
After careful consideration, the Chairman is pleased to 102 and profit for the financial year attributable to equity confirm that, following the performance evaluation referred to on shareholders amounted to 190.3 million.
An interim dividend of page 58, the Directors seeking reelection continue to make a 6.38 pence per share, which equates to 32.7 million, was paid on valuable contribution to the Board.
Your Directors each bring a 25September2013 2012: 4.25 pence per share 21.4 million.
great deal of experience to the Board as a result of their varied The Directors recommend that shareholders approve a final careers and we believe this diversity is essential to contributing to dividend of 9.58 pence per share, which equates to 49.4 million the appropriate mix of skills and experience needed by the Board 2012: final dividend of 6.39 pence per share 32.4 million to be and its committees in order to protect shareholders interests.
paid on 16May2014 to shareholders on the register at the close of The Chairman is also happy to confirm that the Directors have business on 11 April 2014. demonstrated their continued commitment to their roles and continue to dedicate sufficient time to their duties.
The Board In 2012, the Directors introduced a Dividend Reinvestment Plan therefore recommends to its shareholders that all the Directors DRP, details of which are set out on page 178. retiring at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting should be reelected.
Status of Company The Company is registered as a public limited company under the Companies Act 2006.
94 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors Report continued Except as stated in the Directors Remuneration Report, no Director has, or has had during the year under review, any material interest in any contract or arrangement with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Details of all Executive Directors service contracts are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 77 and 78.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions in the Companys share schemes may, in certain circumstances, cause share awards granted to employees under such schemes to vest on a takeover.
Power of the Directors The Directors are responsible for managing the business of the Company and their powers are subject to any regulations of the Articles, to the provisions of the Statutes and to such regulations as may be prescribed by Special Resolution of the Company.
The Companys Articles of Association contain, for example, specific provisions and restrictions concerning the Companys power to borrow money.
They also provide that Directors have the power to allot unissued shares, up to predetermined levels set and approved by shareholders in general meetings.
This also applies to the Directors allotting equity securities otherwise than in accordance with statutory preemption rules.
Substantial Shareholders As at 24 February 2014, the Company had been notified of the following interests disclosed to the Company under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5: Holding at % held at Holding at % held at 31 December 31 December 24 February 24 February Shareholder 2013 2013 2014 2014 Ameriprise Financial Inc 29,026,817 5.63 27,806,089 5.47 FMR LLC 27,409,642 5.32 26,148,313 5.07 BlackRock, Inc 25,518,707 4.95 25,905,901 5.03 Kames Capital 21,556,900 4.18 21,335,588 4.14 The interests of the Directors, their families and any connected persons in the issued share capital of the Company are shown on page 90.
Share Capital Structure of the Companys Capital As at 31 December 2013, the Companys issued and fully paid up share capital was 515,215,983ordinary shares of 15p each.
All ordinary shares are quoted on the London Stock Exchange and can be held in uncertificated form via CREST.
Details of the movement in the issued share capital during the year are provided in Note 30 to the financial statements on page 147.
Voting Rights At any General Meeting, on a show of hands, each member who is present in person has one vote and every proxy present who has been duly appointed by a member entitled to vote on a resolution has one vote.
On a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
Forms appointing a proxy sent by the Company to shareholders, in relation to any General Meeting, must be received by the Company or their registrars not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Restrictions on Voting Rights If any shareholder has been sent a notice by the Company under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and failed to supply the relevant information for a period of 14 days, then the shareholder may not for so long as the default continues be entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a shareholders meeting, or to exercise any other right conferred by membership in relation to shareholders meetings.
If those default shares represent at least 0.25 per cent of their class, any dividend payable in respect of the shares will be withheld by the Company and subject to certain limited exceptions no transfer, other than an excepted transfer, of any shares held by the member in certificated form will be registered.
03183415 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 95 Articles of Association A change of control of the Company may cause some agreements The full rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares of to which the Company is a party to alter or terminate.
These the Company are set out in the Articles of Association.
The include bank facility agreements and employee share plans.
articles can be amended by a special resolution of the members of The Group had committed facilities totalling 97.9 million as at the Company and copies can be obtained from Companies House.
21February 2014 which contain clauses which require lender Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys consent for any change of control.
Should consent not be given, Reports and Accounts: attend, speak and exercise voting rights achange of control would trigger mandatory repayment of and appoint proxies to attend general meetings.
All the Companys employee share plans contain provisions Restrictions on Share Transfers relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options There are restrictions on share transfers, all of which are set out may vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject in the Articles of Association.
Restrictions include transfers made where appropriate to the satisfaction of any performance in favour of more than four joint holders and transfers held in conditions at that time and prorating of awards.
Directors may decline to recognise a transfer, unless it is in respect of only one class of share and lodged and Annual General Meeting duly stamped with the Transfer Office.
The Directors may also The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held on refuse to register any transfer of shares held in certificated form 14May2014 at The Royal Aeronautical Society, 4 Hamilton which are not fully paid.
Directors may also choose to decline Place, London W1J 7BQ at 11.00am.
requests for share transfers from a US Person as defined under Regulation S of the United States Securities Act 1933 that would Authority to Purchase Own Shares cause the aggregate number of beneficial owners of issued shares At the Annual General Meeting in 2013, shareholders granted who are US Persons to exceed 70. authority to the Directors for the purchase by the Company of its own shares.
This authority will expire at the end of the Annual The registration of transfers may be suspended at such times and for General Meeting to be held in 2014, or 18 months from the date such periods not exceeding 30 days in any year as the Directors granted, whichever is the earlier.
During the year, the Company may from time to time determine in respect of any class of shares.
did not purchase any of its own shares.
The Directors will propose the renewal of the authority to purchase its own shares at The Company is not aware of any agreements between the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
shareholders that restrict the transfer of shares or voting rights attached to the shares.
Shareholders are also being asked at the AGM to approve a new long term incentive plan, further details of which will be Employees contained in the AGM documentation.
Full details of the Groups approach to employee involvement, training, development and communication can be found in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities Strategic Report within the Corporate Social Responsibility This statement is set out on page 97.
The complete Corporate Report section on page 41.
Governance Report is set out on pages 56 to 67.
Bribery Act 2010 Going Concern During 2013, the Company carried out its annual review to The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely ensure that it has adequate policies and procedures in place to to affect its future development, performance and position are set prevent bribery and corruption.
This included reviewing the out in the Strategic Report, as referred to on page 93.
The Bribery Act Policy Statement, along with other related policies financial position of the Company, its cash flows, liquidity and procedures, and providing training to employees and position and borrowing facilities are described in the Strategic Partners.
The Bribery Act Policy Statement is available to all Report on pages 16 to 33.
In addition, the Notes on page 130 and employees and Partners via the Companys intranet.
pages 135 to 145 and the Risk, Risk Management and Internal Control section on pages 34 to 38 include: the Companys Significant Contracts and Change of Control objectives: policies and processes for managing its capital: its The Company has a number of contractual arrangements which financial risk management objectives: details of its financial itconsiders essential to the business of the Company.
Specifically, instruments and its exposures to credit risk andliquidity.
these are committed loan facilities from a number of banks andarrangements with third party providers of .
96 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors Report continued As shown on pages 29 and 30 of the Strategic Report, the Groups capital position is strong and well in excess of regulatory requirements.
The longterm nature of the business results in considerable positive cash flows, arising from existing business.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Company is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
The Directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Further information on the basis of preparation of these accounts can be seen in Note 1 to both the Consolidated Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards and Parent Company Accounts on UK GAAP basis.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors Each of the Directors, at the date of approval of this report, confirms that: so far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all reasonable steps to ascertain relevant audit information and ensure that the auditors are aware of such information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act2006.
Independent Auditors The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a Resolution that they be reappointed until the end of the 2015 Annual General Meeting will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 14May 2014.
On behalf of the Board D Bellamy A Croft Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer 24 February 2014 Registered No.
