8 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Investment Management Approach t the heart of the proposition to our clients is our investment Stamford Associates share their extensive research of the global Amanagement approach.
investment markets with a small number of companies.
We are particularly proud to have them on our team, as St. Jamess Place Successful investment is critical to future financial well-being, is the only company they work with that provides wealth but it is a field which presents a unique problem: future management advice to private individuals or Trustees.
As a result, when clients choose investment managers, no matter how successful, they can never The Investment Committee meets regularly to monitor be sure that they have made the right choice: and even if they performance and consider detailed reports from our consultants have, it may not continue to be the right choice over the years and each investment manager.
If a change in the marketplace calls tocome.
for the addition of another manager, the Committee will select one.
Equally, if the Committees monitoring activity leads to a We believe that our approach to investment management loss of confidence in the ability of an existing manager then it addresses these challenges.
We do not place clients money in the will replace them.
hands of our own team of investment managers, indeed, we have no investment managers of our own.
Instead, we are free to Successful long term investment also depends on judicious choose any investment manager from any fund management firm diversification.
The Investment Committee provides illustrations anywhere in the world.
as to how to do this through the provision of Example Portfolios, which combine various managers funds in given proportions The responsibility of selecting the range of funds and fund depending on the broad investment objective.
Ultimately, managers that are made available to St. Jamess Place clients however, the right solution for each client can only be achieved at any one time falls upon the St. Jamess Place Investment through the face-to-face advice process, which is the Committee, advised by respected independent investment responsibility of the Partner concerned.
research consultancies, led by Stamford Associates.
global Range of Investment houses Registered No.
