42 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Report continued further qualifications, with around half of Partners having plans During 2013, the group was able to recommend enhancements to to progress to Chartered Status.
To support this we have worked existing processes and the development of new ideas to bring with CII to develop a new St. Jamess Place Advanced Module about improvements in the client experience, including: which will enable our Partners to progress towards their further development of our on-line services: Chartered level of professional qualification.
To further the sharing of best practice client service examples with demonstrate our commitment to professional development across Partners: the organisation, we have also formed a partnership with providing Field Management training on the subject of good Loughborough University and designed a Masters Degree client service: and Programme in Wealth Management, which will be launched in the completion of thematic research focused on key areas of 2014 and will be available to all employees as well as members client feedback.
Despite receiving much positive feedback from clients, we never We are continuing to grow the St. Jamess Place Academy, become complacent and in 2014 we will continue striving to providing an opportunity for suitably qualified individuals to improve our support for clients.
receive training and assistance to join the adviser community.
We offer three intake dates per year in London and are looking at Community activities options to extend the Academy to a northern location in 2014.
We are mindful of the role that we play in our local communities We have also launched a Next Generation Academy specifically and providing support to those less fortunate than ourselves was a aimed at bringing sons and daughters of existing Partners into key founding principle for the Company.
This resulted in the their businesses.
This supports growth and helps build succession establishment of the St. Jamess Place Foundation in 1992, a for existing successful businesses.
grant-making charity which receives support from all parts of the St. Jamess Place community: employees, Partners, clients, Health and Safety suppliers and shareholders.
During the year, the SJP community We work hard to create an excellent working environment for raised 2.6 million resulting in a matching grant from the employees and Partners.
We ensure every office complies with Company of 1.9 million.
You can find out more about support Health and Safety regulations and also seek to improve awareness for our Foundation and its activities on pages 48 to 50 or on the through regular training sessions on subjects such as manual website at www.
co. uk handling, fire marshal and first aider training.
An important element of the grants distributed by our Foundation is Each year, we carry out fire evacuation tests and health and safety the focus on charities and community groups which are local to our inspections, fire risk assessments every other year and the offices.
In many cases, these are organisations that are also supported actions identified from these are completed appropriately and by our employees or Partners.
overseen by the Health and Safety working group.
The working group is chaired by the Operations Director and meets at least In 2013 we started a new corporate initiative, seeking to quarterly to review policies, review the progress against targets recognise and support our employees who volunteer.
Starting and agree the action plan for the following year.
with those involved in sport at a grass-roots level, and having been inspired by the Olympics, we invited members of staff who Our Clients give up their time to support a local sports club or association to Putting clients at the centre of everything we do is core to our apply for a small grant of up to 250 to be used for the benefit of culture and business model, as outlined under the section Our the club association.
The initiative was successful and we plan to Business Model and Strategy on page 6.
Our aim is to help clients repeat and extend this initiative in 2014. manage their wealth in a way which reflects their personal circumstances.
We are proud of the generous spirit of our employees and the fact that, according to feedback from our most recent employee In order to ensure that our business continues to be clientsurvey, over 40% of them are actively engaged in volunteering in focused, we have established a Client Steering Group which their local communities.
This is an important part of our culture meets regularly and monitors all areas of the business which can and is an area we are seeking to develop.
Topics discussed cover all stages of the client life-cycle, including the suitability of advice, policy administration, claims experience and, where relevant, client complaints.
