78 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors Remuneration Report continued for the year ended 31 December 2013 In summary the position on cessation of employment is as follows: Provision Detailed terms Notice period 12 months by either party.
Termination payment Base salary plus benefits including pension.
An express obligation on the Executive to mitigate his loss.
Payments can be made on a monthly basis and reduced if an Executive is able to secure alternative employment.
In addition any statutory amounts would be paid as necessary.
Remuneration entitlements A prorata bonus may also become payable for the period of active service along with the vesting of on cessation outstanding share awards in certain circumstances as described below.
Change of control As on termination and with remuneration entitlements as described above.
When considering the size of any proposed termination payment, the Committee would take into account a number of factors including the health, length of service and performance of the relevant Executive, including the duty to mitigate his own loss, with a broad aim to avoid rewarding poor performance while dealing fairly with cases where the departure is due to other reasons, for example illness or redundancy.
Any unvested awards held under the PSP schemes will lapse at cessation, unless the individual is leaving for certain reasons defined under the plan as death, injury, illhealth, disability, redundancy, retirement, his office or employment being either a company which ceases to be a Group member or relating to a business or part of a business which is transferred to a person who is not a Group member, or any other reason the Committee so decides.
In these circumstances, unvested awards will normally vest at the normal vesting date unless the Committee decides they should vest at cessation subject to performance conditions being met and scaling back in respect of actual service as a proportion of the total vesting period unless the Committee decides that scaling back is inappropriate.
The same approach applies on a change of control.
Any unvested awards held under the Deferred Bonus Scheme will lapse at cessation unless the Committee determines otherwise.
In these circumstances the Committee may determine that unvested awards will vest at the cessation unless the Committee decides they should vest at the normal vesting date.
The Committee may agree to the payment of disbursements such as legal costs and outplacement services if appropriate and depending on the circumstances of the leaving executive.
Non-executive Directors Letters of Appointment The Nonexecutive Directors including the Chairman do not have service contracts or any benefits in kind arrangements and do not participate in any of the Groups pension or incentive arrangements.
The appointment of each Nonexecutive Director can be terminated by giving three months notice subject to annual reappointment at the AGM.
Any period of service longer than six years is subject to particularly rigorous review by the Nomination Committee of the Board.
The Nonexecutive Directors letters of appointment do not provide for any payment on termination except for accrued fees and expenses to the date of termination.
The terms and conditions of Executive Directors service contracts and the letters of appointment of the Nonexecutive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the AGM, the details of which can be found on page 95.
External Appointments Executive Directors are permitted to be appointed to an external board or committee so long as this is unlikely to interfere with the business of the Group.
Any fees received in respect of external appointments are retained by the relevant Executive Director.
Currently, no Executive Director acts as a nonexecutive director on the Board of another listed company, other than David Lamb, who is a nonexecutive director of The Henderson Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc.
