6 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our Business Model and Strategy Our business model what do we do?
Our business strategy where are we going?
St. Jamess Place specialises in providing face-to-face advice to St. Jamess Place has always pursued a simple but effective clients through our dedicated advisers, the St. Jamess Place strategy for growth, based on: Partnership, and in managing client wealth with our distinctive Development of the Partnership through recruitment of new Investment Management Approach.
We ensure efficient advisers and productivity improvements management of our business through effective outsourcing Increased activity in the Partnership results in the extension of the main administration activities.
of our service to new clients and new funds.
Delivering on our investment proposition Our business is centred on the UK, attracting clients from the Positive performance of our Investment Management mass affluent and, increasingly, the high net worth markets.
Approach delivers growth in funds managed and helps ensure Our Partners monitor and review clients financial needs over positive client relationships.
time, adapting advice where necessary in order to ensure that Meeting and where possible exceeding the expectations of recommendations remain appropriate.
The enduring nature of our clients these relationships is particularly important, and is founded on Positive long-term relationships with clients ensures the mutual respect and trust.
This relationship-based approach is retention of funds for the long term and results in additional greatly valued by our clients, no more so than in the recent period business from existing clients and referrals to new clients.
By focusing on getting this right, we can support the client and retain the funds under management over Measured in terms of funds under management, the business the long term.
We also attract new business and referrals from has doubled over the last five years as well as in the five years satisfied clients.
preceding that, a rate of growth which we aspire to repeat in the next five years, subject of course to the vagaries of the markets.
There is an increasing demand for trusted advice from We believe that the strength of relationship between our Partners experienced advisers backed by a strong brand and an organisation and our clients, together with our approach to investment which is responsible for all aspects of the service.
Clients also management, means we are uniquely positioned to continue value and benefit from our unique Investment Management to succeed in the wealth management market.
We are able to support our delivery to clients and therefore shareholders by extending our focus on strong relationships to our interactions with investment managers and administration providers, thereby ensuring positive outcomes in these important areas of our business as well.
Business Growth Meeting Client Expectations Investment Proposition Partnership Growth Registered No.
