66 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Report of the Investment Committee The objective of the St. Jamess Place approach to investment management is to generate consistently superior investment results over the medium term.
The Investment Committee is the cornerstone of the approach and will select the best individuals within the appropriate investment companies, monitor their performance on behalf of clients and, when necessary, make changes to ensure the maximum probability of obtaining future good performance.
Key activities in 2013 included: conducting nine full meetings during the year and ten manager monitoring sessions which saw 26 fund management companies: overseeing changes to the range of funds as announced in February and October 2013.
As a result, five existing funds were subject to a fund management change following the appointment of eight additional investment managers: and undertaking regular reviews of the range of Growth and Income Portfolios to ensure they maintained the appropriate level of risk, volatility and diversification to deliver against their Vivian Bazalgette Chair objectives.
The outcome of these reviews was changes made to the Defensive, Conservative and Adventurous Portfolios.
Membership and Attendance in 2013 The following report sets out in more detail the Committees key Committee members Attendance activities in 2013.
Vivian Bazalgette 9 9 1 Sarah Bates 9 9 Peter Dunscombe 8 9 David Lamb 9 9 Vivian Bazalgette Win Robbins 9 9 Chair of the St. Jamess Place Investment Committee 24 February 2014 Attendees Attendance Chris Ralph 9 9 Andrew Humphries 7 9 1 Sarah Bates ceased being a member of the Committee on 31 December 2013.
Role of the Committee in Summary To oversee the Companys Investment Management Approach: To monitor the performance and suitability of the Groups range of independent fund managers: To ensure that the fund managers follow the terms of their agreements with the Company: To make recommendations in relation to the appointment or removal of fund managers: and To consider any new funds which are to be made available to the Groups clients.
03183415 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 67 Committee Membership during 2013 The Committee undertook regular reviews of the range of The membership of the Committee was stable throughout the Growth and Income Portfolios to ensure they maintained the year.
However, Sarah Bates stepped down from the Committee at appropriate level of risk, volatility and diversification to deliver the end of the year when she became Chairman of the Board.
These fund developments also providedan opportunity to introduce some changes to the fund Committee Activities during 2013 allocations for the Defensive, Conservative and Adventurous 2013 saw markets open in uncertainty but close with optimism Growth Portfolios.
The stimulus policies of central bankers and the gradually strengthening signs of economic Stamford Associates dedicated a considerable amount of resources recovery have encouraged global markets in what has been a and specialist skills to the Committee principally via remarkable year for developed global equities.
Returns from other comprehensive monitoring and the extensive evaluation of assets were more muted, although the great rotation from bonds potential new candidates.
Stamford Associates, working closely predicted by some has yet to materialise.
The St. Jamess Place with the Investment Management team, also played an active fund range continues to deliver strong returns for clients with rolein the evolution of the Growth and Income Portfolios.
70% of the fund range posting above average performance over AonHewitt provided specialist consultation to the Committee the last ten years.
on the St. Jamess Place Property funds.
The strong progress of markets in 2013 and the continued support Finally, the Committee has devoted considerable time to of clients has seen the value of assets under our management grow considering the impact of Neil Woodford leaving Invesco to 44.3 billion as at 31 December 2013.
This quantum of assets Perpetual in April this year to team up with Oakley Capital in can provide opportunities, such as helping to keep fees down, but hisnew venture.
The Committee and Stamford Associates have can also bring challenges.
Much of the focus of the Committee held a number of indepth meetings with Neil Woodford, Oakley has been on the issue of managers capacity, working with them Capital, Invescos senior management and portfolio managers, to understand the volume of assets they can accommodate anda number of alternative potential investment managers without jeopardising the integrity of their investment style and basedin the UK and in the US.
The Committee is pleased with process.
With the anticipated future growth in the value of assets the progress made and a decision will be made public in the under management, effective oversight is key to delivering future nearfuture.
performance and will remain a major focus for the Committee.
The terms of reference setting out the Committees role and The changes overseen by the Committee in February 2013 saw authority can be found on the corporate website at www.
co. uk the introduction of two new fund management groups to our Source: Financial Express, Analytics.
Weighted by panel: Hamish Douglass of Magellan Asset Management, based in St. Jamess Place funds under management, bid to bid basis, net income reinvested.
Sydney, Australia was appointed to manage the International Please be aware that past performance is not indicative of future performance.
Equity fund: and Tye Bousada and Geoff MacDonald of EdgePoint The value of an investment with St. Jamess Place will be directly linked to the Investment Group, based in Toronto, Canada were added as performance of the funds you select and the value can therefore go down and well as up.
You may get back less than you invested.
satellite managers of the Global Equity fund.
In October, the Committee made a series of changes both to individual funds and to some of the Growth Portfolios.
The Committee appointed a blend of new managers: Richard Rooney of Burgundy Asset Management: Jonathan Asante of First State: and George Loening and Chad Clark of Select Equity Group to manage the Worldwide Opportunities Unit Trust Worldwide Managed fund.
Secondly, the Committee appointed Luke Chappell of BlackRock and the UK equity team at Majedie, led byJames fide Uphaugh to join John Wood of J O Hambro in the UK & General Progressive funds.
Finally, Nigel Ridge of BlackRock was appointed to take responsibility for the UKAbsolute Return fund.
