Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 83 Details of Variable Pay Earned in the Year Annual Bonus For the year under report, the performance conditions which applied to the bonus and the resulting payout under these were as follows: Weighting Payout Weighting % of Maximum Payout % of Measure % of salary maximum Threshold value Actual % of salary maximum EEV operating profit range of between 382m and 417m 30% 25% 382m 417m 462.7m 30% 25% EEV profit from new business profit range of between 280m and 325m 30% 25% 280m 325m 321.1m 27.5% 23% Strategic business plan Assessment by the objectives Committee of the Performance performance of the assessed Executive Directors as by the a team in relation to the Committee various objectives set by as described the Committee at the more fully 60% 50% start of the year.
60% 50% Annual Bonus Strategic Targets Performance Assessment As described in other parts of the Report and Accounts, the Company delivered strong performance in 2013 for our clients, shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Committee considered these three groups when setting the strategic targets for 2013, together with other objectives set out in the 2013 business plan.
In serving our clients well, developing our employees and the Partnership for the future and striving to improve the effectiveness of our organisation, we will be best placed to meet our longterm business objectives, and create additional value for our shareholders.
We also focus on the importance of safe and sustainable growth through prudent management of risk and the highest standards of regulatory compliance.
The Committee assessed how well the Executive team had performed in relation to the objectives set at the start of the year.
The Committee did not place fixed weightings on the factors assessed, but made a judgement based on the Committees view of the relative importance and impact of those factors over the course of the year.
For some factors the Committee was able to put in place quantitative metrics, and for others more qualitative judgments were made, depending on the nature of the strategic objective.
As regards client satisfaction, the Committee took into account the following objectives: The independent client satisfaction survey results for 2013 were very strong and in some categories the results were the highest achieved since the annual survey began in 2007.
In summary, 84% of clients rated their overall satisfaction with SJP as 8 or more out of 10 compared to 73% in 2012 and 81% of clients would be happy to recommend SJP to their contacts compared to 70% in 2012.
In the annual Wealth Account survey, 88% of clients rated the value of their relationship with their SJP Partner as 8 or more out of 10.
Clients continued to benefit from above average performance across the majority of funds, over a three, five and ten year period.
Over the ten year period 70% of funds outperformed their peer group.
The Group won a number of industry awards, further details of which are set out on page 39, many of which were voted on by clients.
The above factors, together with strong service levels, generally, contributed to excellent retention of funds under management, with 95% of existing funds being retained see page 32 and an 8% reduction in complaint levels compared to 2012.
84 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors Remuneration Report continued for the year ended 31 December 2013 In terms of strategic objectives designed to ensure the success of the business in the future, the Committee took into account: the growth in the size of the Partnership of 9.5% in 2013, considerably above the target for the year of 57%: the success of the Academy in attracting suitable candidates to the courses run in 2013, with over 80% of recruits joining the Academy in 2012 and 2013 being retained: the high levels of retention for both employees and members of the Partnership, assisted by additional training and development opportunities launched in 2013 for both the senior management team, the Partnership and the workforce generally: and the successful placing by Lloyds Banking Group plc of its major shareholding in the Company during the year, assisted by the strong levels of support and demand for SJP shares from institutional investors, due to the strong results of the Group in recent years and the Groups successful investor relations programme.
In addition to the above, the Committee assessed and noted the satisfactory completion of the various strategic objectives set out in the business plan, including: the entering into of a reinsurance treaty with SwissRe that crystallised the future value of protection policies, reduced insurance and persistency risks and resulted in an increase in cash profits of approximately 18 million: the completion of various objectives designed to enhance and strengthen the monitoring and mitigation of key regulatory risks impacting the Group: and the implementation of phase one of the back office integration programme, which included the signing of a new contract for the administration of the Groups UK life and pension policies with IFDS, who already administer the Groups unit trust and ISApolicies.
Taking all the above strategic objectives into account, the Committee awarded the maximum bonus available under the team performance element of the annual bonus scheme, recognising that a high proportion of the strategic objectives were graded as outstanding or above stretch and that all of the major business plan objectives had been satisfactorily completed.
Notes i Profit from new business is the EEV new business contribution plus the profits arising in the distribution company as shown in the segmental analysis.
ii T he Committee has the discretion to scale back the annual bonus payable in respect of the strategic measures if it considers it inappropriate in the context of the overall financial results of the Group.
The Committee reviewed the Groups performance and agreed that no scaleback was appropriate.
iii The Committee retains the discretion to amend each element of the bonus, up or down, within the overall cap of 120% of salary, to take into account other relevant factors such as the Groups performance compared to competitor organisations or, for instance, an exceptional positive or negative event which impacts the Group.
The Committee reviewed the Groups performance as well as competitors and the external market at the end of the performance period and agreed that no adjustment was required.
iv Half of the bonus is paid in cash, with the remainder being invested in the Companys shares and deferred for three years, under the Groups deferred bonus plan.
Long-Term Incentive Awards Vesting of Performance Share Plan PSP awards audited On 31 December 2013, the awards made on 15 March 2011 under the PSP reached the end of their threeyear performance period.
These will vest on 15 March 2014, being the third anniversary of the date of grant.
The performance conditions which applied to the 2011 PSP awards, and the actual performance achieved against these conditions, are set out in the table below: Average annual adjusted Average annual adjusted EPS EPS growth including the growth excluding the unwind unwind of the discount rate of the discount rate in excess TSR relative to the FTSE 250 in excess of RPI of RPI % of one % of one third third of % of one third Performance of award Performance award Performance of award Performance level hurdle required vesting required vesting required vesting Below threshold Below Median 0% Below 5% 0% Below 5% 0% Threshold Median 25% At least 5% 25% At least 5% 25% Stretch or above Upper Quartile or above 100% 16% or above 100% 16% or above 100% Actual Achieved 18 out of 179 companies 13.8% 85% 16.8% 100% Above Upper Quartile 100% Note 1 Note 1 FTSE 250, excluding investment trusts and companies in the FTSE oil, gas and mining sectors.
Note 1: In calculating the performance target relating to EPS growth, including the unwind, for the three years to 31 December 2013, the Committee excluded the oneoff costs of 6.2 million incurred by the Company in relation to the placing by Lloyds Banking Group plc LBG of 20% of its shareholding in SJP in March 2013.
The Committee considered that these costs were not incurred in the ordinary course of business and were unforeseen at the time the performance targets were set and that it was fair and reasonable to exclude them.
The impact of the adjustment to the EPS growth including the unwind was to increase the EPS growth over the threeyear period to 31 December 2013 from 13.1% to 13.8%, with the result that the percentage vesting in relation to the onethird of the award based on EPS including the unwind increased from 80% to 85%.
The impact of the adjustment of the EPS growth excluding the unwind was to increase EPS growth over the three year period to 31 December 2013 from 15.9% to 16.8%, with the result that the percentage vesting in relation to the onethird of the award based on EPS excluding the unwind increased from 99% to 100%.
