Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 77 Remuneration Scenarios for Executive Directors The chart below shows how the proportion of each Executive Directors remuneration package varies at different levels of performance in accordance with the policy to be implemented in 2014 and using the assumptions set out below.
A significant proportion of remuneration is linked to performance, particularly at maximum performance levels.
Target fixed pay plus 60% vesting of the annual bonus and 50% vesting of PSP awards.
Maximum fixed pay plus 100% vesting of the annual bonus and PSP awards.
Salaries used are those applying on 1 March 2014 and taxable benefits are those reported for the year ending 31 December 2013.
Pension is based on 2014 policy applied to 1 March 2014 salaries.
Amounts have been rounded to the nearest 1,000.
Participation in all employee plans, dividends payable on PSP awards over the vesting period or on deferred share bonus awards are not included in the above scenarios and the table assumes no increase to the share price.
Service Contracts The Companys policy is that service contracts may be terminated with 12 months notice from either the Company or from the Executive Director except in certain exceptional recruitment situations where a longer notice period from the Company may be set provided it reduces to a maximum of 12 months with a specified time limit.
Service contracts do not contain a fixed end date.
Under their service contracts the Executive Directors are entitled to salary, pension contributions and benefits for their notice period except on termination for events such as gross misconduct where payment will be for sums earned up to the date of termination with no notice period only.
The Company would seek to ensure that any payment is mitigated by use of phased payments and offset against earnings elsewhere in the event that an Executive Director finds alternative employment during his notice period.
There are no contractual provisions in force other than those set out above that impact any termination payment.
