48 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 St. Jamess Place Foundation The Foundation has grown significantly in the last 21 years and The St. Jamess Place Foundation is a has become one of the most successful company charities in the UK with over 32 million raised and distributed to good causes grant-making charity with a difference, during this period.
reflecting the Groups culture of giving The Foundation Trustees are immensely proud of the fact that over 80% of the St. Jamess Place Community give regularly to back to those less fortunate in society.
the Foundation through their pay or earnings.
The Foundation The vast majority of funds raised come receives almost 1 million annually through regular monthly donations before company matching and it is this on-going from fundraising or generous donations support that enables the Foundation to support charities over a number of years with multi-year grants and to grow the amounts made by the Partners and employees of given to good causes which match the Foundations themes.
St. Jamess Place each year.
These funds 2013 Review 2013 has been a successful year for the Foundation with over 4.5 are then matched pound for pound by million raised, thanks to the commitment to fundraising by our the Company.
On top of the support received from regular monthly contributions, a number of successful events were held in 2013, raising over 1 million before matching, including a canoe challenge, walks treks, cycle rides, spinathon, dinners balls, golf days, runs, triathlons, cake bakes and the like.
The Foundation Trustees would like to thank everyone who has contributed in any way to raising over 4.5 million during the year.
03183415 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 49 These themes have been chosen by our community and are regularly reviewed and updated.
In addition to small grants of over 900,000, the Foundation has been able to make three major capital investments in 2013.
These capital projects will, once they have been completed, play a major part in ensuring that hundreds of deserving children and young people are given the chance of living more fulfilling lives and reaching their full potential.
Smile, Support & Care Reach for the Skye The St. Jamess Place Foundation has donated 1 million to the charity Smile, Support & Care to help build a new respite centre for disabled children and their families living in Hampshire, West Sussex, Dorset and Wiltshire.
The centre, which is due to open in mid-2014, will provide comfortable accommodation in peaceful surroundings and be available to children with varying needs, including the most severely disabled children who require specialist care and round the clock professional support.
The new centre will enable short breaks for a disabled child at the same time giving the childs parents or carers the chance to have some respite, providing a holiday for all.
uk Ten Tors Chicks Chicks is a national childrens charity providing the most disadvantaged children in the UK, aged between 8 and 15, respite Furthering Our Reach helping those who need it most breaks at their current centres in Devon and Cornwall.
Founded Our continued success with fundraising has meant that the in 1992, CHICKS offers breaks to over 1,200 disadvantaged Foundation has been able to further its reach by donating in children a year, many of whom are young carers and often its the excess of 4 million to good causes in 2013 both in the UK and first holiday they have ever had.
Generally lasting a week, the overseas, together with a further 4 million pledged as multi-year children get to experience activities such as pony trekking, grants to charities over the next three years subject to the swimming and rock climbing, as well as trips to the beach and satisfaction of various conditions.
zoo, and many revisit the centres annually.
The charity also keeps in touch with the children throughout the year, especially at The Foundation makes donations of all sizes, from a few hundred vulnerable times like Christmas and seeks ways to ensure longer pounds to donations of over 1 million, with a particular focus on term impact for each child visiting their centres.
small to medium size charities whom the Trustees believe are best equipped to make a positive and lasting difference to peoples The Foundation has agreed a match fund donation of 750,000 lives.
Charities are selected based on the suitability of their towards the conversion and refurbishment of a new centre on the project and whether or not the work they do matches the Staffordshire Derbyshire border, to enable the charity to offer Foundations grant making themes and criteria.
These themes further respite breaks to those living in the Midlands and North.
currently include cancer, the hospice movement and support for children and young people with disabilities, life limiting illnesses www.
uk or those who are disadvantaged socially or economically.
50 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 sport for good helping young people by harnessing the power of sport to change young lives This year, the Foundation has continued to support seven independent partner charities through the Sport for Good programme.
Through the overall investment of 1.74 million the Onside lives of over one million disadvantaged and disabled children have Finally, the Foundation has also pledged been improved in the last two years of the project.
The seven 1 million to the youth charity Onside, to be matched by The charities include local charities Greenbank Sports Academy and Queens Silver Jubilee Trust, towards the building of two new Positive Futures in Liverpool, Disability Sport Wales, Norwich youth centres in Wolverhampton and the Wirral, both set to Community Sports Foundation and Keyfund in the North East.
The new centres will give young people in these The charities which operate nationally include Panathlon two locations ranked 40th and 60th respectively in the list of the Challenge and Laureus Active Communities Network who work UKs most deprived areas the opportunity to participate in in partnership to deliver the Urban Stars project.
activities that would otherwise be out of their reach.
In 2013 alone, a total of 580,000 has been donated via the Sport Onside is a national charity with one simple, but almost for Good programme and this investment has enabled each and old-fashioned, aim to build a network of 21st century youth every charity whether local or national to thrive, with three of centres, giving young people quality, safe and affordable places the seven charities exceeding their expected targets for the year to go in their leisure time.
with the support of the Foundation.
The new centres are modelled on the hugely successful Bolton Plans for the Future Lads and Girls Club, which has served the young of Bolton since The Foundation plans to build on the success achieved over 1889 and is the UKs largest single youth club with nearly 3,500 the last few years by continuing to grow our fundraising and regular members.
Onside was established to replicate this success investing in worthwhile charitable projects in the UK in other towns and cities by providing a broad range of high and overseas.
quality facilities and activities, such a dance studios, climbing walls, art studios, gyms, enterprise hubs, football pitches, as well In addition to the employees and Partners contributing to the as carefully designed spaces for youth work and mentoring.
Foundation on a monthly basis, we also have a number of exciting fundraising events planned for 2014.
We have no doubt that the Onside currently has five centres located in Carlisle, Blackburn, SJP Community will continue to support the Foundation to Oldham, Manchester and Wigan, together supporting over achieve its objectives in 2014 and beyond.
10,000 young people a year, with a vision to have 20 centres in operation by 2020. www.
