Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 17 Finally, the cash result measure has been developed with the As a result of the transaction, the protection business will no aim of assisting investors seeking to understand the sources of longer contribute to profit on any measure.
Our analysis presents cash emergence.
It is based on IFRS, but removes non-cash items the impact of the transaction as being effective at the start of the such as DAC, DIR and deferred tax.
It is also adjusted to reflect a year and so the result in 2013 reflects the expected lower ongoing level of regulatory solvency constraint on profits emerging from level of profit.
regulated companies such as our insurance businesses in line with that required by the UK regulators.
Group Capital Losses Tax Asset measure which more reflects the underlying cash generated by During 2013, the Company was able to place a value on old the business and which can be used by the Board in determining capital losses within the Group.
These are now regarded as being the dividend payments to shareholders.
capable of utilisation over the medium term and so the expected value was disclosed in the interim reporting.
In the second half of Since the cash result can be impacted by one off items, timing the year, further work has resulted in a refinement and reduction variances and capitalised impacts of changes in solvency of our estimate of the benefit and, at the same time, the requirements management believes it is also useful to present an implementation of changes in the corporation tax rate has also underlying cash result excluding these effects.
Neither of these reduced the overall benefit assumed in the IFRS accounts.
We are cash result measures should be confused with the IFRS cash flow now fully reflecting the value of these losses in the IFRS result statement which is prepared in accordance with IAS 7 and though a deferred tax asset of 27.9 million undiscounted so disclosed on page 105. there should be no further impact on IFRS profit in future years.
The same tax asset is valued at 22.8 million discounted in the Section 1 below provides detail on the 2013 developments post-tax EEV, and so contributed 28.6 million to the pre-tax impacting on the financial result: Sections 2-4 below provide a EEV operating profit in the year.
commentary on the performance of the business on the IFRS, EEV and cash result bases: whilst Section 5 covers other matters The Group did not utilise any of these capital losses in 2013 but of interest to shareholders.
expects to recognise positive impacts, of loss utilisation, in the cash result in the next few years which will emerge through the section 1: developments in 2013 Impacting Miscellaneous line.
Changes due to the Retail Distribution Review As noted in the Chief Financial Officers Report, there were New regulatory rules, following on from the Retail Distribution three developments of note during the year which had significant Review RDR, came into force at the start of 2013.
A key impacts on the financial statements and the same developments change was the introduction of adviser charging, with the will also affect emergence of profit in future years.
Comment on requirement that any advice should be the cost of the client rather the impact is included in the detailed notes in the following than a product manufacturer.
This change affected the nature of a sections, but to assist readers, a full analysis is also presented in number of cash flows, and there were three consequential this section.
The application of surrender penalties has been extended to all In early 2013 the UK life assurance company entered into a new new pension business, resulting in acceleration of cashflow reinsurance treaty to reinsure the Companys remaining from the first six years.
exposure on its closed book of Protection business life assurance, 2.
Advice is now paid for by the client and so there is no initial critical illness and PHI.
This treatment resulted in the removal charge or expenses to be deferred within the IFRS result of both the insurance and persistency risk on this business from through the DAC and DIR.
Advice costs are no longer expenses of the UK life company and so tax relief is no longer available within the life The transaction resulted in a one-off release of the prudent companys tax computation.
Historically the tax relief was solvency reserves and realisation of the capitalised value of the spread over seven years so the impact depends on the expected future margins.
Since the EEV measure already reflects reporting method.
future profits the impact on EEV operating profit was small.
By contrast, the impact on the cash result was a one-off increase of 18.3 million in the year, due to the impact of immediate recognition of the value of future profits.
Since the IFRS approach had already recognised some value for the future cashflows through a DAC asset the net impact was a positive contribution of 8.9 million to the profit before shareholder tax.
18 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Financial Review continued The impacts of these changes are summarised in the following table: Cash Result IFRS EEV application The acceleration of the cashflow The additional new business The earlier realisation of the of surrender reduces a previous new business margin arising from the cashflow results in a small increase penalties strain and generates an increase in acceleration of the cashflow is in new business contribution.
deferred through the DIR, so the positive impact in the cash result is This small impact is reflected in The positive impact is only an offset and the overall impact on the new business margin and acceleration of cashflow, and so the profit is small.
benefit is offset in the following six years by an increase in the unwind The impact on future years is also of surrender penalties.
Note that the impact of this change alone is a significant increase in the DIR on new business, but see also DAC and DIR below.
Since the advice related cashflows Not relevant.
dIR are no longer deferred, they dont actually contribute to DAC and DIR, and so the new business DAC and DIR adjustments are much smaller than in prior years.
The effect of the application of surrender penalties change above on the DIR is therefore reversed and there is a further overall reduction in income deferral, which exceeds the reduction in expense deferral.
The impact of all the changes is therefore an increase in the cash result, which is partially mitigated by the new lower level of DIR exceeding the new level of DAC.
Overall from these effects there is an increase in IFRS profit after tax of c. 20 million in 2013, which will grow in line with new business in future years but offset by the additional unwind of surrender penalties noted in the cash result.
03183415 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 19 Cash Result IFRS EEV loss of tax Although tax relief is no longer The full impact of tax relief on The full capitalised effect of the relief on available on the advice cost, the expenses is reflected in the IFRS loss of tax relief on all future advice cost spreading effect means that the result through recognition of a advice costs is reflected in the negative impact on the cash result deferred tax asset.
The loss of the newbusiness contribution.
The is only fully recognised over seven tax relief therefore gets fully impact in 2013 is a reduction of years.
During that period, the reflected as well and results in a c. 20-25 million.
impact is expected to be a reduction of c. 11 million in IFRS reduction of profit growth by profit after tax in 2013.
Future new business will reflect 3-4 million each year.
the new lower level of new Within our analysis of the IFRS business margin.
This is reflected in a number of result, the reduction will be lines within the cash result reflected incrementally in the cash analysis but principally through a result over seven years, with the reduction in the margin arising offsetting balance of the negative from new business, recognising impact reflected in the IFRS the full impact, offset by the deferred tax impacts line.
unwinding of prior years tax relief through the Miscellaneous line.
Overall The cash result has increased The positive impact on the cash The New business contribution significantly in 2013 over 2012 as result in 2013 is largely mitigated has reduced in the year, resulting a result of the increase in margin by adjustments in the IFRS result, in a corresponding reduction in arising from new business.
and so the IFRS profit after tax the new business margin.
has increased only slightly above In future years the impact of the the trend from 2012 after taking Future EEV profits will reflect the increase in margin arising from into account one-offs.
lower level of new business new business will be offset by an contribution.
increase in the unwind of Future profits growth will slow surrender penalties, and growth slightly compared to the profits in the cash result will also be growth trajectory of recent years, slowed by the cumulative impact mitigating the positive uplift of the loss of tax relief on advice in 2013. costs.
