52 St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Board of Directors Chairman Executive Directors sarah bates david bellamy andrew Croft Chairman Rem until the AGM N Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer Sarah joined the Board as an independent NonDavid joined the Company in 1991 and was appointed Andrew joined the Company in 1993 and has been executive Director in 2004 and she was appointed to the Board in 1997, before becoming Chief Chief Financial Officer since 2004.
He qualified as a Chairman on 1 January 2014.
She is Chair of the Executive in 2007.
He previously fulfilled a number Chartered Accountant at  in Remuneration Committee from which position she of roles at St. Jamess Place including Group 1988 and has a degree in Accounting and Economics will retire at the AGM and she retired from the Operations Director and Managing Director.
Andrew is a Trustee of Investment Committee on 31 December 2013. has worked in the financial services industry since the St. Jamess Place Foundation.
During 2013 he was Sarah has over thirty years investment experience 1973 and is a Trustee of the St. Jamess Place appointed a lay adviser to the Finance & IT Board of and a considerable amount of board and senior Foundation.
He is also a member of the Financial the Royal College of Surgeons of England.
She is Chairman of Conduct Authoritys Practitioners Panel.
JP Morgan American Investment Trust plc, non-executive and senior independent director of Development Securities plc and Witan Pacific Investment Trust, and a non-executive director of Polar Capital Technology Trust and Worldwide Healthcare Trust plc.
She is a member of the Investment Committee of the Universities Superannuation Scheme and an adviser to the East Riding Pension Scheme.
She is Chairman of the CRC Pension Fund investment committee and was previously Chairman of the Association of Investment Companies.
Ian gascoigne david lamb Managing Director Managing Director I Ian has worked in the financial services industry since David joined SJP in 1992 and was appointed to the 1986 and joined the Company in 1991.
He is a member of the Investment appointed to the Board in 2003.
He has a degree from Committee and a Trustee of the St. Jamess Place Lancaster University and an MA from Leicester Foundation.
David is a non-executive director of The University.
Ian is a Trustee of the St. Jamess Place Henderson Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc, Foundation.
He is also on the Advisory Board of a director of the Wealth Management Association, a Loughborough University Business School.
member of the Council for the CBI South West and Governor of the University of the West of England.
He is a graduate of City University, London and a Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries.
Key A Member of the Audit Committee R Member of the Risk Committee I Member of the Investment Committee Rem Member of the Remuneration Committee N Member of the Nomination Committee Registered No.
03183415 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 53 Non-executive Directors Vivian bazalgette simon Jeffreys Iain Cornish Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Senior Independent Non-executive I Rem A A Rem Director A R N Vivian joined the Board inJuly2011 as an Simon was appointed to the Board as an independent Iain joined the Board as an independent independent Non-executive Director and is Chair of Non-executive Director on 1 January 2014 and is a Non-executive Director in October2011.
He was the Investment Committee.
He is also a member of member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
appointed as Senior Independent Director and as the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
Vivian has He will become Chair of the Audit Committee on Chair of the Risk Committee on 1 January 2014.
He a wealth of board and senior management experience 1 March 2014, following the finalisation of the 2013 is currently Chair of the Audit Committee but will and has over thirty years experience of investment accounts.
Simon was a partner with step down as Chair from 1 March 2014 when Simon markets.
He is a non-executive director of  LLP 1986-2006 where Jeffreys will become Chair.
He is also a member of Henderson High Income Trust plc, The Brunner he led the firms Global Investment Management the Nomination Committee.
Iain has considerable Investment Trust plc and Perpetual Income & Growth practice, after which he joined Fidelity International board and senior management experience and was Investment Trust plc.
Vivian is currently Vice Limited as Group Chief Administrative Officer Chief Executive of the Yorkshire Building Society Chairman of the Governors of Dulwich College and 2006-2008.
He is now Chief Operating Officer from July2003 until December2011, having joined advises the BAE Systems Plc Pension Fund and the of Wellcome Trust and non-executive director at the Society in 1992.
Prior to joining the Society, he Investment Committee of the Nuffield Foundation.
Henderson International Income Investment Trust, was a Senior Consultant in KPMGs Strategy Services Aon UK Limited, and SimCorp A S, a Danish Consultancy Practice, specialising in banking and publicly listed financial services software company.
Iain is a non-executive director of Arrow Global Group plc, and is an independent director of the Prudential Regulation Authority.
He also served as a member of the FSA Practitioner Panel from 2007 to 2011, becoming Chairman in 2009. baroness wheatcroft Roger Yates Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director R Rem N R Rem Baroness Wheatcroft was appointed to the Board as Roger was appointed to the Board as an independent an independent Non-executive Director in April 2012 Non-executive Director on 1 January 2014 and is a and is a member of the Risk, Nomination and member of the Risk and Remuneration Committees.
Baroness Wheatcroft is a He will become Chair of the Remuneration member of the House of Lords and is currently a Committee after the Annual General Meeting in non-executive director of FIAT S. p. A. and of the 2014.
Roger has over 30 years of investment Association of Leading Visitor Attractions.
She management experience at Morgan Grenfell, Invesco became chairman of the Patrons Committee and and Henderson Group plc, where he was Chief of the Investment Committee of the British Museum Executive Officer 1999-2008, and as an in 2013.
Baroness Wheatcroft has considerable independent non-executive director at F&C Asset experience of the media and journalism and was Management plc 2009 only.
He is currently previously Editor-in-Chief at the Wall Street Journal, non-executive Chairman of Pioneer Global Asset Europe, a former Editor of the Sunday Telegraph and Management S. p. A. and Electra Private Equity plc was Business and City Editor of The Times between and a non-executive director of JP Morgan Elect plc 1997 and 2006.
She has been a non-executive and IG Group Holdings plc.
director of Barclays Group plc and Shaftesbury plc and acts as an adviser to, or member of, various other bodies, including the UK India Round Table.
