Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information St. Jamess Place plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 79 Directors Annual Report on Remuneration The Chief Financial Officer to provide explanations on The Annual Remuneration Report will be put to an advisory financial information relating to the Group.
shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM.
The information on pages 82 The Chairman of the Risk Committee as part of the to 92 has been audited where indicated.
New Bridge Street as independent adviser to the Committee.
How the Committee operates to set the RemunerationPolicy Any recommendations from the management team are discussed The Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the Board, by the Committee and adopted or amended as the Committee determines the Companys remuneration policy and the sees fit.
No Director is present at any part of a meeting of the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors of the Committee when their individual remuneration or contractual Company and the Chairman.
In addition, the Committee terms are being discussed.
monitors the remuneration of the senior management team, including the Group Risk Director and his colleagues in the Risk Advisers to the Committee Division, and oversees the operation of the Executive long term The Committee is advised by independent remuneration incentive schemes and all employee share schemes.
consultants New Bridge Street a trading name of Aon Hewitt Limited being an Aon plc company.
New Bridge Streets The membership and terms of reference of the Committee are appointment as adviser to the Committee is reviewed annually reviewed annually and the terms of reference are available on the by the Committee.
New Bridge Street provided advice to the Committee on Membership of and Attendance at the Remuneration remuneration matters generally, including on executive pay, the Committee meetings new legislation on remuneration reporting and incentive plans The members of the Committee all independent Nonexecutive which are of particular relevance to the Company.
New Bridge Directors during 2013 are set out below as well as their Street is a signatory to the Remuneration Consultants Code of attendance at meetings during the financial year: Conduct and has confirmed to the Committee its compliance with the Code.
Number of meetings attended in 2013 out of Name potential maximum The total fees paid to New Bridge Street for the advice provided to the Committee during the year was 149,832.
Fees are charged Sarah Bates Committee Chairman 7 7 Vivian Bazalgette 7 7 predominately on a time spent basis.
Patience Wheatcroft 6 7 Neither New Bridge Street, nor its parent company Aon plc, has provided any other services to the Company during the year other Patience Wheatcroft was not able to attend one meeting due to a than some consultancy work relating to property and hedge funds prior commitment, but reviewed the papers and gave her which Aon Hewitt provided to the Investment Committee.
comments to the Committee Chairman prior to the meeting.
The Committee has been advised of the basis on which New Simon Jeffreys and Roger Yates were appointed as members of the Bridge Street is organised and managed as part of the wider Aon Committee from 1 January 2014.
It is intended that Sarah Bates organisation and the basis on which its staff are remunerated and will step down as Chairman of the Committee after the AGM in is satisfied that these relatively minor additional services in no May 2014, to be replaced by Roger Yates.
way compromised the independence of advice provided by New Bridge Street to the Committee.
The Committee receives advice from several different sources: The Company Secretary who acts as Secretary to the Engagement with Shareholders Committee and provides advice on corporate governance, legal During 2013, the Remuneration Committee reviewed the and regulatory issues as well as the design and operation of the Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors and other senior long term incentive schemes: and executives.
As part of this process, it sought the views of the Members of the executive team or other third parties as they Companys major shareholders and investor representatives and see fit including: other members of the Board.
Further details of the review process The Chief Executive to provide information on corporate or are set out on page 58. individual performance to the Committee, or to provide recommendations regarding the remuneration packages of individual Directors.
The Chairman to provide information on the performance of individual Directors, including the Chief Executive.
