46 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Consumer Banking Sharpening our focus and execution to build competitive advantage Resilient performance Consumer Banking CB delivered a resilient financial performance in 2013, with income up 2 per cent to $7,179million, or up 5 percent excluding Korea.
Operatingprot was down 11 per cent, and up 8percentexcluding Korea.
Our income and balance sheet remain well diversied by customer segment, product and geography.
We saw strong performances in SME Banking, Priority & International Banking, Mortgages, and Credit Cards and Personal Loans CCPL, as well as across a number of our key markets and regions, including Hong Kong, India, Africa, and the Middle East andOther South Asia MESA.
We have a strong, high-quality balance sheet consisting of an outstanding deposit franchise, as evidenced byour current and savings accounts CASA, which grew from 58 to 60 per cent of our deposits in 2013.
Oursecured lending as a percentage of our total book improved further to 73per cent.
Our focus on the financial needs of our clients and customers, Steve Bertamini coupled with our broad-based product offering, has enabled usto deepen relationships across our high-value segments.
Group Executive Director and This resulted in the mix of revenues from high-value segments CEOConsumer Banking shifting from 35 per cent in 2008 to 47 per cent in 2013.
Through our shift to digital, we have become globally Her e for good underpins our culture and recognised for our best-in-class mobile and internet bankingservices.
We have also transformed our branch conduct, guides our decisions and makes network and made substantial progress in integrating our banking easier forour customers in all distribution network.
We remain focused on managing both risk and costs tightly tocreate room for investment in the business.
In 2013, CB onceagain achieved positive cost to income jaws.
We have continued enhancing our distribution network, technical competencies, online and internet banking capabilities and marketing activities.
2 Net Promoter Score NPS Index Key highlights Operating income $7,179m 1 2012: $7,021m 1 Amount has been restated as explained in note 43 on page 303 09 10 11 12 13 2 Net Promoter Score and NPS are trademarks Secured lending as % of the total book ofSatmetrix Systems Inc. Bain & Company, andFredReichheld.
Standard Chartered uses Bainmethodology recalibrated for financial services tocalculate NPS.
NPS scores provided are for the 73% fourth quarter.
Previous reports are based on third-quarter data 2012: 72% 25 39 46 55 61 Strategic report Operating and financial review 47 Sharpening our focus to capture the opportunities inourfootprint Supporting the renminbi needs We remain confident in the significant growth potential of our of our customers markets and in our competitive strengths.
Using our cross-border capabilities to support our Our footprint extends across some of the worlds  RMB needs growing economies.
We believe the fundamentals across Asia, Africa and the Middle East remain strong, with economic growth expected to drive 60 per cent of total global revenue growth for the consumer banking industry.
Private wealth in Asia, Africa and the Middle East alone will surpass the US and Europe by 2017, led by China, India, Indonesia and Nigeria.
SMEs, which employ the majority of theworkforce across our footprint, are a key contributor to the economic growth of our markets.
In 2013, we remained consistent in the execution of our strategy in each of our chosen markets and segments, while sharpening our focus, so that we can respond quickly and appropriately to evolving market conditions and the increasing volume of regulatory changes across our markets.
We are increasing our scale and relevance in key cities, running these as we do our larger markets, to build economies of scale.
As part of our commitment to meet our customers retail, investment We are able to compete effectively by leveraging our digital and business banking needs, we offer a broad range of RMB capabilities and alliances and maximising our resources without solutions, including RMB-denominated deposits, mutual funds, structured products, and insurance and bonds for our retail and high having to expand our physical infrastructure.
By maintaining our focus on productivity, we have looked Standard Chartered Hong Kong is among the first banks to offer atstaff, real estate and technology.
Actions taken have RMB-denominated accounts to non-HK residents, making it easier includedincreased automation of end-to-end processes, forthem to access their RMB accounts in China.
branch network reconguration and the simplication and Within 10 months ofdomestic banks becoming eligible to offer standardisation of systems.
We have also revisited how we RMB-related services in Taiwan, Standard Chartered collected viewrisk-weighted assets RWA allocation and there is now deposits of over RMB138 billionfrom local customers seeking to adisproportionate allocation of RWA and expense capacity allocate assets in RMB.
In April 2013, Standard Chartered China asweseek to establish sufficient scale and balance sheet and launched direct cross-border RMB remittance for Taiwanese franchise strength in key markets and cities.
residents, allowing them to open special accounts for RMB remittances from Taiwan.
We have also placed greater emphasis on delivering on We also offer onshore and offshore RMB solutions to SMEs, such as ourbrand promise, Here for good, and on building our trade settlement and invoicing.
In the third quarter of 2013, a Peoples digitalcapabilities.
Bank of China sub-branch announced a new policy allowing RMB cross-border lending and borrowing between Taiwanese-owned companies and those registered in Kunshan, China.
As a result of this ruling, we were able to provide our Taiwanese SME clients with a cross-border RMB lending transaction capability to help them deliver on their business ambitions.
48 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Consumer Banking continued A responsible and sustainable business Building deep and trusted relationships Faced with rapidly evolving regulatory change, we have Five years ago, we embarked on a fundamental transformation sharpened our strategic focus on the key areas that will to build a business that consistently puts clients and customers differentiate us as a responsible and sustainable business.
at the heart of our decisions and actions.
Today, our Customer Charter and the way we address the needs of our clients and The principles of Treating Customers Fairly underpin our customers, the SCB Way, are an integral part of how we do approach to doing business.
For several years, we have business.
They help us understand and meet the diverse needs promoted prudent practices in the selling of Payment Protection and preferences of our clients and customers and build deep Insurance.
We have also continued to make changes to our relationships, while ensuring that we uphold our commitment to compensation structures to drive the right behaviours.
We have embedded our brand promise further in the way we Our Private Bank has grown to become one of the top 10 global approach, communicate and manage our business, so that it banks in Asia by assets under management.
In 2013, we were guides our decisions and makes banking easier for our clients named as the Outstanding Private Bank in South Asia by Private and customers.
Banker International, in addition to Best Private Bank Middle In 2013, following the refresh of our Group Code of Conduct, East and India at The Banker Global Private Banking Awards.
wereiterated our commitment to conducting our business to The awards recognised our leadership in growing and the highest standards of ethics and integrity.
We invested more protecting our clients wealth.
in controls to ensure robust risk and capital management Our SME Banking business continues to grow and remains frameworks.
We also strengthened our governance, increased critically important to the Group as we seek to facilitate trade our operational transparency and enhanced our due diligence.
and the deepening of financial markets across our footprint.
At the same time, we continued to simplify our operations, This segment remains critically important to the Group as we standardise our processes and procedures and introduce seek to facilitate trade and the deepening of financial markets innovation, to make it easier for our clients and customers to across our footprint.
bank with us, while creating a more efficient and productive working environment.
Priority & International Banking, which supports wealth and cross-border needs through a relationship-manager model, has also continued to see progress year-on-year as we deepen and build trusted relationships with our customers.
In Personal Banking, our integrated distribution model has allowed us to digitise our products and services and recongure our branch network to better suit the needs of our customers.
Continued investment in the digitisation of our business has allowed us to enhance our core systems and processes, take further steps towards eliminating paper-based transactions and create digital-first solutions through alliances and mobile payment partnerships.
Strategic report Operating and financial review 49 By automating many of our processes, we are able to reduce human errors in manual processes, strengthen our control Digitising banking environment, improve our productivity, shorten our turnaround Digitisation is taking banking back to basics meeting times and provide an enhanced experience for our customers, consumers needs in an integrated and seamless way whether they bank with us remotely through online and mobile channels or in a branch.
Across nine of our key markets, we now capture over 90 per cent of customer requests digitally, 52per cent of which are processed automatically.
Our clients and customers are increasingly comfortable with banking digitally and conducting their banking transactions online.
We are well positioned to capture this shift in behaviour, and our award-winning online and mobile solutions have helped us to increase our number of online customers by over 20 per cent, and mobile customers by 60 per cent year-on-year.
We have also seen significant growth in online sales for credit cards, online bill payments and online trading, which grew from 2012 at 26 per cent, 68 per cent and 63 per cent, respectively year-on-year.
Leveraging the potential of one bank We remain positive about the significant opportunity within ourmarkets in Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
Our clear and We are digitising our business to improve how we serve our clients consistent strategy, coupled with our local knowledge and andcustomers, and to make our operations more efficient.
international expertise, is a competitive advantage.
We are integrating our IT systems and simplifying and automating The strength of a one bank approach is evident in the success our processes to increase productivity, ensure a robust control environment and free up our frontline staff.
This enables them to of our Employee Banking and Wholesale Banking partnership.
spendmore time with our clients and customers.
We leverage our one bank capabilities to offer comprehensive, reliable and hassle-free banking solutions that are structured to Several years ago, with the launch of our award-winning mobile meet the diverse banking needs of our corporate clients and banking app, Breeze, we responded to a shift in consumer behaviour, allowing our clients and customers to bank where and when they their employees.
Our commitment to builddeep relationships wanted.
We coined the phrase Digital Main Bank to capture our with our clients and customers remainsthe foundation of our aspiration and have been making steady progress each year.
In 2014, with thereorganisation of our business, Since then, we have been focusing on improving and bringing wewill be even betterplacedto meet their evolvingneeds.
consistency to every part of our business.
Our Express Banking More detail onthereorganisation canbefound Centres EBC help connect clients and customers with a full suite of on investors.
com automated and digitised processes and trained service ambassadors are on hand toassist them bank swiftly and efficiently.
We will continue to invest in our franchise and our digital Digitisation has also allowed us to simplify our application and agenda, as well as raising the bar on our conduct to deliver documentation processes, making it easier and faster for new onour Here for good brand promise.
customers to open an account with us.
Our Digital Education Programme empowers staff to help clients andcustomers with their introduction or transition to digital banking.
The programme coaches staff on how to walk clients and customers through their first digital transaction seamlessly and condently.
Concern around security is often a barrier to digital banking.
We understand this concern and maintaining the highest levels of security and protection is our priority.
We offer regular SMS and email alerts, automatic logouts, advanced second factor authentication and 128-bit secure socket layer to ensure a safe and secure experience.
We have seen a significant shift to digital in terms of customer usage, number of transactions and products applied for through digital channels.
The feedback from our clients and customers remains verypositive and our online Net Promoter Score for digital channels exceeds all other channels.
In 2013, for the third consecutive year, wewere recognised as the Worlds Best Consumer Internet Bank Global Finance.
50 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Consumer Banking continued Consumer Banking The following tables provide an analysis of operating profit by geography for CB: 2013 Middle East Americas, Consumer Other Asia & Other UK & Banking Hong Kong Singapore Korea Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Operating income 1,561 982 1,046 1,620 466 801 529 174 7,179 Operating expenses 795 546 835 1,183 304 496 330 143 4,632 Loan impairment 139 78 371 310 38 63 22 13 1,034 Other impairment 2 1 4 7 profit from associates and joint ventures 43 1 44 Operating profit loss 627 358 162 169 120 242 177 19 1,550 2012 Middle East Americas, Consumer Other Asia & Other UK & Banking Hong Kong Singapore Korea Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Operating income 1,410 974 1,183 1,596 440 753 482 183 7,021 Operating expenses 771 553 795 1,209 318 493 306 151 4,596 Loan impairment 95 62 223 186 27 51 20 10 674 Other impairment 1 36 8 45 profit from associates and joint ventures 43 43 Operating profit 544 359 164 208 95 209 156 14 1,749 An analysis of CB income by product is set out below: Better 2013 2012 Worse Operating income by product $million $million % Credit Cards and Personal Loans CCPL and Unsecured Lending 2,802 2,668 5 Wealth Management 1,296 1,268 2 Deposits 1,414 1,526 7 Mortgages and Auto Finance 1,425 1,298 10 Other 242 261 7 Total operating income 7,179 7,021 2 Performance in 2013 Net interest income increased by $185 million, or 4 per cent, Operating income in CB increased $158 million, or 2 per cent, to$4,949 million.
Higher average asset and liability volumes to$7,179 million with pre-provision profit rising 5 per cent.
helped offset lower margins on unsecured and CASA products.
However, operating profit fell $199 million, or 11 per cent, to Mortgage volumes remained subdued as a result of cooling $1,550 million due to higher levels of impairment.
Excluding measures and regulatory restrictions in several of our markets.
Korea, which generated a loss of $162 million for the year, Mortgage margins improved, however, reecting our ability to income rose 5 per cent and operating profit increased increase pricing in a select number of markets.
were 26 basis points bps lower than 2012, although Credit Card margins improved during the second half of 2013 and Income in CB remains diverse, with double-digit income growth while average volumes were up strongly against 2012, growth in Hong Kong and Africa offsetting lower levels of income in was concentrated in the first half of 2013.
Liability margins Korea and the Americas, UK & Europe.
remained under pressure, with CASA down 21 bps compared to 2012, partially offset by good growth in CASA balances in Hong Kong and Singapore.
Strategic report Operating and financial review 51 Non-interest income fell $27 million, or 1 per cent, to impacted by margin compression, and Korea, where balances $2,230million.
Excluding the impact of a fair value loss of declined compared to 2012.
However, we originated and $49million on businesses held for sale and a $39 million transferred $3 billion of xed rate mortgages during the year property gain in 2012, non-interest income rose 3 per cent.
under the Korea Mortgage Purchase Programme.
Theincrease was primarily due to higher levels of Wealth Other income, which predominantly includes SME-related trade Management income, reecting an increase in sales of and other transactional income, fell 7 per cent.
Excluding the equity-linked products, particularly funds in the first half of the $49 million fair value loss on businesses held for sale in 2013 year buoyed by positive investor sentiment, although income and $39 million of property gains in 2012, income increased, slowed in the second half of 2013 due to adverse market reecting good growth in SME revenues across Hong Kong, conditions across our footprint.
Malaysia, Middle East and other South Asia MESA and India.
Expenses were up $36 million, or 1 per cent, to$4,632 million.
While staff costs fell on the back of lower headcount Geographic performance andefciency initiatives, this was more than offset by a Hong Kong non-recurring tax charge of $41 million in Korea and continued Income rose $151 million, or 11 per cent, to $1,561 million.
investments in the franchise, particularly targeted in the growth Therewas strong growth in Mortgages on the back of good markets of Hong Kong, India and Africa.
asset growth coupled with higher margins with a continued Loan impairment increased by $360 million, or 53 per cent, focus on originating new business in higher margin Prime to$1,034 million.
More than half of the increase related to rate-based products.
Wealth Management also delivered Korea, due to an acceleration in the amount of lings under goodgrowth as a result of increased unit trust sales and thePersonal Debt Rehabilitation Scheme PDRS, and lower highertransaction volumes in foreign exchange and securities levels of debt sales down $53 million compared to 2012, which services.
Income from SME improved benefiting from higher predominantly impacted in the Other Asia Pacic region.
There was more moderate growth in CCPL remainder of the increase primarily reected the maturation ashigher volumes from personal loans were partially offset by ofunsecured lending acquired between 2010 and 2012 with continued margin compression and the impact of credit card impairment levels for the otherproduct segments remaining regulatory reforms.
Income from Deposits declined as a result relatively stable.
of narrower spreads but was partially offset by good volume growth, particularly in CASA.
Renminbi RMB deposits Product performance continued to grow strongly throughout the year.
Income from CCPL grew $134 million, or 5 per cent, to Operating expenses increased by $24 million, or 3 per cent, to $2,802million.
Although period-end CCPL balances fell, $795 million.
Expenses continue to be tightly managed and the particularly in Korea and Taiwan, income grew, reecting the increase was primarily due to the ow through of prior year owthrough impact of volume growth in the second half of 2012 investments in the branch network and in system infrastructure.
and increased fee income, which offset the impact of margin compression.
Margins were affected by a change in product Pre-provision profit was up $127 million, or 20 per cent, to mix and the impact of regulatory reforms.
Wealth Management income rose 2 per cent to $1,296 million Loan impairment was $44 million higher at $139 million, and income remained well diversied across equity-linked reecting the seasoning impact of growth in unsecured lending, andnon-equity-linked products such as bancassurance.
as expected, together with lower recoveries.
Equity-linked products grew strongly in the first half of Operating profit rose $83 million, or 15 per cent, to $627 million.
theyearbut declined in the second half, reecting marketsentiment.
Singapore Deposits income fell by $112 million, or 7 per cent, to Income rose $8 million, or 1 per cent, to $982 million in tough $1,414million.
CASA balances grew strongly, particularly in market conditions.
CCPL income was marginally lower as the Hong Kong and Singapore.
This growth was more than offset growth in average balances was offset by lower margins, by margin compression as competition intensied and interest reecting a change in product mix.
Mortgage income was rates remained low across our footprint with declines in some impacted by margin compression and regulatory cooling markets such as Korea and Pakistan.
The pace of compression measures.
Deposits income rose largely due to volume growth moderated in the second half of 2013 partly aided by a for CASA, partially offset by lower margins reecting increased gradualexit of higher cost time deposits in Korea, Singapore competition for foreign currency deposits.
was at as the benefit from an increase in funds and bancassurance revenue was partially offset by lower equity Mortgages and Auto Finance income rose by $127 million, sales due to less favourable market sentiment.
While margins and balances increased in Hong Kong, a number of markets were affected by regulatory constraints.
This included Singapore, which was also 52 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Consumer Banking continued Operating expenses fell $7 million, or 1 per cent, to $546 million, Income in Taiwan fell 2 per cent to $414 million.
Deposit income primarily due to lower staff costs as headcount reduced.
increased, benefiting from a change in mix to higher margin Time Deposits and Wealth Management income was also Pre-provision profit was 4 per cent higher at $436 million.
higher on the back of market sentiment.
This was more than Loan impairment rose by 26 per cent, or $16 million, to offset by lower income from CCPL and Mortgages which were $78million due to the maturing of the unsecured portfolio.
both affected by regulatory cooling measures.
Operating profit fell by $1 million to $358 million.
Income in Malaysia rose 5 per cent to $414 million with broad-based growth across all product lines.
Income from Korea CCPL grew strongly as margins improved, although the pace Income was down $137 million, or 12 per cent, to $1,046 million.
ofgrowth slowed in the second half of 2013 as regulatory On a constant currency basis, income fell 14 per cent.
Excluding restrictions affected Personal Loan volumes.
Wealth the $49 million fair value loss for businesses classied as held Management income rose, although equity-linked for sale in 2013 and a $39 million property gainin 2012, income productswere impacted by market uncertainties in the fell 4 per cent.
CCPL income increased although volumes secondhalf of 2013. declined as we tightened underwriting standards.
Mortgages Operating expenses for the region were $26 million, or continued to be affected by a number of regulatory headwinds 2percent, lower at $1,183 million.
Expenses in China were and income fell as balances declined although margins saw tightly controlled and broadly at compared to 2012. improvement.
We continued to originate and transfer xed rate mortgages under the Mortgage Purchase Programme Pre-provision profit was up $50 million, or 13 per cent, to transferring $3billion in the year until the quota allocated to the $437million.
Group was exhausted in the first half of 2013.
Deposits income Loan impairment rose $124 million, or 67 per cent, at was lower, due to margin compression as a result of the falling $310million.
Impairment in Taiwan rose $47 million, reecting interest rate environment although this was partly offset by the lower levels of portfolio sales in the current year which also benefit from exiting lower margin Time Deposits and growth in impacted Malaysia.
Impairment in Thailand also increased CASA balances.
Wealth Management income declined dueto a specic segment to which sales have now been impacted by poor investor sentiment and a sharp decline in discontinued.
Impairment in China increased $9 million to insurance volumes industry-wide as new tax law changes took $35million.
Income from SMEs fell due to margin compression and increased competition from local banks.
Operating profit was lower by $39 million, or 19 per cent, at$169 million.
Operating profit in Taiwan fell $48 million, Operating expenses rose $40 million, or 5 per cent, to or36per cent, to $85 million.
The operating loss in China $835million.
On a constant currency basis, expenses rose decreased to $88 million from $103 million in 2012.
Excluding a non-recurring tax cost of $41 million, expenses were broadly at, reecting tight cost management India despite ination-related increases in salary costs.
Income rose $26 million, or 6 per cent, to $466 million.
On a Pre-provision profit fell by $177 million at $211 million.
constant currency basis, income increased by 16 per cent.
Mortgage income was up due to higher margins and benefited Loan impairment was up $148 million, or 66 per cent, to from portfolio acquisitions in 2012.
CCPL also benefited from $371million due to a market-wide acceleration in the amount higher volumes on the back of portfolio acquisitions and oflings under the PDRS and in response we have undertaken improved margins.
This benefit was partly offset by lower a number of further fide-risking actions during 2013 to tighten Deposits income as margins were impacted by the low interest underwriting criteria for unsecured products.
Wealth Management income fell slightly due As a result of the above factors, Korea moved to a loss of to weak local market sentiment.
Income from SMEs grew $162million in the current year, compared to a profit of strongly on the back of wider margins and increased volumes $164million in 2012. on a constant currency basis.
Operating expenses were $14 million, or 4 per cent, lower at Other Asia Pacic $304 million.
On a constant currency basis, expenses increased Income in the region rose $24 million, or 2 per cent, to by 5 per cent, reecting increased investment in technology.
Pre-provision profit was up $40 million, or 33 per cent, to Income in China increased by 8 per cent to $321 million, $162million.
reecting continued growth in Personal Loan and Mortgage income, improved Mortgage margins, and strong Wealth Loan impairment was higher by $11 million, or 41 per cent, Management income from increased bancassurance.
at$38 million due to volume growth from acquired Thiswaspartially offset by lower Deposits income as margins unsecuredportfolios.
Income from SMEs also fell as margins Operating profit was higher by $25 million, or 26 per cent, werecompressed across key deposit products coupled with at$120 million.
On a constant currency basis, operating profit slower asset growth.
Strategic report Operating and financial review 53 Middle East and other South Asia MESA Pre-provision profit in Africa was higher by $23 million, or Income across the region, over half of which relates to the UAE, 13percent, at $199 million.
was up $48 million, or 6 per cent, to $801 million.
The impact of Loan impairment was up $2 million to $22 million.
a fall in Deposits income was more than offset by higher income from CCPL, Wealth Management and Mortgages.
Operating profit was up $21 million, or 13 per cent, to $177million.
On a constant currency basis, operating profit Income in the UAE increased by 14 per cent and was increased 19 per cent.
CCPL income grew reecting good momentum inpayroll-linked Personal Loan products.
Mortgages income Americas, UK & Europe rose strongly as volumes increased on the back of an improving The business in this region is primarily Private Banking in nature property market, while Deposits income was slightly lower and focuses on delivering our product suite to international asmargins narrowed.
Wealth Management income also customers from across our network.
increased, reecting improved market sentiment.
Income fell $9 million, or 5 per cent, to $174 million.
Excluding Operating expenses in MESA rose 1 per cent to $496 million.
thegain of $13 million relating to the disposal of our Private While UAE expenses were up 5 per cent, reecting ow through Banking operations in Miami in 2012, income rose 2 per cent.
of prior period investments in frontline sales capacity, expenses The benefit from higher revenue from Private Banking in most other markets were well controlled reecting tight cost mortgages, reecting improved margins, was partly offset by discipline across the region.
lower Wealth Management income, where sales of foreign Pre-provision profit for MESA was up $45 million, or 17 per cent, exchange-related products declined.
Deposits income also fell, to $305 million.
impacted by margin compression, although margins started to stabilise in the second half of the year.
Loan impairment rose $12 million, or 24 per cent, to $63 million as the prior period benefited from provision releases in the UAE.
Operating expenses fell $8 million, or 5 per cent, to $143 million as we continued to tightly manage costs and as a result of MESA operating profit increased 16 per cent, up $33 million to business disposals.
Loan impairment was higher by $3 million to $13 million.
Africa Operating profit rose $5 million, up 36 per cent, to $19 million.
Income was up $47 million, or 10 per cent, at $529 million.
On aconstant currency basis, income was up 15 per cent.
Income from CCPL grew strongly on the back of good volume growth inpayroll-linked personal loans.
Mortgages income also grew strongly as margins improved and Wealth Management benefited from increased sales of bancassurance products.
Income from SME clients benefited from increased trade-related revenues.
Kenya continues to be the largest CB income generator in the region and income grew 11 per cent.
Strong income growth inCCPL was partly offset by lower Deposit margins.
Ghana andZambia grew income at 21 per cent and 19 per cent respectively.
Income growth in Ghana was driven by higher Deposit and SME income, partly offset by lower income from CCPL.
Zambia saw good growth in both CCPL and Deposit income.
Income in Nigeria was up 7 per cent and benefited from good growth in CCPL and Wealth Management income, partly offset by lower Deposits income as margins compressed.
Operating expenses were $24 million, or 8 per cent, higher at $330 million.
On a constant currency basis, expenses were 13per cent higher, as we continued to build out the distribution network across the region in line with our strategy.
