38 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Our performance in our markets Supporting clients and customers Singapore Our strategy Our global CB and WB operations are headquartered in Singapore and 9 per cent ofour employees are based there.
We are headquartered in London and have operated Operating profit at $0.9billion was 7 per cent lower than 2012, forover 150 years in some of the worlds most dynamic impacted in part bymargin compression from the high levels of markets.
Our focus continues to be on the growth markets liquidity in the market.
On 7 October 2013 we incorporated our of Asia, Africa and the Middle East while also increasingly retail and small and medium-sized enterprise SME banking leveraging our presence in Europe and the Americas to operations into a new Singapore subsidiary, reafrming the facilitate cross-border business and trade intermediation Groups long-term commitment to our Singapore franchise.
CB between the West and the East.
income rose to just under $1 billion, with growth in Deposits and Wealth Management.
WB income of $1.1 billion was down 9 per cent as strong client activity was offset by margin compression.
Our performance Korea Highly diversied income stream, with 25 markets In line with the industry as a whole, our income and profits fell generating income in excess of $100 million inthe year.
Income was 16 per cent lower than 2012, resulting Double-digit income growth in Hong Kong and inan operating loss of $15 million for the year.
In CB, income fell Africaoffset by income pressure in Korea and Other 12 per cent and we reported an operating loss of $163 million as AsiaPacic region we tightened underwriting criteria andabsorbed elevated levels of loan impairment.
Standard Chartered Bank Korea has one of Wholesale Banking WB continues to support the the Groups largest distribution networks, with 343 branches growth aspirations of our clients, with overall client and 2,793 ATMs, andwe have a market-leading digital banking income rising 4 per cent, representing over 80 per cent capability.
In WB, income was down 23 per cent with operating ofincome profit down 58 per cent, as income from all product groups Consumer Banking CB further developed and apart from Corporate Finance declined from 2012.
Korean expanded its digital distribution capabilities, with over clients continued, however, to direct an increasing amount of threemillion active internet users, in addition to business to the Group outside of Korea reecting thestrength expanding the branch network in markets like Africa ofour network.
andChina Other Asia Pacic Hong Kong remains our largest market with income We have a strong presence in the growth markets of this up11 per cent and operating profit up 16 per cent, region, which includes China, Indonesia, Malaysia and to$1.9 billion Taiwan, and during 2013, we reopened in Myanmar.
In China, our partnership with Agricultural Bank of China ABC continues The following commentary excludes the impact of the to develop and we have announced that we will jointly provide $106million own credit adjustment in 2013.
RMB clearing services with ABC in the UK.
Income is well diversied across both businesses although income across Hong Kong theregion fell 6 per cent.
This was primarily driven by lower Hong Kong, with a network of 84 branches and 329 ATMs, income in WB, down 12 per cent, due to margin compression continues to be our largest geography in terms of operating despite good levels of client activity.
This was partly offset by income and profit.
We remain focused on Hong Kong and on its a2per cent rise in CB income, reecting growth in Mortgages role as a hub into and out of China.
Both WB and CB achieved and Wealth Management in China and higher income from strong growth in income and profit, and the balance sheet unsecured lending, Wealth Management and Deposits in continues to be highly liquid and well positioned to support the Malaysia.
In Taiwan and Indonesia, where we operate through growth ambitions of our clients and customers.
In CB, income both our branch and our joint venture with Permata Bank, increased 11percent and operating profit was up 15percent income fell across both CB and WB.
aswe gained market share in new mortgage sales coupled withgood growth in Wealth Management.
In WB, income India grew12 per cent and operating profits increased 16percent.
Although India continues to be impacted by a weak Thiswas driven by a 14 per cent increase in client income, macroeconomic environment, with the rupee depreciating by underpinned by strong income growth across Financial 10percent over 2013, income rose 7 per cent with growth in Markets, reecting the increasing internationalisation of the both businesses and overall operating profit was up 3 per cent.
renminbi RMB, and Corporate Finance.
Indian clients continue to be a significant driver of income across the Groups network, with income from supporting these activities growing at a double-digit rate compared with 2012.
Additionally, the Group has the largest network among foreign banks in India, with 99 branches and India is also the location ofthe Groups global shared service centre, SCOPE.
Strategic report Operating and financial review 39 Percentage of total Group profit before taxation by 1 region in 2013 Q Hong Kong 28% Q Singapore 13% Q Korea Q Other Asia Pacic 16% Q India 10% Q Middle East and Other South Asia 15% Q Africa 9% Q Americas, UK & Europe 9% Middle East and Other South Asia MESA including adding 10 branches to our distribution network.
This region includes our markets in the UAE, Pakistan, WBincome was also up 10 per cent although an impairment Bangladesh and Bahrain, of which the UAE continues to ona small number of accounts resulted in a fall in profits in the bethelargest, accounting for over 50 per cent of the regions period.
As at end 2013, theGroup is present in 14 Sub-Saharan income.
Income in the year fell 1 per cent, as a good markets.
In December 2013, we completed our acquisition of broad-based performance in CB was offset by lower WB Absa Banks custody business in South Africa and in January income.
Operating profit, however, was up 35 per cent as loan 2014 we announced the opening of a subsidiary in Angola impairment levels reduced as the region continues to show together with ENSA, aleading Angolan insurance company.
Income in Bangladesh grew strongly, particularly in Trade Finance.
We also continued to Americas, UK & Europe build our Islamic Banking franchise under theSaadiq brand, In addition to being the location of our Group headquarters, the growing income in the MESA region across bothbusinesses.
region is strategically important to us as we support our global client base, nancing trade and investment ows from and to Africa our footprint markets of Asia, Africa and the Middle East.
Over Income within this region is highly diversied, with four 90 per cent of the Groups income in this region is WB, with CB marketsdelivering over $100 million of income and three over income primarily derived from Private Banking.
Nigeria, Kenya, Ghana and Zambia continued to region fell 6 per cent, with lower income in both CB and WB.
be ourlargest markets and each grew income at over 10 per For more information on our CB and WB businesses, cent.
CB grew income by 10 per cent, despite currency see pages 46 to 61. depreciation in the period, driven by good growth in payrolllinked lending.
We continue to invest in our Africabusiness 2 Hong Kong Other Total operating income $18,671 million Operating income Asia Pacic $3,725 million Operating income $3,457 million Operating income growth 11% Operating income decline 6% Americas, Middle East Africa India Singapore Korea UK & Europe and Other Operating income Operating income Operating income Operating income Operating income South Asia $1,751 million $1,696 million $2,103 million $1,563 million $2,167 million Operating income Operating income Operating income Operating income Operating income $2,209 million Operating income growth 10% growth 7% decline 5% decline 16% decline 6% Operating income decline 1% 1 Excluding the impact of a $106 million own credit adjustment OCA and goodwill impairment of $1 billion 2 Excludes the impact of a $106 million OCA
