138 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Board of directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 The Board is accountable for ensuring that, as a collective body, it has the appropriate skills, knowledge and experience to perform its role effectively.
It provides leadership through oversight and review, and by providing guidance while setting the strategic direction.
Ruth Markland Chairman Group Chief Executive Senior Independent Sir John joined the Board in 2007 as Peter was appointed Group Non-Executive Director Deputy Chairman and was appointed ChiefExecutive in November Ruth was appointed to the Board Chairman in 2009.
Hejoined the Board as inNovember 2003.
She is also chairman of Burberry Group plc and GroupFinance Director in May Senior Independent Director.
Experian plc and between 2000 2002andisbased in London.
Sheisa non-executive director of and 2006, hewas chief executive of Before hisappointment as Group The Sage Group plc, a member of GUS plc, having joined the board in Chief Executive he was responsible the supervisory board of Arcadis 1997.
Hehas strong financial forFinance, Strategy, Risk and NV, and until November 2012 services and retailing background Technology and Operations.
Prior shewas chairman of the board and chairmanship experience.
He is tojoining Standard Chartered, oftrustees ofthe WRVS charity.
committed to supporting his local Peterwas a director with worldwide Previously, Ruth was managing community and has a long-standing consultants McKinsey & Company partner, Asia for the international law interest in education.
For 10 years where he worked extensively in rm Freshelds Bruckhaus Deringer, he was the chairman of the board thebanking and technology responsible forthe rms eight ofgovernors of Nottingham Trent sectorsinawide range of ofces in Asia between 1996 and University.
He has been a trustee international markets.
Prior to that, Ruth worked ofthe Djanogly City Academy in lead non-executive director of the forFreshelds in London and Nottingham since 1999, is board of the Department of Health.
She first joined Lord-Lieutenant of Nottinghamshire, Peter sits on the World Economic Freshelds in 1977 and became a a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts Forums Foundation Board and partner in 1983.
Ruth hassignicant and has an honorary doctorate is a Director of the Institute of expertise in Asia anda deep fromThe University of Nottingham.
Age 52. understanding of the regulatory Sir John brings extensive environment.
Age 61. international experience and exemplary governance credentials.
Sir John was knighted in 2011 for services to business and the voluntary sector.
140 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Board of directors continued 4.
Simon Lowth Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Christine was appointed to the Om was appointed to the Board Kurt was appointed to the Board in Simon joined the Board in May Board in September 2013.
He is chief financial officer currently the chair of Capgemini independent non-executive director and chief executive officer of The andexecutive director of BG Group.
UKplc, part of one of the worlds of Hindustan Unilever Ltd. Oil and Asian Group LLC, a strategic Simon was an executive director largest IT and professional Natural Gas Corporation, Tata Steel advisory and investment group and chief financial officer of servicescompanies.
She is also a and Tata Consultancy Services.
specialising in the Asia Pacic AstraZeneca PLC from 2007 to non-executive director of Ladbrokes Heis also a governor on the board of region.
Prior to AstraZeneca, he was plc and serves on the boards of two the Center for Creative Leadership, served as the US Assistant finance director at Scottish Power charities The Prince of Wales a US non-profit leadership Secretary of State for East Asian PLC following two years as Business in the Community and development organisation.
He was widely executive director, corporate MacIntyre Care.
Christine joined March 2011, Om was chairman credited as being a key architect of strategy and development.
As Capgemini in 1997 and has held a ofthe State Bank Group, which the pivot to Asia.
Kurt was a central finance director, Simon led Scottish variety of roles including CFO for includes the State Bank of India gure in advancing the US-China Powers group-wide performance Capgemini UK plc and CEO of SBI, Indias largest commercial relationship, building stronger ties and risk management processes Technology Services for North bank.
In a career spanning 38 years toAsian allies and in the opening and played a critical role in the WestEurope.
Prior to joining with SBI, Om held a number of ofMyanmar.
Previously, Kurt was strategic transformation of Scottish Capgemini, Christine was corporate rolesbeginning with the lead bank the chief executive officer and Power.
Simons move to Scottish development director of Ronson plc department, which pioneered co-founder of the Center for a New Power in 2003 followed 15 years and held senior positions at financial inclusion.
He led the American Security.
From 2003 to experience with the global Coopers & Lybrand.
Christine brings projectteam that pioneered SBIs 2009 he was the founder and management consultancy, strong business leadership, technology initiative in the 1990s, chairman of StratAsia, a strategic McKinsey & Company, latterly as accounting, finance and technology undertook assignments at SBIs advisory rm focused onAsia.
asenior director responsible for the experience to the Board.
London and Washington ofces and Priorto that, he served inseveral rms UK industrial practice where general management roles between capacities in the US government.
He became This included deputy assistant companies on a wide range of Non-Executive Director managing director of SBI in 2006, secretary of Defense for Asia and strategic, financial and operational Naguib joined the Board in January culminating in his appointment as Pacic Affairs and director on the issues.
He now spends the majority chairman in the same year.
Om has National Security Council Staff in financial and risk management ofhis time in the not-for-profit also served as chairman of the theWhite House.
He was also an experience to the Board.
Age 52. sectorand serves on a number of Indian Banks Association.
He has associate professor at Harvards international boards within the Aga extensive banking, financial services John F Kennedy School 11.
Dr Han Seung-soo, KBE Khan Development Network.
He is and leadership acumen with deep ofGovernment.
Kurt has a wealth Non-Executive Director the chairman of its endowment fund knowledge and experience across ofexperience of the US political Dr Han is a former prime minister and an adviser to the Aga Khan India, one of our largest markets.
environment and significant ofthe Republic of Korea and joined Fund for Economic Development.
Age 63. experience of some of our key the Board in January 2010.
He has Naguib is also a member of the markets, notably across Asia.
adistinguished political, diplomatic Investment Committee of Wellcome 7.
and administrative career serving Trust.
Naguib has served in a Group Executive Director asdeputy prime minister and number of senior roles over the Jaspal was appointed to the Board 9.
Dr Louis Cheung minister of finance, foreign affairs, course of 12 years at Barclays, in January 2013.
Based in Hong Non-Executive Director and industry and trade before including as group finance director Kong, he is Chief Executive officer, Louis joined the Board in January serving as prime minister in 2008 and vice-chairman and in various Asia.
He is currently the chief and 2009.
He also served as Korean business leadership positions in in 1998 and has held senior executive officer of Boyu Capital ambassador to the US, chief of staff Wealth Management, Institutional positions in the Group, such as Advisory Co. a China-focused to the president, president of the Asset Management and Investment Global Head of Client Relationship private equity investment rm.
He is 56th Session of theUnited Nations Banking.
Naguib was also a for Wholesale Bank and Chief also an independent non-executive UN General Assembly, special Barclays nominated non-executive Executive officer for India.
Before director of Fubon Financial envoy of the UNSecretary-General director of Absa Group in South joining Standard Chartered, Jaspal HoldingCompany and a fellow and on Climate Change and chairman of Africa and of First Caribbean was with UBS Investment Banking.
council member of the Hong Kong the 2009 OECD Ministerial Council International Bank.
He was chief He began his career withBank Management Association.
He is currently executive officer of JP Morgan ofAmerica in 1984, and working with the Ping An Insurance Group UNSecretary-Generals Special Cazenove, a leading London-based across treasury markets from 2000 to 2011 and became Envoy for Disaster Risk Reduction investment banking business, and and consumer banking inIndia group president in 2003 and and Water, on the UN has also held senior positions at and Singapore.
Jaspal also executive director in 2006 after Secretary-Generals Advisory Board Lazard, Robert Fleming and leads Standard Chartereds working through several senior on Water and Sanitation, is the Salomon Brothers, where he started award-winning work on diversity roles, including chief financial founding chair of the High-Level his banking career in 1986.
He sits on the board officer.
Prior to joining Ping An he Expert Panel on Water and has also previously served as a of governors of XLRI Business was aglobal partner of McKinsey Disaster UNSGAB, as well as the non-executive director of NHS School, is a member of the City of &Company and a leader in its Asia founding chairman of theGlobal England, as a senior adviser to London Advisory Council for India Pacic financial institutions practice.
Green Growth Institute and HerMajestys Customs and and is a board director of the He has strong general financial chairman of the International Revenue Service and to the US-India Business Council.
Age 53. services and investor relations Advisory Board of the International Financial Services Authority in credentials, particularly in a Greater Finance Forum of China.
Naguib brings significant China context.
Louis is based in based in Korea and brings with him banking and finance experience Hong Kong.
valuable knowledge of Asia and tothe Board.
Richard Meddings Non-Executive Director Group Executive Director Non-Executive Director Group Finance Director John joined the Board in October Shankar joined the Board in January Lars was appointed to the Board Richard was appointed Group 2008.
He is chairman of Standard 2012.
Based in Dubai, he is Chief inNovember 2012.
He is currently Finance Director in November 2006, Life Investments Holdings and is Executive Officer, Europe, Middle adirector of Kosmos Energy, a having joined the Board as a Group senior independent director of East, Africa and Americas.
He joined senior adviser to the Blackstone Executive Director in November Standard Life plc.
He was appointed Standard Chartered in 2001 as Group, which includes being a 2002.
He is responsible for Finance senior adviser to Greenhill & Co. Inc. Group Head of Corporate Finance, non-executive director and and Group Corporate Treasury.
in April 2009 and was previously was appointed Group Head of vice-chairman of Sithe Global LLP Immediately prior to his appointment vice-chairman of JP Morgan Origination and Client Coverage in andFisterra Energy LLP, two as Group Finance Director, Richard Cazenove.
He joined Cazenove in 2007 and promoted to his current international power development had been Group Executive Director 1979, was appointed partner in role in 2010.
Before joining Standard companies which are part of the for growth and governance across 1986, and later headed corporate Chartered, Shankar was with Blackstone Group.
He is also senior Africa, the Middle East, Pakistan, finance, Cazenoves largest Bankof America for 19 years.
In adviser to the Center for Strategic Europe and the Americas.
Following Cazenoves addition to his responsibilities at and International Studies, a US that, he was Group Executive merger with JP Morgan in 2005, Standard Chartered, Shankar is a foreign policy think-tank and a Director with responsibility for risk, John was appointed vice-chairman non-executive director of Majid Al boardmember of the Middle East group special assets management where his responsibilities were Futtaim Holding LLC, on the board Investment Initiative, an independent and legal and compliance.
As predominantly external facing, of trustees of SINDA and a member non-profit organisation.
Lars is also announced on 9 January 2014, acting on behalf of major clients and of the UK-UAE Business Council.
a founding director of Africa Risk Richard will be stepping down from handling all aspects of the broking Age 56.
Capacity Limited, a mutual the Board by 30 June 2014.
John brings a wealth of not-for-profit weather index joining Standard Chartered, Richard experience in the fields of corporate 15.
Oliver Stocken, CBE insurance company.
Until June was chief operating officer, Barclays broking, financial advisory and Non-Executive Director 2012, Lars was chief executive Private Clients and prior to that he institutional investor knowledge.
Oliver joined the Board in June officer and executive vice-president was group financial controller at John was previously a 2004.
He is chairman of Stanhope of the International Finance Barclays PLC.
Richard was group non-executive director of Jardine Group Holdings Limited, the MCC Corporation IFC, a member of finance director of Woolwich PLC Lloyd Thompson Group plc.
He has and the chairman of the board of theWorld Bank Group.
In this role, before the acquisition of Woolwich a deep understanding of financial trustees of CARE International UK.
Larsled the IFCs overall strategic PLC by Barclays PLC.
In this role, markets and the corporate sector.
Previously, Oliver was chairman direction in its mission to promote hisresponsibilities included finance, Age 59. ofHome Retail Group plc, Oval sustainable private sector strategy, investor relations, risk, Limited, the Natural History development.
From 1997 to 2005, compliance and treasury.
Mike Rees Museum, deputy chairman of 3i Lars was chief executive officer of isa non-executive director of Group Executive Director Group plc and was group finance SEB, Swedens leading corporate 3i Group plc and is a member of Mike was appointed to the Board in director at Barclays PLC until bank.
From 1994 to 1997 he theGoverning Council of the August 2009.
He is based in London September 1999.
He joined waschief executive officer of International Chamber of and is Chief Executive Officer, Barclays Merchant Bank in 1979 Trygg-Hansa and from 1992 Commerce UK.
Richard is chairman Wholesale Banking.
On 1 April 2014 ashead of corporate finance and to1994, president and chief of Seeing is Believing, a Standard Mike will be appointed Deputy became managing director in 1984. executive officerof Securum, Chartered community investment Group Chief Executive and will take He joined the Board of BZW at its theSwedish Government bad programme for the elimination of responsibility for the integrated inception, later becoming finance bank.
Hisprevious non-executive avoidable blindness for hundreds of Wholesale Banking and Consumer director.
He started his career with directorships include Statoil thousands of individuals and also Banking businesses.
Mike joined Arthur Andersen and later joined AS Norway, AkzoNobel N. V. communities around the world.
Standard Chartered in 1990 as the NM Rothschild, where he became Netherlands, Nobel Biotech, Richard is based in London.
Chief Financial Officer for Global adirector in corporate finance.
SCA, Astra AB and chairman of Treasury.
In October 1994, he was Olivers financial, banking and theSwedish Bankers Association.
appointed Regional Treasurer in international experience makes him Lars has a highly developed Singapore, responsible for the a valuable contributor to the Board.
understanding of banking and risk South East Asia Treasury Age 72. management in a financial services businesses.
appointed Group Head of Global Markets.
In November 2002, he was promoted to Chief Executive Officer, Wholesale Banking, responsible for all Commercial Banking products inaddition to his responsibilities for Global Markets products.
Mike isamember of the International Advisory Board of Mauritius and the Mayor of Romes business advisory council.
142 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Board of directors continued 18.
Annemarie Durbin Group Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Group Company Secretary Steve joined Standard Chartered Rudy joined the Board in February Paul was appointed to the Board Annemarie joined Standard as Group Executive Director and 2001.
Paul is also a Chartered in 1995.
She has held Chief Executive officer, Consumer director of Legal and General Group non-executive director of the Tetra senior roles in Wholesale Banking, Banking in May 2008 and was plc, AstraZeneca PLC, United Parcel Laval Group and LAir Liquide SA.
including Head of Financial appointed to the Board in June Service, Inc, the Operational Board Inaddition, Paul is a member of the Institutions for Europe and Africa, 2008.
From 2013, he became of the Foreign and Commonwealth public interest body of PwC.
He and had global responsibility for the the executive sponsor driving the Ofce and non-executive chairman waschairman of Rio Tinto Plc from Development Organisation client diversity and inclusion agenda for of Moorelds Eye Hospital.
He is 2003 to 2009 and Chairman of segment.
Annemarie has held the Group and was the executive also chairman of the Supervisory Infrastructure UK, HM Treasury from Consumer Banking head roles in the sponsor for employee volunteering Board of Corbion nv.
He was formerly a Philippines and Thailand and has for the Group in 2010.
As previously financial director of director of The Shell Transport and been Chief Executive officer in both announced on 9 January 2014, Unilever PLC and Unilever NV until Trading Company plc and group countries.
Since returning to the UK Steve will be stepping down from his retirement.
He joined Unilever in managing director of the Royal in 2006, Annemarie has held a the Board at the end of March 2014.
1968 and from 1989 to 1998 he was Dutch Shell Group of companies.
number of group support function Before his appointment at Standard based in East Asia, latterly as During his Shell career he worked roles including Head of Resourcing Chartered, he spent 22 years with business group president of inall of Shells main businesses and Reward within Human GE, most recently as chairman and Northeast Asia based in Singapore.
withassignments in the UK, Resources and Group Head of chief executive officer of GE North Hejoined the board of Unilever as Greece, Nigeria, New Zealand and Corporate Affairs.
He was also responsible strategy and technology director Norway.
Paul was a UK business appointed Group Company for GEs acquisition and merger and became a member of the ambassador over the period 2008 Secretary and Group Head of business in the Asia Pacic region executive committee in May 1998. to2012.
He also served as a Secretariat in 2007.
In February from 2004 and president of GE He has also been a member of the member of the Defence Board 2012, this role expanded to cover Capital Asia from January 2001. board of the Financial Reporting oftheMinistry of Defence and theGroups Corporate Real Estate Prior to that, Steve was chief Council.
Rudy has demonstrated aschairman of both the Services function.
With effect from executive officer of GE Australia excellent chairmanship skills as Commonwealth Business Council 1April 2013, she assumed and New Zealand.
He led the Chairman ofthe Audit Committee and International Chamber of administrative oversight of the establishment of GEs consumer and as a result of his length of Commerce UK.
Paul has extensive Groups Internal Audit function.
finance business in Asia in 1993 and service and commitment, provides experience of customer-facing Annemarie is a non-executive was its managing director from 1994 an in-depth knowledge of the Group global businesses across our director of WH Smith PLC, is a to 1998.
He is a member of YPO, which is invaluable to the Board, geographical footprint and of qualied barrister and solicitor and Global 50, Global Executive Group, the Audit, the Board Risk and the managing a large global has an MSc inexecutive coaching.
Chief Executives Organisation and Nomination Committees.
Steve is Age 69. based in Singapore.
Jamie Dundas Non-Executive Director Jamie became a member of theBoard in March 2004 and ischairman of Jupiter Fund Management plc.
Jamie was previously chief executive of the UKproperty company MEPC andnance director of the Airport Authority Hong Kong.
He is deputy president and former chairman of Macmillan Cancer Support, the UKslargest cancer care charity andnon-executive director of TheFrancis Crick Institute.
He began his career as a merchant banker with Morgan Grenfell, where he became deputy head of banking.
Jamie brings to the Board significant high-level experience in Hong Kong and astrong background in banking, including a deep understanding of the wholesale banking marketplace.
