Corporate governance 143 The Court of Standard Chartered Bank is the executive Senior management decision-making body of the Group and delegates itsauthority to a number of key committees.
As at 5March 2014, the Court comprises the executive directorsof Standard Chartered PLC and the followingsenior executives: 1.
Jan Verplancke 1 2 Tracy joined Standard Chartered in Jan joined Standard Chartered 1985 and was appointed a Director in2004 and was appointed a of Standard Chartered Bank in Director of Standard Chartered January 2013.
She is Director, Bank in January 2013.
He is Chief Compliance, People and Information officer and Group Head Communication and a diversity and of Technology and Operations and inclusion ambassador.
In 2013, she is responsible for all systems assumed responsibility for the Legal development, technology support and Compliance functions in and banking operations.
He is addition to her responsibilities for non-executive director of Scope Human Resources and Corporate International Private Limited and Affairs.
She has previously held the Standard Chartered Bank China positions of Group Head of Limited.
Prior to joining Standard 3 Corporate Affairs, Head of the Chartered, Jan was Chief Group Chief Executives Ofce and Information officer EMEA at Dell.
other banking roles in the UK and As well as having overall systems Hong Kong.
She is a non-executive responsibility for EMEA, he was director of British Sky Broadcasting responsible for the expansion of Group plc and also became a Dells business in terms of new trustee of WORKing for YOUth, a markets and consolidation of charitable fund established in May back-ofce operations.
Jan was 2012 aimed at tackling youth previously a non-executive director unemployment.
She is a fellow of of Monitise Plc.
Age 50. theChartered Institute of Personnel Development and a member of the Institute of Financial Services.
Tracy also holds an MBA from Henley Management College and Brunel University.
Richard Goulding Richard joined Standard Chartered in 2002 and was appointed a Director of Standard Chartered Bank in January 2013.
Richard is Group Chief Risk officer and is responsible for managing Credit, Market and Operational Risk across the Group.
He was previously the Chief Operating officer of Wholesale Banking.
Prior to joining the Group, he was at the Old Mutual Group where he was chief operating officer of their global financial services division based in London and Boston.
Prior to that, he was a member of the global executive board of UBS investment banking division, chaired the operating committee and took responsibility for programme and regional management.
Richard qualied as achartered accountant with Arthur Andersen and Company, having previously obtained a Bachelor ofCommerce degree and a postgraduate degree in finance from the University of Natal in South Africa.
