Corporate governance 213 Report of the directors The directors have pleasure in submitting their report Research and development and the financial statements of the Company and its During the year, the Group invested $475 million in research, subsidiaries for the year ended 31 December 2013. development, primarily relating to the planning, analysis, design, development, testing, integration and deployment Strategic report oftechnology systems.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee has reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts and the process by which the Political donations Group believes that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken No political donations were made in the year.
asa whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Areas of operation performance, strategy and business model of the Group.
Our Group comprises a network of more than 1,600 branches Following its review, the Audit Committee has advised the and outlets in 70 countries.
Board that such a statement can be made in the Annual Further details on the branches can be found on our website Report and Accounts.
com The Strategic report can be found on pages 2 to 61.
Directors and their interests The present members of the Board, together with their Corporate governance statement biographical details, are shown on pages 138 to 142.
The Disclosure and Transparency Rules require certain OmBhattand Louis Cheung joined our Board as independent information to be included in a corporate governance statement non-executive directors on 1 January 2013.
KurtCampbell in the Report of the directors.
Information that fulls the andChristine Hodgson joined our Board as independent requirement of the corporate governance statement can be non-executive directors on 18 June 2013 and 1 September found in the Corporate governance report on pages 144 to 175 2013 respectively, and Naguib Kheraj joined theBoard as and is incorporated into this Report of the directors by reference.
As announced on 9 January 2014, Steve Bertamini and Richard Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure Meddings will be stepping down from the Board as executive The Groups 2013 financial statements have been prepared directors on 31 March 2014 and by 30 June 2014 respectively.
inaccordance with the principles of the British Bankers We also announced on 9 January 2014 that with effect from Association Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure.
1 April 2014, we will be integrating our two businesses, Wholesale Banking and Consumer Banking, to form one Relevant audit information business.
The new business will be organised into three As far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit customer segment groups, serviced by five global product information of which the Group statutory auditor KPMG Audit groups.
The combined business will be led by Mike Rees, who Plc is unaware.
The directors have taken all reasonable steps to will become Deputy Group Chief Executive with effect from ascertain any relevant audit information and ensure that the 1April 2014.
Group statutory auditor is aware of such information.
Val Gooding and Richard Delbridge stepped down from the Going concern Board as independent non-executive directors on 1 May 2013.
Having made appropriate enquiries, we consider that the Margaret Ewing stepped down from the Board as an Company and the Group as a whole have adequate resources independent non-executive director on 31 January 2014. to continue operational businesses for the foreseeable future At our Annual General Meeting AGM to be held on 8 May 2014, and therefore continued to adopt the going concern basis in all of our Board of directors with the exception of Steve preparing the financial statements.
Bertamini, Richard Meddings, Jamie Dundas, Rudy Markham and Oliver Stocken will stand for election or re-election.
Sufciency of public oat As at the date of this report, the Company has maintained the The directors beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the prescribed public oat under the Rules Governing the Listing of Company as at 31 December 2013 are shown in the Directors Securities on The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited the remuneration report on pages 192 and 200.
HK Listing Rules based on the information publicly available to The Group operates a number of share-based arrangements the Company and within the knowledge of the directors.
for its directors and employees.
Details of these arrangements are included in the Directors remuneration report and in note 38 to the financial statements.
214 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Report of the directors continued The Company has received from each of the independent Directors induction and ongoing development non-executive directors an annual conrmation of To ensure that directors have the requisite knowledge and independence pursuant to Rule 3.13 of the HK Listing Rules understanding to enable them to challenge effectively, we andstill considers all of the non-executive directors to be provide them with a personalised approach to induction, independent.
Details concerning the provisions for providing training and development.
Each engagement programme compensation to directors for loss of ofce or employment typically consists of a mix of briengs on specialist topics, including in the context of a takeover bid can be found on attendance at key management meetings and additional visits page186 of the Directors remuneration report.
Further details can be found on page 149.
The Company has granted indemnities to all of its directors Our Board receives regular updates on the views of our onterms consistent with the applicable statutory provisions.
Our Board openly Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions for the purposes seeks the views of our shareholders and during the year a ofsection 234 of the Companies Act 2006 were accordingly combination of our Chairman, Group Chief Executive officer, inforce during the course of the financial year ended Group Finance Director, executive directors and independent 31December 2013, and remain in force at the date of non-executive directors met with 23 of our top 25 investors.
Shareholders may discuss any issues or concerns with theSenior Independent Director where they have been At no time during the year did any director hold a material unabletoresolve them through existing channels for interest in any contracts of signicance with the Company or .
Ruth Markland isthe Senior any of its subsidiary undertakings.
The Company is not party Independent Director.
toany significant agreements that would take effect, alter or terminate following a change of control of the Company.
Results and dividends In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, we have We recommended a final dividend of 57.20 cents established a robust process requiring directors to disclose 2012:56.77cents on 5 March 2014 for the year ended proposed outside business interests before any are entered 31December 2013.
This, together with the interim dividend into.
This enables prior assessment of any conict or potential already paid, makes a total dividend for 2013 of 86.00 cents conict of interest and any impact on time commitment.
The final dividend, if approved at the 2014 behalf of the Board, the Nomination Committee reviews actual AGM, will be paid in either sterling, Hong Kong dollars or US or potential conicts of interest.
dollars on 14 May 2014 to shareholders on the UK register of members at the close of business in the UK 10:00 pm London Authorisations are reviewed annually by the Nomination time on 14 March 2014, and to shareholders on the Hong Kong Committee to consider if they continue to be appropriate, branch register of members at the opening of business in Hong andalso to revisit the terms upon which they were provided.
Kong 9:00 am Hong Kong time on 14 March 2014.
The final The Board is satisfied that our processes in this respect dividend will be paid in Indian rupees on 15 May 2014 to Indian continue to operate effectively.
Depository Receipt holders on the Indian register at the close Subject to company law, the Articles of Association and the ofbusiness inIndia on 14 March 2014, in accordance with the authority granted to directors in general meeting, the directors Deposit Agreement.
may exercise all the powers of the Company and may delegate It is intended that shareholders on the UK register and Hong authorities to committees.
The Articles of Association contain Kong branch register will be able to elect to receive shares provisions relating to the appointment and removal of directors.
credited as fully paid instead of all or part of the final cash dividend.
Details of the dividend arrangements will be sent to shareholders on or around 28 March 2014.
Indian Depository Receipt holders will receive their dividend in Indian rupees only.
Corporate governance 215 Share capital Shareholder rights The issued ordinary share capital of the Company was Under the Companies Act 2006, shareholders holding increased by 14,351,742 during the year.
10,542,375 ordinary 5percent or more of the paid up capital of the Company shares were issued under the Companys employee share carrying the right of voting at general meetings of the Company plans at prices between nil and 1463 pence.
3,809,367 ordinary are able to require the directors to hold a general meeting.
shares were issued under the Companys share dividend Arequest may be in hard copy or electronic form and must be scheme.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which authenticated by the shareholders making it.
Where such a carries no rights to xed income.
On a show of hands, each request has been duly lodged with the Company, the directors member present has the right to one vote at our general are obliged to call a general meeting within 21 days of becoming meetings.
On a poll, each member is entitled to one vote for subject to the request and must set a date for the meeting not every $2 nominal value of share capital held.
The issued nominal more than 28 days from the date of the issue of the notice value of the ordinary shares represents 78.9 per cent of the convening the meeting.
Under the Companies Act 2006, totalissued nominal value of all share capital.
The remaining shareholders holding 5 per cent or more of the total voting rights 21.1percent comprises preference shares which have at an AGM of the Company, or 100 shareholders entitled to preferential rights to income and capital but which, in general, voteat the AGM with an average of at least 100 paid up share do not confer a rightto attend and vote at our general meetings.
capital per shareholder, are entitled to require the Company to circulate a resolution intended to be moved at the Companys Further detailsof the Groups share capital can be found in next AGM.
Such a request must be made not later than six note36tothenancial statements.
weeks before the AGM to which the request relates or, iflater, There are no specicrestrictions onthe size of a holding nor the time notice is given of the AGM.
The request may bein hard onthe transferofshares, which are both governed by the copy or electronic form, must identify the resolution of which general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing notice is to be given and must be authenticated by legislation.
The directors are not aware of any agreements theshareholders making it.
between holders of the Companys shares that may result in Shareholders are able to put forward proposals to shareholder restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
meetings and enquiries totheBoard and or the Senior Noperson has any special rights of control over the Companys Independent Director by usingthecontact us information on share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
com, or by emailing Group Corporate Secretariat at group-corporate.
Articles of Association The Articles of Association may be amended by special Major interests in shares and voting rights resolution of the shareholders.
As far as the directors are aware as at 31 December 2013, Temasek Holdings Private Limited Temasek is the only Authority to purchase own shares shareholder that has an interest of more than 10 per cent in the At the AGM held in May 2013, our shareholders renewed Companys issued ordinary share capital carrying a right to vote theCompanys authority to make market purchases of up to at any general meeting.
241,734,701 ordinary shares, equivalent to approximately The Company has been notied by the following companies 10percent of issued ordinary shares as at 19 March 2013, oftheir interest in the total voting rights of the Company as at andup to all of the issued preference share capital.
These 31December 2013 and has not been notied of any changes authorities were not used during the year and remained in force insuch interests since that date: at 31 December 2013.
In accordance with the terms of a waiver granted by The Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited HKSE Number of Percentage Percentage ordinary of voting of voting on 16 April 2008, which was modied on 30 April 2009, 25 July Shareholder shares rights direct rights indirect 2011 and 9October 2013, the Company will comply with the Temasek Holdings applicable law and regulation in the UK in relation to the holding 1 Private Limited 438,346,486 18.058 ofany shares in treasury and with the conditions of the waiver, inconnection with any shares it may hold in treasury.
Aberdeen Asset Shareholders will be asked to renew these authorities at the Management PLCs Fund Management forthcoming AGM, and will receive details within the Notice of Operating Subsidiaries 198,099,919 8.161 AGM.
No treasury shares were held during the year.
BlackRock, Inc 149,972,328 6.178 Further details can be found in note 36 to the financial statements.
1 Temasek Holdings Private Limiteds interests is held indirectly through Dover Investments Pte.
Ltd 216 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Report of the directors continued Related party transactions On 21 October 2013, the HKSE granted the Company a new Details of transactions with directors and ofcers and other waiver for all banking transactions of a revenue nature with related parties are set out in note 47 to the financial statements.
Under this waiver, the announcement requirement and the requirement to enter into Connected continuing connected transactions awritten agreement and set an annual cap under Rules By virtue of its shareholding of more than 10 per cent in the 14A.
47 and the reporting including Company, Temasek and its associates are related parties and annual review requirement under Rules 14A.
40, connected persons of the Company for the purposes of the UK 14A.
46 have been waived for the three-year period Listing Rules and the Listing Rules of The Stock Exchange of ending 31 December 2015 on the conditions that: Hong Kong Limited respectively together known as the Rules.
The Company will disclose details of the 2013 Waiver The Rules are intended to ensure that there is no favourable including the nature of the revenue banking transactions and treatment to Temasek or its associates as dened under the reasons for the 2013 Waiver in its subsequent annual reports Rules as a result of such shareholding to the detriment of The Company will continue to monitor the revenue banking othershareholders in the Company.
Unless transactions which transactions with Temasek during the three-year period the Company and its subsidiaries undertake with Temasek or ending 31 December 2015 to ensure that the 5 per cent itsassociates are specifically exempt under the Rules or are threshold for the revenue ratio, calculated in accordance with subject to a specic waiver, they may require a combination Chapter 14 of the HK Listing Rules, will not be exceeded ofannouncements, reporting and independent shareholdersapproval.
During 2013, the Company entered into certain revenue banking transactions with Temasek itself, including foreign The HKSE adopted a new exemption the Passive Investor exchange, derivatives and financial markets i. e. xed deposit Exemption on 3 June 2010 for transactions with associates transactions, cash management services and securities ofa passive investor Rules 14A.
These transactions were conducted Company considers that Temasek meets the criteria for a inthe normal course of the Companys business and on passive investor under Rule 14A.
No favourable treatment was connected transactions or continuing connected transactions afforded to Temasek.
of a revenue nature in the ordinary and usual course of business and on normal commercial terms with an associate of Temasek In applying for the 2013 Waiver, the Company restated many are exempt from the announcement, reporting, annual review ofthe key points made in support of the applications for the and independent shareholders approval requirements of the 2010 Waiver and the 2011 Waiver.
The Passive Investor Exemption is not For example, in view of the nature and terms of the transactions applicable in respect of the passive investor itself.
which may vary from time to time, from client to client and from In addition, the HKSE has previously granted to the Company transaction to transaction, particularly the foreign exchange and two waivers from strict compliance with i the reporting and derivatives and financial markets transactions, having xed term annual review requirements in respect of ordinary course of written agreements would not be suitable to accommodate the banking transactions with Temasek associates that the various banking needs of the Companys customers including Company has not been able to identify, and the requirements Temasek.
It would be impractical and unduly burdensome to toenter into a xed-term written agreement and set a maximum require the Company to enter into xed written agreements with aggregate annual value in relation to the ordinary course of Temasek in respect of those revenue banking transactions.
business transactions with Temasek or any of its associates The Company also explained that it would be impracticable for the2010 Waiver : and ii the reporting and annual review the Company to estimate and determine an annual cap on the requirements for the years ended 31 December 2011 and 2012 revenue banking transactions.
The volume and aggregate in respect of the ordinary course of banking transactions with valueof each of those transactions required by Temasek are Temasek itself the 2011 Waiver.
The 2010 Waiver and the uncertain and unknown to the Company as a banking group 2011 Waiver expired in May 2013. and depend on multiple factors.
They include the range of banking products and services offered by the Company, uctuations in the wide range of industries in which Temasek and its associates operate, and external financial market and economic conditions.
Corporate governance 217 Accordingly the Company was of the view that it was Fixed assets appropriate to apply for a waiver from strict compliance with Details of additions to xed assets are presented in note 27 to theannouncement, written agreements and annual caps the financial statements.
requirements with respect to the revenue banking transactions with Temasek.
Loan capital Details of the loan capital of the Company and its subsidiaries While the amount of revenues generated from the revenue are set out in note 33 to the financial statements.
banking transactions such as foreign exchange and derivatives and financial markets transactions was minimal, the notional Risk management amounts of these transactions could be significant.
Without An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing theavailability of a waiver from the HKSE or an applicable the significant risks that we face is in place.
exemption, these revenue banking transactions would be Its objectives, policies and procedures, including in relation to the subject to various percentage ratio tests which cater for hedging of risk and exposure to price, credit, liquidity, cash ow different types of connected transactions and as such may and market risk, are described in detail in the Risk review on produce anomalous results and bring no value to minority page62.
shareholders of the Company in terms of safeguards.
Compliance and regulatory matters The HKSE accepted the key points made by the Company in On 18 April 2013, we announced that we had acquired the supporting its 2013 Waiver application.
South African Custody and Trustee Business of Absa Bank.
By operation of the Passive Investor Exemption and the This move will strengthen our position in South Africa and will 2013Waiver, the vast majority of the Companys transactions build on the significant investment the Group has already made with Temasek and its associates fall outside of the connected within our South Africa business.
However, non-revenue transactions withTemasek or any of its associates continue to be Internal control subjecttomonitoring for connected transaction issues The effectiveness of our internal control system is reviewed onadeal-by-dealbasis.
regularly by the Board, its committees, the Executive Management Committee and Group Internal Audit.
The Audit The Company confirms that, to the best of its knowledge and Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups belief after due inquiry, it did not have any transactions with system of internal controls during the year ended 31 December Temasek or its associates in 2013 that would have required 2013 and reported on its review to the Board.
The Committees announcement, reporting, annual review or independent review was supported by an annual business self-certication shareholders approval.
The Company also confirms that the process, which was managed by Group Internal Audit.
Group revenue transactions entered into with Temasek in 2013 were Internal Audit monitors compliance with policies and standards below the 5 per cent threshold for the revenue ratio test under and the effectiveness of internal control structures across the the HK Listing Rules and therefore satisfied the conditions Group through its programme of business audits.
The work of attached to the 2013 Waiver.
Group Internal Audit is focused on the areas of greatest risk as The Company will continue to monitor through its internal determined by a risk-based assessment methodology.
systems the revenue gures generated from the ongoing Group Internal Audit reports regularly to the Audit Committee, banking transactions with Temasek itself during 2014 and 2015 to ensure that the 5 per cent threshold for the revenue ratio will the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
The findings of all adverse audits are reported to the Audit Committee, the not be exceeded.
Chairman and the Group Chief Executive where immediate The Group has internal systems, processes and procedures corrective action is required.
The Board Risk Committee has inplace to identify and monitor non-exempt connected and responsibility for overseeing the management of the Companys continuing connected transactions.
These are reviewed and fundamental prudential risks as well as reviewing the updated periodically and their adequacy and effectiveness is effectiveness of the Companys risk management framework.
assessed by Group Internal Audit.
The Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the Companys If none of the exemptions under the Rules or the waivers financial reporting, compliance and internal control environment.
obtained from HKSE is applicable in relation to a transaction with Temasek or its associates, the Company will comply with The Risk review on pages 62 to 135 describes the Groups risk the applicable announcement, reporting, annual review and management structure.
218 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Report of the directors continued Our business is conducted within a developed control framework, For over a decade, our employee engagement survey, which underpinned by policy statements, written procedures and ran annually and had an average response rate of 96 per cent, controlmanuals.
This ensures that there are written policies and has been an important way of gathering feedback across the procedures to identify and manage risk, including operational risk, organisation.
Our engagement approach, which has helped to country risk, liquidity risk, regulatory risk, legal risk, reputational create our distinctive culture, has also been recognised risk, market risk and credit risk.
The Board has established a externally, winning two Gallup awards.
From 2014, we will be management structure that clearly defines roles, responsibilities launching a new engagement approach which will enable us to and reporting lines.
Delegated authorities are documented and seek views on a wider variety of topics and be more exible in communicated.
Executive risk committees regularly review the how and when we gather feedback.
The performance of the Groups businesses In addition, targeted and or local surveys seeking views on isreported regularly to senior management and the Board.
particular topics or from particular groups of employees are Performance trends and forecasts, as well as actual performance undertaken alongside less formal quick polls on iConnect.
against budgets and prior periods, are monitored closely.
Across the Group, many business areas or project groups Financial information is prepared using appropriate accounting facilitate employee forums and message boards, actively policies, which are applied consistently.
Operational procedures seeking opinion and feedback.
Combined with over 30 and controls have been established to facilitate complete, employee networks across 17 countries and numerous accurate and timely processing of transactions and the champion groups, these insights are invaluable in shaping safeguarding of assets.
These controls include appropriate ourthinking and future planning.
segregation of duties, the regular reconciliation of accounts andthe valuation of assets and positions.
The Groups Equal Opportunities Policy sets out our commitment toensure fair and equal treatment for all In respect of handling inside information, we have applied employees and contingent workers, enabling them to full their relevant controls on employees who are subject to handling potential within an appropriate and fair working environment.
inside information, including controls over the dissemination of The policy appliesto our recruitment and employment terms, such information and their dealings in the Companys shares.
practices, procedures, processes and decisions on the grounds of disability as well as race, colour, nationality, national Employee policies and engagement or ethnic origins, gender, marital status, sexual orientation, With more than 86,000 employees representing 132 part-time or xed-term status, age, religion or belief.
The Group nationalities across 70 markets, the Group has a number of appoints, trains, develops, rewards and promotes employees communication mechanisms that inform employees about and contingent workers on the basis of their merit and matters affecting or of interest to them.
The primary channel is capability.
Ifemployees or contingent workers become the Groups internal website, iConnect, which is available to disabled, every endeavour is made to ensure their employment over96 per cent of employees.
Both globally and at a business or work continues, with appropriate training where necessary.
level, it publicises news and announcements from across the organisation, and reminders of key activities via visual banners.
Over and above this, our Diversity and Inclusion philosophy This is supported by Group and local newsletters and a places particular emphasis on inclusion, with disability being universal desktop screensaver, together with targeted one of four key focus areas.
This approach helps us attract, leadership and management group calls hosted by senior retain and develop our talent and get the best out of the leaders, e-mails and global broadcasts issued direct to broadest spectrum of people and the International Day of employees for significant or urgent announcements.
Video is People with Disabilities, which we held in support of the United used throughout the year to provide context and to engage Nations initiative, focused on the business benets of including employees around key initiatives and brand activities.
Global colleagues and customers with disabilities.
broadcasts, for example, are used to communicate the Groups In support of this approach, we undertook a number of activities annual and half-year results supported by video commentary in 2013: from the Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive on iConnect, and local brieng sessions in country led by senior Sponsored career workshops in Ghana and Hong Kong leaders.
This mix ensures that where employees do not have helping people with disabilities prepare for work, and access to iConnect, they still receive information promptly.
partnered with other companies and Non-Governmental Organisations to create a more inclusive job market At an individual level, regular team meetings and discussions with line managers enable employees to discuss and clarify Participated in Disability Mentoring Days in the US, providing anyquestions they have on news and the performance of the opportunities to learn about banking as well as challenging Group.
The twice-yearly formal performance review also any misconceptions our employees may have about people provides the opportunity to discuss how the employee, their with disabilities.
This led to the bank being awarded the team and business area contribute to the overall performance NewYork State Education Departments National Disability ofthe Group and how any compensation awards relate to this.
award in October 2013 We continue to communicate with employees who have left the Group via our Alumni network and all employees, past, present and future via our Our views blog on www.
com and social networking messages via the Groups LinkedIn network.
Corporate governance 219 Currently employ 10 teams of visually impaired employees Thisprogress has been achieved through a range of specic working alongside their sighted peers across nine markets.
initiatives, including: One such employee was the individual winner of the Continued emphasis on our Women in Leadership and Chairmans Awards in 2012 which recognises those who Womens Development Programmes across 15 countries bestrepresent our brand promise, Here for good and Women in Leadership sessions at a global, regional and We continually work to ensure that the differences in others country level highlighting senior women as role models arevalued and respected, creating a professional working Enhancing and expanding programmes designed to support environment in which people can maximise their potential.
greater inclusion of key demographics, including awareness In2013, the launch of our Flexibility Charter encouraged of unconscious bias and inclusive leadership seniorleaders and managers to commit to a broad denition ofexibility and explore alternative working practice solutions, Increased parental leave benets and exible working benefiting employees with disabilities and those who have arrangements including sabbaticals and a focus on specic become disabled, as well as those requiring more exibility.
support for returning mothers Wealso reafrmed our commitment to providing accessible We recognise that in some markets, progress has been limited technology by signing the Business Taskforce on Accessible given that recruitment is aligned to business strategy and our Technology Charter in the UK.
requirements have reduced in response to the difficult global We recognise that individual strengths are unique and market conditions and our focus on maximising our existing encourage all employees to identify and agree ways to grow talent.
In Bangladesh, for example, we fell short of our hiring their distinctive talents.
Targeted initiatives during 2013 have target for women at one grade, but exceeded it at another.
included sign language training for employees in India, where At the end of 2013, there were three female Directors of we have colleagues with hearing impairments, together with re Standard Chartered PLC and 48 16 per cent of our senior warden and first aider training tailored to those with disabilities.
managers are women, including a number of Country Chief As a result of this work, SCOPE International, a wholly owned Executive Ofcers CEOs in markets such as Myanmar, Nigeria, subsidiary, won the 15th National Centre for Promotion of Tanzania and Thailand and a Regional CEO for Africa.
Overall Employment for Disabled People Shell Helen Keller Award more than 40,000 47 per cent of our employees are women under the category Role Model Companies.
and, in the coming year, we will continue to increase the We appreciate and encourage diversity in all of its forms, proportion of female leaders in support of our Group target of including gender, age, ethnicity, disability, sexual orientation 25 per cent of women on our Board by 2017. andgender identity.
It is important that our employees and leadership teams are representative of our markets, Major customers stakeholders and client prole.
This is true throughout the Our five largest customers together accounted for 3.6 per cent business and for our Board.
Further information on our Board of our total interest income and other operating income in the diversity is on page 174. year ended 31 December 2013.
In 2013, we have made strong progress in identifying and Group Code of Conduct agreeing targets to increase our gender diversity across the The Board has adopted a Group Code of Conduct the Code business.
We have undertaken analysis of the percentage of relating to the lawful and ethical conduct of business and this is women in our workforce at specic levels within each of our top supported by the Groups core values.
The Code was refreshed 15 markets, identifying focus areas where the gender gap is the in 2013 and has been communicated to all directors and most striking, and agreed aspirational targets for improving the employees, all of whom are expected to observe high standards balance in these areas.
Targets are locally relevant and focused of integrity and fair dealing in relation to customers, staff and on specic bottlenecks within each market.
We have begun to regulators in the communities in which the Group operates.
track progress against these targets, which focus on improving Further details concerning the Code can be found on page 30. the gender balance in hiring distribution, promotion and attrition rates, and are in the process of extending the same methodology more broadly across our markets.
Environmental and social responsibilities At the end of 2013, we have exceeded our targets for We are committed to being a force for good in the markets reducingattrition among our female employees and where we operate and disclose our environmental and social increasedthe percentage of women hired compared to men performance through the sustainability section of the Annual inseveral countries, including Singapore, India and the UAE Report and Accounts and the annual Group Sustainability inrespect of attrition and the UK and US in relation to hires.
The Board is responsible for ensuring that high standards of responsible business are maintained and that an effective control framework is in place.
We have established policies and procedures in relation to environmental and social risks.
220 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Report of the directors continued Through our risk management structure and control framework, Total Scope 1 and 2 Greenhouse Gas emissions the Board receives regular and adequate information to identify for 2012 and 2013 2013 2012 Units and assess significant risks and opportunities arising from environmental and social matters.
specifically, the Brand and Full-time employees FTE Values Committee BVC, which is appointed by the Board, covered by reporting 86,640 89,058 FTE reviews theGroups sustainable business priorities, and Net internal area of oversees theGroups development of and delivery against occupied property public commitments regarding which activities and or 2 covered by reporting 1,354,541 1,431,603 m businesses it will and will not encourage in line with our Here for Greenhouse gas good brand promise.
The BVC is informed by the Group Risk emissions Committee and Group Head of Corporate Affairs, who is the risk control owner for reputational risk, including those Scope 1 emissions tonnes associated with environmental and social matters.
At the combustion of fuels 23,878 25,557 CO2eq year country level, the Country Head of Corporate Affairs is the risk Scope 2 emissions tonnes control owner andthe Risk Committee or, where there is no purchased electricity 226,727 236,443 CO2eq year Risk Committee, the Management Committee, is the Total Scope 1 & 2 tonnes governance oversight committee.
All employees are emissions 250,605 262,000 CO2eq year responsible for day-to-day identication and management of Total Scope 1 & 2 tonnes reputational risk.
Quarterly reviews of risks and reporting are emissions FTE 2.89 2.94 CO2eq FTE year carried out at country, regional and Group levels.
Where a reputational risk is identied, the risk is escalated in accordance Total Scope 1 & 2 kg 2 2 with clearly documented internal reporting procedures.
emissions m 352 348 CO2eq m year Key areas of risk are those associated with clients and Total Scope 1 & 2 tonnes CO2eq $ emissions $million million operating customers operations and their potential impact on the operating income 12.94 13.96 income environment and local communities.
The Board recognises itsresponsibility to manage these risks and that failure to Our Emissions Criteria found at on.
com EmissionsCriteria set manage them adequately would have an adverse impact on out the principles and methodology used to report all carbon ourbusiness.
These risks are explicitly identied in our credit emissions data by Standard Chartered PLC and its subsidiaries.
policies, and in the provision of debt, equity and advisory Our reporting methodology is based upon the World Resources services in Wholesale Banking and in lending products in Institute World Business Council for Sustainable Development smalland medium-sized enterprises SME Banking.
We have Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting published a series of Position Statements which we apply in the Standard revised edition.
provision of financial services to clients who operate in sectors with specic risks, and for key issues.
We have adopted the Using conversion factors from the UK Governments 2013 GHG Equator Principles that set requirements for identifying, Conversion Factors for Company Reporting, emissions are assessing and mitigating the environmental and social impacts reported in metric tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent CO2eq, associated with the nancing of projects and related advisory 1 encompassing the six Kyoto gases.
We report on all emission services.
The principles are embedded in theGroups sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic environmental and social risk management procedures.
The Report and Directors report Regulations, as well as Scope 3 Board is not aware of any material exceptions to its policies.
included within our Sustainability Review.
We recognise that climate change presents physical and Our denition of different emission sources is provided below.
reputational risk to our operations and to our clients activities.
This could arise in relation to a number of factors, including Scope 1 extreme weather events, regulatory changes and changing Scope 1 emissions are dened as arising from the consumption consumer preferences.
For our own operations, we manage of energy from direct sources, during the use of property Greenhouse Gas GHGs emissions through an industry-leading occupied by the Group.
environmental reporting programme that collects data from 72per cent of our occupied property footprint.
We have targets Scope 2 to reduce energy, water and paper use.
We also monitor and Scope 2 emissions are dened as arising from the consumption report on our employees air travel.
of indirect sources of energy, during the use of property For more information on our environmental strategy, including occupied by the Group.
a full breakdown of our GHG emissions, please refer to the environment section of our Sustainability Review available on www.
com 1 Carbon dioxide CO2 : methane CH4 : nitrous oxide N2O : hydrouorocarbons HFCs : peruorocarbons PFCs and sulphur hexauoride SF6 Corporate governance 221 Scope 3 Electronic communication Scope 3 emissions are dened as occurring as a consequence The Board recognises the importance of good communications of the Groups activities, but arising from sources not controlled with all shareholders.
Our directors are in regular contact with by us.
Currently the Group reports on Scope 3 emissions from our institutional shareholders and general presentations are air travel in our Sustainability Review.
made when we announce our financial results.
The AGM presents an opportunity to communicate with all shareholders.
The emissions within our inventory correspond to a reporting Our shareholders are encouraged to receive our corporate period of 1 October 2012 to 30 September 2013.
This is to allow documents electronically.
The annual and interim financial sufficient time for independent assurance to be gained prior to statements, Notice of AGM and dividend circulars are all the publication of results.
Emissions arising from the operation available electronically.
If you do not already receive your of assets in which the Group owns an interest but has no control corporate documents electronically and would like to do so in are excluded.
In some cases this is divergent from the Groups future please contact our registrars at the address on page 331. financial reporting but consistent with international carbon Shareholders are also able to vote electronically on the reporting practice, enabling comparison to peers.
The Group resolutions being put to the AGM through our registrars website does not use any form of offsets or green electricity to offset at www.
com Scope 1 or Scope 2 emissions.
For more information, please refer to our Sustainability Review Annual General Meeting on www.
com Our 2014 AGM will be held at 11.00am London time 6.00pm Hong Kong time on 8 May 2014 at etc.
venues, 200 Aldersgate, Community investment St Pauls, London, EC1A 4HD.
Details of the business to be We work with partners across our markets to deliver conducted are contained in the Notice of AGM.
programmes that promote positive social and economic Our 2013 AGM was held on Wednesday 8 May 2013 at 11.00am outcomes for the communities where we operate.
In 2013, London time 6.00pm Hong Kong time at etc.
venues, 200 wecontributed a total investment of $54.1 million to charities Aldersgate, St Pauls, London EC1A 4HD.
Special business and community organisations.
This sum includes direct at the meeting included shareholder approval for a new nancialsupport of $15.4 million and indirect contributions Sharesave plan which would replace both the 2004 UK of$38.7 million such as employees time, the donation of Sharesave scheme approved by HM Revenue & Customs and non-monetary goods and fundraising by our employees.
All resolutions were Wefocus our community investment programmes on health passed at the meeting.
and education, with a particular emphasis on young people.
Our global programmes include Seeing is Believing, our global Non-audit services campaign to tackle avoidable blindness: Goal, our youth The Groups non-audit services policy the Policy was development programme that combines sports training with reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee in 2013.
The lifeskills and financial literacy training to empower adolescent policy is based on a number of core principles.
The overriding girls: and Living with HIV, our workplace and community principle is to ensure that our Group statutory auditor, KPMG education initiative.
We also promote financial education Audit Plcs KPMG, independence and or objectivity as the through dedicated training programmes for youth and small audit rm is not or could not be seen to be compromised by businesses.
We actively encourage our staff to share their time the appointment of KPMG to provide particular non-audit and core skills to benefit their local communities.
Subject to this overriding principle, the Audit member is entitled to three days of paid volunteering leave per Committees view is that KPMG can be of value in a wider year.
In 2013, our staff volunteered more than 90,300 days rangeof activities than just financial statement audit, and, across our communities.
wherea non-audit service demands these qualities, KPMG Further details of community projects can be found on page 37. should be allowed to tender, subject to the Auditing Practices Boards APB ethical standards and the terms of the policy.
However, the policy makes it clear that KPMG should not be HIV and AIDS Procedures regarded as the automatic or first rm of choice for non-audit Across the markets where we operate, HIV and AIDS remain services and consideration should always be given to the use aserious challenge impacting our staff, their families and the ofother rms.
The policy requires a conservative approach to broader community.
The HIV and AIDS Procedures, as part of be taken to the assessment of requests for KPMG to provide the Group Equal Opportunities Diversity and Dignity at Work non-audit services.
Policy, outline our commitment to support our employees.
The HIV and AIDS Procedures are implemented globally and apply to all staff and their families in a manner consistent with existing medical cover.
The HIV and AIDS Procedures are available on our website.
222 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Report of the directors continued The APB sets out various threats to audit independence Not permissible under the policy: including self-interest, self-review, familiarity, taking of a Any services that are prohibited or to the extent they management role or conducting advocacy.
In particular, arerestricted by the APBs published guidance from maintaining KPMGs independence from the Group requires timeto time them to avoid taking decisions on the Groups behalf.
It is alsorecognised as essential that management retain the Aggressive tax or regulatory structuring proposals decision-making capability as to whether to act on advice Any services where fees are paid on a contingent basis givenby KPMG as part of a non-audit service.
This means not inwhole or in part just the ability to action the advice given, but to have sufficient knowledge of the subject matter to be able to make a reasoned Consulting services, which actively assist in running the and independent judgment as to its validity.
Accordingly, business in place of management as opposed to providing theGroup is required to take a conservative approach to or validating information, which management then utilises interpreting the potential threats to auditor independence and in the operation of the business requires commensurately robust safeguards against them, if Details relating to KPMGs remuneration as the Group statutory anon-audit service is to be permitted.
auditor and a description of the broad categories of the types of non-audit services provided by KPMG are given in note 8 After due consideration, the Audit Committee decided not to to the financial statements on page 253. reduce the policy to a proscribed list of non-audit services that There were no significant engagements of KPMG in 2013 for the KPMG are permitted to provide.
Rather, each request for KPMG provision of non-audit services.
to provide non-audit services will be assessed on its own merits.
The Audit Committee believes that such a case-by-case Auditor approach best accommodates i the need for the appropriate The Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the Group rigour and challenge to be applied to each request for KPMG statutory auditor, its effectiveness and its relationship with the toprovide non-audit services while ii preserving sufficient Group, which includes monitoring our use of the auditors for flexibility for the Group to engage KPMG to provide non-audit non-audit services and the balance of audit and non-audit fees services where they are able to deliver particular value to the paid.
Following a review of the independence and effectiveness Group and where the proposed services can be provided of our Group statutory auditor details of which can be found on without compromising KPMGs objectivity and independence.
page 160 of the Corporate governance report, a resolution will KPMGs objectivity is of particular value to the Group in the be proposed at the 2014 AGM to reappoint KPMG.
context of providing non-audit services which relate to the Each director believes that there is no relevant audit information provision of an independent view, benchmarked either against of which our Group statutory auditor is unaware.
Each has external laws, regulations or requirements, or the audit firms taken all steps necessary as a director to be aware of any own knowledge of best practices.
The policy also specifically relevant audit information and to establish that KPMG Audit Plc incorporates the APBs recommended prohibitions and is made aware of any pertinent information.
restrictions on the types of non-audit services that are able tobe provided by the audit firm.
By order of the Board By way of non-exhaustive illustration of the application of the principles set out in the policy, the following types of non-audit services are: Annemarie Durbin Likely to be permissible under the policy: Group Company Secretary Audit-related services as defined by the APB the Group 5 March 2014 would also extend this to work on investor circulars in most foreseeable circumstances An objective view as to whether the Group has applied external laws and regulations appropriately, such as checks over regulatory compliance Testing the robustness of controls infrastructure Due diligence over potential purchases or sales
