64 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Risk review Our risk prole is in line with our strategy Risk prole Highly We have a well diversied portfolio of loans and advances Our top 20 corporate exposures are stable as a proportionof group capital resources and highly diversied and income streams across geographies, industry sectors and short and products: no individual country accounts for more diversied, with each, on average, spread across sevenmarkets and five industries tenor than 21 per cent of our loans and advances to customers portfolio or operating income We have low exposure to asset classes outside our core In Consumer Banking 73 per cent of assets are secured markets and customer base: our exposure to commercial and the average loan-to-value ratio on our mortgage real estate, Asset Backed Securities and leveraged loans portfolio is less than 48 per cent isnon-material from a Group perspective Our asset quality remains good In Wholesale Banking 64 per cent of loans and advances are short-term and we hold a diverse mix of collateral, valued conservatively Our customer deposit base is diversied by type and Strong We remain well capitalised and our balance sheet remains capital and highly liquid maturity liquidity We have a strong advances-to-deposits ratio We have a substantial portfolio of liquid assets which can position be realised if a liquidity stress occurs We remain a net provider of liquidity to interbank markets We have a very experienced senior risk team and our Robust risk We have a clear statement of risk appetite which is aligned governance to the Groups strategy: it is approved by the Board and riskcommittees are staffed by the Groups most seniorleaders structure and informs the more granular risk parameters within which experienced our businesses operate We have a robust risk management framework which senior team We continuously monitor our risk prole to ensure it assigns accountability and responsibility for the remains within our risk appetite and regularly conduct management and control of risk stress tests We maintain a consistent and highly selective approach We review and adjust our exposures, underwriting tolarge corporate credit underwriting standards and limits in response to observed and anticipated changes in the external environment andexpectations Risk overview Our balance sheet and liquidity have remained strong.
Standard Chartered has a dened risk appetite, approved by Over half of total assets mature within one year and of these the Board, which is an expression of the amount of risk we are approximately 70 per cent mature within three months.
The prepared to take and plays a central role in the development of balance sheet is highly diversied across a wide range of our strategic plans and policies.
Our overall risk appetite has products, industries, geographies and customer segments, notchanged.
We regularly assess our aggregate risk prole, which serves to mitigate risk: conduct stress tests and monitor concentrations to ensure that Customer loans and advances are 44 per cent of total assets we are operating within our approved risk appetite.
Further details on our approach to risk appetite and stress testing are The manufacturing sector in Wholesale Banking WB, set out on page 71. whichis 25 per cent of lending, is diversied by industry andgeography We review and adjust our underwriting standards and limits in response to observed and anticipated changes in the external The largest concentration to any globally correlated industry environment and the evolving expectations of our stakeholders.
is to energy at 9 per cent of total WB assets.
The exposure is During the course of 2013, we maintained a cautious stance well spread across eight subsectors and over 350 client overall while continuing to support our core clients.
Credit risk groups and, reecting the trade bias in the portfolio, 64 per management is covered in more detail on page 72. cent of exposures mature within one year Our top 20 corporate exposures are stable as a proportion of Group capital resources and highly diversied, with each, on average, spread across seven markets and five industries Risk review 65 The following parts of the Risk review form part of the financial statements: Regulatory compliance, review, requests for information and investigations and Risk of fraud and other criminal acts on pages 67 and 68 From the start of the Risk management section on page 69 to the end of the Pension risk section on page 125, excluding: Asset Backed Securities, page 106 Mapping of market risk items to the balance sheet, page 113 Encumbered assets, page 117 Liquidity Coverage Ratio and Net Stable Funding Ratio, page 119 From the start of the Capital management section on page 128 to the end of Current compliance with Capital Adequacy Regulations on page 129 From the start of the Capital base section on page 131 until the end of Movement in total capital on page 132 Our cross-border asset exposure is also diversied and We have a well established risk governance structure, which is reects our strategic focus on our core markets and customer set out on page 69, and an experienced senior team.
Further details are set out on page 109 of our most senior executive body the Court sit on our principal risk executive committees, which ensures that risk oversight is 44 per cent of customer loans and advances are in Consumer astrong focus for all our executive directors, while common Banking CB : 73 per cent of these are secured and the overall membership between these committees helps us address the loan-to-value ratio on our mortgage portfolio is less than inter-relationships between risk types.
Board committees 48per cent provide additional risk management oversight and challenge.
The unsecured CB portfolio is spread across multiple We continue to build on the Groups culture of risk management products in over 30 markets discipline.
During 2013 we refreshed and re-communicated the We have low exposure to asset classes and segments outside Group Code of Conduct, reinforcing our values and our brand our core markets and target customer base.
We have no direct promise.
We recognise that failures of regulatory compliance sovereign exposure as dened by the European Banking have damaged the Groups reputation, and continue to pay Authority EBA to Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal or Spain close attention to this.
The management of operational risk, GIIPS.
Our exposure in these countries is primarily in trade more broadly, continues to be enhanced as we incrementally finance and financial markets.
Further details of our eurozone roll out our new approach across all areas of the Group.
We are exposures are given on page 107.
Our exposure to countries introducing increased rigour in the process for anticipating a impacted by the political developments in the Middle East and wide variety of operational risks and in our assessments of risks North Africa are also low.
Exposures in Syria, Lebanon, Egypt, and control effectiveness.
Operational risk and reputational risk Libya, Algeria and Tunisia represent less than 0.5 per cent of are covered in more detail on pages 123 to 125. ourtotal assets.
Impairment review Our exposures to commercial real estate and leveraged The total impairment charge excluding goodwill impairment loansaccount for 2 per cent and 1 per cent of our total assets for2013 has increased by $354 million compared to 2012. respectively.
The notional value of the Asset Backed Securities Theincrease has primarily been in CB partly offset by lower ABS portfolio, which accounts for 1 per cent of our total other impairment charges.
assets, increased by $2 billion in 2013 due to investments in high quality, senior ABS and Residential Mortgage Backed In CB, total loan impairment provisions have increased year Securities RMBS assets in the Groups portfolio of marketable onyear, primarily reecting the growth and seasoning of loans securities.
Further details are given on page 106. booked between 2010 and 2012, the ongoing impact of Korea Personal Debt Rehabilitation Scheme PDRS lings and We have closely managed our exposures in markets and effectsof reduced loan sales compared to previous years.
sectors which have faced downturns during 2013, increasing Theincreaseis otherwise in line with our portfolio growth and collateral cover and selectively reducing exposures and limits.
growth in unsecured products in selected markets in prior Market risk is tightly monitored using value at risk VaR years.
Portfolio impairment provisions PIPs also reduced methodologies complemented by sensitivity measures, gross asaresult of reclassication of consumer finance businesses nominal limits and loss triggers at a detailed portfolio level.
We remain disciplined inour approach Thisissupplemented with extensive stress testing which takes to risk management and proactive in our collection efforts to account of more extreme price movements.
Our overall trading minimise account delinquencies.
book risk exposure has not changed signicantly during the In WB, total loan impairment provisions haveincreased by course of 2013.
Further details on market risk are provided on $61million compared to 2012.
This was concentrated in a few page 110. names in India and Africa and was partially offset by a release We maintained a strong advances-to-deposits ratio in 2013. ofan overlay PIP in the Middle East and Other South Asia Liquidity will continue to be deployed to support growth MESA aseconomic conditions improved.
Thecredit quality of opportunities in our chosen markets.
We manage liquidity the portfolio quality remains high in spite ofthe volatility in ineach of our branches and operating subsidiaries in each commodity prices and currencies.
country, ensuring that we can meet all short-term funding and Further details of credit risk in respect of the Groups loans collateral requirements and that our balance sheet remains portfolio are set out on pages 72 to 77. structurally sound.
Our customer deposit base is diversied by Other impairment, excluding goodwill impairment, is lower type and maturity and we are a net provider of liquidity to the compared to prior periods, as 2012 was impacted by provision interbank money markets.
We have a substantial portfolio of against certain investments in associates.
Further details are set marketable securities that can be realised in the event of out in note 11 on page 254. liquidity stress.
Further details on liquidity risk are provided onpages 115 to 123.
We continue to engage actively with our regulators, including the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA, the Financial Conduct Authority FCA, the Bank of England BoE and our host regulators in each of the markets in which we operate.
66 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Risk review continued Principal uncertainties Regulatory changes We are in the business of taking selected risks to Our business as an international bank will continue to be generate shareholder value, and we seek to contain subjectto an evolving and complex regulatory framework andmitigate these risks to ensure they remain within comprising legislation, regulation and codes of practice, in ourrisk appetite and are adequately compensated.
eachof the countries in which we operate.
A key uncertainty relates to the way in which governments and regulators adjust The key uncertainties we face in the coming year are set laws, regulations and economic policies in response to outbelow.
This should not be regarded as a complete and macroeconomic and other systemic conditions.
The nature comprehensive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties andimpact of such future changes are not always predictable that we may experience.
and could run counter to our strategic interests.
Some are anticipated to have a significant impact, such as changes to Deteriorating macroeconomic conditions in capital and liquidity regimes, changes to the calculation of footprintcountries risk-weighted assets RWA, derivatives reform, remuneration Macroeconomic conditions have an impact on personal reforms, recovery and resolution plans, banking structural expenditure and consumption, demand for business products reforms in a number of markets including proposals which and services, the debt service burden of consumers and could result in i deposit-taking entities being ring-fenced from businesses, the general availability of credit for retail and WB activities and ii local branches of international banking corporate borrowers and the availability of capital and liquidity groups being subsidiarised, the UK bank levy and the US funding for our business.
All these factors may impact our Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act.
In relation to the banking performance.
structural reforms, the European Commission has published The world economy is coming out of a difficult period and alegislative proposal for a regulation introducing structural uncertainty remains.
The unwinding of the US Federal reforms to the EU banking sector, including a prohibition on Reserves Fed quantitative easing programme could lead to proprietary trading and separation powers for supervisors higher interest rates, volatility in financial markets and capital relating to banks other trading activities.
Uncertainty remains ight from emerging markets which may threaten the growth regarding details of the application of the European Unions trajectory of some vulnerable economies.
A slowdown in Capital Requirements Directive and Regulation IV CRD IV, Chinas growth may depress prices and trade in a number of theproposed Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive BRRD commodity sectors such as energy, metals and mining sectors, and Over the Counter OTC derivative reforms across our and a prolonged slowdown could have wider economic markets which could potentially have a material impact on the repercussions.
Group and its business model.
Proposed changes could also adversely affect economic growth, the volatility and liquidity of The sovereign crisis in the eurozone is not fully resolved and, the financial markets and, consequently, the way we conduct although acute risks have been addressed by ongoing policy business, structure our global operating model and manage initiatives, there is still a need for substantial new structural capital and liquidity.
These effects may directly or indirectly reform see additional information on the risk of redenomination impact our financial performance.
Despite these concerns, on page 107. weremain a highly liquid and well capitalised bank under Our exposure to eurozone sovereign debt is very low.
However, current and currently published future regimes.
we remain alert to the risk of secondary impacts from events in It is in the wider interest to have a well-run financial system, the West on financial institutions, other counterparties and andwe are supportive of a tighter regulatory regime that global economic growth.
enhances the resilience of the international financial system.
Ination and property prices appear to be under control in most TheGroup will continue to participate in the regulatory debate of the countries in which we operate.
Changes in monetary through responses to consultations and working towards an policy could lead to significant increases in interest rates from improved and workable regulatory architecture.
We are also their currently low historical levels, with resulting impacts on the encouraging our international regulators to work together to wider economy and on property values.
develop co-ordinated approaches to regulating and resolving cross-border banking groups.
We support changes to We balance risk and return, taking account of changing laws, regulations and codes of practice that will improve the conditions through the economic cycle, and monitor overallstability of, and the conduct within, the financial economictrends in our markets very closely.
We conduct systembecause this provides benets to our clients and stresstests to assess the effects of extreme but plausible shareholders and the broader geographies and markets in trading conditions on our portfolio and also continuously review which we operate.
However, we also have concerns that the suitability of our risk policies and controls.
We manage certainproposals may not achieve this desired objective and credit exposures following the principle of diversication across may have unintended consequences, either individually or in products, geographies, client and customer segments.
This terms of aggregate impact.
provides for strong resilience against economic shocks in one or more of our portfolios.
Risk review 67 Regulatory compliance, reviews, requests for The Group has established a Financial Crime Risk Mitigation information and investigations Programme FCRMP, which is a comprehensive, multi-year, Since the global financial crisis, the banking industry has programme designed to review many aspects of the Groups beensubject to increased regulatory scrutiny.
There has existing approach to anti-money laundering and sanctions beenan unprecedented volume of regulatory changes and compliance and to enhance them as appropriate.
One key requirements, as well as a more intensive approach to component of the FCRMP is to oversee and manage the SRP.
supervision and oversight, resulting in an increasing number of As part of the FCRMP the Group or its advisers may identify regulatory reviews, requests for information and investigations, new issues, potential breaches or matters requiring further often with enforcement consequences, involving banks.
review or further process improvements that could impact the scope or duration of the FCRMP.
While the Group seeks to comply with the letter and spirit of all applicable laws and regulations at all times, it may be subject to The Group is engaged with all relevant authorities to regulatory actions and investigations across our markets, the implementthese programmes, meet the obligations under the outcomes of which are generally difficult to predict and can be Settlements and respond to further requests for information and material to the Group.
Where laws and regulations across the inquiries related to its historic, current and future compliance geographies in which the Group operates contradict each other with sanctions regimes.
or create conicting obligations, the Group aspires to meet both The Group recognises that its compliance with historic, current local requirements and appropriate global standards.
and future sanctions, as well as AML and BSA requirements, From time to time the Group is the subject of various regulatory and customer due diligence practices, not just in the US but reviews, requests for information including subpoenas and throughout its footprint, is and will remain a focus of the requests for documents and investigations by various relevantauthorities.
governmental and regulatory bodies arising from the Groups As part of their remit to oversee market conduct, regulators and business operations.
other agencies in certain markets are conducting investigations 1 In 2012, the Group reached settlements with the US authorities or requesting reviews into a number of areas of market conduct, regarding US sanctions compliance in the period 2001 to 2007, including sales and trading, involving a range of financial involving a Consent Order by the New York Department of products, and submissions made to set various market interest Financial Services NYDFS, a Cease and Desist Order by the rates and other financial benchmarks, such as foreign Federal Reserve Bank of New York FRBNY, Deferred exchange.
At relevant times, certain of the Groups branches Prosecution Agreements with each of the Department of and or subsidiaries were and are participants in some of those Justice and with the District Attorney of New York each a DPA markets, in some cases submitting data to bodies that set such and a Settlement Agreement with the Ofce of Foreign Assets rates and other financial benchmarks.
In addition to the civil penalties totalling $667 million, The Group is contributing to industry proposals to strengthen the terms of these settlements together the Settlements financial benchmark processes in certain markets and include a number of conditions and ongoing obligations with continues to review its practices and processes in the light of regard to improving sanctions and Anti-Money Laundering the investigations, reviews and the industry proposals.
AML and Banking Secrecy Act BSA controls such as remediation programmes, reporting requirements, compliance The Group is co-operating with all such ongoing reviews, reviews and programmes, banking transparency requirements, requests for information and investigations.
While the Group training measures, audit programmes, disclosure obligations seeks to comply with the letter and spirit of all applicable laws and the appointment of an independent monitor.
These and regulations, the outcome of these reviews, requests for obligations are managed under a programme of work referred information and investigations is uncertain and it may not be to as the US Supervisory Remediation Program SRP.
The possible to predict the extent of any liabilities or other SRPcomprises workstreams designed to ensure compliance consequences that may arise.
with the remediation requirements contained in all of the For further details on legal and regulatory matters refer to note 45 Settlements.
Provided the Group fulls all the requirements on page 307. imposed by the DPAs, the applicable charges against the Group will be dismissed at the end of the two-year term of thoseagreements.
1 The US authorities comprise The New York Department of Financial Services DFS, the Ofce of Foreign Assets Control OFAC, the New York County District Attorneys Ofce DANY, the United States Department of Justice DOJ and the Federal Reserve NYFED 68 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Risk review continued Financial markets dislocation We actively monitor the political situation in all our principal There is a risk that a sudden financial market dislocation, markets, such as the development of events in the Middle East perhaps as a result of a tightening of monetary policy in the and territorial disputes in Northeast Asia.
We conduct stress major economies or a deterioration of the sovereign debt tests of the impact of extreme but plausible geo-political events crisisin the eurozone, could signicantly increase general on our performance and the potential for such events to financial market volatility which could affect our performance jeopardise our ability to operate within our stated risk appetite.
orthe availability of capital or liquidity.
In addition, reduction Further details on stress testing are given on page 71. ofmonetary intervention by the Federal Reserve, or other central banks, could disrupt external funding for some Risk of fraud and other criminal acts economies leading to lower growth and financial markets The banking industry has long been a target for third parties volatility.
These factors may have an impact on the seeking to defraud, to disrupt legitimate economic activity, or to mark-to-market valuations of assets in our available-for-sale facilitate other illegal activities.
The risk posed by such criminal andtradingportfolios.
The potential losses incurred by certain activity is growing as criminals become more sophisticated and clients holding derivative contracts during periods of financial as they take advantage of the increasing use of technology and market volatility could also lead to an increase in disputes the internet.
The incidence of cyber crime is rising, becoming andcorporate defaults.
At the same time, financial market more globally co-ordinated, and is a challenge for all organisations.
instabilitycould cause some financial institution counterparties We seek to be vigilant to the risk of internal and external crime to experience tighter liquidity conditions or even fail.
There is inour management of people, processes, systems and in our nocertainty that government action to reduce the systemic risk dealings with customers and other stakeholders.
We have a will be successful and it may have unintended consequences.
broad range of measures in place to monitor and mitigate this We stress test our market risk exposures to highlight the risk.
Controls are embedded in our policies and procedures potential impact of extreme market events on those exposures across a wide range of the Groups activities, such as and to confirm that they are within authorised stress triggers.
origination, recruitment, physical and information security.
Stress scenarios are regularly updated to reect changes in Wehave a set of techniques, tools and activities to detect riskprole and economic events.
Where necessary, overall andrespond to cyber crime, in its many forms.
We actively reductions in market risk exposure are enforced.
We closely collaborate with our peers, regulators and other expert monitor the performance of our financial institution bodiesas part of our response to this risk.
counterparties and adjust our exposure to these counterparties as necessary.
We maintain robust processes to assess the The Groups controls to address money laundering risks appropriateness and suitability of products and services we areunder review as part of the Groups Financial Crime Risk provide to clients and customers to mitigate the risk of disputes.
Mitigation Programme, referred to in the section headed Regulatory compliance, reviews, requests for information Geo-political events andinvestigations on the previous page.
We operate in a large number of markets around the world, Fraud and criminal activity may also give rise to litigation andour performance is in part reliant on the openness of impacting the Group.
In December 2008, Bernard Madoff cross-border trade and capital ows.
We face a risk that confessed to running a Ponzi scheme through Bernard L. geo-political tensions or conicts in our footprint could impact Madoff Investment Securities, LLC BMIS.
American Express trade ows, our customers ability to pay, and our ability to Bank AEB, acquired by the Group in February 2008, had manage capital or operations across borders.
provided clients with access to funds that invested in BMIS.
BMIS and the funds are in liquidation.
Certain clients have brought actions against the Group in various jurisdictions seeking to recover losses based principally on the assertion thatinadequate due diligence was undertaken on the funds.
Inaddition, the BMIS bankruptcy trustee and the funds liquidator have commenced proceedings against the Group, seeking to recover sums paid to clients when they redeemed their investments prior to BMIS bankruptcy.
There is a range of possible outcomes in the litigation described above, with the result that it is not possible for the Group to estimate reliably the liability that might arise.
However, the Group considers that it has good defences to the asserted claims and continues to defend them vigorously.
For further details on legal and regulatory matters refer to note 45 on page 307.
Risk review 69 Exchange rate movements Risk management framework Changes in exchange rates affect, among other things, Effective risk management is fundamental to being able to thevalue of our assets and liabilities denominated in foreign generate profits consistently and sustainably and is thus a currencies, as well as the earnings reported by our non-US central part of the financial and operational management of dollar denominated branches and subsidiaries.
movements can also impact trade ows and the wealth of clients, Through our risk management framework we manage both of which could have an impact on our performance.
enterprise-wide risks, with the objective of maximising We monitor exchange rate movements closely and adjust our risk-adjusted returns while remaining within our risk appetite.
Under certain circumstances, we may As part of this framework, we use a set of principles that take the decision to hedge our foreign exchange exposures in describe the risk management culture we wish to sustain: order to protect our capital ratios from the effects of changes inexchange rates.
The effect of exchange rate movements on Balancing risk and return: risk is taken in support of the the capital adequacy ratio is mitigated to the extent there are requirements of our stakeholders, in line with our strategy proportionate movements in RWA.
andwithin our risk appetite The table below sets out the year-end and average currency Responsibility: it is the responsibility of all employees to exchange rates per US dollar for India, Korea, Indonesia ensure that risk-taking is disciplined and focused.
We take andTaiwan for the years ended 31 December 2013 and account of our social responsibilities and our commitments 31December 2012.
These are the markets for which currency tocustomers in taking risk to produce a return exchange rate movements have had the greatest translation Accountability: risk is taken only within agreed authorities impact on the Groups results in 2013. andwhere there is appropriate infrastructure and resource.
2013 2012 All risk-taking must be transparent, controlled and reported Indian rupee Anticipation: we seek to anticipate future risks and ensure Average 58.51 53.43 awareness of all known risks Period end 61.77 54.96 Competitive advantage: we seek to achieve competitive Korean won advantage through efficient and effective risk management Average 1,094.52 1,126.23 and control Period end 1,055.08 1,070.34 Indonesian rupiah Risk governance Average 10,414.66 9,394.70 Ultimate responsibility for setting our risk appetite and for the Period end 12,164.29 9,799.42 effective management of risk rests with the Board.
Taiwan dollar Average 29.70 29.57 Acting within an authority delegated by the Board, the Board Risk Committee BRC, whose membership is comprised Period end 29.84 29.07 exclusively of non-executive directors of the Group, has As a result of our normal business operations, responsibility for oversight and review of prudential risks StandardChartered is exposed to a broader range of risks including but not limited to credit, market, capital, liquidity thanthose principal uncertainties mentioned above and our andoperational.
It reviews the Groups overall risk appetite approach to managing risk is detailed on the following pages.
andmakes recommendations thereon to the Board.
Its responsibilities also include reviewing the appropriateness and Risk management effectiveness of the Groups risk management systems and The management of risk lies at the heart of Standard controls, considering the implications of material regulatory Chartereds business.
One of the main risks we incur arises change proposals, ensuring effective due diligence on material from extending credit to customers through our trading and acquisitions and disposals, and monitoring the activities of the lending operations.
Beyond credit risk, we are also exposed Group Risk Committee GRC and the Group Asset and Liability toarange of other risk types such as country cross-border, Committee GALCO.
market, liquidity, operational, pension, reputational and other The BRC receives regular reports on risk management, risks that are inherent to our strategy, product range and including our portfolio trends, policies and standards, stress geographical coverage.
testing, liquidity and capital adequacy, and is authorised to investigate or seek any information relating to an activity within its terms of reference.
The BRC also conducts deep dive reviews on a rolling basis of different sections of the consolidated Group risk information report.
70 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Risk review continued The Brand and Values Committee BVC oversees the brand, Roles and responsibilities for risk management are dened culture, values and good reputation of the Group.
It seeks to under a Three Lines of Defence model.
Each line of defence ensure that the management of reputational risk is consistent describes a specic set of responsibilities for risk management with the risk appetite approved by the Board and with the and control: creation of long-term shareholder value.
First line of defence: all employees are required to ensure The role of the Audit Committee is to have oversight and review theeffective management of risks within the scope of their of financial, audit and internal control issues.
Further details on direct organisational responsibilities.
Business, function and the role of the Board and its committees in matters of risk geographic heads are accountable for risk management in governance are covered in the Corporate Governance section their respective businesses and functions, and for countries in the Groups Annual Report.
where they have governance responsibilities Overall accountability for risk management is held by the Second line of defence: this comprises the risk control Standard Chartered Bank Court the Court which comprises owners, supported by their respective control functions.
the Group executive directors and other senior executives of Riskcontrol owners are responsible for ensuring that the Standard Chartered Bank.
riskswithin the scope of their responsibilities remain within appetite.
The scope of a risk control owners responsibilities The Court is the highest executive body of the Group and its isdened by a given risk type and the risk management terms of reference are approved by the Board of Standard processes that relate to that risk type.
The Court delegates authority for the cut across the Group and are not constrained by functional, management of risk to the GRC and the GALCO.
The major risk types The GRC is responsible for the management of all risks other are described individually in the following sections than those delegated by the Court to the GALCO.
The GRC Third line of defence: the independent assurance provided by isresponsible for the establishment of, and compliance with, the Group Internal Audit function GIA.
Its role is dened and policies relating to credit risk, country cross-border risk, market overseen by the Audit Committee risk, operational risk, pension risk and reputational risk.
The GRC also defines our overall risk management framework.
The findings from the GIAs audits are reported to all relevant management and governance bodies accountable line The GALCO is responsible for the management of capital and managers, relevant oversight function and committee or the establishment of, and compliance with, policies relating to committees of the Board.
balance sheet management, including management of our liquidity, capital adequacy and structural foreign exchange and The GIA provides independent assurance of the effectiveness interest rate risk.
of managements control of its own business activities the first line and of the processes maintained by the Risk Control Members of the GRC and the GALCO are both drawn from Functions the second line.
As a result, the GIA provides theCourt.
The GRC is chaired by the Group Chief Risk officer assurance that the overall system of control effectiveness is GCRO.
The GALCO is chaired by the Group Finance Director.
working as required within the Risk Management Framework.
Risk limits and risk exposure approval authority frameworks are set by the GRC in respect of credit risk, country cross-border risk, market risk and operational risk.
The GALCO sets the approval authority framework in respect of liquidity risk.
Risk approval authorities may be exercised by risk committees or authorised individuals.
The committee governance structure ensures that risk-taking authority and risk management policies are cascaded down from the Board through to the appropriate functional, divisional and country-level committees.
Information regarding material risk issues and compliance with policies and standards is communicated to the country, business, functional and Group-level committees.
Risk review 71 The Risk function the Board.
The BRC advises the Board on the Risk Appetite The GCRO directly manages a Risk function that is separate Statement and oversees that the Group remains within it.
from the origination, trading and sales functions of the businesses.
The GCRO also chairs the GRC and is a member Stress testing ofthe Court.
Stress testing and scenario analysis are used to assess the financial and management capability of Standard Chartered to The role of the Risk function is: continue operating effectively under extreme but plausible To maintain the Risk Management Framework, ensuring it trading conditions.
Such conditions may arise from economic, remains appropriate to the Groups activities, is effectively regulatory, legal, political, environmental and social factors.
communicated and implemented across the Group and for Our stress-testing framework is designed to: administering related governance and reporting processes Contribute to the setting and monitoring of risk appetite To uphold the overall integrity of the Groups risk return decisions, and in particular for ensuring that risks are properly Identify key risks to our strategy, financial position and assessed, that risk return decisions are made transparently reputation on the basis of this proper assessment, and are controlled in Support the development of mitigating actions and accordance with the Groups standards and risk appetite contingency plans To exercise direct Risk Control Ownership for credit, market, Ensure effective governance, processes and systems are in country cross-border, short-term liquidity and operational place to co-ordinate and integrate stress testing risktypes Adhere to regulatory requirements The independence of the Risk function is to ensure that the necessary balance in risk return decisions is not compromised Our stress-testing activity focuses on the potential impact of by short-term pressures to generate revenues.
This is macroeconomic, geo-political and physical events on relevant particularly important given that revenues are recognised from geographies, customer segments and asset classes.
Stress the point of sale while losses arising from risk positions typically tests are also performed at country and business level.
A Stress-Testing Committee, led by the Risk function with In addition, the Risk function is a centre of excellence that members drawn from the business, Finance, Global Research provides specialist capabilities of relevance to risk management and Group Treasury, aims to ensure that the implications of processes in the wider organisation.
specic stress scenarios are fully understood allowing informed mitigation actions and construction of contingency plans.
The Risk appetite Stress-Testing Committee generates and considers pertinent We manage our risks to build a sustainable franchise in the and plausible scenarios that have the potential to adversely interests of all our stakeholders.
affect our business and considers impact across different risk types and countries.
Risk appetite is an expression of the amount of risk we are willing to take in pursuit of our strategic objectives, reecting our Stress testing is carried out at multiple levels within the Group capacity to sustain losses and continue to meet our obligations toanalyse the potential impact of possible stress scenarios at arising from a range of different stress trading conditions.
country and business line level and on the Group.
During the year, Group-level stress testing covered a considerable range We define our risk appetite in terms of both volatility of earnings ofmacroeconomic scenarios.
These included the effects of a and the maintenance of adequate regulatory capital under major downturn in world trade, severe economic stress in stress scenarios.
We also define a risk appetite with respect to emerging markets, a slump in emerging markets, exports sharp liquidity risk, operational risk and reputational risk.
appreciation and depreciation in currencies, and the tapering of Our quantitative risk prole is assessed through a bottom-up quantitative easing.
Stress testing at business level covered a analytical approach covering all of our major businesses, range of scenarios including the impact of foreign exchange countries and products.
It is also assessed against a range of depreciation or appreciation, sustained falls in base metals and exposure concentration thresholds.
energy prices, significant changes in interest rates and drops in counterparty credit quality.
The Groups Risk Appetite Statement is approved by the Board and forms the basis for establishing the risk parameters within At country level, a number of portfolio reviews were also which the businesses must operate, including policies, undertaken, covering the effects of stress on a range of industry concentration limits and business mix.
sectors, including the shipbuilding, banking, real estate, telecoms, mining and renewable energy sectors.
The Group will not compromise adherence to its risk appetite in order to pursue revenue growth or higher returns.
Market risk and liquidity stress tests are also carried out regularly as described in the sections on market risk on The GRC and GALCO are responsible for ensuring that our risk page110 and liquidity risk on page 115. prole is managed in compliance with the risk appetite set by 72 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Risk review continued Credit risk management Advanced IRB models cover a substantial majority of our Credit risk is the potential for loss due to the failure of a exposures and are used extensively in assessing risks at a counterparty to meet its obligations to pay the Group in customer and portfolio level, setting strategy and optimising our accordance with agreed terms.
Credit exposures arise from risk-return decisions.
both the banking and trading books.
IRB risk measurement models are approved by the responsible Credit risk is managed through a framework that sets out risk committee, on the recommendation of the Group Model policies and procedures covering the measurement and Assessment Committee MAC.
The MAC supports risk management of credit risk.
There is a clear segregation of committees in ensuring risk identication and measurement dutiesbetween transaction originators in the businesses and capabilities are objective and consistent, so that risk control and approvers in the Risk function.
All credit exposure limits are risk origination decisions are properly informed.
Prior to review approved within a dened credit approval authority framework.
by the MAC, all IRB models are validated in detail by a model The Group manages its credit exposures following the principle validation team, which is separate from the teams that develop of diversication across products, geographies, client and and maintain the models.
Models undergo annual periodic customer segments.
Reviews are also triggered if the performance of a model deteriorates materially against predetermined thresholds during Credit policies the ongoing model performance monitoring process.
Group-wide credit policies and standards are considered and approved by the GRC, which also oversees the delegation of Credit approval credit approval and loan impairment provisioning authorities.
Major credit exposures to individual counterparties, groups of connected counterparties and portfolios of retail exposures are Policies and procedures specic to each business are reviewed and approved by the Group Credit Committee GCC.
established by authorised risk committees.
These are The GCC derives its authority from the GRC.
consistent with our Group-wide credit policies, but are more detailed and adapted to reect the different risk environments All other credit approval authorities are delegated by the GRC and portfolio characteristics.
toindividuals based both on their judgment and experience anda risk-adjusted scale that takes account of the estimated Credit rating and measurement maximum potential loss from a given customer or portfolio.
Risk measurement plays a central role, along with judgment and Credit origination and approval roles are segregated in all but a experience, in informing risk taking and portfolio management very few authorised cases.
In those very few exceptions where decisions.
It is a primary area for sustained investment and they are not, originators can only approve limited exposures senior management attention.
Analyses of the loan portfolio by product and counterparty are set out on page 89 for CB and Since 1 January 2008, Standard Chartered has used the page 96 for WB.
advanced Internal Ratings Based IRB approach under the Basel II regulatory framework to calculate credit risk capital Credit concentration risk requirements.
Credit concentration risk may arise from a single large exposure For IRB portfolios, an alphanumeric credit risk grade CG or from multiple exposures that are closely correlated.
This is system is used across our businesses.
The grading is based on managed within concentration caps set by counterparty or our internal estimate of probability of default over a one-year groups of connected counterparties, and having regard for horizon, with customers or portfolios assessed against a range correlation, by country, industry and product, as applicable.
of quantitative and qualitative factors.
The numeric grades run Additional concentration thresholds are set and monitored, from 1 to 14 and some of the grades are further sub-classied.
where appropriate, by tenor prole, collateralisation levels and Lower credit grades are indicative of a lower likelihood of credit risk prole.
Credit grades 1 to 12 are assigned to performing Credit concentrations are monitored by the responsible risk customers or accounts, while credit grades 13 and 14 are committees in each of the businesses and concentration limits assigned to non-performing or defaulted customers.
An that are material to the Group are reviewed and approved at analysis by credit grade of those loans that are neither past due least annually by the GCC.
nor impaired is set out on page 81.
Our credit grades are not intended to replicate external credit grades where these are available, and ratings assigned by external ratings agencies are not used in determining our internal credit grades.
Nonetheless, as the factors used to grade a borrower may be similar, a borrower rated poorly by anexternal rating agency is typically assigned a worse internal credit grade.
Risk review 73 Credit monitoring Credit risk mitigation We regularly monitor credit exposures, portfolio Potential credit losses from any given account, customer or performance, and external trends that may impact risk portfolio are mitigated using a range of tools such as collateral, management outcomes.
netting agreements, credit insurance, credit derivatives and guarantees.
The reliance that can be placed on these mitigants Internal risk management reports are presented to risk is carefully assessed in light of issues such as legal certainty committees, containing information on key environmental, and enforceability, market valuation correlation and political and economic trends across major portfolios and counterparty risk of the guarantor.
countries: portfolio delinquency and loan impairment performance: and IRB portfolio metrics including credit Where appropriate, credit derivatives are used to reduce credit grademigration.
Due to their potential impact on income volatility, such derivatives are used in a controlled manner with Credit governance committees meet regularly to assess the reference to their expected volatility.
impact of external events and trends on the Groups credit risk portfolios and to define and implement our response in terms Collateral is held to mitigate credit risk exposures and risk ofappropriate changes to portfolio shape, portfolio and mitigation policies determine the eligibility of collateral types.
underwriting standards, risk policy and procedures.
For WB, these policies set out the clear criteriathat must be Clients or portfolios are placed on early alert when they display satisfied if the mitigation is to be consideredeffective: signs of actual or potential weakness: for example, where there Excessive exposure to any particular risk mitigants or is a decline in the clients position within the industry, financial counterparties should be avoided.
Collateral concentration deterioration, a breach of covenants, non-performance of an mitigation standards are maintained at both the portfolio and obligation within the stipulated period, or there are concerns counterparty level relating to ownership or management.
Risk mitigants should not be correlated with the underlying Such accounts and portfolios are subjected to a dedicated assets such that default would coincide with a lowering of process overseen by Early Alert Committees in countries.
Client theforced sale value of the collateral account plans and credit grades are re-evaluated.
In addition, remedial actions are agreed and monitored.
Remedial actions Where there is a currency mismatch, haircuts should be include, but are not limited to, exposure reduction, security applied to protect against currency uctuations enhancement, exiting the account or immediate movement of Legal opinions and documentation must be in place the account into the control of Group Special Assets Management GSAM, our specialist recovery unit.
Ongoing review and controls exist where there is a maturity mismatch between the collateral and exposure For retail exposures, portfolio delinquency trends are monitored continuously at a detailed level.
Individual customer behaviour is For all credit risk mitigants that meet the policy criteria, a also tracked and is considered for lending decisions.
Accounts clearset of procedures are applied to ensure that the value that are past due are subject to a collections process, managed ofthe underlying collateral is appropriately recorded and independently by the Risk function.
Charged-off accounts are updated regularly.
managed by specialist recovery teams.
In some countries, Collateral types that are eligible for risk mitigation include: aspects of collections and recovery functions are outsourced.
cash:residential, commercial and industrial property: xed The small and medium-sized enterprise SME business is assets such as motor vehicles, aircraft, plant and machinery: managed in two distinct customer sub-segments: small marketable securities: commodities: bank guarantees: and businesses and medium enterprises, differentiated by the letters of credit.
Standard Chartered also enters into annual turnover of the counterparty.
The credit processes are collateralised reverse repurchase agreements.
further rened based on exposure at risk.
Larger exposures are All eligible collateral accepted by SME Banking and Private managed through the Discretionary Lending approach, in line Banking is covered by a product proposal approved by with corporate credit procedures, and smaller exposures are seniorcredit ofcers with the relevant delegated authority.
managed through Programmed Lending, in line with retail credit Newcollateral types have to be vetted through a stringent procedures.
Discretionary Lending and Private Banking past NewBusiness Approval process and approved by the CB due accounts are managed by GSAM.
74 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Risk review continued In order to be recognised as security and for the loan to be Traded products classied as secured, all items pledged must be valued and Credit risk from traded products is managed within the overall anactive secondary resale market must exist for the collateral.
credit risk appetite for corporates and financial institutions.
Documentation must be held to enable CB to realise the asset The credit risk exposure from traded products is derived without the co-operation of the asset owner in the event that fromthe positive mark-to-market value of the underlying this is necessary.
instruments, and an additional component to cater for For certain types of lending typically mortgages, asset potentialmarket movements.
nancing the right to take charge over physical assets is For derivative contracts, we limit our exposure to credit losses in significant in terms of determining appropriate pricing and the event of default by entering into master netting agreements recoverability in the event of default.
The requirement for with certain counterparties.
As required by International collateral is not, however, a substitute for the ability to pay, Accounting Standards IAS 32, exposures are only presented whichis the primary consideration for any lending decisions.
net in the financial statement if there is a legal right to offset and Regular valuation of collateral is required in accordance with there is an intent to settle on a net basis or realise the assets and theGroups risk mitigation policy, which prescribes both the liabilities simultaneously.
As master netting agreements are process of valuation and the frequency of valuation for different generally enforced only in the event ofdefault, they cannot be collateral types.
The valuation frequency is driven by the level of netted on the balance sheet.
price volatility of each type of collateral and the nature of the In addition, we enter into Credit Support Annexes CSAs underlying product or risk exposure.
Stress tests are performed withcounterparties where collateral is deemed a necessary on changes in collateral values for key portfolios to assist senior ordesirable mitigant to the exposure.
Further details on CSAs management in managing the risks in those portfolios.
Physical are set out on page 76. collateral is required to be insured at all times and against all risks, with the Group as the loss payee under the insurance Securities policy.
Detailed procedures over collateral management must The portfolio limits and parameters for the underwriting and be in place for each business at the country level.
purchase of all pre-dened securities assets to be held for sale Where appropriate, collateral values are adjusted to reect are approved by the Underwriting Committee.
The Underwriting current market conditions, the probability of recovery and the Committee is established under the authority of the GRC.
The period of time to realise the collateral in the event of possession.
business operates within set limits, which include country, single issuer, holding period and credit grade limits.
Where guarantees or credit derivatives are used as credit risk mitigation, the creditworthiness of the guarantor is assessed Day-to-day credit risk management activities for traded and established using the credit approval process in addition securities are carried out by a specialist team within the Risk tothat of the obligor or main counterparty.
The main types of function whose activities include oversight and approval within guarantors include bank guarantees, insurance companies, the levels delegated by the Underwriting Committee.
Issuer parent companies, shareholders and export credit agencies.
credit risk, including settlement and pre-settlement risk, and price risk are controlled by the Risk function.
The Group uses bilateral and multilateral netting to reduce pre-settlement and settlement counterparty risk.
Pre-settlement The Underwriting Committee approves individual proposals risk exposures are normally netted using bilateral netting tounderwrite new security issues for our clients.
Where an documentation in legally approved jurisdictions.
Settlement underwritten security is held for a period longer than the target exposures are generally netted using Delivery versus Payments sell-down period, the final decision on whether to sell the or Payment versus Payments systems.
position rests with the Risk function.
Risk review 75 Restatement of prior year The tables on pages 76 to 123 and related analyses reect the restatement of balances as at 31 December 2012 for the impact of equity accounting Permata, the Groups joint venture business in Indonesia within the Other Asia Pacic region rather than the previous treatment of proportionate consolidation.
Credit portfolio Maximum exposure to credit risk The table overleaf presents the Groups maximum exposure tocredit risk for its on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet financial instruments as at 31 December 2013, before and after taking into account any collateral held or other credit risk mitigation.
For on-balance sheet instruments, the maximum exposure to credit risk is the carrying amount reported on thebalance sheet.
For off-balance sheet instruments, the maximum exposure to credit risk generally represents the contractual notional amounts.
The Groups exposure to credit risk is spread across our markets and is affected by the general economic conditions in the geographies in which it operates.
The Group sets limits on the exposure to any counterparty, and credit risk is spread over a variety of different personal and commercial customers.
The Groups maximum exposure to credit risk has increased by$51.5 billion when compared to 2012.
Exposure to loans andadvances to banks and customers has increased by $29billion since 2012 due to growth in the secured lending tobanks and broad-based growth across several industry sectors in WB.
Further details of the loan portfolio are set out on page 77.
The Groups credit risk exposure before risk mitigation arising from derivatives has increased by $12.3 billion when compared to 2012 with increase in volumes in several markets.
76 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Risk review continued 2013 2012 Credit risk management Credit risk management Master Master Maximum netting Net Maximum netting Net exposure Collateral agreements exposure exposure Collateral agreements exposure $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million On-balance sheet 1 Total loans and advances As per balance sheet 374,410 347,435 Included within fair value through profit andloss 7,774 5,752 382,184 152,926 229,258 353,187 139,713 213,474 2 Investment securities As per balance sheet 102,716 102,716 99,225 99,225 Included within fair value through profit andloss 21,561 21,561 21,324 21,324 Less: Equity securities 6,800 6,800 6,432 6,432 117,477 117,477 114,117 114,117 3 Derivative financial instruments 61,802 5,147 46,242 10,413 49,495 3,245 35,073 11,177 Total balance sheet 561,463 158,073 46,242 357,148 516,799 142,958 35,073 338,768 Off-balance sheet Contingent liabilities 46,938 46,938 44,293 44,293 Undrawn irrevocable standby facilities, 4 credit lines and other commitments to lend 61,277 61,277 56,647 56,647 Documentary credits and short-term trade-related transactions 7,409 7,409 7,610 7,610 Forward asset purchases and forward deposits 459 459 711 711 Total off-balance sheet 116,083 116,083 109,261 109,261 Total 677,546 158,073 46,242 473,231 626,060 142,958 35,073 448,029 1 An analysis of credit quality is set out on page 79.
Further details of collateral held by businesses and held for past due and individually impaired loans are set on page 83 2 Equity shares are excluded as they are not subject to credit risk 3 The Group enters into master netting agreements which, in the event of default, result in a single amount owed by or to the counterparty through netting the sum of the positive and negative mark-to-market values of applicable derivative transactions 4 Excludes unconditionally cancellable facilities Credit risk mitigation Derivatives financial instruments Cash collateral includes collateral called under a variation margin Loans and advances process from counterparties if total uncollateralised mark-toThe Group has transferred to third parties by way of market exposure exceeds the threshold and minimum transfer securitisation the rights to any collection of principal and interest amount specified in the CSA.
With certain counterparties, the on customer loan assets with a face value of $779 million 2012: CSA is reciprocal and requires us to post collateral if the overall $1,321 million.
The Group continues to recognise these assets mark-to-market value of positions is in the counterpartys favour in addition to the proceeds and related liability of $502 million and exceeds an agreed threshold.
The Group holds $3,068 2012: $1,093 million arising from the securitisations.
The Group million 2012: $2,700 million under CSAs.
considers the above customer loan assets to be encumbered.
Further details of encumbered assets are provided on page 117.
Off-balance sheet exposures The Group has entered into credit default swaps for portfolio For certain types of exposures such as letters of credit management purposes, referencing loan assets with a andguarantees, the Group obtains collateral such as cash notionalvalue of $21.4 billion 2012: $22.1 billion.
These credit depending on internal credit risk assessments as well as the default swaps are accounted for as guarantees as they meet case of letters of credit holding legal title to the underlying the accounting requirements set out in IAS 39.
The Group assets should a default take place.
continues to hold the underlying assets referenced in the credit default swaps as it continues to be exposed to related credit and foreign exchange risk on these assets.
Risk review 77 Loan portfolio management asdiscussed on page 85.
In both businesses, This section provides qualitative and quantitative information credit risk is mitigated to some degree through collateral, further onthe Groups exposure to credit risk for loans and advances details of which are set out on page 83. tobanks and customers, including the impact of credit risk Pages 78 to 82 set out a high level overview of the Groups mitigation and problem credit management.
loansto banks and customers, segmented by business and WB exposures are typically managed on an individual basis and bycredit quality type neither past due not impaired: past due: consequently credit grade migration is akey component and impaired.
The Group manages its loan portfolio between ofcredit risk management as discussed on page 86.
In CB, those assets that are performing in line with their contractual where loans are typically managed on a portfolio basis, terms whether original or renegotiated and those that are delinquency trends are monitored consistently as part of risk non-performing.
Review of key credit risk tables Consumer Wholesale Group Banking Banking Page Page Page reference reference reference Overview 78 89 96 Geographic analysis 78 90 96 Maturity analysis By business 78 By category of borrower 9097 Credit quality analysis By business, internal credit grades and days past due 80 By product and geography 91 98 Credit risk mitigation Collateral by business and credit quality 83 Analysis of secured unsecured loans by category of business 92 Collateral held by type 101 Geographic analysis of mortgage and commercial real estate loan-to-value ratios 93 101 Problem credit management and provisioning Policies on credit management and provisioning 84 84 84 Non-performing loans Denition 84 By business 84 By geography 95 104 Movement in non-performing loans and total impaired loans by business 84,86 84,86 84,86 Loan impairment Movement in total impairment provisions 87 Movement in individual impairment provision by geography 87 Loan impairment charge by geography 94 102 Loan impairment movement by category of borrower 94 104 Renegotiated and forborne loans Denition 88 By business 8989 78 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Risk review continued Group overview Geographic analysis This section covers a summary of the Groups loan portfolio Loans and advances to customers grew by $11.4 billion since broadly analysed by business and geography, along with an 31 December 2012 to $296 billion.
The CB portfolio in 2013 analysis of the maturity prole, credit quality and provisioning of hasreduced by $0.6 billion, or 0.5 per cent since 2012 as strong the loan book.
A more detailed analysis is set out for CB on growth in Hong Kong, Singapore and the Middle East region pages 89 to 95 and WB on pages 96 to 104. was offset by lower levels of Mortgages in Korea down $4billion.
The WB portfolio has continued to grow in 2013, increasing by $12 billion, or 8 per cent compared to 31December 2012.
The increase was noted primarily in Singapore and Hong Kong across a number of sectors.
Loans and advances to banks have increased by $17.6billion since 31December 2012 to $86.1 billion mainly in the Americas, UK and Europe and Other Asia Pacic regions withan increase in reverse repurchase trades and negotiated credit bills.
The analysis of loans and advances by geography presented on page 245 in note 2 to the financial statements Maturity analysis In CB, 54 per cent 2012: 56 per cent of the portfolio is in the Approximately half of our loans and advances to customers are mortgage book, which is traditionally longer term in nature and short-term having a contractual maturity of one year or less.
While Other and SME loans in CB have short WB portfolio remains predominantly short-term, with 64 per contractual maturities, typically they may be renewed and cent 2012: 62 per cent of loans and advances having a repaid over longer terms in the normal course of business.
contractual maturity of one year or less.
Risk review 79 2013 One year One to Over or less five years five years Total $million $million $million $million Consumer Banking 42,240 22,397 65,165 129,802 Wholesale Banking 106,951 48,449 11,509 166,909 Portfolio impairment provision 696 Total loans and advances to customers 296,015 2012 One year One to Over or less five years five years Total $million $million $million $million Consumer Banking 38,475 23,592 68,350 130,417 Wholesale Banking 96,194 46,195 12,532 154,921 Portfolio impairment provision 722 Total loans and advances to customers 284,616 Credit quality The following table illustrates the basis on which the Groups loans and advances to customers are analysed, both in terms of credit quality and in terms of risk management, together with how impairment provisions are determined.
Impairment provisioning CB 3 Risk CB PIP WB CB and WB 3 Credit quality loan status Analysis management specic collective Specic PIP Neither past due nor impaired Credit grade Performing Up to 90 days past due, with no other evidence of impairment Past due Performing Renegotiated loans where there has been 1 no loss or principal haircut Business Performing Forborne loans where there has been noloss of principal, and which have performed under new terms for more 1 than 180 days Business Performing Forborne loans where there has been noloss of principal, but which have performed under new terms for less 1 than180 days Business Non-performing Evidence of impairment on a specic loan Non-performing Business geography 2 Over 90 days past due Non-performing within non-performing 2 Over 150 days past due disclosure Non-performing Yes No 1 Renegotiated loans are primarily those where extended tenure is granted to a client or customer who is facing some difficulties but who we do not believe is impaired.
Forborne loans represent those loans that are renegotiated on terms that are not consistent with those readily available in the market and or where we have granted a concession compared with the original terms of the loan, resulting in impairment 2 For CB, unsecured products are generally written off by 150 days past due.
Individual impairment provisions IIP for mortgage loans are raised at 150 days past due and secured Wealth Management loans at 90 days past due.
For WB, IIP is raised for all loans more than 90 days past due, unless there is sufficient collateral 3 For CB, portfolio impairment provisions PIP comprise provisions to cover losses inherent in the neither past due impaired portfolio and also a collective portfolio provision for the past due portfolio based on the number of days past due.
WB PIP only represents losses inherent in the neither past due nor impaired portfolio 80 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Risk review continued Analysis of credit quality Past due but not individually impaired loans decreased by The table on the following page sets out an analysis of the $1.2billion compared to 2012.
Loans within the 6190 days Groups loan portfolio between those loans that are: i neither pastdue category decreased by $2.5 billion, primarily reecting past due nor impaired: ii past due but not individually impaired: the renegotiated loan exposure within the neither past due nor and iii individually impaired.
Within each category we have also impaired category referred to above.
Loans past due up to highlighted those loans that have been renegotiated or are 30days increased by $1.1 billion compared to 2012, largely considered forborne.
dueto a small number of exposures part of which are held at fair value where principal had been renegotiated but where a A loan is considered to be past due when a client or small amount of interest remained past due.
Over 85 per cent customerhas failed to make a payment of principal or interest ofthe loans reported in the up to 30 days past due category, when contractually due.
The amount reported in this category including those relating to renegotiated loans, had been cured relates to the entire loan amount and not just the amount that by the end of January2014.
Net impaired loans have increased by $743 million, primarily Further disclosures in respect of forborne and renegotiated relating to a small number of exposures in Africa and India.
loans, including the denitions applied to those categories, Within this, forborne loans remained low at less than 1 per cent areset out on page 88. of total Wholesale Banking loans.
Forborne loans increased by $583 million, over half of which relates to loans held at fair value.
Loans to banks Loans to banks form part of the WB loan portfolio.
Most of the Consumer Banking Groups loans to banks are in the credit grade 15 category as As at 31 December 2013, 97 per cent 2012: 96 per cent of we lend in the interbank market to highly rated counterparties.
CBloans are neither past due nor impaired and the spread Exposure in the credit grade 68 category predominantly across credit grades remains consistent with 2012. relates to trade finance business with financial institutions in our core markets.
Loans past due but not individually impaired fell by $593 million, primarily in the up to 30 days category, which predominantly Loans and advances to WB customers relates to loans where there is a temporary timing difference As at 31 December 2013, 96 per cent 2012: 95 per cent inpayments.
ofloans to customers are classied as neither past due nor Net individually impaired loans fell by $29 million, despite the impaired.
Within this, lending to clients within credit grades 911 increase in the impairment charge in the income statement increased by $6.6 billion compared to 2012, approximately half asimpaired unsecured loans such as those impacted by the of which relates to lending to a connected group of companies PDRS in Korea are written off after 150 days.
Forborne loans that were reported as past due in 2012 within the 6190 days remained low, at around 0.5 per cent of CB lending.
category and which were renegotiated, without loss, in 2013.
2013 2012 Loans to customers Loans to customers Loans to Wholesale Consumer Loans to Wholesale Consumer banks Banking Banking Total banks Banking Banking Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Neither past due nor individually impaired Grades 15 2,271 1,026 1,026 555 1,237 1,237 Grades 68 196 3,321 3,321 219 3,048 3,048 Grades 911 211 211 692 692 Grade 12 25 25 1 1 2,467 4,583 4,583 774 4,978 4,978 Past due but not individually impaired loans Up to 30 days past due 405 405 Individually impaired loans including forborne loans 319 319 The following table sets out how total loans and advances are analysed between performing and non-performing: Performing loans: Neither past due nor individually impaired 86,047 160,149 125,268 285,417 68,364 147,679 125,261 272,940 Past due less than 90 days 17 3,381 3,699 7,080 3 4,606 4,282 8,888 Performing forborne loans, net of provision 474 151 625 436 133 569 86,064 164,004 129,118 293,122 68,367 152,721 129,676 282,397 Non-performing loans: Non-performing forborne loans 843 480 1,323 343 540 883 Other individually impaired loans, net of provisions 107 2,062 204 2,266 206 1,857 201 2,058 107 2,905 684 3,589 206 2,200 741 2,941 Total loans and advances 86,171 166,909 129,802 296,711 68,573 154,921 130,417 285,338 Portfolio impairment provision 2 300 396 696 2 300 422 722 Total net loans and advances 86,169 166,609 129,406 296,015 68,571 154,621 129,995 284,616 Risk review 83 Collateral impaired loans has declined compared to 2012 as the increase The requirement for collateral is not a substitute for the ability in impaired loan primarily relates to the unsecured portfolio.
73 topay, which is the primary consideration for any lending per cent of the loans to customers are fully secured and around decisions.
In determining the financial effect of collateral 86 per cent of collateral across the portfolio is property based.
heldagainst loans neither past due nor impaired, we have Collateral held against WB loans also covers off-balance sheet assessedthe signicance of the collateral held in relation exposures including undrawn commitments and trade related tothetype of lending.
As at 31 December 2013, collateral coverage For loans and advances to banks and customers including increased from 23 per cent to 25 per cent reecting a shift in those held at fair value through profit or loss, the table below mixwith higher levels of reverse repurchase collateral as a sets out the fair value of collateral held by the Group adjusted proportion of total lending in WB compared to 31 December where appropriate in accordance with the risk mitigation 2012.
The unadjusted market value of collateral, which does not policyas outlined on page 73 and for the effect of take into consideration  oradjustments .
outlined on page 101, was $197 billion 2012:$186 billion.
In CB, collateral levels have remained stable compared to Further details on collateral are explained in the CB and WB 31December 2012.
The proportion of collateral held over sections on page 92 and 101 respectively.
Consumer Banking Wholesale Banking Total Past due Past due Past due but not but not but not individually Individually individually Individually individually Individually impaired impaired impaired impaired impaired impaired Total loans loans Total loans loans Total loans loans $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million As at 31 December 2013 Collateral 89,536 2,889 564 63,390 642 695 152,926 3,531 1,259 1 Amount outstanding 129,802 3,897 1,279 253,080 3,398 5,693 382,882 7,295 6,972 Of which: Loans to customers 129,802 3,897 1,279 166,909 3,381 5,486 296,711 7,278 6,765 Loans to banks 86,171 17 207 86,171 17 207 As at 31 December 2012 Collateral 88,119 2,799 563 51,594 1,823 573 139,713 4,622 1,136 1 Amount outstanding 130,417 4,490 1,232 223,494 4,609 4,709 353,911 9,099 5,941 Of which: Loans to customers 130,417 4,490 1,232 154,921 4,606 4,400 285,338 9,096 5,632 Loans to banks 68,573 3 309 68,573 3 309 1 Includes loans held at fair value through profit or loss Collateral and other credit enhancements possessed acquired may be held by the Group for investment purposes orcalledupon and are classied as available-for-sale, and the related loan The Group obtains assets by taking possession of collateral or written off.
calling upon other credit enhancements such as guarantees.
The table below details the carrying value of collateral Repossessed properties are sold in an orderly fashion.
Where possessed and held by the Group as at 31 December 2013 and the proceeds are in excess of the outstanding loan balance, 31December 2012: they are returned to the borrower.
Certain equity securities 2013 2012 Consumer Wholesale Consumer Wholesale Banking Banking Total Banking Banking Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Property 44 44 62 9 71 Other 3 3 44 44 65 9 74 84 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Risk review continued Problem credit management and provisioning asignicant proportion of the PIP is intended to reect losses inherent in the loan portfolio that is less than 90 days delinquent Non-performing loans and hence recorded as performing.
This metric should be A non-performing loan is any loan that is more than 90 days considered in conjunction with other credit risk information past due or is otherwise individually impaired.
This excludes including that contained on page 85. loans renegotiated at or after 90 days past due, but on which there has been no default in interest or principal payments for The cover ratio for CB remained broadly stable compared more than 180 days since renegotiation, and against which no to2012 while the cover ratio for WB was 48percent as at loss of principal is expected.
These loans may have a provision 31 December 2013, down from 51 per cent as at 31 December reecting the time value of money and if so, are reported as part 2012.
The balance of non-performing loans not covered by of forborne loans on page 89. individual impairment provisions IIPs represents the adjusted value of collateral held and the Groups estimate of the net The gross non-performing loans in CB have increased by outcome of any workout strategy.
The cover ratio after taking 1percent since 31 December 2012 mainly reecting the into account collateral is 61 per cent 2012: 64 per cent.
impactof the Personal Debt Rehabilitation Scheme PDRS in Korea and seasoning of the unsecured loan portfolio.
In WB, The table below presents a movement of the gross nonnon-performing loans have increased by $933 million mainly performing loans to banks and customers, together with the dueto a small number of large exposures in India and Africa.
provisions held for CB and WB and the respective cover ratios.
The cover ratio is a common metric used in considering trends Further details by geography are set out in pages 95 and 104 for in provisioning and non-performing loans.
It should be noted, CB and WB respectively.
2013 2012 Consumer Wholesale Consumer Wholesale Banking Banking Total Banking Banking Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Gross non-performing loans at 1 January 1,266 4,272 5,538 1,069 3,043 4,112 Exchange translation differences 29 141 170 4 43 39 Transfer to assets held for sale 111 111 Classied as non-performing during the year 1,024 1,912 2,936 659 1,533 2,192 Recoveries on loans and advances previously written off 29 29 27 148 175 Additions 1,053 1,912 2,965 686 1,681 2,367 Transferred to performing during the year 130 86 216 88 175 263 Net repayments 108 614 722 86 163 249 Amounts written off 578 44 622 265 66 331 Disposals of loans 89 94 183 54 5 59 Reductions 905 838 1,743 493 409 902 Gross non-performing loans at 31December 1,274 5,205 6,479 1,266 4,272 5,538 1 590 2,193 2,783 525 1,866 2,391 Individual impairment provisions Net non-performing loans 684 3,012 3,696 741 2,406 3,147 Portfolio impairment provision 396 302 698 422 302 724 Total 288 2,710 2,998 319 2,104 2,423 Cover ratio 77% 48% 54% 75% 51% 56% 1 The difference to total individual impairment provision reects provisions against performing forborne loans that are not included within non-performing loans as they have been performing for 180 days.
Details on renegotiated and forborne are set out on page 89 Risk review 85 Loan impairment loans particularly those in the early stages of delinquency will The Groups loan loss provisions are established to recognise in fact be impaired.
This will only become apparent with the incurred impairment losses either on specic loan assets or passage of time and as we investigate the causes of within a portfolio of loans and advances.
Individually impaired delinquency on a case-by-case basis accounts that are loans are those loans against which individual impairment overdue by more than 30 days are more closely monitored provisions have been raised.
and subject to specic collections processes for this purpose.
At the outset of delinquency therefore it is not possible to Estimating the amount and timing of future recoveries involves determine whether a loan is impaired: it is only possible to significant judgment, and considers the level of arrears as estimate the likelihood that it is.
This is taken account of in the wellas the assessment of matters such as future economic PIP method, which estimates loss by extrapolating past conditions and the value of collateral, for which there may not experience over whole portfolios, rather than analysing bea readily accessible market.
individual loans on a case-by-case basis Loan losses that have been incurred but have not been In the second stage we are able to replace PIP with IIP as we separately identied at the balance sheet date are develop more knowledge about each individual account.
We determinedon a portfolio basis, which takes into account past apply IIP after the following number of days delinquency: loss experience as a result of uncertainties arising from the For mortgages after 150 days economic environment, and defaults based on portfolio trends.
For secured wealth management products after 90 days Actual losses identied could differ signicantly from the For unsecured consumer finance loans after 90 days impairment provisions reported as a result of uncertainties For all other unsecured loans and loans secured on arising from the economic environment.
automobiles, after 150 days The total amount of the Groups impairment allowances is IIP provisions are based on the estimated present values inherently uncertain, being sensitive to changes in economic offuture cash ows, in particular those resulting from the and credit conditions across the geographies in which the realisation of security.
The days past due used to trigger IIP are Group operates.
Economic and credit conditions are driven by past experience, which shows that once an account interdependent within each geography and as a result there reaches the relevant number of days past due, the probability isno single factor to which the Groups loan impairment ofrecovery other than by raising security as appropriate is allowances as a whole are sensitive.
It is possible that actual low.
For all products there are certain situations where the events over the next year differ from the assumptions built into IIPprocess is accelerated, such as in cases involving the model resulting in material adjustments to the carrying bankruptcy, customer fraud and death.
IIP is also accelerated amount of loans and advances.
for all restructured accounts to 90 days past due unsecured and automobile finance and 120 days past due secured Consumer Banking loans respectively.
Medium-sized entities among SME customers and Private Banking customers are assessed for impairment in the same Loan write off is again broadly driven by past experience of the way as WB loans, based on the individual circumstances of point at which further recovery is unlikely.
Write off occurs at each borrower see WB on the following page.
thesame time that IIP is established for all products except mortgage loans, which have not been restructured.
The All other CB product portfolios consist of a large number of latterisfully impaired after 720 days past due.
comparatively small exposures, where it is impractical to monitor each loan on an individual basis for impairment.
The primary The fact that it is not possible to be certain that a loan is indicator of potential impairment in these portfolios is therefore impaired until several months after it becomes delinquent delinquency.
A loan is considered delinquent or past due, means that it is also not possible to be certain which delinquent when the customer has failed to make a principal or interest loans are fully non-performing.
The Group has determined that payment in accordance with the loan contract.
For delinquency it is more likely than not that a loan is non-performing after reporting purposes we follow industry standards measuring 90days and therefore uses 90 days delinquency as the delinquency as of one, 30, 60, 90, 120 and 150 days past due.
distinguishing feature between performing and non-performing Impairment is measured against these buckets in two stages: CB loans.
This is however, only an approximate measure and it also means that, for CB, impaired loans do not equate to In the first stage we raise PIPs.
These are calculated by non-performing loans, because impairment cannot be nally applying expected loss rates to delinquency buckets.
These determined on an individual basis until a later date.
are based on past experience of loss supplemented by an assessment of specic factors that affect each portfolio and It is inevitable that at the balance sheet date, the non-delinquent that in particular aim to adjust historic data for current market portfolio will include a few impaired loans that have not conditions.
Loss rates are generally calculated separately for manifested themselves as delinquent.
These are known as each product in each country either through the use of incurred, but not reported losses.
A PIP is raised against these historical data or using proxies and separate loss rates are in the same way as a PIP is raised for delinquent loans by used for renegotiated and forborne loans to reect their applying past experience adjusted for current conditions to increased risk.
PIPs take into account the fact that, while non-delinquent loans on a portfolio basis.
delinquency is an indication of impairment, not all delinquent 86 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Risk review continued Wholesale Banking As with CB, a PIP is held to cover the inherent risk of losses Loans are classied as impaired where analysis and review which, although not identied, are known through experience to indicates that full payment of either interest or principal is be present in any loan portfolio.
In WB, this is set with reference questionable, or as soon as payment of interest or principal to historic loss rates and subjective factors such as the is90 days overdue.
Impaired accounts are managed by our economic environment and the trends in key portfolio specialist recovery unit, GSAM, which is separate from our main indicators.
The PIP methodology provides for accounts for businesses.
Where any amount is considered irrecoverable, an which an IIP has not been raised.
This provision is the difference between the loan carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash Impaired loans ows.
In CB, individual impaired loans broadly remainedstable compared to 2012 at $1.5 billion.
WB individually impaired loans The individual circumstances of each customer are taken into increased by $1 billion during the year primarily due to a small account when GSAM estimates future cash ow.
All available number of large exposures in India and Africa.
sources, such as cash ow arising from operations, selling assets or subsidiaries, realising collateral or payments under The following table sets out the movement in individually impaired guarantees, are considered.
In any decision relating to the loans for banks and customers by business.
raising of provisions, we attempt to balance economic conditions, local knowledge and experience, and the results ofindependent asset reviews.
Where it is considered that there is no realistic prospect of recovering a portion of an exposure against which an impairment provision has been raised, that amount will be written off.
2013 2012 Consumer Wholesale Consumer Wholesale Banking Banking Total Banking Banking Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Gross impaired loans at 1 January 1,440 4,709 6,149 1,223 3,450 4,673 Exchange translation differences 32 140 172 12 40 28 Transferred to assets held for sale 111 111 Classied as impaired during the year 1,104 1,967 3,071 682 1,561 2,243 Transferred to performing during the year 118 87 205 47 175 222 1 Other movements 806 756 1,562 430 87 517 Gross impaired loans at 31 December 1,477 5,693 7,170 1,440 4,709 6,149 1 Other movement includes repayments, amounts written off and disposals of loans Individual and portfolio impairment provisions IIPs increased by $416 million as compared to 31 December 2012.
This was primarily in India $83 million increase and Africa $223 million increase as a result of a small number of WB exposures and within CB in Korea $44 million increase dueto higher levels of lings under the PDRS.
PIP remained atsimilar levels as 2012 with the reduction due to the transfer ofcertain businesses in Korea as held for sale.
The amounts written off primarily related to CB relating to higher levels of write-offs in unsecured lending which are written off after 150days past due.
Risk review 87 The following tables sets out the movements in total IIPs andPIPs: 2013 2012 Individual Portfolio Individual Portfolio impairment impairment impairment impairment provisions provision Total provisions provision Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Provisions held as at 1 January 2,433 724 3,157 1,926 746 2,672 Exchange translation differences 81 16 97 4 13 17 Amounts written off 1,173 1,173 935 935 Releases of acquisition fair values 3 3 3 3 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 211 211 288 288 Discount unwind 93 93 77 77 Transfer to assets held for sale 42 25 67 New provisions 2,007 170 2,177 1,678 116 1,794 Recoveries provisions no longer required 410 155 565 448 151 599 Net impairment charge release againstprot 1,597 15 1,612 1,230 35 1,195 Provisions held as at 31 December 2,849 698 3,547 2,433 724 3,157 The table below sets out the movement in IIPs by geography: 2013 Middle East Americas, Other & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Asia Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Provisions held as at 1 January 74 89 246 437 270 1,173 49 95 2,433 Exchange translation differences 6 36 37 11 3 81 Amounts written off 161 154 339 364 46 59 28 22 1,173 Releases of acquisition fair values 1 2 3 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 31 21 30 80 7 26 8 8 211 Discount unwind 3 5 10 21 22 26 3 3 93 Transfer to asset held for sale 42 42 New provisions 169 106 522 544 205 173 265 23 2,007 Recoveries provisions no longer required 48 29 92 130 21 68 14 8 410 Net impairment charge against profit 121 77 430 414 184 105 251 15 1,597 Provisions held as at 31 December 62 28 321 509 356 1,206 274 93 2,849 2012 Middle East Americas, Other & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Asia Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Provisions held as at 1 January 78 38 136 425 112 972 61 104 1,926 Exchange translation differences 5 17 1 7 9 4 1 4 Amounts written off 155 57 175 319 42 123 29 35 935 Releases of acquisition fair values 2 2 1 3 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 44 44 28 124 11 29 5 3 288 Discount unwind 2 3 13 17 13 28 1 77 New provisions 158 111 334 390 235 387 31 32 1,678 Recoveries provisions no longer required 49 49 81 165 26 53 14 11 448 Net impairment charge against profit 109 62 253 225 209 334 17 21 1,230 Provisions held as at 31 December 74 89 246 437 270 1,173 49 95 2,433 88 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Risk review continued Renegotiated and forborne loans Provision coverage against these loans was 13 per cent In certain circumstances, the Group may renegotiate client and 2012:12 per cent, reecting collateral held and expected customer loans.
Loans that are renegotiated for commercial reasons, which may Wholesale Banking occur, for example, if a client had a credit rating upgrade, are not For WB including Medium Enterprises andPrivate Banking included within this disclosure because they are not indicative of accounts, forbearance and other renegotiations are applied any credit stress.
ona case by case basis and are notsubject to business-wide Loans that are renegotiated primarily to grant extended tenor to programmes.
In some cases, anew loan is granted as part of a client or customer who is facing some difficulties but who we the restructure and in others, the contractual terms and do not believe is impaired are reported in other renegotiated repayment of the existing loans are changed or extended loans in the disclosures below.
forexample, interest only for a period.
Loans that are renegotiated on terms that are not consistent Loans classied as subject to forbearance are managed by with those readily available in the market and or where we have GSAM and are kept under constant close review to assess granted a concession compared to the original terms of the andconrm the clients ability to adhere to the restructured loans, are considered to be subject to forbearance strategies repayment strategy.
Accounts are reviewed if there is a and are disclosed as Loans subject to forbearance in the significant event that could result in deterioration in their disclosures below, which is a subset of impaired loans.
Forbearance strategies assist customers who are temporarily If the terms of the renegotiation are such that, where the present innancial distress and are unable to meet their original value of the new cash ows is lower than the present value of contractual repayment terms.
Forbearance can be initiated by the original cash ows, the loan would be considered to be the customer, the bank or a third party including government impaired and at a minimum a discount provision would be sponsored programmes or a conglomerate of credit institutions raised and shown under Loans subject to forbearance.
and includes debt restructuring, such as a new repayment Theseaccounts are monitored as described on page 73. schedule, payment deferrals, tenor extensions and interest Loans subject to renegotiated and forbearance loans increased onlypayments.
by $4,581 million compared to 2012, of which $4,043million Once a loan is subject to forbearance or is renegotiated, the was in other renegotiated loans.
loan continues to be reported as such, until the loan matures or The increase in other renegotiated loans primarily relates to a is otherwise derecognised.
connected group of companies where the amounts outstanding Loans subject to forbearance are initially managed as part of the were subject to renegotiation in 2013.
We recognised no Groups non-performing portfolio.
If a forborne loan meets the impairment at the time of renegotiation and we continue to criteria past due more than 90 days or otherwise impaired, it is becomfortable from an impairment perspective.
As at no longer managed as a non-performing loan although it 31December 2012, these amounts were reported within the remains impaired.
As these counterparties have complied with the revised terms for more than 180 days, the Consumer Banking renegotiated lending is deemed to be performing and is In CB, excluding Medium Enterprises and Private Banking, all classied within Neither past due nor impaired.
loans subject to forbearance in addition toother renegotiated The remainder of the increase includes loans on which the loans are managed within a separate portfolio.
If such loans payment dates for principal payments have been extended subsequently become past due, write offand IIP is accelerated pending a more wide-ranging renegotiation of the exposure.
to 90 days past due unsecured loans and automobile finance Asmall number of these loans are reported as past due within or 120 days past due secured loans.
The accelerated loss the up to 30 days category as an amount of interest remained rates applied to this portfolio are derived from experience outstanding at the year end which has since been paid.
withother renegotiated loans, rather than the CB portfolio as awhole, to recognise the greater degree of inherent risk.
Forborne loans increased by $538 million compared to 2012.
Over half of the increase relates to loans that are held at fair As at 31 December 2013, $728 million 2012: $769 million value, which consequently do not have an IIP.
ofCB loans were subject to forbearance programmes whichrequired impairment provisions to be recognised.
Thisrepresents 0.5percent of total loans and advances to CBcustomers.
These loans were largely concentrated in countries that have active government sponsored forbearance programmes and arisefrom unsecured lending including credit cards and Consumer Finance.
Risk review 89 The table below shows an analysis of renegotiated and forborne loans by business: 2013 2012 Consumer Wholesale Consumer Wholesale Banking Banking Total Banking Banking Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Managed as performing Neither past due nor impaired 389 4,233 4,622 319 773 1,092 Past due but not impaired 583 583 Other renegotiated loans 389 4,816 5,205 319 773 1,092 Impaired loans Performing forborne loans gross 203 488 691 174 437 611 Individual impairment provisions 52 14 66 41 1 42 Net performing forborne loans 151 474 625 133 436 569 Total performing renegotiated and forborne loans 540 5,290 5,830 452 1,209 1,661 Managed as non-performing Impaired: Forborne loans gross 525 1,228 1,753 595 574 1,169 Individual impairment provisions 45 385 430 55 231 286 Net non-performing forborne loans 480 843 1,323 540 343 883 Total non-performing forborne loans 480 843 1,323 540 343 883 Total renegotiated and forborne loans 1,020 6,133 7,153 992 1,552 2,544 Other renegotiated loans 389 4,816 5,205 319 773 1,092 Loans subject to forbearance 631 1,317 1,948 673 779 1,452 Total renegotiated and forborne loans 1,020 6,133 7,153 992 1,552 2,544 Consumer Banking loan portfolio PIPs fell $26 million, largely due to the transfer of the Consumer The CB portfolio in 2013 was marginally downcompared to Finance business in Korea to held for sale.
Mortgages declined by $2.8 billion compared to 2012 as PIP was broadly at compared to 2012. regulatory restrictions continued to impact growth in a number of markets, particularly in Korea andSingapore.
We did however continue to originate and sell $3 billion of xed-rate mortgages in Korea under the Mortgage Purchase Program to the Korea Housing Finance Corporation.
Other loans, which include credit cards and personal loans, including those related to Private Banking, increased by $1.6 billion since 2012 mainly due to higher level of Private Banking particularly in Singapore and the Americas, UK & Europe.
Africa also saw strong growth in unsecured products, up 22percent compared to 2012.
SMElending rose 3 per cent, mainly in Hong Kong.
reecting higher levels of lending to SME and Private Banking clients which are typically of short tenor.
2013 One year One to Over or less five years five years Total $million $million $million $million Loans to individuals Mortgages 4,273 8,640 56,876 69,789 Other 26,709 10,346 2,314 39,369 Small and medium enterprises 11,258 3,411 5,975 20,644 42,240 22,397 65,165 129,802 Portfolio impairment provision 396 Total loans and advances to customers 129,406 Risk review 91 2012 One year One to Over or less five years five years Total $million $million $million $million Loans to individuals Mortgages 3,612 9,140 59,875 72,627 Other 24,082 10,923 2,755 37,760 Small and medium enterprises 10,781 3,529 5,720 20,030 38,475 23,592 68,350 130,417 Portfolio impairment provision 422 Total loans and advances to customers 129,995 Credit quality analysis inthe less than 30 days past due category, primarily due to The tables below set out the loan portfolio for CB by product variation in timing differences in payments in Korea, Malaysia and by geography between those loans that are neither past and Singapore.
due nor impaired, those that are past duebut not individually Individually impaired loans increased by $47 million primarily impaired and those that are individuallyimpaired.
inSingapore and Hong Kong due to the seasoning of the The overall credit quality of the portfolio remains good with unsecured loan portfolio and the majority of the $76 million over95 per cent of the portfolio neither past due nor impaired.
increase in individual impairment provision was due to The mortgage portfolio is well collateralised and has an average increased levels of PDRS lings in Korea.
The PIP was at loan-to-value ratio of 47.7 per cent.
withan increase in Hong Kong offset by reduced provisions inthe other regions.
The proportion of the past due but not individually impaired loans decreased to $3.9 billion or 3 per cent of the loan The PIP declined marginally due to the impact of portfolio.
Three-quarters of the decrease of $593 million arose exchangerates.
2013 2012 Neither past Neither past due nor Past due due nor Past due individually but not Individually individually but not Individually impaired individually impaired impaired individually impaired loans impaired loans Total loans impaired loans Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Loans to individuals Mortgages 67,844 1,766 295 69,905 70,313 2,104 347 72,764 Other 37,742 1,366 565 39,673 35,810 1,709 469 37,988 Small and medium enterprises 19,682 765 419 20,866 19,138 677 416 20,231 125,268 3,897 1,279 130,444 125,261 4,490 1,232 130,983 Individual impairment provision 642 566 Portfolio impairment provision 396 422 Total loans and advances to customers 129,406 129,995 2013 Middle East Americas, Other & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Asia Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Neither past due nor individually impaired loans 33,622 28,245 22,263 23,636 4,587 6,025 2,006 4,884 125,268 Past due but not individually impaired loans 419 454 778 1,251 472 386 52 85 3,897 Individually impaired loans 88 82 322 416 58 209 39 65 1,279 Individual impairment provisions 24 19 185 154 32 164 14 50 642 Portfolio impairment provision 57 28 93 124 21 45 25 3 396 Total loans and advances to customers 34,048 28,734 23,085 25,025 5,064 6,411 2,058 4,981 129,406 92 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Risk review continued 2012 Middle East Americas, Other & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Asia Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Neither past due nor individually impaired loans 30,878 26,956 27,340 25,142 4,825 4,772 1,629 3,719 125,261 Past due but not individually impaired loans 404 569 1,059 1,283 342 587 69 177 4,490 Individually impaired loans 66 57 329 417 52 224 24 63 1,232 Individual impairment provisions 24 15 141 140 29 165 12 40 566 Portfolio impairment provision 50 26 116 140 20 44 22 4 422 Total loans and advances to customers 31,274 27,541 28,471 26,562 5,170 5,374 1,688 3,915 129,995 Credit risk mitigation secured loans are considered to be partially secured.
Within A secured loan is one where the borrower pledges an asset CB, 73 per cent of lending is fully secured and 9per cent is ascollateral of which the Group is able to take possession partially secured.
The following tables present an analysis of intheevent that the borrower defaults.
All secured loans are CBloans by product split between fully secured, partially considered fully secured if the fair value of the collateral is equal secured and unsecured.
to or greater than the loan at the time of origination.
Other 2013 2012 Fully Partially Fully Partially 1 1 secured secured Unsecured Total secured secured Unsecured Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Loans to individuals Mortgages 69,789 69,789 72,627 72,627 Other 17,737 21,632 39,369 15,509 22,251 37,760 Small and medium enterprises 6,540 11,756 2,348 20,644 5,985 11,634 2,411 20,030 94,066 11,756 23,980 129,802 94,121 11,634 24,662 130,417 Percentage of total loans 73% 9% 18% 72% 9% 19% 1 Amounts net of individual impairment provisions Risk review 93 Mortgage loan-to-value ratios by geography Overall the average LTV ratio for the portfolio is 47.7 per cent The following table provides an analysis of loan-to-value LTV compared to 47.8 per cent in 2012.
Our major mortgage ratios by geography for the mortgages portfolio.
LTV ratios are markets of Hong Kong, Singapore and Korea have an average determined based on the ratio of the current mortgage LTV of less than 50 per cent.
The proportion of the portfolio outstanding to the current fair value of the properties on which withaverage LTVs in excess of 100 per cent has declined from they are secured.
0.5 per cent to 0.3 per cent primarily within the MESA region due to improving economic conditions, particularly in UAE, inthe current year.
In Hong Kong, average LTVs increased reecting an increased focus on first time buyers in 2013.
There was a The total net impairment charge in CB in 2013increased by portfolio impairment increase of $19 million in 2013 2012: $nil $360 million, or 53 per cent, over 2012.
Theincrease is mainly due to the release in the prior period in the MESA region.
driven by the ongoing impact of PDRS in Korea, the growth and maturity of unsecured business acquired in previous years, 2013 Middle East Americas, Other & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Asia Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Gross impairment charge 162 104 457 447 53 115 30 16 1,384 Recoveries provisions no longer required 30 27 87 127 18 54 12 4 359 Net individual impairment charge 132 77 370 320 35 61 18 12 1,025 Portfolio impairment provision charge release 7 1 1 10 3 2 4 1 9 Net impairment charge 139 78 371 310 38 63 22 13 1,034 2012 Middle East Americas, Other & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Asia Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Gross impairment charge 135 109 289 352 43 122 29 13 1,092 Recoveries provisions no longer required 44 49 72 157 19 52 12 3 408 Net individual impairment charge 91 60 217 195 24 70 17 10 684 Portfolio impairment provision charge release 4 2 6 9 3 19 3 10 Net impairment charge 95 62 223 186 27 51 20 10 674 The following table sets out the movement in total impairment provisions for CB loans and advances as at 31 December by each principal category of borrower: Impairment Amounts Impairment provision Net written off provision held as at impairment other held as at 1 January charge movements 31 December 2013 2013 2013 2013 $million $million $million $million Loans to individuals Mortgages 137 12 33 116 Other 228 889 813 304 Small and medium enterprises 201 124 103 222 566 1,025 949 642 Portfolio impairment provision 422 9 35 396 988 1,034 984 1,038 Risk review 95 Impairment Amounts Impairment provision Net written off provision held as at impairment other held as at 1 January charge release movements 31 December 2012 2012 2012 2012 $million $million $million $million Loans to individuals Mortgages 135 10 8 137 Other 149 565 486 228 Small and medium enterprises 197 109 105 201 481 684 599 566 Portfolio impairment provision 424 10 8 422 905 674 591 988 Non-performing loans This was partly offset by a decline in the UAE where credit Gross non-performing loans have marginally increased, up quality has improved due to economic recovery.
$8million compared to 2012, largely due to the seasoning of the The following tables set out the total non-performing loans and unsecured portfolio, particularly in Hong Kong and Singapore.
related provisions for CB by geography: 2013 Middle East Americas, Other & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Asia Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Loans and advances Gross non-performing loans 84 86 360 333 69 237 39 66 1,274 1 Individual impairment provision 24 14 185 107 32 164 14 50 590 Non-performing loans net of individual impairment provision 60 72 175 226 37 73 25 16 684 Portfolio impairment provision 396 Net non-performing loans and advances 288 Cover ratio 77% 1 The difference to total individual impairment provision as at 31 December 2013 reects provisions against restructured loans that are not included within non-performing loans as they have been performing for 180 days in line with the denition provided on page 84 2012 Middle East Americas, Other & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Asia Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Loans and advances Gross non-performing loans 67 70 376 344 65 253 26 65 1,266 1 Individual impairment provision 24 14 141 100 29 165 12 40 525 Non-performing loans net of individual impairment provision 43 56 235 244 36 88 14 25 741 Portfolio impairment provision 422 Net non-performing loans and advances 319 Cover ratio 75% 1 The difference to total individual impairment provision as at 31 December 2012 reects provisions against restructured loans that are not included within non-performing loans as they have been performing for 180 days in line with the denition provided on page 84 96 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Risk review continued Wholesale Banking loan portfolio The WB loan portfolio remains diversied across both The WB loan portfolio has increased by $12billion, or 8 per geography and industry.
There are no significant concentrations cent, compared to December 2012.
Over two-thirds of the within the broad industry classications of manufacturing: growth is due to Trade Finance and Corporate Finance as nancing, insurance and business services: commerce: or Wholesale Banking continues to deepen relationships with transport, storage and communication.
The largest sector clients in core markets.
exposure is to manufacturing which is spread across many sub-industries.
Growth in the loan portfolio has been broadly spread, with growth in Hong Kong, Singapore and the Americas, UK & The industry classication below only represents loans and Europe regions partly offset by a decline in Korea.
Growth in advances to customers.
As such, the transport, storage and Hong Kong and Singapore is mainly in trade loans and is communication sector does not include the Groups transport concentrated in the commerce and manufacturing industry leasing business.
This business leases aircraft and ships to segments.
Korea loans fell in the manufacturing segment as we clients under operating leases.
These assets are held on the continue to optimise the portfolio.
The growth in the Americas, Groups balance sheet as part of Property, plant and UK & Europe region is as a result of a certain number of large equipment see note 27 on page 287 and income generated ticket leveraged finance deals primarily relating to clients across isrecognised within other operating income.
Exposure to bank counterparties at $86.1 billion increased by Single borrower concentration risk has been mitigated by active $17.6 billion compared to 31 December 2012 mainly due to distribution of assets to banks and institutional investors.
higher reverse repurchase activities in the Americas, UK & Europe.
The Group continues to be a net lender in the interbank moneymarkets.
short-dated loans and trade finance transactions primarily within commerce, manufacturing and mining and quarrying.
2013 One year One to Over or less five years five years Total $million $million $million $million Agriculture, forestry and shing 1,788 839 107 2,734 Construction 2,883 938 146 3,967 Commerce 38,348 4,359 502 43,209 Electricity, gas and water 1,587 1,690 2,133 5,410 Financing, insurance and business services 13,343 8,128 468 21,939 Governments 1,342 272 85 1,699 Mining and quarrying 8,210 5,993 1,901 16,104 Manufacturing 29,343 10,761 1,962 42,066 Commercial real estate 4,062 8,943 625 13,630 Transport, storage and communication 5,077 5,599 3,477 14,153 Other 968 927 103 1,998 106,951 48,449 11,509 166,909 Portfolio impairment provision 300 Total loans and advances to customers 166,609 98 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Risk review continued 2012 One year One to Over or less five years five years Total $million $million $million $million Agriculture, forestry and shing 3,274 965 155 4,394 Construction 3,159 1,256 168 4,583 Commerce 28,941 4,239 418 33,598 Electricity, gas and water 1,863 1,043 1,910 4,816 Financing, insurance and business services 13,839 7,581 1,067 22,487 Governments 2,873 303 78 3,254 Mining and quarrying 6,873 5,275 2,687 14,835 Manufacturing 26,629 11,187 1,825 39,641 Commercial real estate 4,180 6,842 521 11,543 Transport, storage and communication 3,852 6,951 3,673 14,476 Other 711 553 30 1,294 96,194 46,195 12,532 154,921 Portfolio impairment provision 300 Total loans and advances to customers 154,621 Credit quality analysis Individually impaired loans increased by $1.1 billion, mainly due The tables on the following pages set out an analysis of the to an increase in a small number of exposures in India and Africa loans to customers and banks between those loans that are and this owed into higher individual impairment provisions of neither past due nor impaired, those that are past due but not $343 million.
PIP remained at as a release in MESA of individually impaired and those that are individually impaired by provisions created in 2009 in respect of market uncertainties industry type and bygeography.
was offset by increases in Africa, Singapore and the Other Asia Pacic region.
In WB, the overall portfolio quality remains goodand 95 per cent of the portfolio is neither past due nor individually impaired.
Loans to banks remain predominantly high quality with more than 99 per cent of the portfolio held as neither past due nor Neither past due nor impaired loans have increased by individually impaired.
$12.5billion in line with portfolio growth, and the growth isprimarily concentrated within the commerce and manufacturing sectors and within credit grades 15.
Loans past due but not individually impaired decreased by $1.2billion compared to 2012.
This was primarily due to the renegotiation in 2013 of a small number of exposures which were reported with the 6090 days past due category in 2012 within nancing, insurance and business services sectors inHong Kong, the Americas, UK & Europe.
No impairment was recognised following these negotiations.
Past due exposure inthe mining and quarrying sector increased $500 million compared to 2012, the majority of which was in Singapore andconcentrated in the 030 days past due category.
Over 85per cent of the loans reported in the up to 30 days past due category, including those relating to renegotiated loans, had been cured by the end of January 2014.
Risk review 99 2013 2012 Neither past Past due Neither past Past due due nor but not Individually due nor but not Individually individually individually impaired individually individually impaired impaired impaired loans Total impaired impaired loans Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Agriculture, forestry and shing 2,410 87 420 2,917 4,286 54 83 4,423 Construction 3,502 238 295 4,035 4,121 301 233 4,655 Commerce 42,413 544 940 43,897 33,027 306 933 34,266 Electricity, gas and water 5,272 113 35 5,420 4,735 4 85 4,824 Financing, insurance and business services 20,670 256 1,259 22,185 18,897 2,616 1,139 22,652 Governments 1,645 54 1,699 3,254 3,254 Mining and quarrying 14,918 1,074 158 16,150 14,253 574 17 14,844 Manufacturing 40,249 686 1,731 42,666 38,342 684 1,176 40,202 Commercial real estate 13,580 14 67 13,661 11,379 30 158 11,567 Transport, storage and communication 13,534 297 518 14,349 14,105 25 543 14,673 Other 1,956 18 63 2,037 1,280 12 33 1,325 160,149 3,381 5,486 169,016 147,679 4,606 4,400 156,685 Individual impairment provision 2,107 1,764 Portfolio impairment provision 300 300 Total loans and advances to customers 166,609 154,621 Loans and advances to banks 86,047 17 207 86,271 68,364 3 309 68,676 Individual impairment provision 100 103 Portfolio impairment provision 2 2 Total loans and advances to banks 86,169 68,571 The tables below set out an analysis of the loan to customers impaired, those that are past due but not individually impaired and banks between those loans that are neither past due nor and those that are individually impaired by geography.
Loans to customers 2013 Middle East Americas, Other & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Asia Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Neither past due nor individually impaired 24,982 32,586 6,606 23,798 5,923 12,607 5,614 48,033 160,149 Past due but not individually impaired loans 37 826 5 68 239 442 167 1,597 3,381 Individually impaired loans 173 48 213 659 930 2,264 556 643 5,486 Individual impairment provisions 38 9 136 277 324 1,042 260 21 2,107 Portfolio impairment provision 29 31 13 32 17 55 42 81 300 Total loans and advances to customers 25,125 33,420 6,675 24,216 6,751 14,216 6,035 50,171 166,609 100 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Risk review continued 2012 Middle East Americas, Other & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Asia Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Neither past due nor individually impaired 20,674 28,036 7,554 22,171 6,186 12,697 6,212 44,149 147,679 Past due but not individually impaired loans 769 160 87 134 657 20 2,779 4,606 Individually impaired loans 122 199 261 487 748 2,326 132 125 4,400 Individual impairment provisions 50 74 105 219 241 1,008 37 30 1,764 Portfolio impairment provision 24 21 16 26 19 94 41 59 300 Total loans and advances to customers 21,491 28,300 7,694 22,500 6,808 14,578 6,286 46,964 154,621 Loans to banks 2013 Middle East Americas, Other & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Asia Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Neither past due nor individually impaired loans 17,648 4,488 4,192 14,805 399 2,274 742 41,499 86,047 Past due but not individually impaired loans 4 13 17 Individually impaired loans 6 165 36 207 Individual impairment provisions 78 22 100 Portfolio impairment provision 1 1 2 Total loans and advances to banks 17,658 4,501 4,192 14,891 399 2,273 742 41,513 86,169 2012 Middle East Americas, Other & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Asia Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Neither past due nor individually impaired loans 19,349 6,205 4,633 8,048 570 3,076 378 26,105 68,364 Past due but not individually impaired loans 2 1 3 Individually impaired loans 5 164 97 43 309 Individual impairment provisions 78 25 103 Portfolio impairment provision 1 1 2 Total loans and advances to banks 19,356 6,205 4,633 8,133 571 3,172 378 26,123 68,571 Risk review 101 Credit risk mitigation Collateral held against WB exposures amountedto $63.4 billion Non-tangible collateral such as guarantees and letters of December 2012: $51.6 billion.
Thisrepresents the fair value of credit may also be held against corporate exposures although collateral adjusted in accordance with our risk mitigation policy the financial effect of this type of collateral is less significant page 73 and for theeffects of over collateralisation.
However this type of collateral is unadjusted current market value of collateral without over considered when determining probability of default and other collateralisation is $197billion at 31 December 2013 2012: credit related factors.
The increase in collateral compared to 2012 is broadly in line Our underwriting standards encourage taking specic charges with growth in the loan portfolio.
The proportion of highly on assets and we constantly seek high quality, investment rateddebt securities of 15.3 per cent on collateral increased grade secured collateral.
49 per cent of collateral held is compared to 2012 due to higher levels of reverse repotransactions.
comprised of physical assets or is property based, with the The following table provides an analysis of the types of collateral remainder held largely in investment securities.
held against WB loan exposures.
2013 2012 $million $million Cash 12,278 9,039 Property 15,125 13,141 Debt securities AAA 45 4 AAto AA 9,652 3,390 BBBto BBB 2,785 713 Lower than BBB- 865 1,313 Unrated 5,004 6,151 18,351 11,571 Other asset based 17,636 17,843 Total value of collateral 63,390 51,594 Commercial real estate CRE working capital loans to real estate corporates, exposure with The Group has lending to commercial real estate CRE non-property collateral, unsecured exposure and exposure to counterparties of $13,630million 31 December 2012: real estate entity of diversied conglomerate.
Of this exposure, $6,758 million is to The following table presents a geographical analysis of the counterparties where the source of repayment is substantially LTVratios for such loans.
The average LTV ofthe exposure derived from rental or sale of real estate and is secured by real remains low.
The remaining CRE exposure comprises 2013 Middle East Americas, Other & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Asia Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total % % % % % % % % % Less than 50 per cent 94.2 45.9 97.8 82.7 57.5 40.4 59.6 93.0 71.3 50 per cent to 59 per cent 5.8 48.0 2.2 13.3 22.2 51.0 20.8 60 per cent to 69 per cent 6.1 3.9 20.3 4.8 40.4 7.0 7.5 70 per cent to 79 per cent 80 per cent to 89 per cent 90 per cent to 99 per cent 100 per cent and greater 3.8 0.4 Average portfolio loan-to-value 38.2 45.8 27.6 38.6 40.9 59.0 46.8 35.1 41.1 Loans $million 1,165 1,154 440 1,072 1,338 728 10 851 6,758 102 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Risk review continued 2012 Middle East Americas, Other & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Asia Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total % % % % % % % % % Less than 50 per cent 77.5 62.5 37.7 69.9 48.6 59.5 68.8 97.3 62.7 50 per cent to 59 per cent 18.8 24.1 34.4 15.1 25.5 34.2 0.7 2.7 23.3 60 per cent to 69 per cent 3.8 13.5 9.1 14.9 25.9 4.2 30.5 12.5 70 per cent to 79 per cent 18.7 1.1 80 per cent to 89 per cent 90 per cent to 99 per cent 100 per cent and greater 2.1 0.4 Average portfolio loan-to-value 40.8 44.3 53.0 43.4 48.9 48.5 48.0 40.1 45.7 Loans $million 779 1,560 384 927 1,263 1,267 40 364 6,584 Loan impairment The table below sets out the net impairment charge for The individual impairment charge increased by $26 million or WB loans and advances and other credit risk provisions 5per cent compared with 31 December 2012, primarily due to by geography.
higher provisions in India and Africa, relating to a small number of exposures.
Increase in portfolio impairment provision was offset by release in the MESA, due to an improvement in the credit environment.
2013 Middle East Americas, Other & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Asia Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Gross impairment charge 7 2 65 97 152 58 235 7 623 Recoveries provisions no longer required 18 2 5 3 3 14 2 4 51 Net individual impairment charge credit 11 60 94 149 44 233 3 572 Portfolio impairment provision charge release 6 10 4 10 7 40 15 2 6 Net loan impairment charge release 5 10 56 104 156 4 248 5 578 Other credit risk provisions 1 1 1 2 5 Net impairment charge release 4 10 56 105 157 4 248 7 583 2012 Middle East Americas, Other & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Asia Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Gross impairment charge 23 2 45 38 192 265 2 19 586 Recoveries provisions no longer required 5 9 8 7 1 2 8 40 Net individual impairment charge 18 2 36 30 185 264 11 546 Portfolio impairment provision charge release 3 2 10 5 45 3 18 11 25 Net loan impairment charge 15 4 26 35 140 261 18 22 521 Other credit risk provisions 1 2 4 1 Net impairment charge 14 4 26 35 138 265 18 22 522 Risk review 103 Impairment provisions on loans and advances The following table sets out the impairment provision on loans and advances by each principal category of borrowers business or industry: Impairment Amounts Impairment provision written off provision held as at Net impairment other held as at 1 January charge movements 31 December 2013 2013 2013 2013 $million $million $million $million Agriculture, forestry and shing 29 178 24 183 Construction 72 13 17 68 Commerce 668 20 688 Electricity, gas and water 8 8 6 10 Financing, insurance and business services 165 25 56 246 Mining and quarrying 9 35 2 46 Manufacturing 561 248 209 600 Commercial real estate 24 9 2 31 Transport, storage and communication 197 24 25 196 Other 31 13 5 39 Individual impairment provision against loans and advances to customers 1,764 573 230 2,107 Portfolio impairment provision against loans and advances to customers 300 6 6 300 Total impairment provisions on loans and advances to customers 2,064 579 236 2,407 Individual impairment provision against loans and advances to banks 103 1 2 100 Portfolio impairment provision against loans and advances to banks 2 2 Total impairment provisions on loans and advances to banks 105 1 2 102 Impairment Impairment provision Amounts provision held as at Net impairment written off other held as at 1 January charge movements 31 December 2012 2012 2012 2012 $million $million $million $million Agriculture, forestry and shing 24 5 29 Construction 65 19 12 72 Commerce 464 136 68 668 Electricity, gas and water 6 2 8 Financing, insurance and business services 167 118 120 165 Mining and quarrying 1 8 9 Manufacturing 542 101 82 561 Commercial real estate 24 24 Transport, storage and communication 40 162 5 197 Other 29 4 2 31 Individual impairment provision against loans and advances to customers 1,362 540 138 1,764 Portfolio impairment provision against loans and advances to customers 321 23 2 300 Total impairment provisions on loans and advances to customers 1,683 517 136 2,064 Individual impairment provision against loans and advances to banks 82 6 15 103 Portfolio impairment provision against loans and advances to banks 2 2 2 2 Total impairment provisions on loans and advances to banks 84 4 17 105 104 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Risk review continued Non-performing loans The following tables set out the total non-performing loans to Gross non-performing loans in WB, the denition of which is banks and customers for WB on the basis of the geographic setout on page 84, increased by $933million, or 22 per cent, regions to which the exposure relates to rather than the since December 2012.
Theseincreases were primarily driven by bookinglocation: a small number oflarge exposures in India and in Africa and the Americas, UK&Europe regions.
2013 Middle East Americas, Other & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Asia Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Loans and advances Gross non-performing 179 20 213 824 928 1,793 570 678 5,205 1 Individual impairment provision 38 9 136 355 324 1,028 260 43 2,193 Non-performing loans net of individual impairment provision 141 11 77 469 604 765 310 635 3,012 Portfolio impairment provision 302 Net non-performing loans and advances 2,710 Cover ratio 48% 1 The difference to total individual impairment provision as at 31 December 2013 reects provisions against restructured loans that are not included within non-performing loans as they have been performing for 180 days in line with the denition provided on page 84 2012 Middle East Americas, Other & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Asia Pacic India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Loans and advances Gross non-performing 128 21 261 707 754 2,089 147 165 4,272 1 Individual impairment provision 50 14 105 304 240 1,061 37 55 1,866 Non-performing loans net of individual impairment provision 78 7 156 403 514 1,028 110 110 2,406 Portfolio impairment provision 302 Net non-performing loans and advances 2,104 Cover ratio 51% 1 The difference to total individual impairment provision as at 31 December 2012 reects provisions against restructured loans that are not included within non-performing loans as they have been performing for 180 days in line with the denition provided on page 84 Risk review 105 Debt securities and treasury bills Debt securities and treasury bills are analysed as follows: 2013 2012 Debt securities Treasury bills Total Debt securities Treasury bills Total $million $million $million $million $million $million Net impaired securities: Impaired securities 389 389 404 404 Impairment 204 204 159 159 185 185 245 245 Securities neither past due nor impaired: AAA 23,772 4,455 28,227 20,755 6,516 27,271 AAto AA 23,274 19,226 42,500 20,232 6,594 26,826 Ato A 21,392 1,087 22,479 23,570 10,694 34,264 BBBto BBB 5,913 4,238 10,151 10,122 3,818 13,940 Lower than BBB- 3,293 898 4,191 3,027 502 3,529 Unrated 8,244 1,500 9,744 6,471 1,571 8,042 85,888 31,404 117,292 84,177 29,695 113,872 86,073 31,404 117,477 84,422 29,695 114,117 Of which: 1 Assets at fair value Trading 12,407 5,161 17,568 14,882 2,955 17,837 Designated at fair value 292 292 333 333 Available-for-sale 70,546 26,243 96,789 65,356 26,740 92,096 83,245 31,404 114,649 80,571 29,695 110,266 1 Assets at amortised cost Loans and receivables 2,828 2,828 3,851 3,851 86,073 31,404 117,477 84,422 29,695 114,117 1 See notes 15, 16 and 21 of the financial statements for further details Net impaired securities reduced by $60 million compared to Debt securities in the AAA rating category increased by 2012 primarily due to increased provisions against a bond $3.0billion to $23.8 billion in 2013 mainly due to an increase in exposure in India arising from credit concerns around the issuer.
higher quality corporate bonds in Hong Kong and Singapore.
This was offset by a low level of AAA trading business as funds The above table analyses debt securities and treasury bills that were deployed into higher quality assets in Singapore and as are neither past due nor impaired by external credit rating.
The part of the restructuring of the balance sheet in Korea.
standard credit ratings used by the Group are those used by Standard & Poors or their equivalent.
Debt securities held that Unrated securities primarily relate to corporate issuers.
Using have a short-term rating are reported against the long-term internal credit ratings $9,275 million 2012: $7,208 million of rating of the issuer.
For securities that are unrated, the Group these securities are considered to be equivalent to applies an internal credit rating as described under credit rating investmentgrade.
106 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Risk review continued Asset Backed Securities Total exposures to Asset Backed Securities 2013 2012 Percentage Percentage of notional Carrying Fair of notional Carrying Fair 1 1 value of Notional value value value of Notional value value portfolio $million $million $million portfolio $million $million $million Residential Mortgage Backed Securities RMBS 46% 3,059 3,052 3,045 46% 2,160 2,114 2,120 Collateralised Debt Obligations CDOs 3% 223 181 190 5% 260 203 219 Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities CMBS 5% 321 242 235 10% 478 355 351 Other Asset Backed Securities Other ABS 46% 3,126 3,081 3,124 39% 1,869 1,847 1,861 100% 6,729 6,556 6,594 100% 4,767 4,519 4,551 Of which included within: Financial assets held at fair value through protor loss 2% 158 158 158 4% 190 191 191 Investment securities available-for-sale 79% 5,295 5,202 5,202 61% 2,905 2,786 2,786 Investment securities loans and receivables 19% 1,276 1,196 1,234 35% 1,672 1,542 1,574 100% 6,729 6,556 6,594 100% 4,767 4,519 4,551 1 Fair value reects the value of the entire portfolio, including assets redesignated to loans and receivables The carrying value of ABS represents 1 per cent 2012: 0.7 per cent The Group has also extended its investment to a limited amount of our total assets.
of trading in ABS and has also acquired an additional $4.8 billion of ABS during 2013 for liquidity reasons.
This is classied as The Group has an existing portfolio of ABS which it reclassied available-for-sale and primarily related to high quality RMBS from trading and available-for-sale to loans and receivables with assets with an average credit grade of AAA.
The credit quality effect from 1 July 2008.
No assets have been reclassied since ofthe ABS portfolio remains strong.
With the exception of those 2008.
This portfolio has been gradually managed down since securities subject to an impairment charge, over 95 per cent of 2010.
The carrying value and fair value for this part of the the overall portfolio is rated Aor better, and 80 per cent of the portfolio were $614 million and $647 million respectively as at overall portfolio is rated as AAA.
The portfolio is broadly the end of 2013.
Note 15 to the financial statements provide diversied across asset classes and geographies, with an details of the remaining balance of those assets reclassied average credit grade of AA.
The decline in the banks legacy portfolios and significant increase in asset purchases for liquidity reasons in the availablefor-sale book makes the fair value of the entire portfolio similar to the carrying value.
Financial statement impact of Asset Backed Securities Loans and Available-for-sale receivables Total $million $million $million 31 December 2013 Charge to available-for-sale reserves 26 26 Credit to the profit and loss account 1 1 31 December 2012 Credit to available-for-sale reserves 3 3 Charge to the profit and loss account 5 5 Risk review 107 Selected European country exposures GIIPS exposure has a tenor of less than five years, with The following tables summarise the Groups direct exposure approximately 32 per cent having a tenor of less than one year.
both onand off-balance sheet to certain specic countries The Group has no direct sovereign exposure and $260 million within the eurozone that have been identied on the basis of 2012: $263 million of non-sovereign exposure after collateral their higher bond yields, higher sovereign debt to GDP ratio and and netting to Cyprus.
external credit ratings compared with the rest of the eurozone.
The exit of one or more countries from the eurozone or ultimately Total gross exposure represents the amount outstanding on its dissolution could potentially lead to significant market thebalance sheet including any accrued interest but before dislocation, the extent of which is difficult to predict.
Any such provisions and positive mark-to-market amounts on derivatives exit or dissolution, and the redenomination of formerly eurobefore netting.
To the extent gross exposure does not represent denominated rights and obligations in replacement national the maximum exposure to loss, this is disclosed separately.
currencies, would cause significant uncertainty in any exiting Exposures are assigned to a country based on the country of country, whether sovereign or otherwise.
Such events are also incorporation of the counterparty as at 31 December 2013. likely to be accompanied by the imposition of capital, exchange and similar controls.
While the Group has limited eurozone The Group has no direct sovereign exposure as dened by exposure as disclosed above, the Groups earnings could be theEBA to the eurozone countries of GIIPS and only $0.5billion impacted by the general market disruption if such events should direct sovereign exposure to other eurozone countries.
We monitor the situation closely and we have prepared TheGroups non-sovereign exposure to GIIPS is $2.4billion contingency plans to respond to a range of potential scenarios, $2.0 billion after collateral and netting and $37.7billion including the possibility of currency redenomination.
Local $22billion after collateral and netting to the remainder of the assets and liability positions are carefully monitored by ineurozone.
This exposure primarily consists ofbalances with country asset and liability and risk committees with appropriate corporates.
The substantial majority of the Groups total gross oversight by GALCO and GRC at the Group level.
Greece Ireland Italy Portugal Spain Total Country $million $million $million $million $million $million As at 31 December 2013 Direct sovereign exposure Banks 719 402 1,121 Other financial institutions 951 5 956 Other corporate 15 207 93 52 367 Total gross exposure 15 1,158 817 454 2,444 Direct sovereign exposure Banks 70 167 237 Other financial institutions 192 5 197 Other corporate 1 16 1 3 21 Total collateral netting 1 208 76 170 455 Direct sovereign exposure Banks 649 235 884 1 Other financial institutions 759 759 Other corporate 14 191 92 49 346 Total net exposure as at 31 December 2013 14 950 741 284 1,989 Total net exposure as at 31 December 2012 29 1,391 610 21 221 2,272 1 This represents a single exposure which is part of a wider structured finance transaction and is unaffected by Irish economic risk 108 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Risk review continued The Groups exposure to GIIPS as at 31 December 2013 is analysed by financial asset as follows: Greece Ireland Italy Portugal Spain Total At 31 December 2013 $million $million $million $million $million $million Loans and advances Loans and receivables 9 143 265 11 428 Held at fair value through profit or loss 11 11 Total gross loans and advances 9 143 276 11 439 Collateral held against loans and advances 1 4 53 2 60 Total net loans and advances 8 139 223 9 379 Debt securities Trading Designated at fair value 36 36 Available-for-sale 51 51 Loans and receivables 6 6 Total gross debt securities 51 42 93 Collateral held against debt securities Total net debt securities 51 42 93 Derivatives Gross exposure 212 24 168 404 1 Collateral netting 204 23 168 395 Total derivatives 8 1 9 Contingent liabilities and commitments 6 752 517 233 1,508 Total net exposure 1 onand off-balance sheet 14 950 741 284 1,989 Total balance sheet exposure 9 406 300 221 936 As at 31 December 2012 Net loans and advances 18 53 294 20 22 407 Net debt securities 51 119 170 Net derivatives 2 33 5 5 45 Contingent liabilities and commitments 9 1,254 311 1 75 1,650 Total net exposure 1 onand off-balance sheet 29 1,391 610 21 221 2,272 1 Based on International Swaps and Derivatives Association netting Risk review 109 Other selected eurozone countries these countries are considered to have significant sovereign A summary analysis of the Groups exposure to France, debt exposure to GIIPS.
Germany, the Netherlands and Luxembourg is also provided as France Germany Netherlands Luxembourg Total $million $million $million $million $million Direct sovereign exposure 305 305 Banks 2,911 4,303 1,695 1,122 10,031 Other financial institutions 79 72 105 148 404 Other corporate 1,526 710 5,935 646 8,817 Total net exposure as at 31 December 2013 4,516 5,390 7,735 1,916 19,557 Total net exposure as at 31 December 2012 3,738 12,809 12,114 2,594 31,255 The Groups lending to these selected eurozone countries Steady progress in the internationalisation of the renminbi primarily takes the form of repurchase agreements, inter-bank continues to present opportunities, and contributed to the loans and bonds.
The substantial majority of the Groups total growth in cross-border exposure to China.
Increased country gross exposures to these selected countries have a tenor of cross-border exposure to China and Hong Kong also reected less than three years, with over 57 per cent having a tenor of an expansion of our corporate client base, increased trade less than one year.
The Groups exposure in Germany is finance activity and transactions with local and foreign banks primarily with the central bank.
India remains a core territory for the Group where our competitive advantage positions us to offer US dollar Other than all these specifically identied countries, the Groups facilities in the domestic market, and to facilitate overseas residual net exposure to the eurozone is $3 billion, which investment and trade ows supported by parent companies primarily comprises bonds and export structured nancing to inIndia.
Reported cross-border exposure to Korea and Singapore Country cross-border risk reects an emphasis on trade finance and short-term lending.
Country cross-border risk is the risk that we will be unable to Cross-border exposure to the UAE decreased slightly during obtain payment from our customers or third parties on their 2013, due to a decrease in trade nancing transactions and contractual obligations as a result of certain actions taken by longer-term exposures arising from financial markets activity.
foreign governments, chiey relating to convertibility and transferability of foreign currency.
Malaysia benefited from an increase in trade finance activities amidst rising intra-region trade ows with ASEAN member The GRC is responsible for our country cross-border risk limits countries, China, India and Africa.
Higher exposures in this and delegates the setting and management of country limits to market are also representative of an expanded corporate the Group Country Risk function.
customer base and interbank money market positions booked The business and country chief executive ofcers manage in the United Kingdom and Singapore.
Growth in underlying exposures within these limits and policies.
Countries designated cross-border business activity in Indonesia was attributable to as higher risk are subject to increased central monitoring.
an expansion of the corporate client base in Indonesia and continued growth in corporate finance assets.
Since 30 June Cross-border assets comprise loans and advances, 2013, in line with a change in accounting treatment, the country interest-bearing deposits with other banks, trade and other cross-border exposure to Indonesia arising from Permata, a bills, acceptances, amounts receivable under finance leases, joint venture in which the Group holds 44.56 per cent, is now derivatives, certicates of deposit and other negotiable paper, counted at the value of the Groups equity in the joint venture.
investment securities and formal commitments where the counterparty is resident in a country other than where the The increase in exposure to Brazil is attributable to trade and assets are recorded.
Cross-border assets also include investment ows with our core markets.
Cross-border exposure exposures to local residents denominated in currencies other to countries in which we do not have a major presence than the local currency.
Cross-border exposure also includes predominantly relates to short-dated money market treasury the value of commodity, aircraft and shipping assets owned by activities, which can change signicantly from period to period.
the Group that are held in a given country.
Exposure also represents global corporate business for customers with interests in our footprint.
This explains our The prole of our country cross-border exposures greater than significant exposure in the US, Switzerland and Australia.
one per cent of total assets as at 31 December 2013 remained consistent with our strategic focus on core franchise countries, and with the scale of the larger markets that we operate in.
Changes in the pace of economic activity had an impact on growth of cross-border exposure for certain territories.
110 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Risk review continued The table below, which is based on our internal cross-border country risk reporting requirements, shows cross-border exposures that exceed 1 per cent of total assets.
Our exposure to market risk arises principally business volumes and transaction sizes.
The objective of our market The Group Market Risk Committee GMRC, under authority risk policies and processes is to obtain the best balance of risk delegated by the GRC, is responsible for setting VaR and and return while meeting customers requirements.
stressloss triggers for market risk within our risk appetite.
The primary categories of market risk for Standard Chartered TheGMRC is also responsible for policies and other standards are: for the control of market risk and overseeing their effective implementation.
These policies cover both trading and Interest rate risk: arising from changes in yield curves, credit non-trading books of the Group.
spreads and implied volatilities on interest rate options Group Market Risk GMR approves the limits within delegated Currency exchange rate risk: arising from changes in authorities and monitors exposures against these limits.
exchange rates and implied volatilities on foreign exchange Additional limits are placed on specic instruments and position options concentrations where appropriate.
Sensitivity measures are Commodity price risk: arising from changes in commodity used in addition to VaR as risk management tools.
For example, prices and commodity option implied volatilities: covering interest rate sensitivity is measured in terms of exposure to a energy, precious metals, base metals and agriculture one basis point increase in yields, whereas foreign exchange, commodity and equity sensitivities are measured in terms of the Equity price risk: arising from changes in the prices of underlying values or amounts involved.
Option risks are equities, equity indices, equity baskets and implied volatilities controlled through revaluation limits on underlying price and on related options volatility shifts, limits on volatility risk and other variables that determine the options value.
Risk review 111 Value at risk Stress testing We measure the risk of losses arising from future potential Losses beyond the 97.5 per cent confidence interval are adverse movements in market rates, prices and volatilities using notcaptured by a VaR calculation, which therefore gives no a VaR methodology.
VaR, in general, is a quantitative measure indication of the size of unexpected losses in these situations.
of market risk that applies recent historical market conditions to GMR complements the VaR measurement by weekly estimate the potential future loss in market value that will not be stresstesting of market risk exposures to highlight the potential exceeded in a set time period at a set statistical confidence risk that may arise from extreme market events that are rare level.
VaR provides a consistent measure that can be applied butplausible.
across trading businesses and products over time and can be set against actual daily trading profit and loss outcome.
Stress testing is an integral part of the market risk managementframework and considers both historical VaR is calculated for expected movements over a minimum of marketevents and forward-looking scenarios.
A consistent one business day and to a confidence level of 97.5 per cent.
stress-testing methodology is applied to trading and This confidence level suggests that potential daily losses, in non-trading books.
The stress-testing methodology assumes excess of the VaR measure, are likely to be experienced six that scope for management action would be limited during a times per year.
stress event, reecting the decrease in market liquidity that We apply two VaR methodologies: often occurs.
Historical simulation: involves the revaluation of all existing Stress scenarios are regularly updated to reect changes in positions to reect the effect of historically observed changes riskprole and economic events.
The GMRC has responsibility in market risk factors on the valuation of the current portfolio.
for reviewing stress exposures and, where necessary, This approach is applied for general market risk factors and enforcingreductions in overall market risk exposure.
The GRC from the fourth quarter of 2012 has been extended to cover considers the results of stress tests as part of its supervision of also the majority of specic credit spread risk VaR risk appetite.
Monte Carlo simulation: this methodology is similar to Regular stress-test scenarios are applied to interest rates, credit historical simulation but with considerably more input risk spreads, exchange rates, commodity prices and equity prices.
These are generated by random This covers all asset classes in the Financial Markets banking sampling techniques, but the results retain the essential and trading books.
variability and correlations of historically observed risk factor Ad hoc scenarios are also prepared reecting specic market changes.
This approach is now applied for some of the conditions and for particular concentrations of risk that arise specic credit spread risk VaR in relation to idiosyncratic within the businesses.
exposures in credit markets In both methods an historical observation period of one year is Market risk changes chosen and applied.
The average levels of total VaR and non-trading VaR were higher in 2013 than 2012 by 14 per cent and 8 per cent respectively.
VaR is calculated as our exposure as at the close of business, This was primarily due to increased market volatility following generally UK time.
Intra-day risk levels may vary from those comments by the chairman of the Federal Reserve on reported at the end of the day.
22 May 2013 that it was considering tapering its quantitative A small proportion of market risk generated by trading positions easing programme.
is not included in VaR or cannot be appropriately captured by The average level of trading VaR in 2013 was 23 per cent lower VaR.
This is recognised through a Risks-not-in-VaR framework than 2012, with reduction in both interest rate and foreign which conservatively estimates and then capitalises these risks exchange risk.
As at 31 December, 2013, the total VaR, non-trading VaR and trading VaR were up 31 per cent, 37 per cent and 14 per cent Back testing respectively as compared to at the end of 2012.
This again was To assess their predictive power, VaR models are back primarily due to the increase in market volatility observed after testedagainst actual results.
In 2013 there was one exception 22 May 2013 rather than increases in positions.
inthe regulatory back testing none in 2012.
This is within the greenzone applied internationally to internal models by bank supervisors.
The daily loss associated with the single 2013 back testing exception was 3 per cent in excess of the corresponding VaR, and came from a combination of unexceptional losses across interest rates, foreign exchange and commodities.
On 1 January 2014 this regulation will be superseded by the EU Capital Requirements Regulation CRD IV CRR.
The PRA permits only certain types of financial instruments or arrangements to be included within the trading book, so this regulatory denition is narrower than the accounting denition of the trading book within IA S39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement 2 Interest rate risk VaR includes credit spread risk arising from securities held for trading or available-for-sale 3 The total VaR shown in the tables above is not a sum of the component risks due to offsets between them 4 Highest and lowest VaR for each risk factor are independent and usually occur on different days 5 Actual one-day VaR at year-end date Risk review 113 Average daily income earned from market Mapping of market risk items to the balance sheet 1 risk related activities Market risk contributes only 7 per cent of the Groups regulatory 2 2013 2012 capital risk-weighted assets RWA requirement see RWA $million $million tableon page 132.
As highlighted in the VaR disclosure, the Trading majority of market risk is managed within Financial Markets, 2 Interest rate risk 4.7 5.2 which spans both trading book and non-trading book.
The Foreign exchange risk 5.5 5.1 non-trading equity market risk is generated by listed private Commodity risk 1.5 1.6 equity holdings within Principal Finance.
Group Treasury Equity risk 0.5 0.4 manages the market risk associated with debt and equity capital issuance.
The disclosures below are subject to change.
Total 12.2 12.3 The Group is exploring the possibility of presenting quantitative information in the tables below.
Non-trading 2013 Interest rate risk 2.8 3.8 Equity risk 0.5 0.1 Amounts as per financial Exposure to Exposure to Total 3.3 3.9 statements trading risk non-trading risk $million $million $million 1 Reects total product income which is the sum of client income and own account Financial assets income.
Includes elements of trading income, interest income and other income which are generated from market risk related activities Derivative financial 2 Comparatives have been restated to exclude certain items of fee income instruments 61,802 61,059 743 Loans and Market risk VaR coverage advances to banks 86,169 13,472 72,697 Interest rate risk from non-trading book portfolios is transferred Loans and to Financial Markets where it is managed by local Asset and advances to customers 296,015 8,643 287,372 Liability Management ALM desks under the supervision of Debt securities 86,073 11,638 74,435 local Asset and Liability Committees ALCO.
ALM deals in the Treasury bills 31,404 5,151 26,253 market in approved financial instruments in order to manage the net interest rate risk, subjectto approved VaR and risk limits.
Equities 6,800 1,348 5,452 Other assets 36,080 10,918 25,162 VaR and stress tests are therefore applied to these non-trading Total 604,343 112,229 492,114 book exposures except Group Treasury, see below in the same way as for the trading book, including available-for-sale securities.
Securities classed as loans and receivables or Financial liabilities heldto maturity are not reected in VaR or stress tests since Deposits by banks 44,526 44,526 they are accounted on an amortised cost basis, so market Customer accounts 390,971 390,971 pricemovements have limited effect on either profit and loss Debt securities in orreserves.
issue 71,412 71,412 Derivative financial Structural foreign exchange currency risks are managed by instruments 61,236 60,563 673 Group Treasury, as described below, and are not included Short positions 5,293 5,139 154 within Group VaR.
Otherwise, the non-trading book does not run open foreign exchange positions.
Total 573,438 65,702 507,736 Equity risk relating to non-listed Private Equity and strategic investments is not included within the VaR.
It is separately Group Treasury market risk managed through delegated limits for both investment and Group Treasury raises debt and equity capital and the divestment, and is also subject to regular review by an proceedsare invested within the Group as capital or placed investment committee.
These are included as Level 3 assets with ALM.
Interest rate risk arises due to the investment of asdisclosed in note 15 to the financial statements.
equity and reserves into rate-sensitive assets, as well as some tenor mismatches between debt issuance and placements.
This risk is measured as the impact on net interest income NII of an unexpected and instantaneous adverse parallel shift in rates and is monitored over a rolling one-year time horizon seetable on the following page.
This risk is monitored and controlled by the Groups Capital Management Committee CMC.
114 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Risk review continued Group Treasury NII sensitivity to parallel Our derivative transactions are principally in instruments where shifts in yieldcurves the mark-to-market values are readily determinable by reference 2013 2012 to independent prices and valuation quotes.
$million $million 25 basis points 33.9 33.1 We enter into derivative contracts in the normal course of business to meet customer requirements and to manage our 25 basis points 33.9 33.1 exposure to uctuations in market price movements.
Group Treasury also manages the structural foreign exchange Derivatives are carried at fair value and shown in the balance risk that arises from non-US dollar currency net investments sheet as separate totals of assets and liabilities.
Recognition of inbranches and subsidiaries.
The impact of foreign exchange fair value gains and losses depends on whether the derivatives movements is taken to reserves which form part of the capital are classied as trading or held for hedging purposes.
The effect of exchange rate movements on the capital ratio is partially mitigated by the fact that both the value of The credit risk arising from all financial derivatives is managed theseinvestments and the RWA in those currencies follow as part of the overall lending limits to financial institutions and broadly the same exchange rate movements.
With the approval corporate customers.
This is covered in more detail in the Credit of CMC, Group Treasury may hedge the netinvestments if it is risk section.
anticipated that the capital ratio will bematerially affected by exchange rate movements.
As at 31December 2013, the Hedging Grouphad taken net investment hedges using a combination Countries within the Group use futures, forwards, swaps and of derivative and non-derivative financial investments of options transactions primarily to mitigate interest and foreign $1,280million 2012: $971 million to partly cover its exposure exchange risk arising from their in-country exposures.
Group also uses futures, forwards and options to hedge foreign exchange and interest rate risk.
The table below sets out the principal structural foreign exchange exposures net of investment hedges of the Group: In accounting terms under IAS 39, hedges are classied into three types: fair value hedges, predominantly where xed rates 2013 2012 of interest or foreign exchange are exchanged for oating rates: $million $million cash ow hedges, predominantly where variable rates of Hong Kong dollar 7,079 6,619 interest or foreign exchange are exchanged for xed rates: and Korean won 5,194 6,301 hedges of net investments in overseas operations translated to Indian rupee 3,793 4,025 the parent companys functional currency, US dollars.
Taiwanese dollar 2,853 2,946 The notional value of interest rate swaps for the purpose of fair Chinese renminbi 3,084 2,245 value hedging increased by $6 billion as at 31 December 2013 Singapore dollar 2,925 1,195 compared to 31 December 2012.
Fair value hedges largely Thai baht 1,640 1,662 hedge the interest-rate risk on our sub-debt and debt securities UAE dirham 1,766 1,598 in the UK which form part of the Groups liquidity buffers and are Malaysian ringgit 1,650 1,360 used to manage xed-rate securities and loan portfolios in our Indonesian rupiah 993 1,164 key markets.
Currency and interest rate swaps used for cash Pakistani rupee 530 586 ow hedging have increased by $2 billion as at 31 December Other 4,010 3,648 2013 compared to 31 December 2012.
The increase of cash 35,517 33,349 ow hedges is attributable to oating-rate loans, bonds and deposits mainly in Korea and Singapore.
An analysis has been performed on these exposures to assess We may also, under certain individually approved the impact of a 1 per cent change in the US dollar exchange circumstances, enter into economic hedges that do not rates adjusted to incorporate the impacts of correlations of qualifyfor IAS 39 hedge accounting treatment, and which these currencies to the US dollar.
The impact on the positions areaccordingly marked to market through the profit and loss above would be an increase or decrease in value of $247 million account, thereby creating an accounting asymmetry.
Changes in the valuation of these positions entered into primarily to ensure that residual interest rate and are taken to reserves.
foreign exchange risks are being effectively managed.
Current economic hedge relationships include hedging the foreign Derivatives exchange risk on certain debt issuances and on other monetary Derivatives are contracts with characteristics and value derived instruments held in currencies other than US dollars.
from underlying financial instruments, interest and exchange rates or indices.
They include futures, forwards, swaps and options transactions.
Derivatives are an important risk management tool for banks and their customers because they can be used to manage market price risk.
The market risk of derivatives is managed in essentially the same way as other traded products.
Risk review 115 Liquidity risk Policies and procedures Liquidity risk is the risk that we either do not have sufficient Our liquidity risk management framework requires limits to be financial resources available to meet our obligations as they set and monitored.
There are limits on: falldue, or can only access these financial resources at The local and foreign currency cash ow gaps excessive cost.
The level of external wholesale borrowing to ensure that the It is our policy to maintain adequate liquidity at all times, in all size of this funding is proportionate to the local market and geographic locations and for all currencies, and hence to be in our local operations aposition to meet obligations as they fall due.
We manage liquidity risk both on a short-term and structural basis.
In the The level of borrowing from other countries within the Group short term, our focus is on ensuring that the cash ow demands to contain the risk of contagion from one country to another can be met where required.
In the medium term, the focus is on Commitments and contingents to ensure that sufficient funds ensuring that the balance sheet remains structurally sound and are available in the event of drawdown is aligned to our strategy.
The advances-to-deposits ratio to ensure that commercial The GALCO is the responsible governing body that approves advances are funded by stable sources and that customer our liquidity management policies.
The Liquidity Management lending is funded by customer deposits Committee LMC receives authority from the GALCO and is responsible forsetting or delegating authority to set liquidity The amount of assets that may be funded from other limits and proposing liquidity risk policies.
Liquidity in each currencies country is managed by the country ALCO within pre-dened The amount of medium-term assets that have to be funded by liquidity limits and in compliance with Group liquidity policies medium-term funding and practices, as well as local regulatory requirements.
GMR and Group Treasury propose and oversee the implementation In addition, we prescribe a liquidity stress scenario that includes of policies and other controls relating to the above risks.
accelerated withdrawal of deposits over a period of time.
Each country has to ensure on a daily basis that cash inows would We seek to manage our liquidity prudently in all geographical exceed outows under such a scenario.
locations and for all currencies.
Exceptional market events could impact us adversely, thereby potentially affecting our All limits are reviewed at least annually, and more frequently ability to full our obligations as they fall due.
The principal ifrequired, to ensure that they remain relevant given market uncertainties for liquidity risk are that customers withdraw their conditions and business strategy.
Compliance with limits is deposits at a substantially faster rate than expected, or that monitored independently on a regular basis by GMR and asset repayments are not received on the expected maturity Finance.
Limit excesses are escalated and approved under date.
To mitigate these uncertainties, our funding base is adelegated authority structure and reported to the ALCO.
diverse and largely customer-driven, while customer assets are Excesses are also reported monthly to the LMC which provides of short tenor 50 per cent of assets have a contractual maturity further oversight.
In addition we have contingency funding We have significant levels of marketable securities, including plans including a portfolio of liquid assets that can be realised if government securities that can be monetised or pledged as a liquidity stress occurs, as well as ready access to wholesale collateral in the event of a liquidity stress.
In addition, a Funding funds under normal market conditions.
Crisis Response and Recovery Plan FCRRP, reviewed and approved annually, is maintained by Group Treasury.
The FCRRP strengthens existing governance processes by providing a broad set of Early Warning Indicators, an escalation framework and a set of management actions that could be effectively implemented by the appropriate level of senior management in the event of a liquidity stress.
A similar plan is maintained within each country.
116 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Risk review continued Primary sources of funding The table below shows the diversity of funding by type and by A substantial portion of our assets are funded by customer geography.
Customer deposits make up 58 per cent of total deposits, largely made up of current and savings accounts.
Of liabilities as at 31 December 2013, the majority of which are total customer deposits, 42.5 per cent are retail deposits and current accounts, savings accounts and time deposits.
Our 57.5 per cent wholesale customer deposits 31 December 2012: largest customer deposit base by geography is Hong Kong, retail 43.1 per cent, wholesale customer deposits 56.9 per cent.
which holds 27.1 per cent of Group customer accounts.
Wholesale customer deposits are widely diversied by type and Groups composition maturity and represent a stable source of funds for the Group.
In of liabilities 31.12.13 addition, the short-term nature of our wholesale assets results in a balance sheet that is funded conservatively 64 per cent of Customer accounts 58.0% wholesale banking loans and advances have a contractual Deposits by bank 6.6% maturity of less than one year.
Derivative financial instruments 9.1% The ALCO in each country monitors trends in the balance sheet Other liabilities 5.8% and ensures that any concerns that might impact the stability of Debt securities these customer deposits are addressed effectively.
The ALCO in issue 10.6% also reviews balance sheet plans to ensure that projected asset Subordinated growth is matched by growth in customer deposits.
liabilities and other borrowed funds 3.0% Customer assets are as far as possible funded in the same Total equity 6.9% currency.
Where mismatches arise, they are controlled by limits Total 100.0% in each country on the amount of foreign currency that can be Geographic distribution of swapped to local currency and vice versa.
Such limits are customer accounts 31.12.13 therefore a means of controlling reliance on foreign exchange markets, which minimises the risk that obligations could not be Hong Kong 27.1% met in the required currency in the event that access to foreign Singapore 19.0% exchange markets becomes restricted.
In sizing the limits we Korea 7.8% consider a range of factors including: Other Asia Pacic 16.5% India 3.3% The size and depth of local Foreign Exchange markets MESA 6.7% The local regulatory environment, particularly the presence or Africa 2.9% risk of imposition of foreign exchange controls Americas, UK & Europe 16.7% We maintain access to wholesale funding markets in all major Total 100.0% financial centres and countries in which we operate.
This seeks to ensure that we have market intelligence, maintain stable funding lines and can obtain optimal pricing when we perform our interest rate risk management activities.
Debt renancing levels are low.
In the next 12 months approximately $6.7 billion of the Groups senior and subordinated debt is falling due for repayment either contractually or callable by the Group.
Further details of the Groups senior and subordinated debt by geography are provided in note 2 to the financial statements on page 248.
Risk review 117 Encumbered assets derivatives are classied as encumbered and included within Encumbered assets represent those on-balance sheet assets other assets.
Taken together, these encumbered assets pledged or used as collateral in respect of certain Group represent 3.1 per cent 2012: 2.2 per cent of total assets, liabilities.
Hong Kong government certicates of indebtedness continuing the Groups historical low level of encumbrance.
which secure the equivalent amount of Hong Kong currency The following table provides a reconciliation of the Groups notes in circulation, and cash collateral pledged against encumbered assets to total assets.
2013 2012 Unencumbered assets Unencumbered assets Not readily Readily Not readily Readily available to available to available to available to secure secure Encumbered Total Encumbered Total secure secure funding funding assets assets funding funding assets assets $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Cash and balances at central banks 9,946 44,588 54,534 9,336 51,201 60,537 Derivative financial instruments 61,802 61,802 49,495 49,495 Loans and advances to banks 46,917 36,890 2,362 86,169 37,456 30,392 723 68,571 Loans and advances to customers 294,884 1,131 296,015 282,238 2,378 284,616 Investment securities 48,699 72,062 3,516 124,277 48,910 70,041 1,598 120,549 Other assets 19,870 13,700 33,570 19,289 9,259 28,548 Current tax assets 234 234 215 215 Prepayments and accrued income 2,510 2,510 2,552 2,552 Interests in associates 1,767 1,767 1,684 1,684 Goodwill and intangible assets 6,070 6,070 7,145 7,145 Property, plant and equipment 6,903 6,903 6,620 6,620 Deferred tax assets 529 529 676 676 Total 500,131 153,540 20,709 674,380 465,616 151,634 13,958 631,208 In addition to the above, the Group received $17,835 million Liquidity metrics 2012: $10,949 million as collateral under reverse repurchase Key liquidity metrics are monitored on a regular basis, both agreements that was eligible for repledging.
Of this the Group onacountry basis and in aggregate across the Group.
repledged $1,804 million 2012: $1,378 million under Theseinclude: repurchase agreements.
Advances-to-deposits ratio Readily available to secure funding This is dened as the ratio of total loans and advances to Readily available to secure funding includes unencumbered customers relative to total customer deposits.
A low advancesassets that can be sold outright or under repo within a few days, to-deposits ratio demonstrates that customer deposits exceed in line with regulatory denitions.
The Groups readily available customer loans resulting from emphasis placed on generating assets comprise cash and balances at central banks, loans and ahigh level of stable funding from customers.
advances to banks and investment securities.
2013 2012 $million $million Assets classied as not readily available to secure funding 1 include: Loans and advances to customers 296,015 284,616 2 Customer accounts 390,971 385,117 Assets which have no restrictions for funding and collateral % % purposes, such as loans and advances to customers, which are not acquired or originated with the intent of generating Advances-to-deposits ratio 75.7 73.9 liquidity value 1 See note 19 to the financial statements on page 277 Assets that cannot be encumbered, such as derivatives, 2 See note 30 to the financial statements on page 289 goodwill and intangible and deferred tax assets 118 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Risk review continued Liquid asset ratio LAR that cannot be sold or exchanged easily for cash without The liquid asset ratio LAR ensures that a proportion of the substantial loss in value.
Groups total assets are held in liquid assets, on a consolidated The Group LAR remained at similar levels as in the previous currency basis.
year, reecting an increase in liquid assets holdings to match Liquid assets are the total cash less restricted balances, balance sheet growth.
treasury bills, loans and advances to banks including net The following table sets an analysis of the Groups liquid assets unsecured interbank and trade finance and debt securities by geographic region: less illiquid securities.
already meets the Basel III requirements for both the NSFR Finally, the 90-day stress test considers more prolonged andthe LCR, well ahead of the required implementation date.
stresses that affect markets across a number of the Groups Asat 31 December 2013 both Group LCR and NSFR were main footprint countries and in which the Group itself may between 110 and 120 per cent.
This pressure may be unwarranted or may be because the Group is inextricably linked Liquidity management stress scenarios with those markets countries.
This stress is managed at a The Group conducts a range of liquidity related stress Group rather than individual country level.
It tests the adequacy analyses, both for internal and regulatory purposes.
of contingency funding arrangements beyond the marketable Internally, three stress tests are run routinely: an acute eight-day securities held to cover the eight-day stress, including the ability name-specic stress, a 30-day market-wide stress and a more to support countries from elsewhere in the Group.
chronic 90-day combined name-specic and market-wide stress.
Our country stress testing considers potential currency Liquidity and funding risks are also considered as part of the mismatches between outows and inows.
Particular focus is Groups wider periodic scenario analysis, including reverse paid to mismatches in less liquid currencies and those which stresstesting.
In addition, the Group runs a range of stress tests are not freely convertible.
Mismatches are controlled by tomeet regulatory requirements, as dened by the PRA and management action triggers set by Group Market Risk GMR.
Group-wide stress tests also consider the portability of liquidity The eight-day stress is specifically designed to determine a surpluses between Group entities, taking account of regulatory minimum quantity of marketable securities that must be held at restrictions on large and intra-group exposures.
This stress is computed daily, and the Standard Chartered Banks credit ratings as at end of minimum marketable securities requirement is observed daily.
December 2013 were AAFitch, A S&P and A1 Moodys.
This is intended to ensure that, in the unlikely event of an acute loss Adowngrade in credit rating would increase derivative collateral of confidence in the Group or any individual entity within it, there is requirements and outows due to conditional liabilities.
The sufficient time to take corrective action.
Every country must pass, impact of a two-notch downgrade results in an estimated on a stand-alone basis, with no presumption of Group support.
Asat 31 December 2013 all countries passed the stress test.
120 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Risk review continued Liquidity analysis of the Groups balance sheet The tables indicate the relatively short-term nature of our asset book: over half of total assets mature within one year, and of Contractual maturity of assets and liabilities these approximately 70 per cent mature within three months.
The tables below analyses assets and liabilities into relevant The net funding surplus evident in the one month or less bucket maturity groupings based on the remaining period to the is largely reective of on-demand customer liabilities.
The net contractual maturity date as at the balance sheet date.
The mismatch between assets and liabilities or net gap with a Group seeks to manage its liabilities both on a contractual and contractual maturity greater than one month is managed behavioural basis primarily by matching the maturity prole of conservatively with internal limits.
Such behavioural adjustments which will be contractually payable over the residual maturity areidentied in each country through analysis of the historic ofthe instruments.
However, contractual maturities do not behaviour of balances.
The Groups expectation of when necessarily reect the timing of actual repayments or cash assetsand liabilities are likely to become due is provided in ow.
In practice, certain asset and liability instruments behave thetable below: differently from their contractual terms and, especially for 2013 Between Between Between Between Between Between More than one month three six months nine months one year two years five years One month and three months and and nine and one and two and five and or less months six months months year years years undated Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Assets 1 Loans and advances to banks 36,990 21,856 13,342 5,532 5,072 1,554 1,665 158 86,169 1 Loans and advances to customers 55,193 27,724 18,204 8,491 17,991 21,239 88,092 59,081 296,015 Total loans and advances 92,183 49,580 31,546 14,023 23,063 22,793 89,757 59,239 382,184 Liabilities 1 Deposits by banks 35,804 5,063 1,472 427 318 138 597 707 44,526 1 Customer accounts 131,684 28,574 16,700 11,055 23,572 115,686 58,868 4,832 390,971 Total deposits 167,488 33,637 18,172 11,482 23,890 115,824 59,465 5,539 435,497 Net gap 75,305 15,943 13,374 2,541 827 93,031 30,292 53,700 53,313 1 Amounts include financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss see note 15 on page 258 122 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Risk review continued 2012 Between Between Between Between Between Between More than one month three six months nine months one year two years five years One month and three months and and nine and one and two and five and or less months six months months year years years undated Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Assets 1 Loans and advances to banks 36,152 13,239 9,299 3,245 3,359 1,196 1,910 171 68,571 1 Loans and advances to customers 56,217 25,101 21,296 16,201 12,409 2,093 86,169 65,130 284,616 Total loans and advances 92,369 38,340 30,595 19,446 15,768 3,289 88,079 65,301 353,187 Liabilities 1 Deposits by banks 32,543 2,722 1,139 125 187 304 303 72 37,395 1 Customer accounts 123,574 37,998 26,839 11,732 26,521 106,071 43,885 8,497 385,117 Total deposits 156,117 40,720 27,978 11,857 26,708 106,375 44,188 8,569 422,512 Net gap 63,748 2,380 2,617 7,589 10,940 103,086 43,891 56,732 69,325 1 Amounts include financial instruments held at fair value through profit or loss see note 15 on page 258 Financial liabilities excluding derivative financial instruments Within the More than five years and undated maturity onan undiscounted basis bandareundated financial liabilities of $3,124 million The following table analyses the contractual cash ows 2012:$3,241 million, all of which relate to subordinated debt, payablefor the Groups financial liabilities by remaining on which interest payments are not included as this information contractual maturities on an undiscounted basis.
The financial would not be meaningful given the instruments are undated.
liability balances in the table below will not agree to the balances Interest payments on these instruments are included within the reported in the consolidated balance sheet as the table relevant maturities up to five years.
incorporates all contractual cash ows, on an undiscounted basis, relating to both principal and interest payments.
2013 Between Between Between Between Between Between More than one month three six months nine months one year two years five years One month and three months and and nine and one and two and five and or less months six months months year years years undated Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Deposits by banks 36,084 4,873 1,489 394 276 269 588 729 44,702 Customer accounts 279,638 48,630 26,473 12,864 10,793 2,820 6,972 4,359 392,549 Debt securities in issue 10,592 13,543 15,001 4,020 3,348 9,625 12,113 8,920 77,162 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 8 243 273 278 256 998 6,504 28,787 37,347 Other liabilities 12,759 8,665 3,260 962 432 544 1,117 11,258 38,997 Total liabilities 339,081 75,954 46,496 18,518 15,105 14,256 27,294 54,053 590,757 2012 Between Between Between Between Between Between More than one month three six months nine months one year two years five years One month and three months and and nine and one and two and five and or less months six months months year years years undated Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Deposits by banks 32,869 2,585 1,062 148 187 237 442 94 37,624 Customer accounts 264,949 49,271 29,693 10,605 12,674 7,219 5,002 8,021 387,434 Debt securities in issue 8,334 17,201 6,836 3,046 3,460 8,718 13,308 4,658 65,561 Subordinated liabilities and other borrowed funds 488 224 228 83 944 273 4,958 26,253 33,451 Other liabilities 9,671 7,273 3,500 1,360 528 715 889 11,685 35,621 Total liabilities 316,311 76,554 41,319 15,242 17,793 17,162 24,599 50,711 559,691 Risk review 123 Derivatives financial instruments on an theoverall contract is in an asset of liability position.
The undiscountedbasis receiving leg is not shown in this table and as a result the Derivative financial instruments include those net settled derivative amounts in this table are inated by their exclusion.
derivative contracts in a net liability position, together with Derivative financial instruments make up 9 per cent of the Group thepay leg of gross settled contracts regardless of whether balance sheet.
2013 Between Between Between Between Between Between More than one month three six months nine months one year two years five years One month and three months and and nine and one and two and five and or less months six months months year years years undated Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Derivative financial instruments 204,012 174,783 149,101 98,972 88,696 110,913 142,221 82,249 1,050,947 2012 Between Between Between Between Between Between More than one month three six months nine months one year two years five years One month and three months and and nine and one and two and five and or less months six months months year years years undated Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Derivative financial instruments 230,192 215,322 193,576 45,166 35,069 208,875 13,449 46,977 988,626 Operational risk risks that arise from those activities as an integral part of Operational risk is the potential for loss arising from the failure of theirrst line of defence responsibilities.
Products and services people, process or technology or the impact of external events.
offeredtoclients and customers in all our markets are also Operational risk exposures are managed through a consistent assessed and authorised in accordance with product set of management processes that drive risk identication, governance procedures.
We seek to control Although operational risk exposures can take many varied operational risks to ensure that operational losses do not cause forms, we seek to manage them in accordance with standards material damage to the Groups franchise.
that drive systematic risk identication, assessment, control and Operational risks can arise from all business lines and from all monitoring.
These standards are challenged and reviewed activities carried out by the Group.
We seek to systematically regularly to ensure their ongoing effectiveness.
To support the identify and manage operational risk by segmenting all the systematic identication of material operational risk exposures Groups activities into manageable units.
Each of these has an associated with a given process, we classify them into the owner who is responsible for identifying and managing all the following types: Operational risk subtypes Processing failure Potential for loss due to failure of an established process or to a process design weakness External rules and regulations Potential for actual or opportunity loss due to failure to comply with laws or regulations, or as a result of changes in laws or regulations or in their interpretation or application Liability Potential for loss or sanction due to a legal claim against any part of the Group or individuals within the Group Legal enforceability Potential for loss due to failure to protect legally the Groups interests or from difficulty in enforcing the Groups rights Damage to assets Potential for loss or damage to physical assets and other property from natural disaster and other events Safety and security Potential for loss or damage to health or safety of staff, customers or third parties arising from internal failures or the effects of external events Internal crime or dishonesty Potential for loss due to action by staff that is intended to defraud, misappropriate property or to circumvent the law or Company policy External crime Potential for loss due to criminal acts by external parties such as fraud, theft and other criminal activity including internet crime Model Potential for loss due to a significant discrepancy between the output of risk measurement models and actual experience 124 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Risk review continued Identied operational risk exposures are rated Low, In the second line of defence, Group Operational Risk is Medium, High or Very High in accordance with dened risk responsible for setting and maintaining the standards for assessment criteria.
Risks which are outside of set materiality operational risk management and control.
In addition, specialist thresholds receive a differential level of management attention operational risk control owners have responsibility for the and are reported to senior management and risk committees control of operational risk arising from the management of the up to Board level.
significant external events or internal failures following activities Group-wide: people, technology, vendor, which have occurred are analysed to identify the root cause of property, security, accounting and financial control, tax, legal any failure for remediation and future mitigation.
Actual processes, corporate authorities and structure and regulatory operational losses are systematically recorded.
compliance, as described further in the table below.
Operational risk control area People management Recruiting, developing, compensating and managing employees Technology management Developing, maintaining and using information technology, and information security Vendor management Procurement, licensing, outsourcing and supplier management Property management Managing property assets, projects and facilities Security management Protecting the security of staff and customers Regulatory compliance Maintaining relationships with regulators, evidencing compliance with banking and securities regulations and managing regulatory change Legal processes Effective documentation of material transactions and other material contractual agreements, controlling the rights pertaining to material assets of the Group, and managing material claims and legal disputes Accounting and financial Financial and management accounting, associated reporting and financial control control Tax management Maintaining relationships with tax authorities and managing the Groups tax affairs to ensure compliance with our obligations Corporate authorities and Maintaining effective corporate legal entity structure and corporate decision-making authorities structure Each risk control owner, supported by a specialist control The Group Operational Risk Committee, chaired by the GCRO, function, is responsible for identifying risks that are material oversees the management of operational risks across the tothe Group and for maintaining an effective control Group, supported by business, functional, and country-level environment, across the whole organisation.
All operational risk committees operate on the dening appropriate policies for approval by authorised risk basis of a dened structure of delegated authorities and terms committees that impose specic controls and constraints on of reference, derived from the GRC.
At the Group level, the Group Financial Crime Risk Committee provides direct oversight of operational risk relating to compliance with financial crime laws and regulations.
The Committee takes its authority directly from the GRC, providing additional oversight of these risks.
Close alignment is maintained with the Group Operational Risk Committee through overlap in membership and reporting.
Risk review 125 Reputational risk At the business level, Responsibility and Reputational Risk Reputational risk is the potential for damage to the Groups Committees have responsibility for managing reputational risk.
franchise, resulting in loss of earnings or adverse impact on At country level, the Country Head of Corporate Affairs is market capitalisation as a result of stakeholders taking a therisk control owner of reputational risk.
It is his or her negative view of the Group or its actions.
responsibility to protect our reputation in that market with Reputational risk could arise from the failure of the Group to thesupport of the country management team.
The Head effectively mitigate the risks in its businesses including one ofCorporate Affairs and Country Chief Executive officer ormore of country, credit, liquidity, market, regulatory, legal mustactively: orother operational risk.
Damage to the Groups reputation Promote awareness and application of our policies and couldcause existing clients to reduce or cease to do business procedures regarding reputational risk with the Group and prospective clients to be reluctant to do businesswith the Group.
All employees are responsible for Encourage business and functions to take account of our day-to-day identication and management of reputational risk.
reputation in all decision making, including dealings with These responsibilities form part of the Group Code of customers and suppliers Conductand are further embedded through values-based Implement effective in-country reporting systems to ensure performance assessments.
they are aware of all potential issues in tandem with Reputational risk may also arise from a failure to comply with respective business committees environmental and social standards.
Our primary environmental Promote effective, proactive stakeholder management and social impacts arise through our relationship with our clients through ongoing engagement and customers and the nancing decisions we take.
We have published a series of Position Statements which we apply in the Pension risk provision of financial services to clients who operate in sectors Pension risk is the potential for loss due to having to meet an with specic risks, and for key issues.
We have mechanisms in actuarially assessed shortfall in the Groups pension schemes.
our origination and credit processes to identify and assess The risk assessment is focused on our obligations towards our environmental and social risks, and dedicated Sustainable major pension schemes, ensuring that our funding obligation to Finance teams who review proposed transactions with these schemes is comfortably within our financial capacity.
Pension risk is monitored quarterly.
The GRC provides Group-wide oversight on reputational risk, The Group Pension Risk Committee is the body responsible sets policy and monitors material risks.
The Group Head of forgovernance of pension risk and it receives its authority Corporate Affairs is the overall risk control owner for reputational fromGRC.
The BVC and BRC provide additional oversight of reputational risk on behalf of the Board.
126 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2013 Risk review continued Summary of differences between Pillar 3 disclosures exposure at default EAD under Basel rules, whereas the and Risk review quantitative disclosures in the Risk review are based on The Groups Pillar 3 disclosures as at 31 December 2013 International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
EAD differs moreinformation can be found at investors.
com en from the IFRS exposure primarily due to the inclusion of showresults.
cfm, provide details from a regulatory perspective undrawn credit lines and off-balance sheet commitments.
In on certain aspects of credit risk, market risk and operational addition, a number of the credit risk disclosures within the Pillar risk.
The quantitative disclosures in the Pillar 3 disclosures will 3 disclosures are only provided for the internal ratings based not, however be directly comparable to those in the Risk review portfolio, which represents 80 per cent of loans and advances as they are largely based on internally modelled risk metrics to customers.
such as probability of default PD, loss given default LGD and Topic Annual Report and Accounts Pillar 3 Report Basis of The Groups Annual Report is prepared in accordance The Groups Pillar 3 disclosures provide details on requirements with the requirements of IFRS, the UK Companies Act riskfrom a regulatory perspective to full Basel II rule 2006, and the UK, Hong Kong and India Listing rules requirements which have been implemented in the UK through the Prudential Regulation Authority PRA General Prudential Sourcebook GENPRU and its Prudential Sourcebook for Banks, Building Societies and Investment Firms BIPRU Basis of The quantitative credit risk disclosures in the Risk review Provides details from a regulatory perspective on certain preparation are based on IFRS aspects of Credit risk, Market risk and Operational risk.
For Credit risk this is largely based on internally modelled Loans and advances are analysed between Consumer risk metrics such as probability of default, loss given Banking CB split byproduct, Wholesale Banking WB default LGD and exposure at default EAD under split by standard industry classicationcodes Baselrules Market risk disclosures are presented using VaR Loans and advances are analysed between those that methodology for the trading and non-trading books are internal ratings basis IRB and standardised, split by standard BIPRU categories Market risk and Operational risk disclosure are based on the capital required Coverage All external assets which have an exposure to credit risk A number of the Credit risk disclosures within the Pillar 3 disclosures are only provided for the IRB portfolio, Market risk exposure in the trading and non-trading whichrepresents 80 per cent of loans and advances books tocustomers and derivatives.
The remainder of the Liquidity risk analysis of contractual maturities, liquid portfolio is on the standardised rules as prescribed in assets and encumbered assets theBIPRU handbook Risk review 127 Summary of cross-references between the Pillar 3 disclosure and the Risk review Topic Annual Report and Accounts Pillar 3 Report Credit rating and Overview of credit risk management, credit grading and Details of IRB and standardised approach to credit risks measurement the use of IRB models is on page 72 is set out on page 19 Maximum exposure to credit risk set out on page 75 A more detailed explanation of IRB models is set out on pages 20 and 21 Internal credit grading analysis provided by business for loans neither past due nor impaired is on page 72 For the IRB portfolio, pages 41 to 43 provide an indicative mapping of the Groups credit grades in External credit grading analysis for unimpaired Treasury relation to Standard & Poors credit ratings bills and debt securities is set out on page 72 Minimum regulatory capital requirements for credit risk are set out on page 23 Credit grade analysis provided for the IRB portfolio only.
EAD within the IRB portfolio after credit risk mitigation CRM, undrawn commitments, exposure weighted average LGD and weighted average risk weight by internal credit grade on page 34 to 40 Credit risk CRM approach is on page 73 Provides details on CRM from a regulatory perspective mitigation by providing EAD after CRM by IRB exposure class.
Overview of fair value of collateral held and other credit Explanation is given on what constitutes eligible risk mitigants for the loan portfolio, with further details on collateral including explanations of funded and CB collateral on page 92 and WB collateral on page 101 unfundedprotection.
The main type of collateral for Quantitative overview of other risk mitigants including: theGroups standardised portfolio is also disclosed.
Seepages 31 and 32 Securitisations include disclosures of both retail Extensive disclosures and carrying securitisation transferred and synthetic securitisation including notional amounts, details of securitisation Master netting, CSAs and cash collateral for programmes where the Group is an originator, the derivatives accounting and governance of securitisation activities and retained exposures and carrying value risk weight bands and by geography.
Seepages 47 to 53 EAD for items subject to counterparty credit CCR risk preand post-credit mitigation is disclosed.
The products that are covered under CCR include repo style transactions and derivative transactions.
Please refer to pages 45 and 46 Loan portfolio Group overview of the loan portfolio provided by EAD by geography, split between IRB and Standardised business by geography is on page 78.
A more detailed portfolios page 26 and by industry types as specified analysis by CB product is set out on page 89 and by by BIPRU on page 27 WBcounterparty based on standard industry Maturity of EAD, split by IRB and standardised on classications on page 96 page29 Maturity analysis is provided on pages 78, 90 and 97 Problem credit Provisioning approach is set out on page 85 and Disclosures around the expected loss model used for management and denition of non-performing loans on page 84 regulatory purposes and a tabular disclosure showing provisioning the regulatory expected loss against the net individual Disclosures of non-performing loans, neither past due impairment charge.
Please see page 33 nor impaired, past due and impaired loans, individual impairment charge and portfolio impairment charge by geography, product and industry Market risk Details of the VaR methodology, and VaR trading and Provides details of the internal model approvals like the non-trading is disclosed by risk type on pages 111 to 113 Capital Adequacy 2 CAD2 that the PRA has granted the Group including the extension of the CAD 2 scope Details on Group Treasurys market risk including a table toinclude coal market risk showing a parallel shift in the yield curves is on page 114 Market risk capital requirements for the trading books are disclosed by risk type on page 56
