36 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2013 Report of the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2013 The Directors submit their report and the audited accounts of the Company for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Companys business The Company is an investment company within the meaning of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
In order to obtain exemption from capital gains tax, the Company has conducted itself with a view to being an approved investment trust for the purposes of Section1158 of the United Kingdom Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The last accounting period for which the Company has been treated as approved by HM Revenue & Customs as meeting the qualifying criteria for investment trust status is the year ended 31 December 2012 and the Company has subsequently conducted its affairs so as to enable it to continue to qualify for such approval.
The Company is not a close company for taxation purposes.
A review of the Companys business and its likely future development is given in the Chairmans statement on pages 12 and 13, the ChiefExecutives report on pages 14 and 15 and the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 29, which are incorporated by reference into this report.
In addition the Corporate Governance review and Corporate Social Responsibility review are to be treated as part of the Report ofthe Directors.
Revenue, earnings and dividend The Companys investment objective is one of capital growth and it is anticipated that returns for shareholders will derive primarily fromcapital.
No dividend will be paid for the year ended 31 December 2013 2012:nodividend.
The consolidated revenue loss for the year attributable to equity shareholders was 40,689,000 2012: loss of 17,674,000.
TheCompanys revenue loss for the year was 32,998,000 2012: loss of 16,755,000.
The consolidated capital gain for the year attributable to equity shareholders was 336,344,000 2012: gain of 149,478,000.
TheCompanys capital gain for the year was 336,472,000 2012: gain of 149,719,000.
Taking capital returns into account, the consolidated profit for the year attributable to equity shareholders was 295,655,000 2012:profitof 131,804,000.
Purchase of shares At the AGM held on 27 March 2013, the Company was authorised to purchase up to 40,685,281 shares representing 14.99% of share capital in issue on 19 February 2013.
The Directors have relied on this authority to make market purchases of shares during the year.
During 2013, the Company bought 21,866,500 shares of 100p each representing 9.5% of the Companys issued shares as at 13February 2014 at an average price of 390.6p per share and at a total cost of 85,496,176.57 plus commission and stamp duty.
Theseshares are currently held in treasury though may be cancelled.
Sinceyear end up until 13 February 2014, the Company has boughta further 4.7 million shares at an average price of 427.7p per share which are also held in treasury though may be cancelled.
Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held at 11.30 am on 28 March 2014 at Bow Bells House, 1 Bread Street, London, EC4M 9HH.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed attheAGM, together with explanations, appear in the Notice of AGM on page 98.
Strategic report Corporate information Financial information Company information SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2013 37 Directors In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and the Companys policy on tenure outlined on page 33, Andrew Sykes, LynnFordham, Caroline Goodall and Stephen Duckett will offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
David Robins offers himself for election at the Annual General Meeting following his appointment on 15 August 2013.
David has had a distinguished career in financial services spanning over 35 years.
He is currently Deputy Chairman of stockbroking and corporate advisory firm Oriel Securities, and Chairman of The Asian Total Return Investment Company plc and Fidelity Japanese Values plc.
He is also a non-executive director of Meggit plc.
Previously, David was chairman and chief executive of ING Barings following nearly 18 years with UBS.
The Board recommends that shareholders support the election of David Robins and the re-elections of other Directors who continue todemonstrate commitment to their roles and provide valuable contributions to the deliberations of the Board and itsCommittees.
Information on the independence of Directors is continued on page 32.
Biographical details of all current Directors may be found on pages 30 and 31.
For the period to 31 May 2013, Lynn Fordham had a service contract with Aberdeen SVG Private Equity Advisers Limited formerly known as SVG Advisers Limited.
Andrew Sykes is the Chairman of Aberdeen SVG Private Equity Advisers Limited and Aberdeen SVGPrivate Equity Managers Limited.
No other Director has any material interest in any other contract that is significant tothe Companys business.
Auditor The Company is required to appoint auditors for each financial year of the Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are presented.
Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to remain in office and resolutions to re-appoint them and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
TheCompany put out to tender the role of its auditors in 2012.
The Auditor provides non-audit services to the Group, including tax and regulatory services.
The Audit Committee has adopted a policy on the engagement of the Auditor to supply non-audit services to the Group.
Certain non-audit services are not permitted.
Certain types of non-audit services, including any non-audit service with a fee of greater than the lower of 50,000 or 25% of the most recent annual audit fee for the Group, must be referred to the Audit Committee for pre-approval.
Certain types of non-audit services such as tax compliance services need not be referred to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee considers whether any engagement of the auditor for non-audit services will impair objectivity and independence and seeks written confirmation from the Auditor on its policies and procedures for maintaining independence.
It is not considered that the independence of the Auditor has been prejudiced by the provision of non-audit services during 2013.
The total amount of fees paid to the Auditor with respect to the provision of non-audit services was 181,000 in 2013.
Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee may be found on the Companys website, www.
Provision of information to auditors As far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Auditor is unaware and they have taken all steps theyshould have taken as Directors in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
38 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2013 Report of the Directors continued Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the Group financial statements unless they are satisfied that they present a fair, balanced and understandable report and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Directors are comfortable that the Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2013, taken as awhole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
They have come to this view following a comprehensive review of the work undertaken bythe Audit Committee, ASVG and the Auditors including questioning of methodology and controls around the reporting process.
Inpreparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and thenapply them consistently: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirement in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand theimpact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups financial position and financial performance: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable: and state that the Group has complied with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Board confirms it is satisfied that the annual report and accounts taken as a whole are fair, balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the performance, business model and strategy of the Company.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are set out in this report, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge: the accounts, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and net return of the Group: and the Report of the Directors includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Substantial share interests As at 13 February 2014, the Company had 274,556,500 shares of 1 in issue.
43,227,208 shares were held in treasury.
The total number of voting rights as at 13 February 2014 was 231,329,292 excluding shares held in treasury.
As at 13 February 2014, the Company has been notified of the following significant direct or indirect holding of securities in theCompany.
Voting rights attached to shares Number of % of ordinary total voting shares rights Coller Investment Management Limited 54,562,875 23.59 Schroder Investment Management, Schroder Channel Islands Limited, Schroder & Co Limited 22,120,460 9.56 AEGON Investment Management BV 18,487,774 7.99 Permira Capital Limited 12,000,000 5.19 Standard Life Investments 11,932,846 5.16 AVIVA plc and its subsidiaries 10,910,696 4.72 Threadneedle Asset Management 10,326,588 4.46 Legal and General Group Plc 8,941,703 3.87 Strategic report Corporate information Financial information Company information SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2013 39 Rights attaching to shares The Company has one class of shares, namely ordinary shares, with standard rights as to voting, dividends and payment on winding-up and no special rights and obligations attaching to them.
There are no material restrictions on transfers of shares.
Other than as disclosed above, the Company is not aware of any person who has a significant direct or indirect holding of securities in the Company.
There are no restrictions on voting rights.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
The Company follows the established procedure in the Companies Act 2006 for changing articles of association and has no other rules about the amendment of the Companys articles of association.
The Board considers that all the resolutions to be put to the Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
Those Directors who are shareholders will be voting in favour of them and the Board unanimously recommends that you do so as well.
Internal control risk treatment The Code requires the Board to at least annually conduct a review of the adequacy of the Groups systems of risk management and internal control processes and report to shareholders that it has done so.
During 2013, after a careful review of the effectiveness of methods used in prior periods, a new approach to risk governance was adopted.
Unlike prior periods that focused on creating and maintaining a risk register containing risks identified largely through brain-storming and interviews, related risk ratings and completing internal audits on a relatively small number of topics capable of impacting the Company, the new approach focuses on first identifying the most important value creation objectives capable of driving sustained shareholder value, as well as objectives that are considered by management to have the highest potential to result in material erosion of shareholder value if not achieved.
Once these objectives are prioritised in terms of importance and expected impact if not achieved, decisions are made on how much formal risk assessment rigour and documentation is warranted.
After risk assessments are completed, composite residual risk ratings that indicate the overall uncertainty linked to specific objectives are assigned by the management personnel assigned to specific objectives.
The principal risks to two of the Companys top objectives, including liquidity and solvency, are identified on pages 28 and 29, along with the other risks noted at note 29 to the Accounts which provide details of the risks facing the Group.
A copy of the Groups new risk management policy is available on the Companys website at www.
The Board and management believe that implementation of this new approach to identifying, measuring, treating, and overseeing risks that create uncertainty that the Groups key strategic and core objectives will be achieved, will significantly enhance the Groups risk management and oversight capabilities and better meet the emerging expectations from the FRC in the UK and Financial Stability Board globally, and provide additional assurance to our shareholders, clients, institutional investors and regulators that risks are being managed effectively.
During the year, the Board engaged the services of Risk Oversight Inc. to assist the Board and management with the implementation of this new approach to risk and control governance.
The Board believes that the combination of the Groups new risk management and governance framework described in the Companys risk management policy, risk assessment training provided to key ASVG management personnel, reviews and feedback provided by Risk Oversight Inc. combined with the work done by Ernst & Young, the Companys external auditors, are appropriate to the Groups business as an investment trust.
The Board considers that adequate risk mitigation risk treatments controls exist over the financial reporting process.
A single team is responsible for preparing and consolidating the financial reporting for each of the Group entities and ensuring that financial information is accurate, complete, reconciled and reviewed by senior members of staff, and that transactions and balances are recognised and measured on a consistent basis and in accordance with accounting policies and financial reporting standards.
Management personnel responsible for the integrity and reliability of the Groups financial statements have completed formal risk assessments on the objective of publishing financial disclosures that are fair, balanced and understandable.
These risk assessments have been reviewed by the Audit Committee.
Although the Board believes that it has a robust framework of risk management and internal control over financial reporting in place, this can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material financial mis-statement or loss and is designed to manage, not eliminate, risk.
By order of the Board Stuart Ballard Company Secretary 14 February 2014 Registered Number: 3066856: Registered Office: Bow Bells House, 1 Bread Street, London EC4M 9HH
