30 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2013 Board of Directors Andrew Sykes Chairman Andrew Sykes was appointed as a Director on 8 February 2010 and became Chairman on8 November 2012.
He is chairman ofSmith & Williamson Holdings Limited, and Aberdeen SVG Private Equity.
He is also a non-executive director of Record plc, GulfInternational Bank UK Limited andJP Morgan Asian Investment Trust.
Committees: Audit Nominations Chairman Remuneration Lynn Fordham Chief Executive Lynn Fordham was appointed as a Director on 1 July 2008.
She is the Companys ChiefExecutive Officer.
She has over 20 years of financial experience and has worked inanumber of companies including Mobil Oil, BAA plc, Boots Group plc and MAN Group plc.
She is CEO of Aberdeen SVG Private Equity and is a non-executive director of Fuller, SmithandTurner P. L. C. Committees: Nominations Strategic report Corporate information Financial information Company information SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2013 31 David Robins Non-Executive Director, Senior Independent Director David Robins was appointed as a Director on 15 August 2013 and is the Senior Independent Director.
David has had a distinguished career in financial services spanning over 35 years.
He is currently Deputy Chairman of stock broker andcorporate advisory firm Oriel Securities, and Chairman of the Asian Total Return Investment Company plc and Fidelity Japanese Values plc.
He is also anon-executive director of Meggit plc.
Previously, David was Chairman and ChiefExecutive of ING Barings following nearly 18 years with UBS.
Committees: Audit Nominations Remuneration Stephen Duckett Non-Executive Director Stephen Duckett was appointed as a Director of the Company on 12 March 2012.
Stephen is an experienced private equity professional having worked in the industry for the past 17 years, most recently as a Managing Director of Hellman & Friedman based inLondon.
Stephen has been involved with numerous private equity transactions of varioustypes over the course of his career.
Committees: Audit Chairman Nominations Remuneration Caroline Goodall Non-Executive Director Caroline Goodall was appointed as a Director of the Company on 4 October 2010.
Sheiscurrently a consultant to international law firm Herbert Smith, where she wasapartner and held a number of senior management positions.
Caroline is an independent non-executive of accountancy firm Grant Thornton UK LLP and is a non-executive director of Next plc.
She is also a trustee oftheNational Trust and has satasa non-executive on the Governing Body ofNewnham College, Cambridge.
Committees: Audit Nominations Remuneration Chairman
