2 SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2013 Our strategy A strategy focused on both net asset growth Targeting an outperformance of public markets k In t he medium to long term, SVG Capital will evolve into a listed private equity vehicle offering investors aliquid, balanced, single point exposure to private equity and private equity related assets, allocating capitalacross the asset class dependent on market conditions.
k W e have started to build a portfolio ofalimited number of leading private equity managers focused onmanagement buyouts, building on our investment advisers core strength in manager selection.
k O ver the year we have made commitments to three leading private equity managers: Cinven, Permira andClayton Dubilier & Rice.
kk Cinvens strategy is to invest in upper kk Permira V will invest primarily in mid to kk Clayton Dubilier & Rices CD&R mid-market to large buyouts, large cap buyouts with exposure to strategy is to make control investments typicallywith an enterprise value faster-growing global markets and inupper mid-market companies in the of300m1.2bn based in Europe.
sectors, typically with an enterprise value US and Europe Germany, France and of up to 3bn.
the UK, typically with an enterprise kk Team of 54 investment staff operating from value of up to US$3bn.
five offices, Cinvens investment approach is kk Team of over 120 professionals operating sector driven with a focus on six sectors from 12 offices based around the globe, kk Team of 48 investment professionals, business services, consumer, financial Permira concentrate on five sectors: based in New York and London, services, healthcare, industrials and TMT.
consumer, TMT, industrials, financial concentrating primarily on four sectors: services and healthcare.
industrials, business services, healthcare kk Cinvens approach to growing its and consumer retail.
portfolio is based on a clearly defined kk Within these sectors Permira V will focus model that has two main pillars on acquiring businesses with market kk CD&Rs investment model is focused on viagrowth in new markets and by leadership positions, resilient thematic operational improvement within their acquisition and applying global best growth and potential to globalise.
portfolio companies utilising the practice within core existing markets.
combined skills of operating partners, kk At least 70% of Permira V will be who are former CEOs or other senior kk At 31 December 2013, the fund was invested in businesses which have corporate leaders, and private equity 20.5% called and had commited to invest orintend to have significant activities investment executives.
This partnership in six companies: Mercury Pharma and inEurope.
between private equity and operating Amdipharm healthcare, which have kk At 31 December 2013, the fund had skills runs right through the deal process been merged post-acquisition, toform announced three new investments: from origination through to dueAMCo, as part of a planned buy-andDrMartens consumer : Best Invest diligence and post investment value build strategy: Prezioso and Pronet financial services : Atrium Innovations creation stages.
businessservices : Host Europe TMT healthcare.
Strategic report Corporate information Financial information Company information SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2013 3 and total shareholder return.
Through disciplined capital allocation k A focus on both shorter and longer term shareholder returns.
1 k A target of a total of 470.0 million of capital to be returned toshareholders.
Returns of capital 253.0m m returned to shareholders 500 since Dec 2011 470.0m 450 400 350 71.9m 300 shares bought back 151.1m 250 sinceDec 2011, or a 200 23%reduction in issued share capital 150 101.1m 100 50 0.8m 0 2011 2012 2013 Target 1 It is expected that these returns of capital will be in the form of buy-backs, regular tender offers and dividends and will be dependent on the size and timing of distributions from the existing investment portfolio and the requirement of SVG Capital to comply with the constraints of its senior borrowings: relevant taxation andother legislation: the Companys overall priority of maintaining a prudent level of debt and in subsequent years, the renewal of relevant shareholder authorities.
Thepricing of any tenders will be with reference to net asset value at the time of the tender
