20 20 Governance Board of Directors Lord Harris of Peckham 70 Baroness Noakes 64 Chairman Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director Lord Harris is now in his 56th year in carpet retailing and is one of Baroness Noakes, a chartered accountant, joined the Board in the best known names in the business.
He was Chairman and Chief February 2001.
She is a Non-Executive Director of Severn Trent plc, Executive of Harris Queensway plc from 1964 until the company the Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc and is a trustee of the was taken over in 1988.
Lord Harris is a Non-Executive Director of Thomson-Reuters Founders Share Company.
Previously she was Arsenal Holdings plc and Arsenal Football Club plc.
He was a Nonwith KPMG for 30 years and was the Senior Non-Executive Director Executive Director of Great Universal Stores plc for 18 years until of the Bank of England and a Non-Executive Director of Hanson plc July 2004 and was a Non-Executive Director of Matalan plc for two and ICI plc.
Baroness Noakes was appointed Deputy Chairman in years until January 2007.
He stepped down from the position of May 2012.
She chairs the Nomination Committee.
Chief Executive of Carpetright in May 2012.
Alan Dickinson 62 Darren Shapland 46 Non-Executive Director Chief Executive Alan Dickinson joined the Board in October 2010.
He spent more Darren took up his current role as Chief Executive in May 2012. than 35 years in banking and is a former Executive Committee He was a Non-Executive Director of Carpetright between September member of the Royal Bank of Scotland RBS Group and Chief 2011 and May 2012.
He was previously an Executive Director of Executive of both RBS UK and the banks UK Corporate Banking J Sainsbury plc until July 2011 in the roles as its Chief Financial business.
He is also Chairman of Brown Shipley and a NonOfficer and its Group Development Director and was Chairman Executive Director of the Nationwide Building Society, Frogmore of Sainsburys Bank plc until February 2013.
He was the Group Property Company Limited and Willis Limited.
He chairs the Finance Director of Carpetright between 2002 and 2005, and prior Remuneration Committee.
to that was the Finance Director of Superdrug Stores plc.
Between Sandra Turner 60 1988 and 2000 he held a number of financial and operational roles Non-Executive Director at Arcadia plc formerly The Burton Group.
He is also a Sandra Turner joined the Board in October 2010.
She spent Non-Executive Director of Ladbrokes plc where he chairs its 21 years at Tesco and was part of its senior management team, Audit Committee.
holding senior commercial and operational roles in the UK and Ireland.
From 2003 to 2009 she was the Commercial Director of Neil Page 49 Group Finance Director Tesco Ireland.
She is a Non-Executive Director of McBride plc, Neil Page joined Carpetright in July 2008 as Group Finance Countrywide plc and Huhtamki Oyj and was previously a NonDirector.
Neil began his career with British Rail and Marks Executive Director of Northern Foods plc.
She chairs the Customer and Spencer.
He joined Superdrug in 1991, holding a variety of and Corporate Responsibility Committee.
finance and operational positions before taking up the role of David Clifford 61 Finance and IT Director for AS Watson Health & Beauty UK Ltd Non-Executive Director in July 2002.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of David Clifford, a chartered accountant, joined the Board in Management Accountants.
He was previously a senior partner with KPMG.
Throughout his career he held a variety of roles and led the Martin Harris 44 Group Development Director Consumer Markets Unit of KPMG for a period, advising a number Martin Harris took up his current role as Group Development of retailers.
He is a Trustee and the Treasurer of the Gurkha Welfare Director in May 2013 and is responsible for the development of all Trust.
He chairs the Audit Committee.
aspects of Carpetrights customer-facing activities, including store Andrew Page 54 development, marketing and the further evolution of the digital Non-Executive Director channel marketing.
Martin is also responsible for our Corporate Andrew will join the Board in July 2013.
He is the Chief Responsibility programme.
Martin first joined Carpetright in 1991, Executive of The Restaurant Group plc.
Prior to joining The previously having been an Executive Director of Harveys Furnishing Restaurant Group plc, he held a number of senior positions in the Group Limited.
He became Marketing Director in 1997, resigning leisure and hospitality industry including Senior Vice President to become a Non-Executive Director in 1998 before returning to the with InterContinental Hotels and Finance Director of Hanover Executive Director position of Buying Director in 2002.
He was the International plc.
Prior to that, Andrew spent six years as a Group Commercial Director from 2003 until May 2013 with Corporate Financier with Kleinwort Benson, having trained and responsibility for buying, logistics and marketing.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2013
