36 36 Governance continued Other information Directors interests The beneficial interests of those persons who were Directors as at 27 April 2013 and their immediate families in the ordinary shares of the Company are set out below.
27 April 2013 28 April 2012 Lord Harris 12,377,481 12,608,393 Martin Harris 4,102,682 3,939,954 Darren Shapland 25,419 Neil Page 10,029 9,802 Baroness Noakes 32,225 32,225 David Clifford 5,000 Alan Dickinson Sandra Turner In addition, Lord Harris has a non-beneficial interest in 229,514 shares 2012: 196,414.
139,000 of these shares are included within Martin Harriss beneficial interests.
The Executive Directors have an indirect interest in 27,869 shares held in trust to satisfy awards made under the LTIP.
Save as disclosed in this section, none of the Directors has any non-beneficial interests in the shares of the Company.
Between 27 April 2013 and the date of this report 40 shares have been purchased for each of Lord Harris and Neil Page, and 39 shares have been purchased for Martin Harris under the Companys AESOP.
There have been no other changes to the above shareholdings.
Save as disclosed herein, no Director had a material interest in any contract or arrangement with the Company during the year, other than through their respective service contracts.
Details of transactions during the period with companies of which Lord Harris and or Martin Harris is a Director and or in which Lord Harris holds a material interest are noted below.
All of these transactions are on normal commercial terms.
Supplies of goods services Lease and concession Supplies of goods services agreement payments made payments received payments made 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 000 000 000 000 000 000 Edinburgh Retail LLP 143 267 Greenock Retail Ltd 253 226 Harris Ventures Ltd 62 62 2 3 29 Hull Unit Trust 193 387 As at 27 April 2013 the Group owed related parties nil 2012: nil.
Directors indemnity arrangements The Company has provided qualifying third-party indemnities for the benefit of each Director and former Director who held office during the 2012 13 financial year.
The Company has also purchased and maintained Directors and Officers liability insurance throughout the 2012 13 financial year.
Creditors payment policy While the Group does not follow any formal code or standard on payment practice, it agrees terms and conditions for its business transactions when orders for goods and services are placed, and includes the relevant terms in contracts where appropriate.
These arrangements are adhered to when making payments subject to the terms and conditions being met by suppliers.
The number of trade creditor days outstanding at the period end for the Company was 55 days 2012: 56 days.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Business review Governance Financial statements 37 37 Significant agreements change of control There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, such as bank loan agreements and employee share plans.
None of these are deemed to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the business of the Group as a whole except for: a term loan and revolving facilities agreement dated 19 March 2008, as amended and restated most recently on 27 June 2011, for term loans of 14m and 22m and a revolving credit facility of 45m, which provides that on a change of control all lenders commitments are cancelled and all outstanding loans, together with accrued interest, will become immediately due and payable.
Details of balance at the financial year end can be found at note 23 to the consolidated financial statements: and under the Companys all-employee and discretionary share schemes, a change of control of the Company would normally be a vesting event, facilitating the exercise or transfer of awards, subject to any relevant performance conditions being satisfied.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director or officer that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions in the Companys share plans may cause options and awards granted under such plans to vest on a takeover.
There is no information that the Company would be required to disclose about persons with whom it has contractual or other arrangements which are essential to the business of the Company.
Share capital Details of the Companys issued share capital can be found in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
All of the Companys issued ordinary shares are fully paid up and rank equally in all respects.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are contained in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company Secretary.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys report and accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or on the exercise of voting rights attached to them, except i where the Company has exercised its right to suspend their voting rights or to prohibit their transfer following the omission of their holder or any person interested in them to provide the Company with information requested by it in accordance with Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006 or ii where their holder is precluded from exercising voting rights by the FSAs Listing Rules or the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that might result in the restriction of transfer or voting rights in relation to the shares held by such shareholders.
Shares acquired through Carpetrights employee share schemes rank equally with all other ordinary shares in issue and have no special rights.
The Trustee of the Companys Employee Benefit Trust EBT has waived its rights to dividends on shares held by the EBT and does not exercise its right to vote in respect of such shares.
Shares held in trust on behalf of participants in the All Employee Share Ownership Plan are voted by the Trustee as directed by the participants.
Details of share-based payments, including information regarding the shares held by the EBT, can be found in notes 24 and 25 to the financial statements on pages 70 to 72. www.
uk 38 38 Governance continued Other information continued Substantial shareholdings As at 24 June 2013, the Company has been notified of the following substantial shareholdings, other than those of the Directors, in the issued share capital of the Company: Total number Percentage of shares held of shares held Franklin Templeton Institutional, LLC 10,865,418 16.1% The Olayan Group 9,397,513 13.9% Harris Associates Inc 6,614,414 9.8% Cascade Investments LLP 4,693,658 7.0% Artisan Partners LP 4,051,465 6.0% UBS 2,363,263 3.5% 1 A H Palmer and E A OKeeffe as joint trustees 2,158,232 3.2% 1.
Of these shares, 793,000 are held on behalf of Martin Harris and so are also included in his reported holding on page 36.
Donations Charitable donations of 253 2012: 175,000 were made during the year.
No political donations were made 2012: nil.
Investor relations There is a formal investor relations programme based around the results presentations and interim management statements.
All of the NonExecutive Directors are available to attend meetings should shareholders so request.
The Chairman and Executive Directors feed back any investor comments to the Board.
All Directors normally attend the Annual General Meeting and are available to answer any questions that shareholders may raise.
All shareholders will have at least 20 working days notice of the Annual General Meeting.
As required by the Code the Board will, at the 2013 Annual General Meeting, announce the proxy votes in favour of and against each resolution following a vote by a show of hands, and the votes cast will be posted on the corporate website.
Authority to purchase own shares At the 2012 Annual General Meeting shareholders gave the Company renewed authority to purchase a maximum of 6,754,651 shares of one penny each.
This resolution remains valid until the date of this years Annual General Meeting.
As at 27 April 2013, the Directors had not used this authority.
The Companys present intention is to cancel any shares acquired under such authority, unless purchased to satisfy outstanding awards under employee share incentive plans.
A resolution seeking renewal of the authority will be proposed at this years Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The 2013 Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on 5 September 2013 at Harris House, Purfleet Bypass, Purfleet, Essex RM19 1TT at 12.00 noon.
A full description of the business to be conducted at the meeting is set out in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Business review Governance Financial statements Business review Governance Financial statements 39 39 Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
UK company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group and Parent Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Company and Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state that the financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information on the Companys websites.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Going concern The Directors confirm that, after reviewing expenditure commitments, expected cash flows and borrowing facilities, they have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the next financial year and the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Further details of the Groups liquidity are given in the financial review on page 14.
Disclosure of information to auditors Each of the Directors of the Company has confirmed that, as far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware and that each Director has taken all steps to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Responsibility Statement Each of the Directors whose names and details are set out on page 20 of this report confirms that to the best of their knowledge: the financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the business review, which is incorporated into the Directors report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
This Directors Report, including the Statement of Directors responsibilities, has been approved by the Board.
By order of the Board Jeremy Sampson Company Secretary and Legal Director 24 June 2013 www.
