230986 Temple Bar pp01-pp14 14 02 2014 17:22 Page 8 Active investment working for you Managers report wisdom dictated that those assets relative to the Armageddon-like most assisted by large scale bond forecasts used just five years earlier.
In purchases, would be most vulnerable contrast, commodity related stocks to a change in policy.
The Federal performed very poorly reflecting Reserve consequently moved into increased investor scepticism over the oratory overdrive to assuage durability of Chinese economic investors fears, stressing that shortgrowth.
term interest rates would remain low Many companies previously lauded until various indicators, of the Feds for their stable earnings streams choice, suggested a strong economic found themselves under the cosh in recovery.
This tactic worked the second half of the year.
This remarkably well, and rather than stemmed from concerns over i simply pacifying equity investors, increasing bond yields many of clearly appealed to their animal these stocks such as utilities are instincts.
relatively high yielders and are often The FTSE All-Share index, the index valued in comparison with bonds and most relevant to the Temple Bar ii emerging market weakness an portfolio, finished the year within a area previously considered immune whisker of its all-time high and rose from any worries of slowdown.
Investors spent much of 2013 by 16.7% in 2013, although this was However, there were also specific guessing the likely actions of the outshone by the FTSE 250 index factors which hampered performance worlds central banks, particularly the which rose 28.8% and the FTSE of these defensive sectors.
Each fresh US Smaller Companies index which rose example, tobacco stocks were economic data release was studied by 29.6%.
held back by the emergence of carefully for evidence of Within the UK equity market, e-cigarettes, a product which offers improvement, and positive news those stocks and sectors most smokers both health and financial increased expectations that the sensitive to developed world benefits.
Utilities were affected by Federal Reserve would soon rein in its economic recovery for example, political posturing amidst debate over massive bond buying experiment.
media, construction and financial aggressive pricing.
Mainstream food When first considered by markets in services were amongst the best retailers experienced both upmarket mid-year, this caused a mini sell-off in places to be invested.
Investors were and discount operators aggressively many assets and stoked concerns over content valuing these companies on stealing market share and some more significant falls.
Conventional optimistic long-term scenarios branded drink and food companies Within the UK equity market, those stocks and sectors most sensitive to developed world economic recovery for example, media, construction and financial services were amongst the best places to be invested.
8 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 230986 Temple Bar pp01-pp14 14 02 2014 17:22 Page 9 Active investment working for you Managers report continued found price increases much harder to With equity markets buoyant as the year push through to consumers.
The performance of the Temple Bar ended, one might expect earnings growth to portfolio in 2013 reflected most of be very strong: however, this is not the case.
Many of the strongest performers such as Kingspan, Travis Perkins, Grafton and SIG were construction related.
It was revealing that this performance was not against a backdrop of increased earnings forecasts, but instead reflected investors desire to value more highly mining shares.
It would be easy, but impossible to rationalise price a largely unchanged earnings stream.
wrong, to blame the meltdown in gold movements: the gold price was Signet Jewelers, one of the portfolios mining shares entirely on the incredibly strong between 2000 and largest holdings, continued to perform weakness of gold bullion.
Gold mining 2011 and was therefore probably well as the company cemented its companies have, for years, been too vulnerable to a correction.
This, position as the leading speciality lax on operational costs, too bullish however, developed into a significant jewellery company in the US.
BT also on assumptions used in projects and fall as investors became more performed strongly with investors too eager to commit vast sums to sceptical as to the likelihood and pace applauding its strategy a significant capital expenditure.
While we were of a reduction in monetary largesse by u-turn against a few years back when, aware of this, our investment decision the Federal Reserve.
as an incumbent telecoms company, it was overly swayed by the belief that With equity markets buoyant as was viewed as the whipping boy of the gold price was by far the most the year ended, one might expect the many new competitors in the important factor in these companies earnings growth to be very strong: industry.
Vodafone shares rose as valuations.
As illustrated by the however, this is not the case.
Earnings investors reconsidered the overall miners share price weakness even downgrades are in the majority in value of the company, particularly when the gold price was rising, this both Europe and the US and earnings once it became clear that its stake in assumption was erroneous.
growth year on year is flattish.
Verizon Wireless was close to Meanwhile, the price of gold Equities have therefore, in general, crystallization.
peaked in the summer of 2011 and moved higher as a consequence of a The poorest performance on the fell approximately one-third between re-rating of companies profits.
We portfolio by some distance was autumn 2012 and the end of 2013. think that in many cases this re-rating generated by gold bullion and gold Even with hindsight it is often is excessive and that valuations now P T ortfolio distribution % emple Bar FTSE All-Share portfolio Index % % Industrials 16.10 10.26 Financials 16.94 23.92 Health Care 7.20 7.27 Oil & Gas 12.93 14.40 The poorest performance on the Telecommunications 11.00 7.26 Consumer Services 8.79 10.69 portfolio by some distance was Consumer Goods 10.38 13.27 Utilities 1.69 3.53 generated by gold bullion and gold Technology 1.44 1.61 Basic Materials 0.70 7.79 mining shares.
Total Equities 87.17 100.00 Fixed Interest 11.27 0.00 Cash 1.56 0.00 100.00 100.00 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 9 230986 Temple Bar pp01-pp14 14 02 2014 17:22 Page 10 Active investment working for you Managers report continued ask too much of these companies of normalised profits are too low.
If so, Unilever, BT and Signet Jewelers were prospects.
Frustratingly, we are finding companies are definitely worth more, reduced.
far fewer valuation outliers in current but we can find no great reason why a Some of the proceeds of the new markets than we would typically greater percentage of the economic share issuance, and the additional expect.
For example, even in the pie should now be permanently loan taken out during the year, were rabidly expensive market of the late allocated to the corporate sector.
invested in larger companies such as 1990s there were a number of very Capitalism should ensure that BP, Royal Dutch Shell and HSBC.
These cheap stocks, stigmatised by their competition will increase to drive companies have been out of favour characterisation as old economy profit margins back down or costs, for many years and now trade on low stocks.
Currently, the dispersion of most likely labour costs and or taxes, valuations relative to the market.
All valuations is much tighter.
will move higher to elicit the same three have cost cutting opportunities As we are often reminded there is effect.
on which to focus as well as an little difference between being early Many investors seem to be drawn apparent desire to improve capital and being wrong.
So how can we to equities as the least ugly asset allocation.
Success in these areas assure shareholders that we are not class.
With bonds seemingly could drive increases in profitability, too early in our relatively cautious friendless, where else is there, they cashflow and higher valuations.
We can offer no useful answer say, to invest?
Whats more, as the we are waiting, the dividend yields on here.
Our approach is based on market has ground higher in-line with all three shares are a significant boost valuation not momentum.
We buy the wishes of central banks many to the revenue account.
when we believe shares are cheap and investors have thought it increasingly Two acquisitions were made of sell when they move to fair value.
If unwise to fight the Fed.
We are companies at the lower end of the we can find nothing cheap to replace doubtful that the best way to make market capitalisation we consider.
what we have sold, we will wait money is to invest in an asset because Defence company Chemring had lost patiently with cash and short-dated it looks less egregiously priced than favour with investors post a multibonds until we can.
year acquisition binge which ended in extreme patience, so be it.
The Portfolio activity levels have been profit warnings, management alternative is to fine-tune our reasonably low this year.
During the departures and a growing level of exposure to the market through use period we reduced the portfolios indebtedness.
Our analysis suggests of momentum indicators.
We are exposure to building and construction that the new management has the uncomfortable with this approach as related stocks through the complete opportunity to restructure both the it is impossible to use in tandem with sale of Travis Perkins and partial sales companys operations and its finances our valuation beliefs.
However hard of Grafton Group and SIG.
Whilst we and to restore higher levels of we try, we find ourselves unable to believe that the markets long-term profitability to the company.
hold an expensive stock simply profit expectations for these We also purchased a REIT, Green because it appears to have the wind companies are realistic, the Property.
This new issue specifically behind it.
companies valuations are less targets Irish commercial property As always, we must consider why forgiving and, therefore, leave the following very significant falls in value our views may be incorrect.
Perhaps shares vulnerable to any disappointing from their peak.
With the Irish company profits have reached a news.
Similarly, large positions in economy apparently stabilising, prime higher plateau and our assumptions Frustratingly, we are finding far fewer valuation outliers in current markets than we would typically expect.........
However hard we try, we find ourselves unable to hold an expensive stock simply because it appears to have the wind behind it.
10 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 230986 Temple Bar pp01-pp14 14 02 2014 17:22 Page 11 Active investment working for you Managers report continued We remain concerned that we have It is always tempting to shoot the dogs in the not yet seen the full effects of the portfolio but we see a number of reasons to new-fangled monetary policy introduced in the last five years and retain, and even increase, our gold exposure.
worry that some of the unintended consequences may more than cancel out the apparent positives.
The global financial crisis of 2008 was blamed to a large extent on the high amount of debt in developed economies.
Much of this debt remains and can only be significantly reduced via unpleasant commercial property offers attractive little inflation, remaining confident outcomes such as inflation, taxation yields at depressed prices.
that the former would be easier to or default.
We believe financial It is always tempting to shoot the control.
This view could return to markets remain vulnerable to dogs in the portfolio but we see a haunt them and under this scenario reasonably small changes in certain number of reasons to retain, and even golds attractions would be increased.
variables such as interest rates, increase, our gold exposure.
Whilst the Gold provides us with some economic growth or inflation.
market now sees the end of large protection against the failure of Typically, we would accept these scale bond buying, the process is only current policy to return the US and unknown macro-economic outcomes just starting.
Slightly fewer bonds other major economies to full health.
as the risks equity investors must bear than previously are now being This insurance policy is well worth to generate decent returns.
However, purchased each month by the Federal retaining despite or perhaps because at this juncture we believe equity Reserve: a number of stars must align of its non-consensual nature in valuations discount the most bullish before purchases are eliminated current markets.
Whilst we remain happy entirely.
For example, the authorities Gold shares are a tougher call.
with the stocks we own, and content continue to keep a keen eye on the Company management recognizes as long-term investors, we look worrying lack of inflation.
If this that operational changes are required forward to more attractive moves ever lower, a surprise reversal and that cash generation is of major opportunities to use the liquidity of tapering may be required.
could lead to renewed interest in gold.
Sentiment towards gold mining shares Alternatively, the prospect of is currently so poor that we believe higher than expected inflation is there is little in the price for either an worthy of consideration.
Central improvement in operational bankers continue to prefer the risk of performance or stability in the gold generating too much rather than too price.
Alastair Mundy For Investec Asset Management Limited 12 February 2014 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 11
