230986 Temple Bar pp19-pp30 14 02 2014 17:28 Page 19 Active investment working for you Report of the directors The directors present their report and accounts for the year regulations.
It is the intention of the Board to continue to satisfy these regulations.
SHARE CAPITAL MANAGEMENT OF THE COMPANY During the year 2,771,881 ordinary shares of 25p were The Company has a management agreement with IAM for allotted fully paid for a total consideration of 32,590,335 the provision of investment management, secretarial, at prices representing a premium to the prevailing net asset accounting and administrative services.
subject to one years notice of termination by either party.
IAM receives an investment management fee of 0.35% Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 per annum, payable quarterly, based on the value of the The following information is disclosed in accordance with investments including cash of the Company.
Investments Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006. in funds managed by IAM are wholly excluded from this charge.
Capital Structure IAMs performance under the contract and the contract The Companys capital structure is summarised on page 41. terms are reviewed at least annually.
This covers, inter alia, Since the year end a further 100,000 ordinary shares have the performance of the Manager, their management been issued taking the total number of ordinary shares in processes, investment style, resources and risk controls.
Board endorses the investment approach adopted by the Manager, recognising that while the contrarian style can Voting Rights in the Companys Shares sometimes lead to short-term periods of underperformance The voting rights at 31 December 2013 were: it usually delivers good investment returns over a longer Number of Voting rights Total Share class shares issued per share voting rights term.
The Companys performance over three and five year periods relative to both its benchmark and its peer group Ordinary shares has been excellent.
In addition, the portfolio has produced of 25p each 63,323,248 1 63,323,248 high and growing dividend income to shareholders.
In the As at 12 February 2014, the share capital of the Company opinion of the directors the continued appointment of the and total voting rights was 63,423,248.
Deadlines for the Manager on the terms set out above is, therefore, in the exercise of voting rights and details of arrangements by best interests of shareholders.
which someone other than the registered shareholder can exercise voting rights are detailed in the Notes to the Notice GOING CONCERN of Meeting on page 48.
The Companys ordinary shares have The directors have reviewed the going concern basis of a Premium listing on the London Stock Exchange.
The Companys assets consist substantially of equity shares in listed companies and in DIRECTORS most circumstances are realisable within a short timescale.
The directors of the Company who held office at the end of The use of the going concern basis of accounting is the year are detailed on page 2.
No other person was a appropriate because there are no material uncertainties director during any part of the year.
Details of directors related to events or conditions that may cast significant beneficial shareholdings may be found in the Report on doubt about the ability of the Company to continue as a directors remuneration on page 22. going concern.
After making enquiries, the directors have a All the directors will be retiring in compliance with the reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate provisions of the AIC Code and, each being eligible, the resources to continue in operational existence for the Board recommends their re-election.
In making these foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the directors continue to recommendations the Board has carefully reviewed the adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
composition of the Board as a whole and borne in mind the need for a proper balance of skills and experience.
The Board ORDINARY DIVIDENDS does not believe that length of service of itself detracts An interim dividend of 15.10p per ordinary share was paid from the independence of a director, particularly in relation on 30 September 2013 2012: 14.65p and the directors are to an investment trust, and on that basis considers that all recommending a final dividend of 22.65p per ordinary share directors standing for re-election are independent.
It is 2012: 22.00p, a total for the year of 37.75p 2012: confirmed that, following formal evaluation, the 36.65p.
Subject to shareholders approval, the final performance of each director continues to be effective and dividend will be paid on 31 March 2014 to shareholders on each continues to demonstrate commitment to the role.
There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of the year in which a director of the Company is or was ISAs The Company has conducted its investment policy so as to interested and which are or were significant in relation to remain a qualifying investment trust under the ISA the Companys business.
No director has a service contract with the Company.
Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 19 230986 Temple Bar pp19-pp30 14 02 2014 17:28 Page 20 Active investment working for you Report of the directors continued SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS shareholders to do so.
Any such issues would only be made As at 31 December 2013 and 12 February 2014 the at prices greater than net asset value, as adjusted for the following were registered or had indicated an interest in 3% market value of the Companys debt and would, therefore, or more of the issued ordinary shares of the Company.
increase the assets underlying each share.
The issue % proceeds would be available for investment in line with the Companys investment policy.
Brewin Dolphin Ltd 11.2 No issues of shares will be made which would alter the Alliance Trust Savings Ltd 8.6 control of the Company without the prior approval of Speirs & Jeffrey Ltd 6.5 shareholders in general meeting.
Temple Bar Savings Scheme 5.4 Investec Wealth & Investment Ltd 5.0 Directors authority to purchase the Companys own AXA SA 3.1 shares The directors consider it desirable to give the Company the DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITOR opportunity to buy back shares in circumstances where the The directors are not aware of any relevant information of shares may be bought for a price which is below the net which the auditor is unaware and have taken all the steps asset value per share of the Company.
The purchase of that they ought to have taken as directors in order to make ordinary shares is intended to reduce the discount at which themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to ordinary shares trade in the market through the Company establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that becoming a new source of demand for ordinary shares.
rules of the UK Listing Authority provide that the maximum price which can be paid by the Company is 5% above the AUDITOR average of the market value of the ordinary shares for the A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditor to five business days before the purchase is made.
the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 24 March 2014.
Electronic Communications A special resolution is proposed to seek general authority ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING from shareholders to send or supply documents or The notice of the Annual General Meeting of the Company information to shareholders in electronic form e. g. by to be held on 24 March 2014 is on page 46.
In addition to email or by means of a website, so taking advantage of the ordinary business the following matters are proposed as company legislation regarding electronic communications special business.
Authority to allot shares and disapplication of Recommendation pre-emption rights The Board considers the resolutions to be proposed at the It is proposed that the directors be authorised to allot up to AGM to be in the best interests of the Company and its 1,585,581 of relevant securities in the Company members as a whole.
Accordingly, the directors unanimously equivalent to 6,342,324 ordinary shares of 25p each, recommend that shareholders should vote in favour of the representing 10.0% of its ordinary shares in issue as at resolutions to be proposed at the AGM, as they intend to do 12 February 2014. so in respect of their own beneficial holdings, amounting to When shares are to be allotted for cash, the Companies 105,845 ordinary shares.
Act 2006 requires such new shares to be offered first to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings of ordinary shares.
However, in certain circumstances, it is beneficial to allot shares for cash otherwise than pro rata to existing shareholders and the ordinary shareholders can by special resolution waive their pre-emption rights.
Therefore, a special resolution will be By order of the Board of Directors proposed at the AGM which, if passed, will give the directors John Reeve the power to allot for cash equity securities up to an Chairman aggregate nominal amount of 1,585,581 equivalent to 12 February 2014 6,342,324 ordinary shares of 25p each or 10.0% of the Companys existing issued ordinary share capital.
The directors intend to use this authority to issue new shares to participants in the Temple Bar Investment Trust Savings Scheme or to other prospective purchasers whenever they believe it may be advantageous to 20 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013
