230986 Temple Bar pp01-pp14 14 02 2014 17:22 Page 2 Active investment working for you Directors John Reeve June fide Moller John Reeve, Chairman, was appointed a director in 1992.
He June fide Moller was appointed a director in 2005.
She is a was formerly executive chairman of the Willis Group, group non-executive director of Derwent London PLC and a managing director of Sun Life Assurance Society and a former managing director of Carlton Communications PLC.
member of the boards of the Association of British Insurers She was previously a non-executive director of J Sainsbury and the International Insurance Society.
He is a director of a PLC, Cookson Group PLC and BT PLC.
Martin Riley Arthur Copple Martin Riley was appointed a director in 2004.
Arthur Copple was appointed a director in 2011.
He has He had 30 years experience in stockbroking and fund specialised in the investment company sector for over 30 management in the City and is a former director of years.
He was a partner at Kitcat & Aitken, an executive Henderson Crosthwaite Ltd, Guinness Mahon & Co Ltd and director of Smith New Court PLC and a managing director Barlows PLC.
He is a director of various private investment of Merrill Lynch.
Currently, he acts as an adviser to companies.
investment management groups and is a director of a number of other companies.
David Webster David Webster was appointed a director in 2009.
His career Richard Jewson started in corporate finance at Samuel Montagu before Richard Jewson was appointed a director in 2001.
He first becoming a founder and subsequently chairman of Safeway worked in the timber and building material supply industry, PLC from which he retired in 2004.
He is currently a nonbecoming managing director of Jewson, the builders executive director of Amadeus IT Holdings SA.
He has a merchants, for twelve years from 1974, and then managing wide range of other business interests including director and chairman of its parent company Meyer membership of the Appeals Committee of the Panel on International PLC from which he retired in 1993.
He is Takeovers and Mergers.
He was previously chairman of currently chairman of Raven Russia Limited and Tritax Big InterContinental Hotels Group PLC and a non-executive Box REIT PLC and a non-executive director of other private director of Reed Elsevier PLC.
All the directors are independent and members of the audit and nomination committees.
Below, left to right: John Reeve, Martin Riley, June fide Moller.
Chairman of the audit committee and Senior Independent Director.
Bottom, left to right: Richard Jewson, David Webster, Arthur Copple.
2 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013
