230986 Temple Bar pp15-pp18 14 02 2014 17:24 Page 15 Active investment working for you Strategic report The directors present the strategic report for the Company The Companys long-term investment strategy for the year ended 31 December 2013. emphasises: The strategic report is designed to replace and enhance Achieving a portfolio yield of between 120-140% of that reporting previously included in the Business Review of the FTSE All-Share Index.
section of the Report of the Directors.
Its purpose is to help Stocks of companies that are out of favour and whose shareholders assess how the directors have performed their share prices do not match the Managers assessment of duty to promote the success of the Company during the their longer term value.
During the year the portfolio yield was lower than the above target for the reasons set out in the Chairmans Business of the Company Statement on page 4.
Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC was incorporated in 1926 From time to time fixed interest holdings or non equity with the registered number 214601. interests may be held for yield enhancement and other The Company carries on business as an investment purposes.
Derivative instruments are used in certain company under Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 circumstances, and with the prior approval of the Board, for and has been approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an hedging purposes or to exploit a specific investment investment trust in accordance with Section 1158 of the opportunity.
Liquidity and borrowings are managed with the aim of The Companys principal business activity of investment increasing returns to shareholders.
The Companys net management is sub-contracted to Investec Asset gearing range may fluctuate between 0% and 30%, based Management Limited IAM under the ultimate supervision on the current balance sheet structure, with an absolute of the board of directors.
A review of the business is given in the Chairmans As a general rule it is the Boards intention that the Statement and the Managers Report.
The results of the portfolio should be reasonably fully invested.
An investment Company are shown on page 31. level of 90% of shareholder funds is regarded as a guideline minimum investment level dependent on market Investment objective and policy conditions.
The Companys investment objective is to provide growth in Risk is managed through diversification of holdings, income and capital to achieve a long-term total return investment limits set by the Board and appropriate financial greater than the benchmark FTSE All-Share Index, through and other controls relating to the administration of assets.
investment primarily in UK securities.
The Companys policy is to invest in a broad spread of securities with typically the Investment approach The investment approach of the Manager is premised on a majority of the portfolio selected from the constituents of contrarian view on the timing of buy and sell decisions, the FTSE 350 Index.
buying the shares of companies when sentiment towards The UK equity element of the portfolio will be mostly them is thought to be near its worst and selling them as invested in the FTSE All-Share Index: however, exceptional fundamental profit improvement and or re-evaluation of positions may be sanctioned by the Board and up to 20% of their long-term prospects takes place.
the portfolio may be held in listed international equities in The belief is that repeated investor behaviour in driving developed economies.
The Company may continue to hold down the prices of out of favour companies to below their securities that cease to be quoted or listed if the Manager fair value will offer investment opportunities.
This will allow considers this to be appropriate.
There is an absolute limit the Company to purchase shares at significant discounts to of 10% on individual stocks with a maximum exposure to a their fair value and to sell them as they become more fully specific industrial or commercial sector of 25%, in each valued, principally as a result of predictable patterns in case irrespective of their weightings in the benchmark human psychology.
The Managers process is designed to produce best ideas It is the Companys policy to invest no more than 15% of to drive active fund management within a rigorous control its gross assets in other listed investment companies framework.
The framework begins through narrowing down including listed investment trusts.
the universe of stocks by passing those companies with a The Company maintains a diversified portfolio of market capitalisation above 100 million through a investments, typically comprising 70-80 holdings, but screening process which highlights the weakest performing without restricting the Company from holding a more or stocks.
This isolates opportunities with attractive sentiment less concentrated portfolio from time to time as characteristics which are then in turn scrutinised in greater circumstances require.
detail to identify investment opportunities.
The process is very much bottom up and can result in large sector positions being taken if enough stocks of sufficient interest are found within a single sector.
However, top down risk analysis is undertaken to identify potential Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 15 230986 Temple Bar pp15-pp18 14 02 2014 17:24 Page 16 Active investment working for you Strategic report continued concentration of risk and to factor this awareness into Key performance indicators portfolio construction.
The portfolio comprises stocks which The principal key performance indicators KPIs used to have been purchased for different reasons and at different determine the progress and performance of the Company times.
In general, because of the bottom up approach to over time, and which are comparable to those reported by stockpicking, each of these reasons is independent of the other investment trusts, are: other and the portfolio, therefore, is not excessively Net asset value total return relative to the vulnerable to longer term macro trends.
Cash is a residual of FTSE All-Share Index the process and normally will not exceed 5% of the Discount premium on net asset value portfolio value.
Earnings and dividends per share The approach to stock selection and portfolio Ongoing charges construction is driven by four core beliefs: While some elements of performance against KPIs are 1.
Markets overreact to news on the upside and the beyond management control they provide measures of the downside.
The Manager aims to be sceptical of the crowd Companys absolute and relative performance and are, and aware of investor psychology, which often causes therefore, monitored by the Board on a regular basis.
overvaluation of those stocks that are deemed to have good prospects and an undervaluation of those which Net asset value NAV total return are out of favour.
In reviewing the performance of the assets of the 2.
There are few companies which sustain below normal Companys portfolio the Board monitors the net asset value profits over the longer term.
Weaker companies tend to in relation to the FTSE All-Share Index.
During the year the leave an industry, thus improving the balance of supply net asset value total return of the Company was 31.4% and demand, are bid for or management is changed.
compared with a total return of 20.8% by the FTSE Similarly, there are few companies which can sustain All-Share Index.
supernormal profits over the longer term.
Such profits tend to be competed or regulated away.
Fundamental valuation is the key determinant of stock Discount on net asset value prices over the long term.
In other words cheap stocks The Board monitors the premium discount at which the will outperform expensive stocks.
Companys shares trade in relation to the net assets.
Diversification is an important control.
Particular During the year the shares traded at an average premium companies or sectors can be out of favour for a to NAV of 3.5%.
This compares with an average premium considerable time.
The Board and Manager closely monitor both movements in the Companys share Performance price and significant dealings in the shares.
In order to In the year to 31 December 2013 the net asset value total avoid substantial overhangs or shortages of shares in the return of the Company was 31.4% compared with a total market the Board asks shareholders to approve return of the Companys benchmark index of 20.8%.
The resolutions which allow for the buy back of shares and effect of removing gearing from the performance their issuance which can assist in the management of the calculation is shown in the following graph of investment discount or premium.
Regular demand generated by performance over a five year period compared with the monthly investment in the Savings Scheme and the use FTSE All-Share Index.
The Chairmans Statement on pages 4 of marketing and promotional activity also assist in to 5 and the Managers Report on pages 8 to 11 include a keeping the discount to an acceptable level.
review of developments during the year together with information on investment activity within the Companys Earnings and dividend per share portfolio and an assessment of future developments.
It remains the directors intention to distribute, over time, Ungeared 5 year performance by way of dividends substantially all of the Companys net 240 revenue income after expenses and taxation, subject to Temple Bar - gross assets, excluding effects of gearing and associated costs preserving a prudent balance in revenue reserves to 220 FTSE All-Share Index Total Return facilitate a smooth dividend progression.
The Manager 200 aims to maximise total returns from the portfolio and attaches great importance to dividends in achieving total 180 return.
160 The portfolio will typically provide a yield premium to the market.
The final dividend recommended for the year 140 is 22.65p per ordinary share which brings the total for the year to 37.75p per ordinary share, an increase of 3.0%.
120 This will be the 30th consecutive year in which the 100 Company has increased the overall level of its dividend payment.
80 2009 2008 2010 2011 2012 2013 16 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 230986 Temple Bar pp15-pp18 14 02 2014 17:24 Page 17 Active investment working for you Strategic report continued 10 year comparative dividend growth Income risk dividends Source: Datastream Generating the necessary level of income from portfolio 160 investments to meet the Companys expenses and to provide adequate reserves from which to base a sustainable 150 programme of increasing dividend payments to shareholders is subject to the risk that income generation 140 from investments fails to meet the level required.
The Board 130 monitors this risk through the receipt of detailed income reports and forecasts which are considered at each meeting.
120 As at 31 December 2013 the Company had distributable revenue reserves of 33.120 million before declaration of 110 the final dividend for 2013 of 14.343 million.
100 Share price risk 90 The Companys share price and premium or discount to NAV are monitored by the Manager and considered by the 80 Board at each meeting.
Some short-term influences over 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 the premium or discount may be exercised by share Ongoing charges issuance or the use of share repurchases at acceptable Ongoing charges is an expression of the Companys prices: however, market sentiment is beyond the absolute management fees and all other operating expenses as a control of the Manager and the Board.
percentage of average daily net assets over the year.
The ongoing charges for the year ended 31 December 2013 were Accounting, legal & regulatory 0.48% 2012: 0.51%.
The Board compares the Companys In order to qualify as an investment trust the Company ongoing charges with those of its peers on a regular basis.
At must comply with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act the present time the Company has one of the lowest ongoing 2010.
Were the Company to breach Section 1158 it might charges in the UK Equity Income sector of investment trust lose investment trust status and, as a consequence, gains companies.
within the Companys portfolio would be subject to capital gains tax.
The Section 1158 qualification criteria are, Principal risks and uncertainties therefore, monitored by the Board at each meeting.
With the assistance of the Manager the Board has drawn up a The Company must also comply with the provisions of the risk matrix which identifies the key risks to the Company.
The Companies Act and, since its shares are listed on the London Board reviews and agrees policies, which have remained Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing Rules.
A breach of the unchanged since the beginning of the accounting period, for Companies Act could result in the Company being fined or managing these risks, as summarised below.
Breach of the UKLA Listing Rules could result in the Companys shares being suspended Investment strategy risk from Listing which in turn would breach Section 1158.
The An inappropriate investment strategy on matters such as Board relies on the services of its Company Secretary, IAM, and asset allocation or the level of gearing may lead to its professional advisers to ensure compliance with the underperformance against the Companys benchmark index or Companies Act and the UKLA Listing Rules and is satisfied that peer companies, resulting in the Companys shares trading on they are able to provide an appropriate service in this regard.
The Board manages such risks by diversification of investments through its investment Corporate governance and shareholder relations restrictions and guidelines, which are monitored and reported Details of the Companys compliance with corporate on by the Manager.
The Manager provides the directors with governance best practice including information on relations regular management information including absolute and with shareholders, are set out in the corporate governance relative performance data, attribution analysis, revenue report on pages 23 to 25 which forms part of this strategic estimates, liquidity reports, risk profile and shareholder report.
The Board monitors the implementation and results of the investment process with the portfolio manager, who attends Board meetings.
Periodically the Board holds a separate meeting devoted to strategy, the most recent being in March 2013.
Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 17 230986 Temple Bar pp15-pp18 14 02 2014 17:24 Page 18 Active investment working for you Strategic report continued Control systems risk be willing to act collectively with other investors where Disruption to, or failure of, IAMs accounting, dealing or appropriate: payments systems or the custodians records could prevent have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their accurate reporting and monitoring of the Companys voting record: and financial position or adversely impact the ability to trade.
Details of how the Board monitors the services provided by The Manager endorses the Stewardship Code for its UK IAM and its associates and the key elements designed to investments and supports the principles as best practice provide effective internal control are included within the elsewhere.
The Manager believes that regular contact with internal control section of the corporate governance report the companies in which it invests is central to its on pages 23 to 25. investment process and it also recognises the importance of being an active owner on behalf of its clients.
Other risks The Manager believes that companies should act in a Other risks to which the Company is exposed and which socially responsible manner.
Although its priority at all form part of the market risks referred to above are included times is the best economic interests of its clients, it in note 22 to the financial statements together with recognises that, increasingly, non-financial issues such as summaries of the policies for managing these risks.
These social and environmental factors have the potential to comprise: market price risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, impact the share price, as well as the reputation of credit risk and currency risk.
Specialists within IAMs environmental, social The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for and governance team are tasked with assessing how identifying, evaluating and managing strategic and operational companies deal with and report on social and risks.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board in environmental risks and issues specific to their industry.
accordance with the Turnbull guidance on internal controls.
The Managers Voting Policy and Corporate Gender Diversity Governance Guidelines are available on request from the At the year end there were five male directors and one Company Secretary or can be downloaded from its female director on the Board.
The Company has no website.
employees and therefore there is nothing further to report in respect of gender representation within the Company.
Future developments The Companys policy on diversity is detailed in the The future development of the Company is dependent on Corporate Governance Report on pages 23 to 25. the success of its investment strategy in the light of economic and equity market developments.
The outlook is Greenhouse Gas Emissions discussed in the Chairmans Statement on page 4.
All the Companys activities are outsourced to third parties.
The Company therefore has no greenhouse gas emissions to report from its operations.
Employee, Social, Environmental, Ethical and Human Rights Policy By order of the Board of Directors The Company is managed by IAM, has no employees and all John Reeve its directors are non-executive.
There are, therefore, no Chairman disclosures to be made in respect of employees.
The Board 12 February 2014 notes the IAM policy statement in respect of Social, Environmental and Human Rights issues, as outlined below.
Stewardship engagement The Manager recognises its wider stewardship responsibilities to its clients as a major asset owner.
To this end, it supports the FRC Stewardship Code, which sets out the responsibilities of institutional shareholders in respect of investee companies.
Under the Code, managers should: publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge their stewardship responsibilities to their clients: disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest: monitor their investee companies: establish clear guidelines on how they escalate engagement: 18 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013
