BOARD OF DIRECTORS  he was responsible for the UK PETER A SMITH CHAIRMAN firms financial services practice and the development of its Peter Smith was appointed a Director on 17 May 2004 and Asian client base, and later was Chairman of Coopers & became Chairman of the Board and a member of the Lybrand International.
He was Senior Partner of Nomination and Remuneration Committee on 12 December  in the UK until 2000, having been 2007.
He was appointed Chairman of the Management Chairman of Coopers & Lybrand in the UK since 1994.
He has been involved in emerging markets over many years.
He is He was previously also a Non-Executive Director of Safeway currently Chairman of Savills plc, the international real plc and Chairman of RAC plc.
estate adviser, where some 50% of activity is in the Asia He is an independent Director.
Fees for the year 60,000: Pacific markets.
He is a Non-Executive Director of beneficial interest 10,000 shares.
Associated British Foods plc and of Paris Orleans SCA, both of which have extensive international investments and interests.
At Coopers & Lybrand now Left to right: Gregory E Johnson, Neil A Collins, Christopher D Brady, Peter A Smith, Sir Peter Burt, Peter O Harrison, Hamish N Buchan.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 9 BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED CHRISTOPHER D BRADY Christopher Brady was appointed to the Board on 12 December 2007 and the Management Engagement Committee on 12 June 2012.
He is the founding partner and Chairman of The Chart Group.
With over 30 years experience in principal investing, corporate finance and capital markets, he focuses on identifying and building portfolio companies.
Prior to Chart, he spent 14 years in the Corporate Finance and Capital Markets divisions of Lehman Brothers and Dillon Read.
At those firms, he was involved in the creation and flotation of the Korea Fund 1982 and the Scudder New Asia Fund 1984 as a way to provide to individual investors access to closed and newly-emerging markets.
Mr. Brady also advised the Japan Fund, the China World Fund and the China Dragon Fund.
More recently, Mr. Bradys principal activities in the defence, security and intelligence areas take him, his companies and products to emerging markets in the Middle East, Africa and Southeast Asia.
Mr. Brady is a Director of SeaMobile, Miami International Holdings, PacStar Communications, Genesis Today, ATAC, and of SCRA and Chart Acquisition Corp.
He is an independent Director.
Fees for the year 35,000: beneficial interest nil shares.
HAMISH N BUCHAN Hamish Buchan was appointed to the Board and the Audit Committee on 26 June 2008 and the Management Engagement Committee on 12 June 2012.
He is currently Chairman of Personal Assets Trust plc and a Director of The Scottish Investment Trust plc.
Mr. Buchan has been involved with the investment company sector for over 40 years and for 30 years he was one of the leading UK Investment Trust sector analysts, working with Wood Mackenzie & Co and its successor owners.
Since semi-retiring in 2000 he has kept his interest in the sector by taking on the role of Chairman or Director of 8 different investment trusts when, at the time of his involvement, the managers of each trust were all different and there was no overlap in any of the investment objectives.
He also spent 9 years on the board of the Association of Investment Companies where he was Chairman for 2 years as well as Chairing the Statistics Committee throughout his term.
In 2012 he was presented with Investment Weeks award for Outstanding Industry Contribution.
Fees for the year 35,000: beneficial interest 15,000 shares.
SIR PETER BURT Sir Peter Burt was appointed Director on 17 May 2004.
He is a senior independent Director, a member of the Audit Committee and chairs the Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
He was appointed to the Management Engagement Committee on 12 June 2012.
Sir Peter is currently Chairman of Promethean PLC, Promethean Investments LLP and a Director of Cambria Automobiles PLC.
Sir Peter was Group Chief Executive of Bank of Scotland until 2001 and until then he was on the Board of its subsidiaries, Bank West in Australia and Countrywide Bank in New Zealand.
He was the first Chairman of ITV PLC until 2007 and on the Boards of Shell Transport and Trading PLC, Royal Dutch Shell PLC and of Sainsburys Bank PLC.
Fees for the year 35,000: beneficial interest 4,000 shares.
10 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC NEIL A COLLINS Neil Collins was appointed to the Board and the Audit Committee on 28 September 2006, the Nomination and Remuneration Committee on 26 June 2008, and the Management Engagement Committee on 12 June 2012.
He has worked in the City since 1968, starting with Hoare & Co, stockbrokers.
His career in financial journalism, including 19 years as City Editor of the Daily Telegraph, has given him a deep understanding of markets, coupled with analytical ability and experience of dealing with a wide range of participants and company executives.
He has studied and supported investment trusts throughout his journalistic career, and is an enthusiastic advocate of shareholders interests.
He is currently on the board of Finsbury Growth & Income Trust and writes the On London column in Saturdays Financial Times.
Fees for the year 35,000: beneficial interest 7,000 shares.
PETER O HARRISON Peter Harrison was appointed to the Board on 30 November 2007 and became Chairman of the Audit Committee on 12 December 2007.
He has had over 30 years experience in the global auditing, accounting and advisory profession mainly at KPMG where he specialised in financial services including Investment Management and the Funds business.
He was also Managing Partner responsible for the UK financial services practice.
A major client focus was responsibility for the global Sovereign Wealth Fund of a Far Eastern Government.
This work was carried out globally across a number of leading Investment Managers.
The emphasis of this work was in the Far East, where he was resident for long periods of time.
In the UK he has recently joined the Board of CIT Bank as a Non-Executive Director and he is Chairman of the Saffron Building Society who he joined in November 2003.
Following his retirement from KPMG, he continued for 10 years as a Senior Adviser and consultant with KPMG.
Fees for the year 47,000: beneficial interest 4,330 shares.
GREGORY E JOHNSON Gregory Johnson was appointed to the Board on 12 December 2007.
He is President and Chief Executive Officer of Franklin Resources, Inc. and serves on the Board of Directors.
He is also President of Templeton Worldwide, Inc. Chief Executive Officer and President of Templeton International, Inc. and serves as a Director for a number of Franklin Templetons international fund boards.
Mr. Johnson joined Franklin in 1986 after working as a senior accountant for Coopers & Lybrand.
He has served as President and Chairman of the Board for Franklin Templeton Distributors, Inc. President of Franklin Investment Advisory, LCC, President of FT Trust Company, Vice President of Franklin Advisers, Inc. co-portfolio manager of Franklin Income Fund and Franklin Utilities Fund and as an investment analyst.
Fees for the year nil: beneficial interest nil shares.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 11
