INVESTMENT PROCESS 31 MARCH 2013 Investment Philosophy Patience TAML employs a time-tested investment philosophy built On a short-term basis, stocks may overreact to news and upon a disciplined, yet flexible, long-term approach to noise.
On a long-term basis, we believe that markets are value-oriented emerging markets investing which allows the efficient and patience will reward those who have identified portfolio managers to look beyond short-term news, noise, undervalued stocks.
Bottom-up Value We identify value through rigorous fundamental analysis, Our goal is to identify those companies that appear to be proprietary screens and a worldwide network of experienced trading at a discount to what our estimates indicate to be research resources.
Research is carried out on a company by their projected future intrinsic value which, over time, company basis in different countries and industries to should produce a strong share price return.
determine what we consider the economic worth of a company to be, based on many factors including projected future earnings, cash flow or asset value potential as well as management capability and governance.
The Investment Manager follows a rigorous five step process: 1.
Identify Potential Bargains All portfolio managers are also research analysts, resulting in a deep and experienced research team.
Does this stock meet TAMLs criteria of valuation, size and liquidity?
While our philosophy remains unchanged, continual Is it a potential bargain within the global universe, its sector refinement and improvement is part of the TAML and on a historical basis?
TAML is able to leverage off 60 years of global investing by Franklin Templeton Investments to build an extensive network of local contacts around the world.
In Depth Fundamental Analysis Within the framework of a disciplined, long-term approach, analysts look beyond short-term noise to Is this stock a candidate for the TAML Action List?
estimate long term economic worth.
Is the stock trading at a substantial discount to what our research indicates the company may be worth over the longBottom up fundamental analysis, industry knowledge and access to company management drive original term?
3. Review Team Evaluation A collaborative team culture that leverages the experience of the entire TAML Group produces Has analysis met TAML standards?
Does the recommendation pass TAMLs Review Teams approval?
Allocate Portfolio The Action List is reviewed weekly.
What do we consider to represent the best combination of Taking into account the investment objective and stocks for creating a diversified fund with the greatest guidelines, the portfolio is constructed with attention to potential for appreciation?
The process seeks to reduce portfolio turnover.
The fund combines the potential of our best ideas with the risk benefits of diversification.
Portfolio Evaluation and Attribution Analysis Portfolios are subject to weekly review, while a semiWhat are the performance contributors detractors?
annual review evaluates methodology, resources, themes, country level issues and global trends.
TAMLs investment process combines the benefits of individual and team portfolio management.
14 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC
