THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors The directors present the audited accounts of the Group and - Sigma Share Class the Company and their report for the year ended 31 March Conversion 2013.
The Group comprises of TR Property Investment Trust Revenue and dividends plc and its subsidiaries.
The review of the business of the Performance Measurement KPI Company, recent events and outlook are contained within Share Buy-back Activity the Chairmans Statement, on pages 6 to 9, which forms part Management Arrangements and Fees of this Report of the Directors by reference.
- Basis of Accounting and IFRS - Environmental Policy Status The Company is an investment company, as defined in Full details of the portfolio, the results for the financial Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006, and operates year to 31 March 2013 and the Managers views on the as an investment trust in accordance with Section 1158 of outlook for the coming financial year are covered in the the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
HM Revenue & Customs Managers Report on pages 10 to 21.
HMRC approval of the Companys status as an investment trust has been received in respect of the year Ordinary Share Class ended 31 March 2012.
Following changes to the Section Objective and Strategy 1158 rules with effect from 1 January 2012, the Company The objective of the Trust is to maximise the shareholders no longer has to seek approval as an investment trust under total returns by investing in property shares and section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act each year, but had investment property on an international basis.
to make a one-off application for approval as an investment trust.
The company has received confirmation from HMRC As at 31 March 2013, the portfolio's exposure to directly that it has been accepted as an approved investment trust owned UK real estate amounted to 7.4% with the remaining with effect from 1 April 2012, provided it continues to meet 92.6% in Pan-European listed property securities.
the eligibility conditions for section 1158 and of the ongoing requirements for approved companies in the Investment The portfolio is focused on total return.
Future growth and Trust Approved Company Tax Regulations 2011. capital appreciation potential is generally regarded more Share capital highly than immediate initial yield or discount to asset At 31 March 2013, the Company has a single share class: value.
The investment selection process seeks to identify Ordinary shares with a nominal value of 25 pence each.
well managed companies of all sizes, especially those with a focus on a particular type of real estate business.
The Business Review investment policies are described on page 2.
The following review is designed to provide information primarily about the Groups business and results for the TR Property Investment Trust is dedicated to investing in year ended 31 March 2013 and covers: real estate and real estate securities and will continue to adhere to this strategy.
- Ordinary Share Class Objective and Strategy Revenue and Dividends Revenue and Dividends 2013 2012 Change Capital Return Revenue earnings Property Valuation per share 6.74p 7.07p -4.7% Performance Measurement KPI Dividends per share 7.00p 6.60p 6.1% Share Buy-back Activity Financial Instruments and Management of Risk Total returns per Ordinary share, which include capital Management Arrangements and Fees gains and losses on investments and income, amounted to an uplift of 37.84p per share.
36 TR Property Investment Trust TH TH THE GROU E GROU E GROUP C P C P COM OM OMP P PANY ANY ANY Report of the Directors continued The capital gain of 31.10p per share was reflective of the Property Valuation performance of the property equity market through the Valuations of all the Groups properties as at 31 March 2013 period which is covered in detail in the Managers Report.
have been carried out by an external independent valuer.
Revenue earnings per share declined by 4.7% from the These valuations have been adopted in the accounts.
previous year, however, as set out in the Managers Report Details of the values and changes in investments are shown on page 20, and described below, this is not a fair reflection in note 10 to the financial statements.
of the earnings for the year.
Performance Measurement The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend The directors consider the NAV total return of 4.35p per Ordinary share.
Subject to approval at the measured against the benchmark index to be the key AGM, the dividend will be paid on 6 August 2013 to performance indicator.
shareholders on the register on 28 June 2013.
The Ordinary shares will be quoted ex-dividend from 26 June 2013.
The For the year to 31 March 2013 the Benchmark Index total dividend in respect of the year is, therefore, 7.00p per was the FTSE EPRA NAREIT Developed Europe Net Ordinary share, an increase of 6.1% over the prior year.
Total Return Index in Sterling.
This index, calculated by FTSE, is free float based and currently has 85 With earnings of 6.74p, the dividend for the year of 7.00p constituent companies.
appears not to be fully covered.
This is a result of the calculation of earnings based on the weighted average On a total return basis the share class NAV returned number of shares in issue which takes into account the 21.5% against the benchmark index total return of 17.8%.
redesignation of Sigma shares as Ordinary shares in December 2012.
At the date of conversion, the Sigma The performance for the financial year just ended and the shares brought forward earnings in respect of the period outlook for the forthcoming financial year are covered in to 12 December 2012, however, these earnings are not detail in the Chairmans Statement, Market Background taken into account in the calculation of earnings for the and Outlook and Managers Report on pages 6 to 15.
The Group Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income shows total revenue earnings From 1 April 2013 the benchmark for the share class of 22.4m.
The interim dividends already paid Ordinary will be the FTSE EPRA NAREIT Developed Europe and Sigma share classes together with the proposed final Capped Index Net Total Return in Sterling.
This dividend based on the number of shares in issue at benchmark has the same constituents as the previous 31 March 2013 amount to 21.9m, demonstrating that the benchmark, however, it limits exposure to any one proposed dividend is fully covered by earnings in the year.
company to 10% and reweights the other constituents pro-rata.
At 31 March 2013 the exposure of the FTSE In arriving at their dividend proposal the directors also EPRA NAREIT Developed Europe Net Total Return reviewed the income forecasts for the year to March 2014.
Index in Sterling to Unibail Rodamco was 16.8%.
The capped index is considered to be a more appropriate Capital Return benchmark for an investment trust which aims to give its shareholders exposure to a diversified range 2013 2012 Change of investments.
NAV per share 215.25p 183.62p 17.2% Share price 186.30p 154.50p 20.6% Share Buy-back Activity The Board has not set a specific discount at which Shareholders funds increased by 45.4%, this includes shares will be repurchased.
However, there has been the converted Sigma shares at the year end.
The NAV per share increased by 17.2%.
Details of the investments are shown within the Managers Report on pages 22 to 28.
TR Property Investment Trust 37 THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued considerable activity in recent years and around 171 The fee arrangements were reviewed at the end of million Ordinary shares have been repurchased since the financial year, and for the year to March 2014 the Board first took the decision to buy back shares in the fixed fee element will be 3,325,000 with 1999.
During the year to 31 March 2013, the Company an ad valorem fee of 0.20% pa based on the net did not repurchase any Ordinary shares of 25p each.
asset value determined in accordance with the Since 1 April 2013 to the date of this report the AIC method of valuation on the last day of March, Company has repurchased 275,000 Ordinary shares June, September and December, payable quarterly of 25p each.
This fee reflects the conversion of the Sigma shares into Ordinary shares and is a reduction Financial Instruments and the Management of Risk of 105,000 on the total fixed fees applied to As with all investment companies, the portfolio is exposed the two portfolios in the previous year.
The fee to market price risk, foreign currency risk and interest rate arrangements will be reviewed once again at the end risk.
The Companys policies for managing these risks are of the financial year.
outlined in note 11 to the financial statements.
Further information on the management of risk and internal The management fee includes fund accounting and controls is contained in the Corporate Governance Report administrative services, safe custody and company on pages 44 to 50. secretarial services which are all provided by third parties.
The Company has a direct contractual Management Arrangements and Fees relationship with the parties providing these services Throughout the period investment management services and the fees incurred are deducted from the gross have been provided by Thames River Capital LLP, fees due to Thames River.
This affords the Company a accounting, custodial and administrative services by BNP high degree of transparency and control in respect of Paribas Securities Services, and company secretarial these services.
services by Capita Company Secretarial Services.
Performance Fees In addition to the management fees, the Board has The significant terms of the investment management agreed to pay the Investment Manager performance agreement with Thames River are as follows: related fees in respect of an accounting period if certain performance objectives are achieved.
For the Notice Period year under review the arrangements were: The investment management agreement IMA provide for termination of the agreement by either A performance fee is payable if the total return of party without compensation on the provision of not adjusted net assets attributable to Ordinary shares, less than 12 months written notice.
as defined in the IMA with Thames River, at 31 March each year outperforms the total return of the Management Fees Companys benchmark plus 1% the hurdle rate : this The fee for the Ordinary share class for the period outperformance expressed as a percentage is known under review was a fixed fee of 2,958,129 as the percentage outperformance.
Any fee payable 2,754,325 plus 203,804 on assets transferred to will be the amount equivalent to the adjusted net the Ordinary share class following the Sigma share class assets attributable to Ordinary shares at 31 March each conversion plus an ad valorem fee of 0.20% pa based year multiplied by the percentage outperformance, on the net asset value determined in accordance then multiplied by 15%.
with the Association of Investment Companies AIC method of valuation of the Ordinary share class on The maximum performance fee payable for the period the last day of March, June, September and December, is capped at 2% of the adjusted net assets attributable payable quarterly in advance.
However, if the adjusted net assets 38 TR Property Investment Trust TH TH THE GROU E GROU E GROUP C P C P COM OM OMP P PANY ANY ANY Report of the Directors continued at the end of the period are less than at the beginning following an Extraordinary General Meeting of the of the period, the maximum performance fee payable Company on 14 December 2012. will be limited to 1% of the adjusted net assets attributable to the Ordinary shares.
Details of the conversion are given for information purposes on page 31 of this Annual Report.
If the total return of Ordinary equity shareholders funds for any performance period is less than the Revenue and Dividends hurdle rate for the relevant performance periods, such Revenue earnings for the Sigma share class up to the date underperformance expressed as a percentage will of conversion were 3.11p per share.
An interim dividend be carried forward.
of 1.05p 2012:0.95p per share was paid on 8 January 2012 to shareholders on the register on 7 December If any fee exceeds the cap, such excess 2012.
The retained earnings were taken into account in performance expressed as a percentage will the conversion NAV calculation.
be carried forward and applied to offset any percentage underperformance in future periods.
Performance measurement In the event that the benchmark is exceeded The directors consider the NAV total return but the hurdle is not, that outperformance of the measured against the benchmark index to be the key benchmark can be used to offset past or future performance indicator.
These amounts can be used for offset purposes only and therefore cannot have the For the period to 12 December 2012 the Benchmark effect of creating a fee in a year where a fee would Index was the FTSE EPRA NAREIT Small Cap Developed not otherwise be payable or increasing the fee in Europe Net Total Return Index in Sterling.
At 31 March 2013 there is a carry forward calculated by FTSE, id the FTSE EPRA NAREIT Developed of outperformance of 1.8% 2012: 1.8% in the Europe Net Total Return Index in Sterling, adjusted to Ordinary share class.
No fee will be payable unless the adjusted net assets On a total return basis the share class NAV returned 5.7% for the particular share class outperform the hurdle against a benchmark index total return of 3.5%.
rate, after taking into account any accumulated percentage underperformance for previous periods Share Buy-back Activity to the extent it is not offset by the overperformance Between 1 April 2012 and 12 December 2012 the offsets described above.
Performance fees earned in the year ended Management Arrangements and Fees 31 March 2013 were 3,122,000 2012: nil.
The service providers for the period from 1 April 2012 to the date of conversion were as for the Ordinary share class.
In addition total fees paid to the Manager in any one year Management and Performance Fees may not The management fee for the Sigma share class for the exceed 4.99% of Group Equity Shareholders Funds.
period 1 April 2012 to 12 December 2012 was a fixed fee of 471,871 675,695 charged on a pro rata basis Total fees payable management and performance up to the date of the conversion of the share class into fees for the year to 31 March 2013 amount to 1.1% Ordinary shares plus an ad valorem fee of 0.3% pa of closing NAV.
based on the net asset value determined in accordance with the AIC method of valuation of the Sigma share Sigma Share Class class on the last day of March, June, September and up Conversion to the date of conversion.
The Sigma shares were converted to Ordinary shares TR Property Investment Trust 39 THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued There was no performance fee payable in respect of All performance fees are charged 100% to capital.
the Sigma Share Class during the period 1 April to 12 December 2012.
Allocation of Costs Between Share Classes For the period between 1 April 2012 and 12 December Basis of accounting and IFRS 2012, each share class had its own management fee The financial statements for the year ended 31 March structure and was charged directly for management 2013 have been prepared on a going concern basis fees which were allocated between capital and revenue in accordance with International Financial Reporting accounts in accordance with the basis of allocation Standards IFRS, which comprise standards and described above.
interpretations approved by the International Accounting Administration costs incurred specifically by a single share Standards Board IASB, together with interpretations of class were charged to that share class.
The remaining the International Accounting Standards and Standing corporate expenses were allocated to the share class in Interpretations Committee approved by the International the proportion to their relative Net Asset Values at the end Accounting Standards Committee IASC that remain in of the previous accounting period.
effect, to the extent that they have been adopted by the European Union and as regards the Company financial From 12 December 2012, following the merger of statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions the two portfolios and conversion of Sigma shares of the Companies Act 2006. as Ordinary shares, all expenses were charged to the Ordinary share class.
The accounting policies are set out in note 1 to the Financial Statements on pages 57 and 62.
Additional Environmental Policy details on cost allocations are set out below.
The Company considers that good corporate governance extends to policies on the environment and has Allocation of Costs between Revenue and Capital therefore adopted an environmental policy in respect On the basis of the Boards expected long term split of of its investments in both physical property and listed returns, in the form of capital gains and income in equal property companies.
Within the context of the overall proportions, the Group has charged 50% of finance costs aim of the Company to maximise shareholders returns, to capital in the year to 31 March 2013.
One-third of the the directors will seek to limit the Companys and its management fee is deemed to relate to the administration investee companies impact on the environment and of the Company and has been charged to revenue.
The will comply with all relevant legislation relating to its remainder has been split on the same basis as finance operations and activities.
costs and 50% charged to capital.
The overall result is that two-thirds of the management fee has been charged to The environmental statements and behaviour of all the revenue and one-third to capital.
companies in which the Company invests are taken into account in decision-making.
Good environmental During the current year the Board undertook a review of management can play a part in overall risk management this policy.
As part of the review the split of historic returns and also have a financial impact in terms of savings generated by capital and income return was considered.
through energy and water efficiency.
Where appropriate, Over the medium term a substantial part of the total the Manager will engage with investee companies to raise return has been generated by capital movements, a trend concerns about environmental matters.
the Board expects to continue.
As a result, the allocation from 1 April 2013 onward has been revised to 25% of So far as direct property investments are concerned, finance costs and management fees to be charged to the Company conducts environmental audits prior to income and 75% to capital.
purchase to identify possible contamination or materials 40 TR Property Investment Trust TH TH THE GROU E GROU E GROUP C P C P COM OM OMP P PANY ANY ANY Report of the Directors continued considered environmentally harmful.
The Company will through market purchases pursuant to a general authority take remedial action or enforce tenant obligations to do granted by shareholders in general meeting.
The Company's advisers assess the environmental impact of its properties on an ongoing The current authority which permits the Company to basis and will take all necessary action to comply with purchase up to 14.99% of its issued shares expires at the environmental responsibilities.
conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
Annual General Meeting the AGM The Board believes that the Company should continue The AGM will be held on Tuesday, 23 July 2013 at 12 to have authority to make market purchases of its own noon.
The Notice of Meeting is set out on pages 81 to Ordinary shares for cancellation.
The Board is therefore 84, and an explanation of the business to be conducted is seeking to renew its power to make market purchases given on pages 85 and 86. of Ordinary shares.
Accordingly, a special resolution to authorise the Company to make market purchases of Resolution 11 Authority of directors to allot shares up to 14.99% of the Companys issued Ordinary share A general authority to allot new shares was given to the capital at the date of the AGM is proposed, with the directors at the Trusts AGM in 2012.
The directors are shares purchased to be cancelled.
Based on the number proposing to renew the general authority to allot shares of shares in issue at the date of this Report, 14.99% of at the 2013 AGM.
The authority to allot will be on broadly the Companys issued Ordinary share capital is equivalent the same terms as the resolution passed at the 2012 to 47,608,386 Ordinary shares of 25p each.
These figures AGM, and takes account of ABI guidelines.
The directors have been calculated on the basis that there is no change have no present intention to allot new shares, however in the issued share capital between the date of this Report consider it appropriate to maintain the flexibility that the and the AGM to be held on 23 July 2013. authority provides.
This resolution will be proposed as an ordinary resolution, which requires a simple majority of Any purchase of shares would be made at a discount to those present and voting to be passed.
the prevailing net asset value, thus enhancing the net asset value of the remaining shares.
The terms of the Resolutions 12 and 13, as outlined below, will be resolution will restrict the price payable to the effect that it proposed as a special resolutions which require a could not be less than 25p per share being the nominal majority of at least 75% of those present and voting to value and not more than 5% above the average of the be passed.
closing mid-market quotations for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which the Company Resolution 12 Disapplication of statutory agrees to buy the shares concerned.
pre-emption rights This resolution will empower the directors to allot limited Recommendation numbers of shares or sell any shares which the Company The directors consider that all the resolutions are in the elects to hold in treasury for cash without first offering interests of the Company and shareholders taken as a them to existing shareholders in proportion to their whole and recommend that all shareholders vote in favour existing shareholdings.
of the resolutions, as the directors intend to, in respect of their beneficial holdings of 177,034 Ordinary shares.
Resolution 13 Authority to Purchase Own Shares The Companys Articles permit the Company to purchase its own shares out of capital profits.
Under the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority a company is permitted to purchase up to 14.99% of its issued equity share capital TR Property Investment Trust 41 THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued Other Statutory Information At the AGM in 2012 the directors were given power Directors Interests in Shares to buy back 38,408,128 Ordinary shares.
Since this The directors interests in the share capital of the AGM the directors have bought back 275,000 Ordinary Company are shown in the table above.
The outstanding authority is therefore 38,133,128 shares.
This authority will expire at 31 March 31 March 31 March the 2013 AGM.
Also at the AGM in 2012, the directors 2013 2012 2012 Ordinary Ordinary Sigma were given power to buy back 18,695,828 Sigma shares shares of shares of shares of of 12.5 pence each.
Since this AGM, until the date of 25p 25p 12.5p conversion, the directors bought back 500,000 Sigma C M Burton 21,982 18,700 6,600 shares under this authority.
The Company will seek to S Marrison 25,000 renew the power to make market purchases of Ordinary S E Procter shares at this years AGM.
P L Salsbury 89,690 32,500 115,000 H Seaborn 31,658 15,486 38,574 Rights and obligations attaching to shares D Watson 8,704 8,363 Subject to applicable statutes and other shareholders rights, shares may be issued with such rights and There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution of the year in which a director of the Company is or was decide, or if there is no such resolution or so far as materially interested and which is or was significant in it does not make specific provision as the Board may relation to the Companys business.
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act 2006 contract of service with the Company.
and other shareholders rights, unissued shares are at the disposal of the Board.
Payment of Suppliers It is the Companys payment policy for the current financial Voting year to obtain the best possible terms for all business.
The At a general meeting of the Company, when voting is by a Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on which show of hands, each holder of Ordinary shares has one vote.
business will take place and it abides by these terms.
There were no trade creditors at 31 March 2013 2012: nil.
Restrictions on voting No member shall be entitled to vote if he has been Donations served with a restriction notice as defined in the Articles The Company made no political or charitable donations after failure to provide the Company with information during the year 2012: nil.
concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act 2006.
Share Capital Changes On 14 December 2012 there were 256,225,000 Ordinary Deadlines for voting rights shares and 123,972,000 Sigma shares in issue.
Following Votes are exercisable at the general meeting of the Company the re-designation of Sigma shares into Ordinary shares in respect of which the business being voted upon is being the number of Ordinary shares in issue was 317,875,980 heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in and there were no Sigma shares in issue.
For further relation to corporate members, by corporate representatives.
details regarding the share conversion see page 31.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy At 1 April 2013 the Company had 317,875,980 Ordinary forms of not less than 48 hours or such shorter time shares in issue.
as the Board may determine before the meeting not excluding non-working days.
Since 1 April 2013 to the date of this report, the Company has made market purchases for cancellation of 275,000 Ordinary shares.
42 TR Property Investment Trust TH TH THE GROU E GROU E GROUP C P C P COM OM OMP P PANY ANY ANY Report of the Directors continued Transfer of shares % of Ordinary share voting Any shares in the Company may be held in uncertificated Shareholder rights form and, subject to the Articles, title to uncertificated Alliance Trust PLC 6.69 shares may be transferred by means of a relevant system.
Brewin Dolphin Limited 6.67 Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or any Investec Wealth & Investment Limited 6.37 of his certificated shares by an instrument of transfer in HSBC Global Asset Management UK Limited 4.61 any usual form or in any other form which the Board may Quilter 3.97 approve.
The instrument of transfer must be executed by Rathbone Investment Management Ltd 3.82 or on behalf of the transferor.
Barclays Wealth 3.12 The Board may decline to register a transfer of a See page 42 for further information on the voting rights of Ordinary shares.
certificated share unless the instrument of transfer: i is duly stamped or certified or otherwise shown to the Since 31 March 2013 to the date of this report, the satisfaction of the Board to be exempt from stamp duty Company has not been informed of any notifiable and is accompanied by the relevant share certificate and changes with respect to the Ordinary shares.
such other evidence of the right to transfer as the Board may reasonably require: ii is in respect of only one class of ISAs share: and iii if joint transferees, are in favour of not more The Company has conducted its affairs, and will continue than four such transferees.
to conduct its affairs, in such a way as to comply with the Individual Savings Accounts Regulations.
Ordinary shares The Board may decline to register a transfer of any of can be held in Individual Savings Accounts.
the Companys certificated shares by a person with a 0.25% interest as defined in the Articles if such a person Directors Indemnity has been served with a restriction notice as defined in Directors and Officers liability insurance cover is in the Articles after failure to provide the Company with place in respect of the directors.
The Companys Articles information concerning interests in those shares required of Association provide, subject to the provisions of UK to be provided under the Companies Act 2006, unless legislation, an indemnity for directors in respect of costs the transfer is shown to the Board to be pursuant to an which they may incur relating to the defence of any arms length sale as defined in the Articles.
proceedings brought against them arising out of their positions as directors, in which they are acquitted or Significant Voting Rights judgement is given in their favour by the court.
% of Ordinary share To the extent permitted by law and by the Companys Shareholder voting rights Articles of Association, the Company has entered into deeds Legal & General Investment of indemnity for the benefit of each director of the Company Management Ltd. UK 3.24 in respect of liabilities which may attach to them in their capacity as directors of the Company.
These provisions, Declarations of interests in voting rights of the Company, which are qualifying third party indemnity provisions as at 31 March 2013, are set out above.
defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, were introduced in January 2007 and currently remain in force.
In addition, at 31 March 2013 the following shareholders held over 3% of the voting rights on a non-discretionary basis: Shareholder Information Further information on the Company can be found on pages 88 to 89.
TR Property Investment Trust 43 THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued Going Concern B.
2.1 The Board does not have a separate Nominations The Board has prepared forecasts which demonstrate that Committee.
This function is carried out by the Board as part the Company will be able to continue to meet its liabilities of the agenda of regular Board meetings when required.
In addition to its cash and remaining uncalled debt facilities, the assets of the Company C. 3.5 As the Company has no employees and its consist mainly of securities which are readily realisable and, operational functions are undertaken by third parties, the accordingly, the Board considers that the Company has Audit Committee does not consider it necessary for the adequate resources to meet its business needs and it is Company to establish its own internal audit function.
therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
D. 2.1 The Board does not have a separate Remuneration Committee.
The functions of a Remuneration Committee Corporate Governance Report are carried out by the MEC.
The Board of directors is accountable to shareholders for the governance of the Companys affairs.
Composition and Independence of the Board The Board currently consists of six directors, all of whom This statement describes how the principles of the UK are non-executive and are independent of the Investment Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the Manager.
None of the directors have any other links to Financial Reporting Council the FRC in May 2010 have the Investment Manager.
The Trust believes that diversity been applied to the affairs of the Company.
The Code can of experience and approach, including gender diversity, be viewed at www.
amongst board members is of great importance and it is the Trusts policy to give careful consideration to Application of the AIC Codes Principles issues of board balance and diversity when making In applying the principles of the Code, the directors have new appointments.
also taken account of the Code of Corporate Governance published by the AIC, which established the framework of Powers of the directors best practice specifically for the Boards of investment trust Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, the companies.
There is some overlap in the principles laid down Companies Act and any directions given by special by the two Codes and there are some areas where the AIC resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Code is more flexible for investment trust companies.
The Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company, AIC Code can be viewed at www.
whether relating to the management of the business of the Company or not.
In particular, the Board may exercise The directors believe that during the period under all the powers of the Company to borrow money and review they have complied with the Main Principles and to mortgage or charge any of its undertakings, property, relevant provisions of the Code, insofar as they apply to assets and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and the Companys business, and with the provisions of the other securities and to give security for any debt, liability or AIC Code.
obligation of the Company to any third party.
Compliance Statement There are no contracts or arrangements with third parties The directors acknowledge that the Company did not which effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of comply with the following provisions of the UK Corporate the Company.
Governance Code in the year ended 31 March 2013.
2.1 Due to the nature and structure of the Company The Chairman is Mr Salsbury and the Senior Independent the Board of non-executive directors does not feel it is Director is Ms Burton.
The directors biographies, on page necessary to appoint a chief executive.
32, demonstrate the breadth of investment, commercial and professional experience relevant to their positions as directors of the Company.
44 TR Property Investment Trust TH TH THE GROU E GROU E GROUP C P C P COM OM OMP P PANY ANY ANY Report of the Directors continued Directors retirement by rotation and re-election is subject Institutional Client Service at Cantillon Capital Management.
to the Articles of Association.
In accordance with the UK In accordance with the Articles of Association, a resolution to Corporate Governance Code, all directors will be subject to elect Ms Procter will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Accordingly, all directors are regarded as being free Mr Salsbury, who has served on the Board since 1997, of any conflicts of interest and no issues in respect of will not be seeking re-election and he will retire from the independence arise.
Board of directors following the AGM on 23 July 2013.
Following Mr Salsburys retirement from the Board, Ms Board Committees Burton will become the Chairman of the Trust.
The Board has established an Audit Committee and a Management Engagement Committee, which also carries out The Board has considered the continued appointment the functions of a Remuneration Committee.
Further details of Ms Burton who has served on the Board for eleven are set out below.
The Board does not have a Nominations years.
She has no other links to the Manager.
This function is carried out by the Board as part subscribes to the AIC Code view that length of tenure of the agenda of regular Board meetings when required.
does not necessarily impinge independence, rather the director's contribution.
The Board is conscious of the Audit Committee benefits of continuity on the Board and believes that The Audit Committee the Committee comprises retaining directors with sufficient experience of both all the members of the Board.
It has been the Trusts the Company and the markets is of great benefit to policy, as a small Board, to include all directors on all shareholders.
Moreover, longserving directors are less committees.
This encourages unity, clear communication likely to take a short-term view.
and prevents duplication of discussion between the Board and the Audit Committee.
Since 1 January 2013, the The Board has concluded that Ms Burton continues Committee Chairman has been Mr Watson, following Mr to make valuable contributions and that she remains Spencers retirement on 31 December 2012.
The Board independent in character and judgement, and is therefore has satisfied itself that at least one Committee member the most suitable candidate to lead the Trust after Mr has recent and relevant financial experience.
She will continue to serve as a member of the Audit Committee.
The Committee has written terms of reference, which clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
These can be Mr Marrison, Mr Seaborn and Mr Watson will retire in found on the Trusts website, are available on request and accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and, will also be available for inspection at the AGM.
being eligible, will also offer themselves for re-election.
The Board has concluded that Mr Marrison, Mr Seaborn The Committee meets at least twice a year to review the and Mr Watson continue to make valuable contributions internal financial and non-financial controls, to consider and believe that they remain independent in character and recommend to the Board for approval the contents of and judgement.
the draft Interim and Annual Reports to shareholders, and to review the accounting policies and significant financial Following Ms Burton's transition to Chairman, Mr Seaborn reporting judgements.
In addition, the Committee reviews will become the Senior Independent Director.
the Auditors independence, objectivity, effectiveness, appointment, remuneration, the quality of the services Ms Procter was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 provided to the Company, and, together with the March 2013.
Ms Procter brings successful asset management Investment Manager, reviews the Companys compliance experience and expertise in strategic business development with financial reporting and regulatory requirements.
She is currently Executive Head of TR Property Investment Trust 45 THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued Representatives of the Managers internal audit and registration services.
Each of these contracts was entered compliance departments may attend these committee into after full and proper consideration of the quality of the meetings at the Audit Chairmans request.
services offered, including the control systems in operation insofar as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
These Non-audit fees of 20,000 were paid to Ernst & Young LLP contracts are reviewed annually by the MEC.
in respect of the financial year for the interim review, Trustee letters and assurance work on the Sigma conversion.
The In addition to the reviews by the MEC, the Board reviews and Board monitors the Companys relationship with its external considers performance reports from the Investment Manager auditor with a view to ensuring that the external auditor does at each Board meeting.
The Board also receives regular not provide non-audit services that have the potential to reports from the Administrator and Company Secretary and impair or appear to impair the independence of their the Investment Manager also reports to the Board on the audit role.
performance of all other third party service providers.
Representatives of Ernst & Young LLP, the Companys Directors Remuneration Auditors, attend the Committee meetings at which the Directors remuneration is reviewed by the MEC on an draft Annual Report and Accounts are reviewed, and are annual basis.
The MEC determines and approves directors given the opportunity to speak to the Committee members fees following proper consideration, having regard to the without the presence of the representatives of the Manager.
level of fees payable to non-executive directors in the industry generally, the role that individual directors fulfil The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present at in respect of Board and Committee responsibilities and the AGM to deal with questions relating to the Accounts.
the time committed to the Companys affairs.
The results of the most recent review are set out in the Directors Management Engagement Committee Remuneration Report on pages 34 and 35.
The Management Engagement Committee MEC comprises all directors of the Company and is chaired by The Companys Articles of Association limit the total Mr Salsbury.
The MEC meets at least on an annual basis, aggregate fees payable to the Board of 250,000 per towards the end of the financial year.
Detailed information on the remuneration March 2013. arrangements for the directors of the Company can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The MEC reviews, on an annual basis, the performance of Thames River and its continued suitability to manage Letters of Appointment the Companys portfolio.
It also reviews the terms of No director has a contract of employment with the Investment Management Agreement, to ensure they the Company.
Directors terms and conditions for are competitive and fair and in the best interests of the appointment are set out in letters of appointment which shareholders, and to negotiate terms where appropriate.
are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company and will be on display at the AGM.
At the MEC meeting in March 2013, the MEC confirmed that Thames River, should be retained as the Investment Performance Evaluation Manager for the financial year ending 31 March 2014.
In This years Board evaluation process reflected the addition to the Investment Management role, the Board implications of significant re-structuring of both the has delegated to external third parties the custodial services company and the Board which was in progress during the which include the safeguarding of assets, the day to day second half of the year.
It was therefore a forward looking accounting, company secretarial services, administration and process as well as an evaluation of past performance.
46 TR Property Investment Trust TH TH THE GROU E GROU E GROUP C P C P COM OM OMP P PANY ANY ANY Report of the Directors continued The performance of the Board, Audit Committee, and the Board Meetings Chairman were considered separately.
Questionnaires The number of meetings of the Board and Committees were completed by each Member of the Board, and the held during the year under review, and the attendance of Chairman interviewed Board members individually.
individual directors, are shown below: The Chairmans effectiveness was assessed by all other Board Audit MEC Board members and views fed back to the Senior No.
of meetings in the year Independent Director.
Peter Salsbury 6 2 1 Caroline Burton 6 2 1 The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director Simon Marrison 6 2 1 confirm that the performance of each director continues Suzie Procter 1 1 0 0 1 to be effective and demonstrates their commitment Hugh Seaborn 6 2 1 to their role.
This includes extensive time for ad hoc communications throughout the year in addition to formal Paul Spencer 4 4 2 2 0 0 board and committee meetings.
Richard Stone 2 2 1 1 0 0 David Watson 6 2 1 The performance of the Company is considered in detail at Suzie Procter was appointed to the Board on 1 March 2013. each Board meeting.
All directors, apart from Peter Salsbury Paul Spencer retired from the Board on 31 December 2012. who is retiring, are offering themselves for re-election at Richard Stone retired from the Board on 24 July 2012. the Companys forthcoming AGM.
It is considered that each of them merit re-election by shareholders.
In accordance In addition to formal Board and Committee meetings, with the provisions of the Code, it is the intention of the directors also attend a number of informal meetings to Board to engage an external facilitator to assist with the represent the interests of the Company.
Additionally, the performance evaluation every three years.
Board met twice during the year to discuss the Sigma share class conversion.
Appointment of New Directors The directors have determined that, due to the size of the The Board Board and the independence of each of its members, there The Board is responsible for the effective stewardship is no requirement for a separate Nominations Committee.
Certain strategic issues are monitored by the Board at meetings against a framework The Board annually reviews its size and structure, and which has been agreed with the Manager.
Additional is responsible for succession planning.
The Board has meetings may be arranged as required.
The Board has an open mind regarding the use of external recruitment a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its consultants or internal process, and has, in the past, decision, which are categorised under various headings, chosen to combine both routes to ensure best practice.
including strategy, management, structure, capital, financial reporting, internal controls, gearing, asset allocation, share Directors Training price discount, contracts, investment policy, finance, When a new director is appointed, he she is offered training risk, investment restrictions, performance, corporate to suit their needs.
Directors are also provided on a regular governance and Board membership and appointments.
basis with key information on the Companys activities, including regulatory and statutory requirements and internal In order to enable them to discharge their responsibilities, controls.
Changes affecting directors responsibilities are all directors have full and timely access to relevant advised to the Board as they arise.
Directors ensure that they information.
At each meeting, the Board reviews the are updated on regulatory, statutory and industry matters.
Companys investment performance and considers TR Property Investment Trust 47 THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued financial analyses and other reports of an operational reports.
Key risks have been identified and controls put nature.
The Board monitors compliance with the in place to mitigate them, including those not directly Companys objectives and is responsible for setting asset the responsibility of the Manager.
The key risks are allocation, investment and gearing limits within which the explained in more detail under the Outlook section of Fund Manager has discretion to act and thus supervises the Chairman's Statement and the Manager's Report.
the management of the investment portfolio, which is contractually delegated to the Manager.
The effectiveness of each third party provider's internal controls is assessed on a continuing basis by the Compliance The Board has responsibility for the approval of and Risk departments of the Manager, the Administrator and investments in unquoted investments and any the Company Secretary.
Each maintains its own system investments in in-house funds managed or advised by the of internal controls, and the Board and Audit Committee Manager.
It has also adopted a procedure for directors, receive regular reports from them.
The control systems in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent are designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, professional advice at the expense of the Company.
assurance against material misstatement or loss and to manage, rather than eliminate, risk of failure to achieve Further details of the Boards consideration of key objectives.
operational matters is contained in the Business Review section of the Report of the Directors on pages 36 to 40.
As the Company has no employees and its operational functions are undertaken by third parties, the Audit Conflicts of Interest Committee does not consider it necessary for the In line with the Companies Act 2006, the Board has the Company to establish its own internal audit function.
power to authorise any potential conflicts of interest that Instead, the Audit Committee relies on internal control may arise and impose such limits or conditions as it thinks reports received from its principal service providers to fit.
A register of potential conflicts is maintained and is satisfy itself as to the controls in place.
reviewed at every Board meeting to ensure all details are kept up-to-date.
Appropriate authorisation will be sought The Board has established a process for identifying, prior to the appointment of any new director or if any new evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the conflicts arise.
The Board undertakes an annual review of the Groups system of internal controls in line with the Internal Controls Turnbull guidance.
Business risks have also been analysed The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups by the Board and recorded in a risk map that is reviewed systems of internal controls and for reviewing their regularly.
Each quarter the Board receives a formal report effectiveness.
The Manager is responsible for the day to from each of the Manager, the Administrator and the day investment management decisions on behalf of the Company Secretary detailing the steps taken to monitor Group.
Accounting and company secretarial services have the areas of risk, including those that are not directly their both been outsourced.
responsibility, and which report the details of any known internal control failures.
The Board also has direct access The internal controls aim to ensure that assets of the to company secretarial advice and services provided by Group are safeguarded, proper accounting records are Capita Company Secretarial Services, which, through its maintained, and the financial information used within nominated representative, is responsible for ensuring that the business and for publication is reliable.
Control the Board and Committee procedures are followed and of the risks identified, covering financial, operational, that applicable regulations are complied with.
compliance and risk management, is embedded in the controls of the Group by a series of regular investment These controls have been in place throughout the period performance and attribution statements, financial and under review and up to the date of signing the accounts.
risk analyses, fund manager reports and quarterly control 48 TR Property Investment Trust TH TH THE GROU E GROU E GROUP C P C P COM OM OMP P PANY ANY ANY Report of the Directors continued Voting Policy General presentations are given to both shareholders and The Board has approved a corporate governance voting analysts following the publication of the annual results.
policy which, in its opinion, accords with current best practice All meetings between the Manager and shareholders are whilst maintaining a primary focus on financial returns.
The exercise of voting rights attached to the Trusts Socially Responsible Investment portfolio has been delegated to Thames River who take Good corporate governance extends to a companys a global approach to engagement with issuers and their policies on the environment, employment, human rights management in all of the jurisdictions in which it invests.
Corporations are playing Thames River are required to include on their website a an increasingly important role in global economic activity disclosure about the nature of their commitment to the and the adoption of good corporate governance enhances FRCs Stewardship Code and details may be found at a companys economic prospects by reducing the risk of www.
government and regulatory intervention and any ensuing damage to its business or reputation.
Relations with Shareholders Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the Policies relating to physical property either held directly or by Board and the Investment Manager.
The prime medium the companies in which the Trust invests, is described in the by which the Company communicates with shareholders Directors Report under Environmental Policy on page 40. is through the Interim and Annual Reports which aim to provide shareholders with a clear understanding of the The Companys objective remains the long-term Companys activities and their results.
This information maximisation of shareholders total return.
is supplemented by the daily calculation of the Net Asset Value of the Companys Ordinary shares which is Statutory Auditor published on the London Stock Exchange, and interim The Audit Committee is satisfied that Ernst & Young LLP is management statements.
A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys Auditor will be put to This information is also available on the Companys shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
co. uk together with a monthly factsheet and Manager commentary.
Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors At each AGM a presentation is made by the Manager The directors who were members of the board at the following the business of the meeting.
Shareholders have time of approving the directors report are listed on page the opportunity to address questions to the Chairman 32.
Having made enquiries of fellow directors and of the and the Chairman of the Audit Committe at the AGM.
All Companys auditors, each of these directors confirms that: shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM.
to the best of each directors knowledge and belief, It is the intention of the Board that the Annual Report and there is no information that is, information needed Accounts and Notice of the AGM be issued to shareholders by the groups auditors in connection with preparing so as to provide at least twenty working days notice of the their report of which the Companys auditors are AGM.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance unaware: and of the AGM, or to contact the Board at any other time, are each director has taken all the steps a director might invited to do so by writing to the Company Secretary at the reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware registered address given on page 87. of relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
TR Property Investment Trust 49 THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued This information is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Responsibility statement Each of the directors listed on page 32 confirm that to the best of their knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Directors Report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Trust, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces: and the accounting records have been properly maintained.
By order of the Board For and on behalf of Capita Company Secretarial Services Secretary 3 June 2013 50 TR Property Investment Trust
