THE GROUP COMPANY Managers Report Market Background and Outlook Marcus PhayreMudge MRICS Fund Manager 3 June 2013 Introduction returning to levels last seen in late 2010.
The subsequent Taking a glance at the returns from property equities and fall in risk premia and market volatility duly benefited this Trust for the year under review and you would be equity valuations.
Our benchmarks volatility measured as forgiven for thinking that everything was ticking along nicely.
the 90 day historic, annualised fell from 18.1% in March It is, of course, pleasing to report that in certain parts of 2012 to 13% a year later.
the market that is indeed the case and our broadly positive views 12 months ago have been rewarded.
However, I also The second half of the year particularly illustrates the need to report that renewed investor appetite for equities markets bias of responding positively to macro forces across Continental Europe and the UK remains sentiment rather than regional economic fundamentals.
Our driven, rather than in response to underlying broad approach remains driven by a bottom up investment economic improvement.
I am in danger of serial repetition philosophy and normally such euphoria in the face when I remind investors of the huge structural reforms of weak fundamentals would make us duly nervous.
which we believe still need to be undertaken across the However we believe there are grounds for optimism, fractured single currency union.
particularly for listed real estate.
My opening comments referred to certain parts of our investible universe as However we remain confident that some progress has performing both well and as expected.
This statement been made, particularly with regard to central bank relates not just to those geographic submarkets where responses, not only in Europe but across the world.
the economic and real estate fundamentals are enjoying Whilst global central bank monetary policy remains positive growth, but also to those listed companies who unconventional through quantitative easing and other may be exposed to temporarily ex-growth conditions but liquidity mechanisms, in Europe the ECB went a step are able to manufacture returns through the continuing further.
Mario Draghi stating in July last year... the ECB is reduction in their cost of debt and utilisation of their ready to do whatever it takes to preserve the Euro, and balance sheets.
believe me it will be enough has been seen as pivotal in turning sentiment.
His proposal of committing the In essence, the themes I drew on in last years report still ECB to unlimited intervention in the short dated paper remain our central conviction.
We maintain exposure to of distressed member countries, conditional on those those markets where we see positive trends in real estate particular governments conforming to dictated fiscal fundamentals.
The dispersion of returns across subausterity programmes has been heralded a success markets and sectors continues to be amplified through not just because it was a groundbreaking statement of listed stocks providing us with plenty of opportunity support but also because no Eurozone sovereign has to stock pick.
However, whilst those remain consistent taken up the offer.
The longer term consequences of themes in our strategy they have been joined by a such offers of intervention are unknown, the short term broader trend.
The improvement in market sentiment impact was dramatic with peripheral Eurozone bond yields coupled with the ability of many of our companies 10 TR Property Investment Trust TH TH THE GROU E GROU E GROUP C P C P COM OM OMP P PANY ANY ANY Market Background and Outlook continued to source both debt and equity has given us greater at lower prices.
Once again banks are not pressurising confidence that a broader range of businesses can extract over-indebted borrowers a recurring feature of this era acceptable returns from their chosen markets.
European of huge central bank liquidity stimulus.
commercial property continues to offer investors a steady source of income, much of it index-linked and at greater A consequence of this trend of cross border global spreads over corporate bonds than a year ago.
I hope money flows into prime capital and key cities has been the report will illustrate where we have felt comfortable that domestic institutions are widening their own scope broadening our focus at the stock level.
You will note that for investment.
In effect they are drifting up the yield your funds overall gearing has not increased and this is curve looking for higher returns but consequently taking consistent with our overview that sound, broad economic more risk.
In property parlance they are seeking core growth across Europe remains elusive.
This is clearly an encouraging sign.
We are aware of pension funds and other savings Property Markets institutions who have maintained or increased their The ongoing theme of international capital flows allocation to property invariably focused on their focused on buying prime real estate in a small number individual domestic markets attracted by the yield no of city states remains as strong, if not stronger, than longer offered by fixed income products.
The dominant characteristic is that tentative market evidence of a broadening of institutional this capital is almost entirely equity rather than debt demand, capital returns from UK property were still -3% and appears not to deviate from the well trodden path in 2012 resulting in total return of 2.7%.
of acquiring only prime assets.
London continues to dominate shopping lists with 11.6bn of investment in Offices 2012, triple that of Paris.
Over 8bn of that was classified With real GDP growth across the Eurozone at -0.6% for as overseas buyers.
Importantly this Central London 2012 and only just positive for the UK at 0.3% it is no investment was over 38% of the 30.3bn of total UK surprise that the list of cities which had experienced net transactions.
IPD reported that initial yields in Londons take up of office space and a decline in vacancy, noted West End and Midtown tightened by 40bps in the year to in this report a year ago, has not expanded.
Likewise the Central London residential Paris remain the dominant office exposure within the Pan market also continues to attract foreign capital at an European listed property company universe and therefore unprecedented rate.
Knight Frank reported that 49% of are worthy of a deeper examination.
London continues to all prime residential property was purchased by overseas stand out with rental growth across all core submarkets buyers in 2012.
Prices rose on average by over 8.7% in West End 4.1% and City 2.8% but interestingly also the year.
Paris has also enjoyed strong investor interest, in the less central sub-markets of Clerkenwell, Islington, again for prime assets but here vibrant domestic buyers, Kings Cross and the Southbank.
Whilst headcount in particularly pension funds and insurance companies, financial services is dropping, Londons broad employment battle with international buyers.
Where investors can see base provides ample compensation outside of EC2 and rental growth or at least rental stability, the income margin Docklands.
In the West End, 71% of all take up was from over corporate and most sovereign bonds is enough technology and media businesses and 86% were lettings of a purchase rationale.
Unlike fixed income, prime below 50,000 sq ft.
The Q1 2013 take up of 1.4m sq ft property offers a long term history of real as opposed to equalled the June 2000 quarterly figure at the height of nominal growth.
This tale of competitive bidding against the tech bubble but this is skewed by Google's pre-let at a backdrop of resolutely low bond yields resonates across Kings Cross.
The insurance sector has been buoyant with all those other European cities exhibiting rental stability 50% pre-lettings at Land Securities 20 Fenchurch Street including Stockholm, Oslo, Lyon, Hamburg, Munich, Berlin, known as the Walkie-Talkie a year ahead of completion.
In contrast in Brussels, Amsterdam, Milan and Madrid, transactions have dwindled as buyers Vacancy across the Greater Paris region remains constant fear falling rents and sellers have no compunction to sell at 7.1% and whilst the central arrondisements have TR Property Investment Trust 11 THE GROUP COMPANY Market Background and Outlook continued experienced a slight, reduction in vacancy, the suburban affordability will diminish.
Work by Property Research and markets and Peri Defense west of La Defense have seen others concluded that a national brand which required weakness and falling headline rents.
The message remains over 200 stores 10 years ago to reach 60% of the clear even in the core sub-markets tenants have the upper population will, in todays multichannel world need just hand, landlords must work hard at lease expiry to incentivise 50 to 60.
Smaller centres and high streets are bearing tenants to remain in situ.
Rent frees and other capital the brunt of this evolution.
The winners will not always contributions are, if anything, increasing as owners endeavour be the out of town centres, in fact we believe those with to maintain headline rents and investment value.
city centres which can achieve this level of quality and dominance will ultimately perform best, benefiting from The Paris experience is reflected broadly across those population densities.
European cities identified as stable mainly located in Scandinavia Stockholm, Oslo, Stavanger and This evolution is reflected in investors valuations with Gothenburg, Germany and Switzerland.
The remaining yields on the top centres remaining firm over the period key Northern European markets of Amsterdam and whilst secondary and smaller centres have seen values Brussels remain firmly in the doldrums.
Dublin deserves continue to fall.
Retail was the worst performing sector in a mention, benefiting from renewed direct foreign the IPD UK Index in 2012, with capital growth of -4.2%.
investment particularly from US technology related businesses and the flickerings of life in the CBD.
Across Europe, this revolution in shopping trends is slower but nevertheless on its way.
In the meantime Retail the headwinds of negative real wage growth and rising Retailings internet revolution is nothing new.
It has been unemployment in many parts of the Continent continue underway since the web came into existence.
What is to dampen consumer confidence.
This in turn has resulted disturbing for both landlords and retailers is the speed of in negative annualised non-food retail sales growth over changing attitudes and customer shopping habits.
The the last three years everywhere except in Germany, accelerants are hi-speed connectivity into homes and Sweden and Norway.
even more importantly mobile enabled devices.
The UK is at the forefront of this process.
Last year we reported Distribution and Industrial the 2011 figure of 17.6m smart phone users, which We are seeing surprisingly robust occupier demand, was double 2009s number.
The 2012 figure was 19.2m particularly in logistics as corporates seek to drive cost and the forecast for 2013 is 24m 62% of the working savings throughout the supply chain.
The ability of shoppers to scan virtually any been modern facilities located in the industrial heartlands product barcode and identify the cheapest place to and logistics facilities on the main East-West routes.
In the buy that item, on or offline, is a defining technological UK, West London industrials and the traditional logistics event as far as retailing is concerned.
Clearly those motorway corridors have seen rental growth particularly in with the greatest domestic internet penetration UK the design and build market.
and Scandanavia are feeling it more keenly than Italy Western Europes lowest domestic internet user.
The Low Countries have seen rents return to pre-crisis levels with the area benefiting from its coastal hubs and The retail property winners will be those locations which dense motorway network.
Gent, Antwerp and Brussels all provide the widest range of retailers, entertainment and remain tight markets with rental growth.
Germany remains food offer and above all convenience.
Tying together a key hot spot with rents rising in all the five key markets traditional retailing, click and collect, as well as returns of Hamburg, Berlin, Munich, Dusseldorf and Frankfurt.
bought online will be an increasing trend.
The continued Elsewhere in the periphery the lack of demand and a slow rise of the dominant regional and supra regional mall soak up of existing space is encouraging.
All these markets we believe is irreversible.
Whilst smaller centres will not are expected to be above 2008 rental value levels by the disappear, due to the density of population in Europe and end of the year.
Even in Ireland, whilst Dublin industrial the limitations on travel time, we believe that retail tenants rents are 50% below 2008s levels they have now 12 TR Property Investment Trust TH TH THE GROU E GROU E GROUP C P C P COM OM OMP P PANY ANY ANY Market Background and Outlook continued stabilised for the best stock.
However, Spain remains the Insurance companies have also emerged as a growing weakest market by far with vacancy of over 10m sq ft in source of debt capital.
Basel 3 requirements which are Madrid and 6.8m sq ft in Barcelona record levels.
due to be introduced from 2013 encourage insurance companies to lend to property companies rather than Looking further east, once again it is very local market to own bricks and mortar themselves.
In Poland, Warsaw rents are falling due to further and Safestore have all entered into long dated lending supply but rising in Poznan, the nascent second hub, agreements effectively mortgages with the likes of Aviva where there is less than 0.5m sq ft available equivalent to and L&G.
We have also seen the emergence of large less than two years take up and where Segro are focusing dedicated real estate debt and opportunity funds who their Polish expansion.
Further north, St Petersburg has have continued to soak up performing and increasingly seen prime logistic rents grow 13% in the year, however non-performing loan portfolios from banks.
in Moscow 40% of the 8m sq ft under construction will Looking forward this diversity in lending sources is a be delivered speculatively in the next 12 months.
There welcome shift across Europe.
In the US, non-bank lending are clearly opportunities for growth across Europe but it represents 40% of property debt markets and we think pays to be very focused on particular sub-markets.
this has been a factor in the speed of recovery in US Debt and Credit Markets commercial property values.
Post the recent crisis and in New banking regulation from the European Banking this era of ultra loose monetary stimulus, the slow pace Authority requires European banks to maintain a Core Tier of bank deleveraging has certainly hampered the pace of ratio of 9%.
We anticipated that this would result in an corrective valuations.
Markets need to find realistic prices acceleration in banks seeking repayment of loans coupled in order to adjust ownership to new long term holders.
We with reducing new exposure to real estate lending.
The continue to avoid subsectors of the market where we see concern was that this deleveraging strategy by the banks legacy lenders likely to take time to deleverage further.
would result in a widening in the net debt funding gap, Property Shares which seeks to measure the capital shortfall required by Pan European property shares clearly outstripped the the property sector when lenders fail to renew loans and performance of underlying physical property across seek repayment.
Indeed they also outperformed the It is very encouraging to report that in their most recent broader European equity market.
Clearly all risk assets analysis end of 2012 DTZ concluded that a dramatic benefited from Mr Draghis comments in July 2012 and 45% increase in new non-bank lending and a growing then from the announcement of potential and sustainable diversity of funding sources will result in the funding ECB intervention through the offer of unlimited sovereign gap actually narrowing over 2013.
Also the expectation bond buying which followed in September.
The continuing is for the gap to all but disappear by the end of 2015. importance of the macro background cannot be This academic analysis resonates with what we are underestimated but with so many continuous months experiencing on the ground.
European listed property of positive performance June 2012 through to February companies, of all sizes and from all sectors have raised this year it is easy to forget that property shares fell over debt capital from a wide range of sources over the last 7.6% between mid March and end of May 2012 with year.
In the year to March 2013, 10.6bn was raised in political risk around the French and Greek elections as the public market.
This ranged from Unibails 750m well as the collapse of the Dutch government dominating 2018 convertible with a coupon of just 0.75% through investor sentiment.
Nevertheless, there appears to be a to a raft of small UK companies utilising the London determination from the ECB and its new chairman which Stock Exchanges retail bond platform selling debt to has been welcomed by the markets.
The consensual view small private investors.
For example Primary Health that the interest rate curves across Europe are destined Properties, Unite, CLS, Workspace and St Modwen all to remain flatter for longer than expected 12 months ago, raised unsecured debt through this source at coupons of focused investors minds on one particular issue yield.
TR Property Investment Trust 13 TH THE GROU E GROUP C P COM OMP PANY ANY Market Background and Outlook continued The outperformance of property shares was, certainly in to be the case with the 90 day, annualised falling to part, driven by its offer of income.
Investors sought out 9.6% at March 2013 versus 13.1% at the interim stage those businesses where earnings and dividend income and 18.5% a year ago.
Even with these figures trending are expected to be at the very least sustainable and down there remains plenty of dispersion of return in if possible growing.
Quite correctly investors favoured our universe.
To illustrate the point, there are just two those businesses growing their top line organically or Austrian listed property companies in our index.
Both through acquisitions and or their bottom line through have been poor performers over 3, 5 and 10 years further falls in their marginal cost of debt.
The former however one is beginning to get its corporate structure, had exposure to submarkets with real rental growth portfolio and balance sheet in order underpinned with a prospects, such as London, Paris, Oslo and Stockholm change of management.
The other continues to flounder.
and Europes economic powerhouse Germany.
An Respective returns for the last 12 months were 19.7% equal weighted basket of the five UK stocks with an and -5.9%.
Comprehensive strategic redirection coupled almost total London focus Great Portland Estates, with execution have also been rewarded by investors.
Derwent London, Shaftesbury, Capital & Counties and Wereldhave announced a retrenchment to core European Workspace returned 36.3% in the year whilst the retail and sold its US and UK assets at the end of 2012.
Whilst its total return for the period under review was a poor -1.5%, in the first quarter of 2013 the stock rose Within Germany the winners were the residential owners 12.3%, a huge outperformance of broader property which promise steady earnings growth, opportunity share prices in response to the successful execution of its for accretive acquisitions and who were standing at new strategy.
significant discounts to asset value and rebuild costs.
That equally weighted basket of five stocks excluding With underlying rental growth in traditional sectors LEG which only floated at the end of January 2013 of offices, retail and industrial confined to limited returned 39%.
For those businesses with less prospect hotspots, there was prominent outperformance from the of near term rental growth there was still the opportunity alternative submarkets such as student housing Unite to generate returns through improvements to their 64.2%, residential land assembly St Modwen 41.6% balance sheets and cost of borrowing.
As explained and self storage.
In this latter category, Big Yellow returned earlier banks and borrowers remain keen to lend to well 28.7% whilst Safestore just 5.7%.
Investors again capitalised property companies.
shying away from the business with the far greater debt burden even though returns at the asset level have been The real laggards in the year were those both exposed remarkably similar.
to weakening property fundamentals and sub optimal balance sheets.
Investors remain wary of too much Outlook leverage in an environment of weak to negative economic We expect underlying economic growth to remain growth.
Whilst debt capital raisings were at record muted at best across much of Europe over the next year.
low coupons for companies such as Unibail 700m However, there will be earnings growth in a substantial convertible at 0.75% and 2.4bn of 7 -10 year bonds at number of our property companies through a mixture of an average of 2.5%, deeply discounted equity raisings index-linked rents, development profits and further falls in Citycons 200m at 30% discount to share price the marginal cost of debt through refinancings and access were also a feature.
Those exposed to Brussels offices to new sources of debt capital.
and secondary assets across the Low Countries were particularly poor performers as rental levels continue to Furthermore, the severe lack of new development decline, almost unrestrained.
across virtually all markets French shopping centres the surprising exception is a very significant underpinning At the half year we reported that the volatility in property for property markets.
If or when tenant demand equity pricing had declined markedly and this continues recovers we will quickly experience a shortage of high 14 TR Property Investment Trust TH TH THE GROU E GROU E GROUP C P C P COM OM OMP P PANY ANY ANY Market Background and Outlook continued grade commercial space in a large number of markets.
A typical development cycle has an element of speculative construction as developers seek to take advantage of depressed land prices and construction costs and time the completion of buildings into a rising economic cycle.
Historically this has been funded almost entirely from the banks.
Since 2008 finance for this type of development has almost entirely dried up.
Lending is focused at the balance sheet level and development without significant preletting is at historically low levels.
However, we are beginning to see tentative signs of renewed bank lending, and whilst the loan to value ratios remain conservative when compared to pre-crisis levels, it is an important step towards a broader asset value recovery.
Once again, we reiterate that real estate investment is not a passive activity and again it has been the best managerial teams who have displayed their capabilities in making the most effective use of their limited capital resources.
Equally so, in these difficult times, the weaker businesses have failed to deliver and the dispersion of returns across markets and companies is set to continue.
The only cautionary note we sound is that we are aware of the likelihood of further dividend cuts from some weaker performers but that is within an overall picture of modest earnings growth.
The ultra loose monetary policy across the globe continues to drive demand for income and we see this as a strong underpinning for real estate and real assets which offer income.
