THE GROUP COMPANY Directors Peter Salsbury retired in 2000 as Chief Simon Marrison joined the Board of TRPIT Executive of Marks & Spencer plc M&S.
Mr Marrison is the He now has a Management Consultancy CEO of Europe and Chief Investment Officer practice specialising in Executive Coaching for LaSalle Investment Management.
Based and Strategy and is Chairman of Molten in Paris since 1990 he has considerable Group and Molten Technology.
During experience in the European property arena.
his 10 years on the Board at M&S his responsibilities included Commercial Estates, Retail Operations, HR, as well as Peter Salsbury Simon Marrison Sales and Marketing.
He also served on the Board of M&S Financial Services for 5 years.
He joined the Board of TRPIT in 1997, and succeeded as Chairman on 26 July 2004.
Caroline Burton joined the Board of TRPIT Suzie Procter joined the Board of TRPIT in June 2002.
She joined Guardian Royal on 1 March 2013.
She is presently Executive Exchange plcs Investment Department Head of Institutional Client Service at in 1973 and remained with the group Cantillon Capital Management.
From 1987 she was Managing been Director of Fixed Income Business at Director of Guardian Asset Management and, Pictet International Management, Head of from 1990 to 1999, Executive Director Institutional Sales at Invesco and Managing Investments.
She is a non-executive director Director, Head of Consultant Relations and of Blackrock Smaller Companies Trust plc, Client Director at Lazard Asset Management.
Caroline Burton Suzie Procter Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society Ltd and a She brings successful asset management member of the Management Committee of experience and expertise in strategic Hermes Property Unit Trust.
She advises a business development and distribution.
number of pension funds and charities.
Hugh Seaborn joined the Board of TRPIT on David Watson joined the Board of TRPIT on 24 July 2007.
He is a Chartered Surveyor and 1 April 2012.
He is a Chartered Accountant has considerable experience in the property and has had a distinguished career in the arena: he is currently the Chief Executive Financial Services Industry.
He spent 9 years Officer of the Cadogan Estate and a member as Finance Director of M&G Group plc, where of the Council and Audit Committee of the he was a director of four equity investment Duchy of Lancaster.
From 2000 to 2009, he trusts, and most recently at Aviva plc as Chief was Chief Executive Officer of the Portman Finance Officer of Aviva General Insurance.
Estate and he is a past Chairman of the He is currently a non-executive director of Hugh Seaborn David Watson Westminster Property Owners Association.
Charles Taylor plc, Kames Capital plc and Hermes Fund Managers Limited, where he is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He became Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 January 2013.
