TH TH THE GROU E GROU E GROUP C P C P COM OM OMP P PANY ANY ANY Managers Marcus Phayre-Mudge, Fund Manager Ordinary Share Class from 1 April 2011 and Fund Manager Sigma Share Class from September to December 2012.
He joined Henderson Global Investors in January 1997, initially managing the direct property portfolio within the Trust and latterly focusing on real estate equities, managing a number of UK and Pan European real estate equity funds in addition to activities in the Trust.
Marcus moved to Thames River Capital in October 2004 where he is also fund manager of Thames River Property Growth & Income Fund Limited.
Prior to joining Henderson, Marcus was an investment surveyor at Knight Frank 1990 and was made an Associate Partner in the fund management division 1995.
He qualified as a Chartered Surveyor in 1992 and has a BSc Hons in Land Management from Reading University.
Marcus Phayre-Mudge Jo Elliott, Finance Manager, has been Finance Manager since 1995, first at Henderson Global Investors then, since January 2005, at Thames River Capital, when she joined as CFO for the property team.
She joined Henderson Investors in 1995, where she most recently held the position of Director of Property, Finance & Operations, Europe.
Previously she was Corporate Finance Manager with London and Edinburgh Trust plc and prior to that was an investment treasury analyst with Heron Corporation plc.
Jo has a BSc Hons in Zoology from the University of Nottingham and qualified as a Chartered Accountant with Ernst & Young in 1989.
Jo Elliott George Gay, Direct Property Fund Manager, has been the direct property fund manager since 2008.
He joined Thames River Capital in 2005 as assistant direct property manager and qualified as a Chartered Surveyor in 2006.
George was previously at niche City investment agent, Morgan Pepper where as an investment graduate he gained considerable industry experience.
He has an MA in Property Valuation and Law from City University.
George Gay Alban Lhonneur, Assistant Fund Manager, joined Thames River Capital in August 2008.
He was previously at Citigroup Global Markets as an Equity Research analyst focusing on Continental European Real Estate.
Prior to that he was at Societe Generale Securities, where he focused on transport equity research.
He has a BSc in Business and Management from the ESC Toulouse including one year at the Brunel University, London.
He also attended CERAM Nice High Business School.
In 2005 he obtained a post-graduate Specialised Master in Finance in 2005 from ESCP-EAP.
Alban Lhonneur TR Property Investment Trust 33
