Overview The objective of TR Property Investment Trust plc the Trust, the Company or the Group is to maximise shareholders total returns by investing in property shares and investment property.
The Trust now has a single Ordinary share class a portfolio invested in the shares of property companies of all sizes on an international basis and also in investment property located in the UK.
Introduction The Trust was formed in 1905 and has been a dedicated property investor through the Ordinary share class since 1982.
In July 2007 a second share class, the Sigma share class, was introduced.
This was created mainly through the conversion of some of the existing Ordinary shares into Sigma shares.
The Sigma share class was created to focus on smaller property companies and therefore held a portfolio invested in the shares of smaller property companies on an international basis, it did not invest in property directly.
In December 2012 the Sigma shares were redesignated as Ordinary shares and the two portfolios merged.
The Report and Accounts contain the group and company financial statements.
As supplementary information a separate income statement and balance sheet is shown for the Ordinary share class.
Information for the full year is given for the Ordinary share class and information is given for the Sigma share class for the period to the effective merger of the portfolios.
The pages in the accounts have been marked in the top corner to highlight whether they refer specifically to one or other of the share classes or to the group as a whole.
The following page sets out the objective and investment policies for the Ordinary share class and key financial and performance data.
The Managers Report comments on how the actual investment activity through the period has followed the proposed policies and the resulting performance.
Independent The directors are all independent of Thames River Capital LLP Thames River or the Board Manager and meet regularly to consider investment strategy, to monitor adherence to the stated objective and investment policies and to review performance.
Details of how the board operates and fulfils its responsibilities are set out in the Directors Report on pages 36 to 50.
Further General shareholder information and details of how to invest in TR Property Investment Trust Information plc, including investment through an ISA or saving scheme, can be found on pages 90 to 92.
This information can also be found on the Trusts website www.
