ORDINARY SHARES Managers Report Marcus PhayreMudge MRICS Fund Manager Performance The Ordinary share class total return of 21.5% was ahead of the benchmark total return of 17.8%.
Pan European property shares fully participated in the broad risk asset rally from June last year which followed the confirmation of further ultra loose monetary policy coupled with implicit and explicit central bank support.
Over and above these European focused measures, the US has buoyed investor confidence with steadily improving news flow particularly around the housing market which is such an integral part of the domestic growth story.
Whilst the quarterly returns from our universe over the last nine months of the financial year were 4.2%, 9.2% and 4.2%, it is appropriate to remind investors that the first quarter to June saw a negative return.
Indeed our index fell -5% between mid March and mid June as investors once again fretted about the difficulties of achieving real political and institutional resolution to the Eurozones multiple banking and fiscal structural issues.
Clearly the ECBs intervention is welcomed and bringing peripheral Eurozone country bond yields back to normal levels is a vital step.
Property is often described as an income stream with an equity kicker through its link to economic activity via rental growth and indexation and therefore falling bond yields and reducing volatility have helped the sectors performance.
The relative outperformance against the benchmark index has been driven by our focus on quality, not just at the property asset level but also balance sheets and 16 TR Property Investment Trust TH TH ORE GROU E GROU DINARY SHAR P C P COM OM ES P PANY ANY Managers Report continued See-Through Portfolio by Market management expertise.
Even though collectively Europe Ordinary Share Benchmark is by far the slowest growing global region there are Class Portfolio 31 March 2013 UK City Offices 2.1% 2.1% hot spots of rental growth at the regional and city level West End Offices 4.7% 3.9% which we have sought exposure to.
These sub-markets West End Retail 2.7% 2.3% are also benefiting from the continuing lack of finance Docklands 0.3% 0.0% GLC SE Offices 3.8% 1.9% for speculative property development.
There has rarely Provincial Offices 0.5% 0.5% been so little new commercial property construction and In town Retail 5.5% 4.5% Supermarkets 0.8% 1.0% where it is happening it is invariably significantly pre-let.
Retail Warehouses 3.3% 3.5% The result is that where there is employment growth and Out of town Retail 1.1% 2.7% renewed economic activity this is feeding into rents faster SE Industrials 1.8% 1.4% Self Storage 1.4% 0.8% than was envisaged a year ago.
Leisure 0.6% 0.7% Residential 3.8% 2.8% Other Industrials 1.1% 0.7% Our focus on identifying and investing in those businesses Other 1.9% 1.2% with strong balance sheets has also paid off.
Most of Total UK 35.4% 30.0% Austria Retail 0.5% 0.7% our companies have reported a satisfactory continuation Offices 1.9% 1.9% of their traditional banking relationships but these well Residential 0.1% 0.6% Belgium Retail 0.4% 0.5% financed property companies have also been able to Offices 0.9% 2.0% reduce their marginal cost of debt through the bond Residential 0.0% 0.6% Logistics 0.1% 0.4% markets and other sources of debt capital described earlier.
Central Europe Retail 1.4% 1.2% Offices 0.2% 0.2% Industrial 0.1% 0.2% In a year of such outsized returns the obvious missed Other 0.2% 0.1% opportunity was not to have added significantly to the Denmark 0.1% 0.1% Finland Retail 0.5% 1.0% gearing in your fund.
Long term investors will know that Offices 0.9% 1.2% over many years we have tended to use only limited on Other 0.3% 0.2% France Retail 9.0% 8.6% balance sheet gearing to augment returns whilst preferring Offices 6.4% 6.4% to stock pick those companies we expect to perform best Residential 1.1% 1.0% Logistics 1.3% 0.9% in particular economic conditions.
The exception has been Other 1.8% 1.5% in periods of rapid fundamental economic growth but as Germany Retail 2.2% 1.4% Offices 3.1% 3.1% you will read throughout this report that underpinning has Residential 6.9% 8.3% yet to reappear for the majority of our markets.
Logistics 0.7% 0.5% Other 0.0% 0.1% Greece 0.0% 0.1% Distribution of Assets Italy Retail 2.9% 1.7% Offices 1.3% 1.4% UK equities exposure rose in the period from 34.6% Netherlands Retail 1.9% 2.3% to 37.7% and Continental European equity exposure Offices 0.2% 0.3% Industrial 0.1% 0.3% was 55.1%.
The physical property exposure reduced Norway Retail 0.2% 0.2% from 10.3% to 7.2%.
The reduction in physical property Offices 1.7% 0.9% Portugal 0.1% 0.1% exposure was a function not of sales there were Russia 0.1% 0.1% none but a combination of two factors, lower absolute Spain Retail 1.5% 1.7% Sweden Retail 1.8% 2.2% performance than equities and the merger of the two Offices 6.1% 5.4% share classes.
Sigma had no direct property assets.
Logistics 1.7% 1.6% Residential 0.5% 0.9% Other 0.4% 0.4% Investment Activity Switzerland Retail 0.9% 1.8% Offices 2.0% 3.4% Over the period, turnover purchases and sales divided Residential 0.2% 0.5% by two totalled 30% of the average total assets over the Other 0.5% 1.2% USA 0.1% 0.2% year, slightly ahead of the 29% recorded in the previous Other overseas 0.3% 0.6% Total non-UK 64.6% 70.0% Total 100.0% 100.0% TR Property Investment Trust 17 ORDINARY SHARES Managers Report continued year.
Volumes were ahead of the average in May, as we owner of the Earls Court redevelopment site following reduced overall equity exposure in a period of rising receipt of planning permission, feeling that it was better to peripheral bond yields and again in July, August and travel than to arrive.
The scheme covers 70 acres and the September as we reinvested into improving sentiment.
development programme is expected to run from 2015 The only significant IPO in the period was that of LEG, to beyond 2025.
On occasion our detailed bottom up a German housing investment business with a market value driven analysis can fail to fully capture broader and cap of 1.5bn at the end of January which we invested ongoing investor exuberance.
Together with the merger of London & Stamford and Metric Property in early February these two events saw The majority of our UK larger company exposure is volumes increase again towards the year end.
through positions in British Land, Land Securities and Hammerson.
The best performer and our largest relative As mentioned earlier we remained focused on quality position was Hammerson which sold its City of London businesses and rental hotspots.
Our overweight to office portfolio to Brookfield a US REIT in the summer.
Greater London was our largest single sub-regional Its strong share price performance 20.2% reflected contributor to performance.
Great Portland Estates rose not only investors satisfaction with this renewed retail 40.1% and Derwent London 25.3%.
Not only do focus but also the impending repositioning of its French these businesses offer exposure to our most preferred portfolio which includes the development of Marseilles submarkets but they are manufacturers of return through new city centre shopping centre, Terrasse du Port.
asset repositioning as opposed to static ownership of assets.
Workspace 49.7% and CLS 42.7% were our Germany continues to be a growing area of focus with top performing London-centric smaller companies.
CLS is the country weight increasing from 9.7% to 12.9% of not in our benchmark as it is over 75% controlled by one net assets over the year.
Europes economic powerhouse family, we are happy to be one of a handful of institutional offers real estate investors a backdrop of falling investors who have built up long term positions alongside unemployment and real wage growth hence our preferred them.
It is a classic investment trust stock, whilst it has residential and retail subsector exposure.
Again we sought little free float and therefore proves difficult to hold for out quality companies with appropriate debt structures open-ended funds it has shown returns of 143% over and whilst our preferred stocks GSW 25.7% and TAG 5 years and 286% over 10 years far outstripping the 30.1% exceeded the wider benchmark return it was benchmark return.
With little rental growth in traditional the super leveraged businesses Gagfah 50.9% and UK commercial property, outside of a handful of Patrizia 59.8% which had the stunning performance.
submarkets, we chose to increase our exposure to those Investors clearly became comfortable with the much stocks focused on alternative asset classes particularly higher risk inherent in those business models.
With less student housing, self storage and residential land.
It is than 1% of the German housing market owned by listed interesting to note that the best performers in these areas property companies, international investors keen to get had either a declared strategy of focusing on London access to this sub market drove equity prices consistently or were already there.
The IPO of LEG in late January 2013 led to programme is London-centric and it will have over 50% of some investor indigestion in the sector and share prices its assets in the capital by 2016.
Big Yellow 28.7% has have cooled since then with LEG failing to return to within 74% of its self storage revenue derived from stores inside 5% of its IPO price.
Fundamentals remain positive and we the M25 whilst St Modwen 41.6%, our preferred land continue to anticipate modest but robust earnings growth.
play, announced it had won control of the redevelopment of New Covent Garden Market in Vauxhall, a 10 year Unibail was once again the best performing French stock residential project.
An error was to underestimate the over the year, returning 26.5%.
It also holds that title apparent insatiable desire by overseas investors and amongst the 10 French companies in our benchmark occupiers, particularly Asian, for London residential new over 3, 5, 10 and 20 year periods.
It is the Trusts largest build.
We sold our holding in Capital & Counties, partial holding and has been an overweight position throughout 18 TR Property Investment Trust TH TH ORE GROU E GROU DINARY SHAR P C P COM OM ES P PANY ANY Managers Report continued the year.
The reduction in the size of the position at the Norway offers an even stronger economic backdrop and year end reflected the Boards decision to move to the the underlying property fundamentals are also healthy capped version of the benchmark, as highlighted in the in both Oslo and Stavanger however our only exposure, Chairmans Statement.
Even after this adjustment it remains Norwegian Property, which has office portfolios in both an overweight and the largest position in the portfolio.
cities has not delivered the promised performance.
Suffering from a history of over leverage it even raised Swedens stable economy and resilient housing market 10% new equity at a deep discount to support its capital has provided an attractive economic backdrop.
Management credibility has again we focused on well run businesses with portfolios deteriorated and we reduced our modest position during focused on the key cities of Stockholm, Gothenburg and the year.
Our positioning remains very company specific as individual stock performance varied hugely over the Switzerland was our largest country underweight in the period.
For example, Kungsleden is a highly indebted period.
Swiss property stocks have been accorded a safe business which is under investigation by the Swedish haven status by investors and its property shares have tax authorities for utilising complex offshore structures consistently underperformed their broader European for transactions in order to avoid tax.
The stock almost competitors when markets are rising.
As importantly, our halved in value between February and November 2012 bottom up stock analysis reveals low returns on capital but a change in management and a positive result for a employed even with the lowest cost of domestic debt competitor who utilised similar structures has aided the in the pan European property sector.
Residential values rehabilitation of the stock which has climbed 40% since continue to climb but the listed stocks collectively have late November.
little exposure to that sector.
TR Property Investment Trust 19 ORDINARY SHARES Managers Report continued Gearing, Debt and Debentures As highlighted in the Chairmans Statement, a review of The overall net debt position in the fund was substantially the cost allocations between the revenue and capital unchanged.
We also analyse the see-through gearing of accounts has led to a change.
In line with the Boards the portfolio, where we add the assets and the debt of longer term expectations of the relative returns from the companies in which we invest to the on-balance sheet the revenue and capital accounts, the proportion of assets and debt of the fund.
The see-through gearing was management fees allocated to the capital account has 50.1% whilst the benchmark figure was 48.0%.
Going forward, management fees and finance fund has on balance sheet debt, the unleveraged physical costs will be allocated 75% to the capital account and property assets which comprise 7.4% of assets offsets a 25% to the revenue account current allocations are substantial part of this.
management fees one third to the capital account and two thirds to the revenue account with finance costs Revenue allocated half to each account.
Although this results in a As mentioned in the Chairmans statement, the revenue lower cost charge to the revenue account, there is a partial earnings of 6.74p are not a fair representation of the offset due to the tax charge on the increased level of net earnings for the year.
Earnings are calculated based on the revenue.
Although the actual tax paid will not increase, weighted average number of shares in issue throughout there is a cross charge of tax between the two accounts the year.
The Sigma shares converted to Ordinary shares where costs borne by the capital account are used to were therefore brought into account from 12 December.
The overall impact on the The earnings profile of the portfolio is not even revenue account is positive, and the indicated earnings throughout the year, earnings are skewed towards the first should be taken as a new base for the continuation of a half, the Sigma shares had accrued earnings as part of the progressive dividend policy.
conversion, however these accrued earnings cannot be recognised as part of the overall earnings for the Ordinary As mentioned in previous reports, withholding tax share class.
Therefore the new Ordinary shares only reclaims have been submitted as challenges are made have the earnings attached since the conversion date, in the European Courts.
Progress is slow and no refunds thus lowering the overall stated earnings.
have been received to date.
Revised tax returns have also been submitted on the basis that current UK tax treatment Therefore, although the proposed overall dividend of of foreign dividends may be applicable to earlier periods.
7.00p per share compared with stated earnings of Although as yet no firm progress has been made, we have 6.74p per share may appear to be an over-distribution, reserved our position on this by submitting a claim to the shareholders should be reassured that this is not the case.
There is no certainty as to the outcome so, In the Group revenue column of the Group Statement as in prior years, no benefit has been recognised in the of Comprehensive Income on page 53, the earnings are financial statements.
shown on an overall basis.
The total anticipated dividend payment based on Revenue Outlook the number of shares in issue at the year end, together Although we are confident of strong underlying earnings with the two interim payments of the Sigma and Ordinary from the companies in which we invest, the timing share classes already made amount to 21.9m, an overall and the methods by which the companies make their payout ratio of 97.8%.
distributions and the way in which these distributions are taxed, and currency movements, all have a bearing on our The Ordinary share class tax charge at 11.2% is higher than overall result.
in the previous year 10.1%, due to the withholding tax on a higher level of overseas income.
The tax rate will continue On a conservative basis, not accounting for wide to vary depending upon the mix of the source of revenue.
fluctuations from the current position in the factors mentioned above, and taking account of the revised 20 TR Property Investment Trust TH TH ORE GROU E GROU DINARY SHAR P C P COM OM ES P PANY ANY Managers Report continued expense allocations, we anticipate earnings in the region estate and we concluded a partial surrender of the existing of 7.50p for the year to March 2014. lease with a simultaneous grant of a new lease to Costa Coffee on a 10 year term.
Direct Physical Property The physical property portfolio produced a positive total Chairmans retirement return of 7.4% for the 12 months comprising a capital On behalf of the whole management team I would like return of 1.8% and an income return of 5.6%.
This to sincerely thank Peter for the huge contribution and compares to a total return of the IPD Monthly Index of support he has given over a great many years.
Taking 2.5% made up of a capital return of -4.0% and an income over the Chair in 2004, he has steered the Trust through return of 6.8%.
The relative outperformance was driven the subsequent market turbulence and wild swings in by asset management at Wandsworth and residential lease sentiment towards the asset class and he leaves us in an extensions at the Colonnades, Bayswater.
He supported the launch of Sigma back in 2007 but also understood the changing market Teva continue to expand into Field House, Harlow dynamics and championed the successful remerger following completion of our rolling refurbishment of the of the two share classes in December 2012.
They now occupy 82% of the building management style ensured a consistency of approach and have an obligation to take the remaining space in due much appreciated by all at Thames River Capital.
The building remains fully let.
At the Colonnades we have let the remaining small retail unit on a short lease I joined the management team of TR Property in 1997, ahead of our potential large scale refurbishment in 2016. the same year as Peter became a non executive director Above the commercial element of the Colonnades there and on a more personal note, I would like to extend are 242 flats all on long leases with between 40 and 60 my sincere gratitude for all the guidance I have had years to expiry.
Over the past 7 years we have extended throughout my career as a fund manager.
He has been 77 leases 32% of which 10 were completed in the last instrumental in the evolution of the Trusts management 12 months.
Total premiums received since 2005 have team and an excellent guardian of shareholders interests.
At the year end we had terms agreed on a further 17 leases which if they proceed to completion will Caroline has been an invaluable non-executive since add a further 1.4m to receipts.
2002 and I look forward to continuing to work with her as Chairman from July.
In December we agreed with NACRO, who occupy two suites at Park Place, Vauxhall, that they will remain in their large unit and surrender their small suite, having previously planned to vacate the building completely.
We have refurbished the small suite to a high standard and are marketing the space to occupiers.
ETV Media, who occupied 7,500 sq ft at Park Place, have been placed into administration.
The space has been fully refurbished and we are seeking rents 25% ahead of the previous passing rent.
The top performing asset in the year was our industrial estate in Wandsworth.
We extended four leases with Absolute Taste securing them until September 2016.
All the leases deliberately expire in or before September 2016 as we are appraising the medium term redevelopment of the site.
There is a small retail unit at the front of the TR Property Investment Trust 21
