Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The business provides a valuable service to clients through To develop revenue streams from non-broking services its ability to create liquidity through price and volume related to financial and commodity markets.
The key discovery to facilitate trading in a wide range of financial actions to meet this objective include: instruments.
The way in which this service is undertaken developing the Groups information sales business is in the process of change through the regulatory reforms through extension of its product offering and expansion being introduced in the United States and in Europe, and of its customer base: and although it is currently not possible to accurately predict the impact these reforms will have, we believe that we will identifying potential opportunities to acquire or develop continue to provide a valuable service to clients.
We have other value added non-broking services capable of taken action to strengthen the business and we believe that generating an adequate financial return.
we are well positioned to benefit from an upturn in the level To deliver superior and consistent operating margins of activity in the financial markets.
The key actions to achieve this objective include: Rupert Robson maintaining cost discipline and flexibility in the cost Chairman base: 4 March 2014 maintaining a prudent financial structure: and operating an effective risk management governance structure and risk management framework so that the OBJECTIVE, STRATEGY, BUSINESS Group can manage its risks within its risk appetite.
MODEL AND RISK PROFILE, TRENDS Business model and risk profile The Companys business model is based on generating AND FACTORS LIKELY TO AFFECT a return from providing a facilitation service to clients, THE COMPANY enabling them to trade efficiently and effectively.
This service can be provided without actively taking credit Corporate objective and market risk.
The corporate objective is to maximise returns to shareholders In accordance with the risk appetite set by the Board the over the medium to long term with an acceptable level of risk.
Group does not actively seek risk in order to generate a return but is willing to accept a limited amount of risk Strategy as a consequence of its broking activities, principally The Groups strategy is to continue to develop its business, counterparty credit risk and operational risk.
This is reflected operating as an intermediary in the worlds major wholesale in the business model adopted by the Group whereby it acts over-the-counter OTC and exchange-traded financial and only as an intermediary in the financial markets.
The Groups commodity markets, with the scale and breadth to deliver risk management policies explicitly prohibit any active superior performance and returns, underpinned by strong taking of trading risk and the Group does not trade for its financial management disciplines, and without actively own account.
However, whilst the Group does not actively taking credit and market risk.
seek to assume risk as part of its business model, the Group The business objectives to deliver this strategy are: is exposed to certain risks as a consequence of its broking activity, primarily to counterparty credit risk and operational To provide a high quality broking service to clients, risk and also, to a limited extent, market risk.
facilitating their trading activity through developing and maintaining strong pools of liquidity across all major asset The broking business of the Group is conducted through classes and all major financial centres.
The key actions to three distinct models: the Name Passing model also known meet this objective include: as Name Give-Up : the Matched Principal model: and the Executing Broker model.
attracting and retaining broking expertise and client relationships: Around 70% of the Groups broking revenue is derived from Name Passing activities, where the Group is not a providing clients with a variety of execution methods counterparty to the trade, and where its exposure to a client consistent with market demand and evolving regulatory is limited to outstanding invoices for commission.
The level requirements: and of invoiced receivables is monitored closely, by individual maintaining the businesss reputation for client and in aggregate, and there have been very few trustworthiness and integrity in the financial markets.
instances in the past few years when invoiced receivables have not been collected.
3 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 1372-1 TP AR13 front v5.
indd 3 25 03 2014 16:49 Strategic Report continued Around one quarter of the Groups broking revenue is financial markets and by their risk appetite.
Volatility is one derived from Matched Principal activities, where the Group of the key drivers of activity in the financial markets.
During is the counterparty to both sides of a matching trade and periods of market turbulence the level of volatility tends consequently bears counterparty credit risk during the to be high and the business benefits from the increased period between execution and settlement of the trade.
Once volumes that occur during such periods.
Levels of activity a Matched Principal transaction has settled usually 1-3 days in the financial markets can reduce sharply, however, when after trade date, there is no ongoing risk for the business.
high volatility is overshadowed by structural uncertainty, To mitigate settlement risk the Groups risk management resulting in a reduction in risk appetite amongst clients.
policies require that transactions are undertaken on a strict During periods of low volatility the level of financial market delivery versus payment basis.
In the event that a client activity is generally lower, and the volume of transactions defaults prior to settlement in a Matched Principal trade, undertaken by the business on behalf of its clients tends the Groups exposure is not to the principal amount but to be lower.
to the movement in the market value of the underlying The impact of the changing regulatory environment instrument, and so the Groups exposure becomes a market for the Groups customers risk.
This risk is mitigated by the use of central counterparty In response to the financial crisis following the collapse of services and other default risk transfer agreements, where Lehman Brothers in 2008, regulators worldwide have been appropriate, and by taking swift action to close out any adopting an increased level of scrutiny in supervising the position that arises as a result of a client default.
In addition financial markets and have been generally tightening the to credit risk, the Groups Matched Principal activity also capital, leverage and liquidity requirements of commercial gives rise to limited market risk as a result of the infrequent and investment banks, and taking steps to limit or separate residual balances which result from the Groups failure to their activities in order to reduce risk.
match clients orders precisely or through broker error.
The level of the Groups revenue is substantially dependent Around 5% of the Groups broking revenue is derived on customer trading volumes.
The volumes of transactions from the business operating as an Executing Broker, under the Groups customers conduct with it are affected by their an International Uniform Brokerage Execution Give-up reaction to the actions being taken by regulators affecting agreement or equivalent, whereby the Group executes their willingness and ability to trade.
transactions on certain regulated exchanges as per client orders, and then gives-up the trade to the relevant client The impact of new regulations directly affecting OTC or its clearing member.
The Group is exposed to short term derivatives markets and the costs of complying with pre-settlement risk during the period between the execution new regulations of the trade and the client claiming the trade.
This exposure Part of the regulatory reforms being introduced relates is minimal, as under the terms of the give-up agreements directly to the operation of OTC derivatives markets, the Group has in place with its clients, trades must be which are the most important markets for the Group.
The claimed by the end of the trade day.
Once the trade has regulatory reforms of the OTC derivatives markets are being been claimed, the Groups only exposure to the client effected in the United States through the implementation by is for the invoiced commission receivable.
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission CFTC and the Securities Exchange Commission SEC of the provisions of The Groups broking activity gives rise to various operational the Dodd-Frank Act, and in Europe through the European risks.
These include the risk of business disruption, employee Markets Infrastructure Regulation EMIR and the review error and the failure of a business process or IT system, as of the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID.
well as the risk of litigation being brought against the Group.
There are four broad themes to the reforms: Discussion of the Groups risk management governance the requirement that certain derivatives contracts be structure, risk management framework and further cleared through central counterparties with exemptions information on the Groups risk profile is included on pages for some non-financial market participants : 13 to 19. the requirement for trades to be reported to trade Trends and factors likely to affect repositories: the Company enhanced pre and post trade transparency: and The main trends and factors likely to affect the future development, performance and position of the Companys the requirement that trades in derivatives contracts which business are summarised below.
are required to be cleared are executed through regulated execution venues the Swap Execution Facility SEF in the The level of financial market volatility United States, and the Organised Trading Facility OTF The Group generates revenue from commissions it earns in Europe.
by facilitating and executing customer orders.
The level of revenue is substantially dependent on customer trading volumes.
The volumes of transactions the Groups customers conduct with it are affected by the level of volatility in 4 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 1372-1 TP AR13 front v5.
indd 4 25 03 2014 16:49 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information In the United States, the phasing in of mandatory clearing In 2013, the charge in the income statement for these of certain interest rate swaps and credit default index swaps additional costs was 2% of revenue, and the run rate of commenced in March 2013.
With respect to trade execution these costs as a percentage of revenue is likely to increase.
and reporting, the final rules relating to SEFs were published Competition for brokers by the CFTC on 4 June 2013.
The Groups SEF was granted The Group competes with other interdealer brokers for staff.
temporary registration by the CFTC in September and The costs of employing front office broking staff is currently started operating on 2 October 2013 when the regulatory the largest cost faced by the Group.
The effect of the reforms requiring the reporting of all trades falling within competition for broking staff can result in an increase in staff the scope of the rules came into force.
The mandatory costs, or if staff leave the Group, can result in the loss of execution within a SEF of trades in instruments that have capability, customer relationships and expertise.
been determined by the CFTC to be made available to trade came into force from mid-February 2014.
Management of the cost base The Group actively manages its cost base, by seeking to reduce In Europe, the implementation of EMIR, which contains fixed costs and to maintain flexibility in the cost base, to provisions governing mandatory clearing requirements support its profitability as circumstances require it.
The Group and trade reporting requirements for derivatives, is coming has in the past undertaken major restructuring programmes into effect in stages as the various technical standards are involving the exit or restructuring of contracts, of staff, and the agreed.
Details of all derivatives contracts must be reported exit from certain activities.
The Group may undertake further to recognised trade repositories from 12 February 2014, restructurings from time to time in the future, and any such the first clearing obligations are expected to apply from future restructuring might involve significant costs or have a the second half of 2014, subject to the authorisation of disruptive effect on the Groups business, or the anticipated a relevant central counterparty, and margin requirements benefits of any restructuring might not be realised in full.
for non-cleared trades will apply from 1 December 2015.
Changes in the carrying value of goodwill The proposals to revise the Markets in Financial Instruments The Groups consolidated balance sheet includes a balance Directive MiFID, through the introduction of a new relating to goodwill.
The initial recognition of goodwill directive MiFID II and a new regulation MiFIR, continue represents the excess of the costs of acquisitions over the to progress.
MiFID II and MiFIR are expected to contain identifiable net assets of the entities acquired.
The carrying provisions governing permissible trade execution venues, value of the goodwill allocated to each region is reviewed for and governance and conduct of business requirements for impairment at least annually.
Impairment testing requires trading venues.
The application of these new requirements that the estimated value of the business in each region is is expected to be effective in 2016. compared with the balance sheet carrying value of the The pending introduction of the reforms in both the United business in that region, including goodwill, and any shortfall States and Europe has caused considerable uncertainty is recognised as an impairment of goodwill.
Changes in the amongst the Groups customers, which has persisted in the estimated value of the business for each region from time period after the date at which the various requirements have to time may result in impairments in the carrying value come into force, about which counterparties and which of goodwill.
transactions may be covered by the reforms and about the Litigation costs and settlements actions necessary to ensure compliance, which has affected, Legal action has in the past been, and in some cases and may continue to affect, the volumes of transactions the continues to be, taken by the Group to seek to enforce Groups customers conduct with it.
its contractual and other legal rights, and the Group may The reforms reinforce the role of the intermediary in the OTC consider it necessary to take such action in the future.
markets, and the introduction of more electronic platforms The costs of such actions, and the settlements that may into these markets represents an evolution of the facilitation be received as a result, may be significant.
service that the Group provides, rather than fundamentally changing the way in which OTC markets operate, but the OVERVIEW reforms do introduce new rules for intermediaries and changes in the way in which trading is undertaken by Market conditions were challenging throughout 2013 as the participants in these markets.
The reforms are therefore overall level of activity in the financial markets remained likely to have an effect on the Groups business and the subdued, particularly during the second half of the year.
revenue the business is able to generate from its activities, The business has also faced higher costs relating to the including potentially through changes in commission rates, regulatory readiness project.
The impact of these factors on the size of the market that is intermediated, or the Groups the underlying operating margin, however, has been largely market share.
offset by the actions that have been taken to reduce costs In addition, significant expenditure is being incurred in order and to maintain flexibility in the cost base, to strengthen to comply with the regulations, including the costs of the broking business in all three regions, and to continue development, launch and the ongoing running of new to develop the Information Sales and Risk Management electronic platforms and associated technology Services businesses.
infrastructure, and additional compliance resources.
5 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 1372-1 TP AR13 front v5.
indd 5 25 03 2014 16:49 Strategic Report continued The Group generates revenue from commissions it earns We have continued to focus on delivering innovative by facilitating and executing customer orders.
The level products and a first class broking service to our clients, of revenue is substantially dependent on customer trading and to take action to develop the broking business in all volumes which are affected by the level of volatility in three regions.
financial markets, by customers risk appetite, and by For the fourth consecutive year the Company was voted their willingness and ability to trade.
number one in more product categories than any other Volatility is one of the key drivers of activity in the financial single interdealer broker in Risk magazines 2013 annual markets, and despite increases in benchmark bond yields interdealer rankings published in September.
Dealers across and a general steepening of yield curves over the year, the wholesale banking markets in all three regions in which measures of financial market volatility have remained low.
the business operates voted Tullett Prebon number one in There has been some financial market turbulence during 34 out of 94 derivatives product categories, reflecting the the year but periods of higher levels of market activity Companys focus on first class service and delivery of flexible were isolated and have not been sustained.
Market volumes have also been adversely affected by the The business was also named Best Broker for Forward FX more onerous regulatory environment applicable to many of for the thirteenth year running at the 2013 FX Week Best our customers.
Regulators worldwide have been adopting an Bank Awards in November, and Fixed Income Derivatives increased level of scrutiny in supervising the financial markets Broker of the Year in the Futures and Options World awards and have been generally tightening the capital, leverage and in December.
liquidity requirements of commercial and investment banks, The continued successful development of our Energy and taking steps to limit or separate their activities in order business, covering oil, gas and power products and to reduce risk.
This has reduced risk appetite and reduced commodities, was recognised by the Company being voted the willingness and ability of our customers to trade.
Commodities Interdealer Broker of the Year in Derivatives The introduction of new regulatory reforms directly Week magazines 2013 awards in September.
This follows affecting the operation of the OTC derivatives markets the business being voted Broker of the Year at the 2013 has created considerable uncertainty amongst many of Energy Risk Awards in the first half of the year, and reflects our customers which has also reduced market volumes.
the expansion of market coverage in all three regions and In particular the lack of clarity about which transactions the quality of service provided to clients in this asset class.
and which counterparties would fall within the scope of the The Energy business has continued to innovate and to swap execution facility rules introduced in the United States expand its product offering.
The business was named Best in October last year served to reduce OTC derivative market Broker for European and North American Weather Risk volumes and fragmented pools of liquidity.
Markets in the Environmental Finance annual market rankings, following the establishment of a weather Consistent with the lower level of market activity, revenue derivatives desk earlier in the year.
in 2013 was 6% lower than in 2012 both as reported and at constant exchange rates.
Revenue in the second half In Europe and the Middle East we have broadened the of the year was 8% lower than in the same period in 2012. coverage of the business in continental Europe through the recently opened offices in Madrid and Geneva, and in the Significant expenditure is being incurred on the regulatory Middle East through the opening of the new Dubai office readiness project which covers the development, launch and through taking full management control of the and ongoing running costs of new electronic platforms businesses in Bahrain which we are now in the process of and associated infrastructure, and additional compliance reorganising.
Revenue from the offices in continental Europe resources.
In 2013 the charge in the income statement for and the Middle East has continued to increase and now these costs was equal to 2% of revenue, compared with less represents 15% of the broking revenue for the region.
The run rate of these costs We have also established an office in South Africa which is expected to increase further in 2014 to around 2.5% will initially service the local market in government bonds.
In the Americas we have continued to benefit from the The business has taken action to reduce costs and to acquisition in early 2012 of Chapdelaine, including from the maintain flexibility in the cost base to offset the impact development of a corporate bond desk alongside the activity of lower revenue and of higher regulatory readiness costs.
Market conditions in Brazil were not We continue to benefit from the restructuring programme favourable during the second half of 2013, but the business undertaken at the end of 2011 and during the first half we acquired in mid 2011 has developed its activities broking of 2012 which was designed to ensure that the business US dollar denominated products in the local market.
We was well positioned to respond to less favourable market continue to look for opportunities to establish our presence conditions by preserving the variable nature of broker in onshore financial markets as they develop in the region, compensation in relation to broking revenue.
Further actions and we have recently opened an office in Mexico to support have been taken during 2013 to reduce both fixed costs our existing activities with Mexican counterparties in the and the variable remuneration of front office staff, senior United States and to service the local market.
Broker compensation costs as a percentage of broking revenue have reduced to 58.3% in 2013 from 59.8% in 2012.
6 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 1372-1 TP AR13 front v5.
indd 6 25 03 2014 16:49 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Much of the focus of the business in the Americas during The Information Sales business was awarded, for the third 2013 was on the development and introduction of the consecutive year, the title of Best Data Provider Broker Companys swap execution facility, tpSEF Inc. tpSEF, at the Inside Market Data Awards in May.
The award is which was granted temporary registration by the CFTC in determined by an independent poll of end-users and September and started operating on 2 October when the reaffirms the industrys recognition of our position as the Dodd-Frank Act regulatory reforms relating to SEFs came leading provider of the highest quality independent price into force.
tpSEF offers trade execution and reporting information and data from the global OTC markets.
The compliant with the new regulatory framework in the five business has continued to expand its product offering and asset classes within the scope of the legislation, utilising towards the end of the year started to provide data on the the electronic broking platforms that have been developed bond markets in China and India.
The bond markets in both by the Group including the interest rate swap platform, countries have seen significant growth in recent years and tpSWAPDEAL.
The interest rate swap business in the region the provision of accurate, independent data to market has performed well since the new rules came into force.
participants will assist in the further development of the onshore capital markets in those countries.
In Asia Pacific, we have continued to develop the business in Hong Kong which is benefiting from the continued growth Revenue from products supported by electronic platforms, of the offshore Renminbi market and which is the centre together with Information Sales and Risk Management for our equity derivatives business in the region.
We have Services revenue, accounted for nearly one-quarter of total recently taken full control of our main business in Japan revenue in 2013.
As more electronic platforms are launched, which was previously operated as a joint venture with and more products and services are added to existing a local partner, which will allow us to consolidate all platforms, the proportion of total revenue accounted for of our activities in the centre into one business.
by products supported by electronic platforms is expected to continue to increase.
The majority of the OTC product markets are not characterised by continuous trading, and depend upon the Our key financial and performance indicators for 2013 intervention and support of voice brokers for their liquidity compared with those for 2012 are summarised in the and effective operation.
The platforms we offer provide table below.
clients with the flexibility to transact either entirely electronically or via the businesss comprehensive voice Key Financial and Performance Indicators execution broker network.
The business has continued to develop its hybrid electronic broking offering to comply with 2013 2012 Change regulatory requirements and to respond to market demand.
Revenue 803.7m 850.8m -6% Much of the development work during the year was focused on ensuring that platforms were ready for the Underlying implementation of tpSEF in the United States.
Operating profit 115.4m 125.5m -8% Underlying Operating -0.4% The product range supported by our hybrid interest rate margin 14.4% 14.8% points swap platform, tpSWAPDEAL, has been broadened during the year and the platform now displays streaming prices in Average broker EUR, USD and GBP.
Whilst the interdealer market for interest headcount 1,702 1,742 -2% rate swaps continues to be executed predominantly through voice brokers, the platform provides clients with the ability Average revenue per to execute electronically or with voice broker support and broker 000 445 462 -4% operates as a highly efficient front end order management Broker employment -1.5% and trade capture system for brokers and customers.
costs: broking revenue 58.3% 59.8% points Revenue from the tpQUICKDEAL service, which offers clients Broker headcount focused liquidity auction sessions with real-time electronic year end 1,687 1,720 -2% trade matching for products that are not otherwise supported by a hybrid platform, increased in the year, Broking support driven by a broader product offering and enhanced system headcount year end 747 719 4% functionality.
We also benefited from increased market adoption of tpCADDEAL, a hybrid platform supporting the broking of Canadian government bonds which has become an integral part of the service provided by our Toronto office.
7 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 1372-1 TP AR13 front v5.
