Directors Report The Directors present their report, together with the audited The voting rights of the ordinary shares held by the Tullett financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for Prebon plc Employee Benefit Trust 2007 are exercisable by the year ended 31 December 2013. the trustees in accordance with their fiduciary duties.
The right to receive dividends on these shares has been waived.
Results and dividends Details of employee share schemes are set out in Note 28 to The results for the year are set out in the Consolidated the Consolidated Financial Statements which is incorporated Income Statement on page 49. into this Directors Report by reference.
The Directors recommend a final dividend for the year of There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding 11.25p per ordinary share.
The final dividend, if approved, nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed will be paid on 15 May 2014 to ordinary shareholders whose by the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association names are on the register at the close of business on 25 April the Articles and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are 2014. not aware of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the During 2013 Tullett Prebon plc paid a final dividend for 2012 transfer of securities or on voting rights, nor are there any of 11.25p per ordinary share and an interim dividend for arrangements by which, with the Companys co-operation, 2013 of 5.6p per ordinary share.
financial rights carried by securities are held by a person other than the holder of those securities.
Directors The Directors who served throughout the year, except as With regard to the appointment and replacement of noted, were as follows: Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Companies Act 2006 and Rupert Robson independent Non-executive Director related legislation.
The Articles may be amended by special Non-executive Chairman from 6 March 2013 resolution of the shareholders and were last amended Terry Smith Chief Executive at the Companys Annual General Meeting in May 2012.
As a consequence of this amendment to the Articles, at each Paul Mainwaring Finance Director AGM all of the Directors who held office on the date seven Angela Knight Senior Independent Non-executive Director days before the Notice of that AGM must retire from office and each Director wishing to serve again must submit Roger Perkin independent Non-executive Director themselves for election or re-election by shareholders.
Stephen Pull independent Non-executive Director The powers of the Directors include the authorities to allot Keith Hamill Non-executive Chairman retired 6March shares and to buy the Companys shares in the market as 2013 granted by shareholders at the AGM.
At the last AGM resolutions were passed to authorise the Directors to allot David Clark independent Non-executive Director retired up to a nominal amount of 36,268,645 ordinary shares 9 May 2013 subject to certain restrictions and to purchase up to Biographical details of the Directors are set out on page 21.
Details of the shares issued during the year and up to the date of this Annual Report are The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity set out in Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
provisions for the benefit of its Directors which remain At the date of this Annual Report, no shares had been in place at the date of this report.
The principal employer purchased in the market under the authority granted at of the Tullett Prebon Pension Scheme has given indemnities the 2013 AGM.
The allotment and buy-back authorities to trustees of that scheme, including the Executive Directors will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM or, if earlier, and Chairman.
The Company maintains liability insurance on 1 July 2014, unless renewed before that time.
for its Directors and officers.
Further powers of the Directors are described in the Share capital and control Schedule of Matters Reserved for the Board, which Details of the issued share capital, together with details of is available on the Companys website, and summarised the movements in the Companys issued share capital during in the Corporate Governance Report.
the year, are shown in Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements which is incorporated into this Directors Report The Companys 150m revolving credit facility gives by reference.
the lenders the right not to renew loans and to cancel commitments in the event of a change of control.
The The Company has one class of ordinary shares, which carry facility has never been drawn.
There are no other significant no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a vote at general meetings of the Company.
change of control of the Company, nor any agreements No person has any special rights of control over the with the Company and its employees or Directors for Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a take-over bid.
22 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 1372-1 TP AR13 front v5.
indd 22 25 03 2014 16:49 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information The emission statistics were calculated by Sustain Limited Substantial interests and cover all material sources of emissions for which the As at the year end, and at 4 March 2014, being the latest Group is responsible.
The methodology used was that of the practicable date before signing of this document, the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and following not being Directors, their families or persons Reporting Standard revised edition, 2004.
Responsibility connected, within section 252 of the Companies Act 2006 for emissions sources was determined using the operational had notified the Company in accordance with DTR 5 that control approach.
The estimate covers all Tullett Prebon they were interested in the following voting rights of the operations that are consolidated in the financial statements.
issued ordinary share capital of the Company: Data was collected for the Groups largest offices which 31 December 4 March employ approximately 80% of the Groups staff, and 2013 2014 extrapolated to cover all the Groups offices, as well as % % for the Groups disaster recovery sites and any corporate vehicles.
Collected data was converted to greenhouse gas Lloyds Banking Group plc 9.0 9.0 estimates using the UK Governments GHG Conversion Jupiter Asset Management Limited 8.6 8.6 Factors for Company Reporting 2013.
Henderson Global Investors 5.0 Below 5.0 Political and charitable donations Invesco Limited 5.0 5.0 During 2013 no political or charitable donations were made OppenheimerFunds, Inc 5.0 5.0 by the Group 2012: nil.
Schroders plc 5.0 5.0 Going concern The Groups business activities and performance, and the Corporate Governance Report financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity A separate Corporate Governance Report is included within position, borrowing facilities and hedging strategy, together this Annual Report on pages 25 to 31 and which is, where with the factors likely to affect its future development, relevant, incorporated into this Directors Report by performance and position, are explained in the Strategic reference.
The Corporate Governance Report includes the Report.
Analysis of the Groups key risks and approach to risk information that fulfils the requirements of section 7.2 of management is also set out in the Strategic Report.
Details The Disclosure and Transparency Rules with the exception of the Groups interest bearing loans and borrowings, of the information referred to in DTR 7.2.
6 which is included obligations under finance leases, long term provisions, other in this Directors Report.
long term payables and financial instruments are set out in Notes 22 to 25 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Corporate Social Responsibility Information concerning the Companys policies on employee The Group has considerable financial resources both engagement and the employment of disabled staff is in the regions and at the corporate centre comfortably included in the Corporate Social Responsibility section of to meet the Groups ongoing obligations.
the Strategic Report, which is, where relevant, incorporated After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable into this Directors Report by reference.
expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate Greenhouse gas emissions resources to continue in operational existence for the The estimated 2013 Group greenhouse gas emissions are set foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Annual Report and out below: financial statements continue to be prepared on the going concern basis.
Tonnes of CO e 2 Combustion of fuel, vehicles, fugitive emissions scope 1 402 Purchased electricity scope 2 10,286 Total 10,688 Total emissions per employee 4.1 23 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 1372-1 TP AR13 front v5.
indd 23 25 03 2014 16:49 Directors Report continued Auditors Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Disclosure of information to the auditor Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Annual Report confirms that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Annual General Meeting The AGM of the Company will be held at 2.00pm on 9 May 2014.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are set out in a separate Notice of Meeting which will be sent to all shareholders entitled to receive such Notice.
Only members in the register of members of the Company as at 6.00pm on 7 May 2014 or two days before any adjourned meeting will be entitled to attend and vote at the AGM.
Any proxy must be lodged with the Companys registrars or submitted to CREST at least 48 hours before the AGM or any adjourned meeting.
Resolutions dealing with the approval of the Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS and awards made under the LTIS, authority to allot shares, disapplication of pre-emption rights, authority to buy back shares and to convene extraordinary general meetings on no less than fourteen days notice will be put to the AGM as special business.
The resolutions are set out in a Notice of Annual General Meeting together with explanatory notes which are set out in a separate circular to shareholders which accompanies this Annual Report.
By order of the Board Diana Dyer Bartlett Company Secretary 4 March 2014 24 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 1372-1 TP AR13 front v5.
