Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information Board of Directors RUPERT ROBSON 53 ANGELA KNIGHT 63 Chairman Senior Independent Non-executive Director Rupert Robson was appointed to the Board in January 2007 and Angela Knight was appointed as a Non-executive Director of Tullett to Chairman on 6 March 2013.
He is Chairman of the Nominations Prebon plc in September 2011.
She is a member of the Audit, Committee.
He has held a number of senior roles in financial Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Angela Knight is institutions, most recently Non-executive Director of London currently the Chief Executive of Energy UK and a Non-executive Metal Exchange Holdings Ltd and Non-executive Director of OJSC director of Brewin Dolphin Holdings plc and Transport for London.
Nomos Bank, Global Head, Financial Institutions Group, Corporate She was formerly the Chief Executive of the British Bankers Investment Banking and Markets at HSBC and Head of European Association from 2007 to 2012 and the Chief Executive of the Insurance, Investment Banking at Citigroup Global Markets.
Association of Private Client Investment Managers and Stockbrokers He is Chairman of Charles Taylor plc and EMF Capital Partners.
She was also formerly the Member of Parliament for Erewash from 1992 to 1997, serving as a Treasury Minister from 1995 to 1997.
Her previous Non-executive director TERRY SMITH MNZM 60 appointments include the Financial Skills Partnership, Lloyds TSB plc, Scottish Widows and LogicaCMG plc.
Chief Executive Terry Smith started his career with Barclays Bank, became ROGER PERKIN 65 a stockbroker in 1984 with W Greenwell & Co. and subsequently worked at BZW and James Capel.
In 1990 he became the head of UK Company Research at UBS Philips & Drew.
In 1992 he joined Collins Independent Non-executive Director Stewart subsequently Collins Stewart plc, becoming a director in Roger Perkin joined the Board on 1 July 2012.
He is Chairman 1996 and Chief Executive in 2000.
When Collins Stewart and Tullett of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Prebon demerged in December 2006, he became Chief Executive Nominations Committees.
He is a former partner at Ernst & Young of Tullett Prebon plc.
He also became Executive Chairman of Collins LLP and spent 40 years in the accounting profession before retiring Stewart plc, a position which he held until 2009 when he became from the firm in 2009.
He is a Non-executive Director and Chairman Deputy Chairman, finally resigning from the Board of Collins of the Audit Committee for Nationwide Building Society and Electra Stewart plc in October 2010.
He is an Associate of the Chartered Private Equity plc and Non-executive Director and member of the Institute of Bankers, has an MBA from The Management College, Audit Committee of Resolution Limited.
He was formerly a Henley and is a qualified Series 7 Registered Representative and Non-executive Director at The Evolution Group plc until its Series 24 General Securities Principal with FINRA.
In November acquisition in December 2011.
He is a trustee of two charities, 2010, Terry Smith launched Fundsmith, a fund management Chiddingstone Castle and Crime Reduction Initiatives.
company, of which he is Chief Executive and Chief Investment Officer.
In the New Zealand 2012 New Years Honours list, Terry STEPHEN PULL 57 Smith was appointed a Member of the New Zealand Order of Merit for services to New Zealand-United Kingdom relations.
Independent Non-executive Director Stephen Pull was appointed as a Non-executive Director of Tullett PAUL MAINWARING 50 Prebon plc in September 2011.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Nominations Finance Director Committees.
Stephen Pull was Chairman of Corporate Broking Paul Mainwaring qualified as a chartered accountant with Price at Nomura between 2008 and 2011 following their acquisition Waterhouse in 1987, and obtained an MBA from Cranfield School of Lehman Brothers Europe for whom Stephen worked from 2002 of Management in 1991.
From 1993 to 2000, he worked for Caradon as Head of Corporate Broking, and then as Chairman of Corporate plc in a number of financial roles, including three years as Finance Broking.
He has also held a number of other senior roles in the City, Director of MK Electric.
In 2000, he was appointed as Group Finance including Managing Director of Corporate Broking at Merrill Lynch Director of TDG plc.
He was appointed as Group Finance Director and Head of UK Equity Sales at Barclays fide Zoete Wedd.
He was appointed to the Collins Stewart Tullett plc Board in October 2006, and has been Finance Director of Tullett Prebon plc since December 2006.
DAVID SHALDERS 47 Independent Non-executive Director David Shalders joined the Board on 27 February 2014 and is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
David Shalders is Group Operations & Technology Director at Willis Group Holdings plc, responsible for information technology, operations, real estate and change management functions.
David Shalders joined Willis from the Royal Bank of Scotland Group where he served for over a decade in senior operations and IT roles, most recently as Global Chief Operating Officer for Global Banking and Markets.
He also led the divisions regulatory response to Basel 3.
Prior to that, David led the Groups integration with ABN Amro and held roles as Head of London and Asia Operations and Head of Derivative Operations for NatWest.
21 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2013 1372-1 TP AR13 front v5.
