Directors remuneration report continued The Committee was not provided with advice or services, Remuneration Policy during the financial year ending 31 December 2013, in respect of the fees payable to the non-executive directors or This is the first occasion that we have submitted this report the remuneration payable to the CEO.
on our remuneration policy in accordance with the new Regulations.
There has not been any significant change in The Committee assesses the workload and responsibilities of policy from the previous year.
the non-executive directors and reviews, from time to time, the fees paid to non-executive directors of other investment An ordinary resolution for the approval of this policy will be trust companies.
put to members at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, if the resolution is passed by the members, this policy Herbert Smith Freehills LLP provided legal advice to the will take effect from 1 January 2015.
All provisions of this Company throughout the year, including in relation to the policy are expected to remain in effect until the Annual operation of the Companys incentive arrangements and on General Meeting in 2017 when the Company is next required the CEOs service agreements.
This advice was available to be to submit its remuneration policy to its members.
The terms of the CEOs Long-Term Bonus was specifically The table below sets out the members of the Committee approved at the 2013 Annual General Meeting.
who were present during any consideration of the CEOs remuneration, and shows the number of meetings attended Non-executive directors by each non-executive director: All the directors are non-executive, with the exception of the CEO.
New directors are appointed for an initial term ending Number of meetings Name attended three years from the date of their first annual general meeting after appointment and with the expectation that they will M C Claydon 2 2 serve two three-year terms.
The continuation of directors H M Henderson 2 2 appointments is contingent on satisfactory performance R J Oldfield 2 2 evaluation and re-election at annual general meetings.
Non-executive directors appointments are reviewed formally Statement of shareholder voting every three years by the Board as a whole.
Each of the At the Annual General Meeting held on 30 April 2013, an non-executive directors has a letter of appointment which ordinary resolution to approve the Directors Remuneration sets out the terms on which they provide their services.
A Report for the year ended 31 December 2012 was passed on a non-executive director may resign by notice in writing to the show of hands.
The proxy votes were as follows: Board at any time: there are no set notice periods.
Total votes cast Votes at excluding Votes Votes proxies Votes votes for against discretion withheld withheld 26,102,706 373,253 78,499 360,870 26,554,458 98.3% 1.4% 0.3% 100% The Company is committed to on-going shareholder dialogue and takes an active interest in voting outcomes.
Where there are substantial votes against resolutions in relation to directors remuneration, the reasons for any such vote will be sought and any actions in response will be detailed in future Remuneration Reports.
There were no substantial shareholder votes against the resolution at the Annual General Meeting in 2013.
48 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2013
