Corporate governance statement Background The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code and by reference to the The UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules AIC Guide which incorporates the Corporate Governance the Disclosure Rules require listed companies to disclose Code will provide better information to shareholders.
how they have applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the The Company has complied with the recommendations of the Corporate Governance Code, as issued by the Financial AIC Code and the best practice provisions of the Corporate Reporting Council the FRC.
The provisions of the Corporate Governance Code throughout the year ended 31 December Governance Code, which was issued by the FRC in September 2013 except as set out below: 2012, were applicable in the year under review.
The Corporate Governance Code can be viewed at www.
uk The Corporate Governance Code C. 3.5 includes provisions relating to the need for an internal audit The related Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code, function.
As explained on page 41, the Company does issued by the Association of Investment Companies the not{have an internal audit function.
AIC, provides specific corporate governance guidelines The Corporate Governance Code B.
The FRC has confirmed that provisions relating to the annual re-election of all AIC member companies who report against the AIC Code directors.
As explained on page 34, the Company and who follow the AICs Corporate Governance Guide for considers that this provision is inappropriate to the Investment Companies the AIC Guide will be meeting their Company.
obligations in relation to the Corporate Governance Code and the associated disclosure requirements of the Disclosure The Principles of the AIC Code Rules.
The AIC Code issued in February 2013 was applicable The AIC Code is made up of twenty one principles.
Its three in the year under review.
The AIC Code can be viewed at sections cover the Board: board meetings and relations with the www.
co. uk investment managers: and shareholder communications.
Compliance The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the Corporate Governance Code, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to the Company.
32 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2013
