Report of the Director s Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dividend Policy and performance in 2013 Policy on gearing and the use The Companys policy, subject to circumstances, is to of derivatives increase its dividend per share in real terms, ahead of the Employment of Gearing increase in UK Consumer Prices CPI.
Purpose The purpose of using borrowings is to improve or gear For 2013, the Board has declared a fourth interim dividend of returns for shareholders, by achieving investment returns 4.5 pence per share, to be paid to shareholders on 28 March higher than the interest cost of the borrowings.
Accordingly, 2014, making a total distribution for the year of 14.4 pence attention is paid to using a level of gearing appropriate for 2012: 13.2 pence.
This represents an increase of 9.1%, over market conditions put simply, having more borrowings when 7% ahead of the 2.0% rate of consumer price in ation CPI in markets are attractively valued and borrowing less at times the year to December 2013.
This is the 39th consecutive year when returns are expected to be poorer.
In addition, a that Witan has increased the dividend.
blend of long-term and short-term borrowings is used, to balance the certainty of cost associated with locking in The chart below shows the growth in dividends over the past xed rates for longer periods with the exibility of using 10 years.
Our dividend per share has grown ahead of the rise short-term facilities which can be readily repaid when they in the UK consumer price index in each year and cumulatively are not required.
has grown by 7 3%, more than twice the 31% rise in consumer prices.
Limits Although the Company has the legal power under its Articles Since 2003, Witans dividend per share has risen 73% of Association to borrow up to 100% of the adjusted total of compared with 31% for the UK consumer price index shareholders funds, with the objective of enhancing returns, this is subject to practical constraints including a test of 16.0 188.0 prudence.
The Boards longstanding policy is not to allow Witan dividend pence per share left scale CPI Index right scale gearing as fide ned on page 3 to rise to more than 20%, 14.0 164.5 other than temporarily in exceptional circumstances.
Over 12.0 141.0 the past five years it has generally varied between 0% and 10.0 15% and where appropriate the Company may hold a small 117.5 net cash position.
Witan has 110m of longterm debt, consisting of debenture, secured bond and preference share capital.
The Company The Company commenced paying quarterly dividends also has a 50 million oneyear facility, providing additional in 2013.
The first three payments for 2014 in June, exibility over the level of gearing, as well as enabling the September and December will, in the absence of unforeseen Company to borrow in other currencies than sterling, if circumstances, be paid at a rate of 3.6 pence per share 2013: deemed appropriate.
Witan may either invest its borrowings 3.3 pence, being one quarter of the full year payment for fully, or neutralise their e ect with cash balances or the 2013.
The fourth payment in March 2015 will be a balancing sale of equity index futures according to its assessment of amount, re ecting the di erence between the three the markets.
The Companys investment managers are not quarterly dividends already paid and the payment decided for permitted to borrow within their portfolios but may hold cash the full year.
Annual Report 2013 Witan Investment Trust plc 13 Strategic report Performance and principal developments in 2013 continued Action taken in 2013 The use of index futures enables Witan to adjust its gearing Gearing was managed actively during the year.
It was rapidly, conferring tactical exibility.
It also provides a means increased to 11% during the middle quarters of the year of adjusting asset allocation by allocating investment to before being reduced in the autumn, ending the year at 7.
In both cases, the use of index futures Gearing signi cantly bene ted performance during the year, enables the adjustments to be made without interfering with increasing the Groups exposure to the rise in markets.
the assigned objectives for our investment managers, which are to pick stocks that will grow in value over the medium to The calculation of gearing takes account of the nominal value long term and outperform their respective benchmarks.
of any derivatives held, since this represents the size of the The operation of this investment area is the responsibility asset or liability to which the derivative provides exposure.
of the CEO, within guidelines set by the Board.
Transactions are reported to the Board as they occur, with the CEO being At the end of 2012, the published gearing gure of 6.1% accountable for the financial results.
The Companys external took account of a 29.7 million short position in the 10-year managers are not permitted to make use of derivatives or to gilt future, equivalent to 2.7% of net assets.
Gearing before gear their portfolios.
accounting for this position was 8.8%.
Gross gearing adding together the value of all positions less cash, irrespective of Activity during 2013 whether they were an asset or a liability was 11.5% at the At the end of 2012, the Company held a short position in end of 2012. the 10-year gilt futures, which was established inter alia to reduce the potential adverse portfolio impact from At the end of 2013, gross gearing on the same basis was an expected rise in gilt yields.
This included a 35.2 million long position in Nikkei gradually reduced and nally closed in April, when the Index futures, equivalent to 2.6% of net assets.
Further improving prospects for global equity markets led to a details of the accounting treatment for these positions are decision to redeploy the capital employed to increase given in note 1 on page 67. exposure to the Japanese equity market.
Since April, the Company has held a position in the Nikkei Index futures Use of Derivatives contract, equivalent to approximately 3% of net assets.
Policy This{ has given the Company additional exposure to the Witans policy on the use of derivatives emphasises simplicity, strongly-performing Japanese market at a time when transparency, cost e ectiveness and the minimisation of its externally managed portfolios had relatively little counterparty risk.
Where financial instruments are available Japanese{ exposure.
that help the Company to implement its investment policy whether for the purpose of increasing exposure to a The underlying futures exposure varied between 2.7% particular asset or for portfolio hedging their use will be represented by a 29.7 million short position in the gilt considered.
In recent years, exchange-traded index futures future in January and 4.0% of assets, nishing the year at have been the only instruments used.
These give exposure 2.6% represented by a 35 million position in Japanese to a particular market{index, are relatively liquid to trade equity index futures.
The Company takes full account of the and depend upon the creditworthiness of the particular e ect of the nominal value of the futures contracts when exchange, not an individual rm.
The value of the investments which are traded on o cial exchanges is fully marked to market every day.
The{realised gain on index futures during the year is shown in the cash ow statement on page 63.
14 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2013
