Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information The Board In addition to his responsibilities for the overall management The Board is collectively responsible for the success of of the Company, the Chief Executive Officer manages the Company.
Its role is to provide leadership within a the Direct Holdings portfolio.
A maximum of 10% of the framework of prudent and effective controls that enable Companys gross assets at the time of purchase may be risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board sets the invested in this portfolio and there are restrictions on the Companys strategic aims subject to the Companys Articles number, size and type of investments that may be made.
of Association and to such approval of the shareholders in general meeting as may be required from time to time and The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the directors ensures that the necessary resources are in place to enable are provided, in a timely manner, with management, the Companys objectives to be met.
regulatory and financial information that is clear, accurate and relevant, whether from the Chief Executive Officer The Board has typically met approximately ten times a year or otherwise.
and deals with the most important aspects of the Companys affairs, including the setting of parameters for and the Matters specifically reserved for decision by the full monitoring of investment strategy, the review of investment Board have been defined.
There is an agreed procedure performance and the extent to which borrowings may for directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take be used.
independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible to the Board for the overall management of the Company including investment Board Committees performance, business development, shareholder relations, The Board has established an Audit Committee and a marketing, investment trust industry matters, administration Remuneration and Nomination Committee.
The membership and unquoted investments.
The duties of the Chief Executive of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration and Officer include leading on investment strategy and asset Nomination Committee is set out on pages 2 6 and 27.
The allocation, on the selection and monitoring of the investment roles and responsibilities of the Committees are described in managers and their terms of reference and on the use of the Report of the Audit Committee on page s 42 and 43 and in derivatives.
The Board sets limits on matters such as asset the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 54. allocation, gearing and investment in derivatives, within which the Chief Executive Officer may operate at Meetings of the Board and its Committees his discretion.
The number of formal meetings during the year of the Board and its Committees, and the attendance of the The Chief Executive Officer reports to each meeting of the individual directors at those meetings, is shown in the table Board.
His report includes confirmation that the Boards that follows.
investment limits and restrictions and those which govern Remuneration and the Companys tax status as an investment trust, have been Audit Nomination adhered to.
Board Committee Committee Number of meetings 11 3 2 The individual investment managers are each appointed to H M Henderson 10 3 2 manage a discrete portfolio in accordance with guidelines A L C Bell 11 3 2 which limit, for example, the markets in which they can J E B Bevan 9 invest, the size of each investment and the amount of cash R W Boyle 11 3 that may be held in their portfolio in normal circumstances.
R A Bruce 4 of 4 1 of 1 They are not allowed to invest in unquoted securities, to M C Claydon 10 0 of 1 2 borrow against the security of the portfolio, to sell stocks S E G A Neubert 10 short or to use derivatives.
The investment managers take decisions as to the purchase and sale of individual R J Oldfield 10 2 investments and are responsible for effecting those decisions A Watson 10 3 on the best available terms.
The Company receives monthly Not a member of the Committee but in attendance by invitation for all or part of confirmation from each of the investment managers that the meetings.
they have carried out their duties in accordance with the terms of their investment mandates.
All the directors attended the Annual General Meeting in April 2013 and the Boards Away Day in May 2013.
Annual Report 2013 Witan Investment Trust plc 39
