Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information The Company does not have an internal audit function.
It The Board encourages the Companys appointed investment delegates to third parties the management of its investments managers to engage with companies and to vote shares, and most of its other operations and employs only a small in the best long-term interest of Witan shareholders but staff.
The investment managers and certain other key in accordance with their own investment philosophies.
contractors are subject to external regulation and most have Where applicable, it monitors the policies of the investment compliance and internal audit functions of their own.
The managers in respect of the UK Stewardship Code.
Elsewhere Companys investments are held on its behalf by a global in the world it can be more difficult to vote shares as each custodian.
A specialist firm of investment accountants and country has its own rules and practices regarding shareholder administrators is responsible for investment administration, notification, voting restrictions, registration conditions and for maintaining accounting records and for preparing share blocking, including, for example, dealing constraints.
financial accounts, management accounts and other Therefore, w hilst the Companys investment managers are management information.
Their work is reviewed by an apprised of the Companys approach to the stewardship of its independent accountant who also carries out some of the assets and the importance of sound corporate governance, work that an internal audit function would cover.
In addition, they use their discretion according to their knowledge of the Board receives from the investment administrator an the relevant circumstances.
The investment managers annual report on its internal controls, including a report report their compliance with the UK Stewardship Code, or from its auditor on the control policies and procedures in equivalent legislation, to the Audit Committee each year.
The investment performance of the investment managers, both individually and collectively, is measured In respect of the direct investments held, the Companys for Witan by a company that is independent of all the executive management maintains regular touch with the investment managers.
The corporate company secretary management of the investee holdings and engages when is a company with well-established experience in servicing issues arise that are controversial or potentially prejudicial investment trusts.
to the interests of Witans shareholders.
An annual report is provided to the Audit Committee in compliance with the UK The appointment of these and other professional contractors Stewardship Code.
provides a clear separation of duties and a structure of internal controls that is balanced and robust.
The Board will continue to monitor its system of internal control in order to provide assurance that it operates as intended and the directors will review at least annually whether a function equivalent to an internal audit is needed.
Stewardship and the Exercise of Voting Powers It is the Boards view that, in order to achieve long-term success, companies need to maintain high standards of corporate governance and corporate responsibility.
Therefore Witan expects the companies in which it is invested to comply with best practice in corporate governance matters, or to provide adequate explanation of any areas in which they fail to comply, whilst recognising that a different approach may be justified in special circumstances.
In respect of UK companies, current best practice in corporate governance matters is set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Annual Report 2013 Witan Investment Trust plc 41
