Directors remuneration report continued The Company may, in its absolute discretion and without the applicable bonus shall become payable to the extent any obligation to do so, terminate the CEOs employment determined at the time of the change of control on, or as immediately by giving him written notice together with a soon as practicable after, the CEOs cessation of employment.
payment of such sum as would have been payable by the Company to the CEO as salary excluding future bonus Statement of consideration of conditions elsewhere in the accrual in respect of his notice period.
The Company may, at Company its discretion, make the termination payment in instalments The Committee considers the employment conditions, over a period of no longer than six months from the including salary increases, of employees other than the CEO termination date and on terms that any payment should be when setting the CEOs remuneration.
reduced to take account of mitigation by the CEO.
The Company did not consult with employees when drawing If a new executive director is recruited, the Companys policy up the remuneration policy.
regarding payments for loss of office will be the same as for the CEO.
Where possible, the Committee benchmarks the remuneration of the employees and CEO by obtaining details If the CEO ceases employment as a result of one of the of remuneration paid to employees in comparable roles in good leaver reasons i. e. death, ill-health, injury, disability, other companies.
redundancy, retirement or due to any other circumstance that the Committee at its discretion permits, any bonus payment shall be pro-rated for time and performance.
The Statement of consideration of shareholder views Committee may, however, taking into account such factors The Company places great importance on communication as it considers appropriate, increase the proportion of the with its shareholders.
The Company had frequent meetings relevant bonus that becomes payable.
If the CEO ceases with institutional shareholders and City analysts throughout employment other than as a good leaver, or if the CEO gives the year to 31 December 2013 and met with shareholders in or receives notice prior to the date that the relevant bonus general at the Annual General Meeting held in 2013 and can would otherwise have been paid, the CEO will forfeit any right confirm that it is not aware of negative views being expressed to receive the relevant bonus for nil consideration unless the by shareholders in relation to its policy on Directors Committee, in its absolute discretion, determines otherwise.
A change of control of the Company shall not affect the Approval amount of any bonus or the date on which it becomes This report was approved by the Board of directors on payable unless the Committee determines otherwise, in 10{March 2014 and is signed on its behalf by: which case the Committee shall determine whether the pro-rated performance targets attached to the applicable Catherine Claydon bonuses have been satisfied at that time.
Chairman of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee 1 1 March 2014 If the Committee determines that the pro-rated performance targets have not been satisfied on the change of control, the applicable bonus shall immediately lapse unless the Committee determines otherwise.
To the extent that the Committee determines that the pro-rated performance targets have been satisfied on the change of control, if the CEO ceases to be employed by the Company prior to the date that the applicable bonus would otherwise have been paid to the CEO other than as a result of: a reason which would have justified his summary dismissal: his cessation of employment without the giving or receiving of notice: or his resignation 54 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2013
