Board of Directors H M Henderson R W Boyle MA, FCA A, C, D A, B Chairman Chairman of the Audit Committee Appointed a director in 1988, Harry Robert Boyle was appointed a director in Henderson became Chairman in March 2007.
He is a Chartered Accountant and was 2003.
He was formerly a partner of a partner of  LLP, Cazenove & Co. and subsequently a senior where he was responsible for multi-national executive at Cazenove Group plc, retiring in client accounts, specialising in the telecoms 2002.
Mr Henderson is Chairman of Witan and media sectors: he was chairman of the Investment Services Limited.
He is also a PWC European Entertainment and Media director of Cadogan Settled Estates Limited.
Practice for twelve years, retiring in 2006.
He is a non-executive director, and chairman A L C Bell MA of the audit committee, of Maxis Berhad in D Chief Executive O cer Malaysia, Centaur Media plc and Prosperity Andrew Bell was appointed a director and Voskhod Fund Ltd an AIM listed company.
Chief Executive O cer from February 2010.
He is responsible for the overall J E B Bevan MA A management of Witan.
Previously he Director worked at Rensburg Sheppards Investment James Bevan was appointed a director Management Limited as Head of Research in 2007.
He is CIO, CCLA Investment and as an equity strategist and Co-Head Management.
Before joining CCLA of the Investment Trusts team at BZW and in November 2006, he was the Chief Credit Suisse First Boston.
Prior to the City, Investment O cer at Abbey.
Prior to he worked for Shell in Oman, leaving to take Abbey, he was Chief Investment O cer a Sloan Fellowship at the London Business for Barclays Stockbrokers and Barclays School.
He is a nonexecutive director Personal Investment Management, having of Henderson High Income Trust plc and joined BZW in 1988, following postgraduate became Chairman of the Association of research in applied economics and asset Investment Companies in January 2013. allocation at Cambridge University.
26 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2013 Report of the Director s Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information A Independent non-executive directors.
M C Claydon BA, MBA R J Old eld BA B A, C Members of the Audit Committee which Chairman of the Remuneration and Director A, B, C, D is chaired by Mr Boyle.
Nomination Committee Richard Old eld joined the Board in 2011.
C Members of the Remuneration and Nomination Catherine Claydon joined the Board in 2009.
He is chief executive of Old eld Partners, Committee which is chaired by Mrs Claydon.
Previously she was a Managing Director an investment management rm which he D Director of Witan Investment Services Limited.
in the Pension Advisory Group at Goldman founded in 2005 after nine years as chief Sachs 1992-2007 and Lehman Brothers executive of a family investment o ce.
She is a non-executive Before that he was a director of Mercury director of the Dunedin Income Growth Asset Management plc which he joined Investment Trust.
He is chairman of the Oxford Barclays UK Pension Fund and the BT University investment committee and was Pension Scheme, and an independent chairman of Keystone Investment Trust plc member of Unilever UK Pension Funds from 2001 to 2010.
He is a trustee of Royal Investment Committee.
Marsden Cancer Charity and of Canterbury Cathedral Trust.
S E G A Neubert LLM A, D Director A Watson CBE, BSc Econ, ASIP, BarristerSuzy Neubert joined the Board in 2012.
Hons A, B is Sales & Marketing Director at J O Hambro Senior Independent Director Capital Management, which she joined in Tony Watson was appointed a director in March 2006.
He was appointed Senior Independent Director of Equity Markets within the Global Director in February 2008.
He is a Markets and Investment Banking Group at non-executive director of Hammerson plc, Merrill Lynch Securities in London.
From Lloyds Banking Group plc, Vodafone Group 1993, she worked at Smith New Court Plc and the Shareholder Executive.
He was Europe later taken over by Merrill Lynch formerly chairman of the Trustees of the as a European equity analyst and later as Marks & Spencer Pension Scheme, chairman Director of European Equity Sales.
Prior to of the Strategic Investment Board Limited Smith New Court, she worked at Hambros Northern Ireland and a member of the Bank as an Executive in the Corporate Financial Reporting Council.
She is a quali ed barrister.
retired in 2006 from an executive career in the investment management industry, most recently as Chief Executive of Hermes Fund Managers Limited.
Annual Report 2013 Witan Investment Trust plc 27
