Board of Directors H M Henderson R W Boyle MA, FCA A, C, D A, B Chairman Chairman of the Audit Committee Appointed a director in 1988, Harry Robert Boyle was appointed a director in Henderson became Chairman in March 2007.
He is a Chartered Accountant and was 2003.
He was formerly a partner of a partner of  LLP, Cazenove & Co. and subsequently a senior where he was responsible for multi-national executive at Cazenove Group plc, retiring in client accounts, specialising in the telecoms 2002.
Mr Henderson is Chairman of Witan and media sectors: he was chairman of the Investment Services Limited.
He is also a PWC European Entertainment and Media director of Cadogan Settled Estates Limited.
Practice for twelve years, retiring in 2006.
He is a non-executive director, and chairman A L C Bell MA of the audit committee, of Maxis Berhad in D Chief Executive O cer Malaysia, Centaur Media plc and Prosperity Andrew Bell was appointed a director and Voskhod Fund Ltd an AIM listed company.
Chief Executive O cer from February 2010.
He is responsible for the overall J E B Bevan MA A management of Witan.
Previously he Director worked at Rensburg Sheppards Investment James Bevan was appointed a director Management Limited as Head of Research in 2007.
He is CIO, CCLA Investment and as an equity strategist and Co-Head Management.
Before joining CCLA of the Investment Trusts team at BZW and in November 2006, he was the Chief Credit Suisse First Boston.
Prior to the City, Investment O cer at Abbey.
Prior to he worked for Shell in Oman, leaving to take Abbey, he was Chief Investment O cer a Sloan Fellowship at the London Business for Barclays Stockbrokers and Barclays School.
He is a nonexecutive director Personal Investment Management, having of Henderson High Income Trust plc and joined BZW in 1988, following postgraduate became Chairman of the Association of research in applied economics and asset Investment Companies in January 2013. allocation at Cambridge University.
26 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2013
