Strategic report Strategy and business model Strategy Under updated guidelines for UK-listed Companies Annual Reports, companies are required to publish The Company invests its shareholders funds primarily in a Strategic Report.
This replaces the previouslya broad geographical spread of global equity markets, in required Business Review, although the objectives order to participate in opportunities created by growth in the are similar.
The Strategic Report should provide a worlds economy and to outperform a representative equity benchmark.
The objective is to generate long-term growth in description of the objectives which the strategy is capital for shareholders, together with an income that rises designed to deliver for Shareholders, the business faster than the rate of in ation.
model and {the outlook for the year ahead see page 7.
It should also include analysis of {the The Company employs an active multi-manager approach, Companys performance during the {year, relative allocating funds for investment by selected managers with to the key elements of its {business strategy.
di ering styles and specialisations.
The aim is to access the best available management ability, including managers not This Strategic Report has been prepared solely to accessible on the same terms or at all to UK investors.
provide additional information to shareholders to assess the Companys strategies and the potential Witans multi-manager approach was adopted in 2004, in for those strategies to succeed.
The Strategic the belief that no single manager was likely to excel in all markets and at all points in the economic cycle.
Employing Report contains certain forward-looking managers to invest in their areas of greatest competence has statements.
These statements are made by the the potential to improve returns and to reduce risk relative to directors in good faith based on the information using a single manager across the investment waterfront.
available to them up to the time of their approval of this report and such statements should be Our approach aims to balance di erent factors such as treated with caution due to the inherent quality, value or growth approaches and geographical uncertainties, including both economic and exposure, aiming to pro t from managers combined ability to outperform over time.
business risk factors, underlying any such forward-looking information.
It is sometimes said of investment markets that whilst in the This report falls into four main sections: short-term they are a voting machine a ected by sentiment in the long-term they are a weighing machine recording Page substantive changes.
We seek managers who can capture the longer term growth rewards from equity investment by Strategy 08 focusing on fundamental share values rather than chasing Business model 08 short-term momentum.
Performance and principal developments in 2013 10 Business model Corporate and operational structure 17 Whilst the external managers are responsible for stock selection in their individual portfolios, the Companys Board and Executive team are responsible for the overall delivery of Witan is an Investment Trust, which was founded performance to shareholders, through the following means: in 1909 and has been listed on the London Stock Exchange since 1924.
It{is managed by an Executive Setting the overall investment objective.
team, under the control and supervision of the Selecting competent managers, who are expected Board of Directors.
to outperform a suitable benchmark relating to the investment remit set by the Company.
08 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2013 Report of the Director s Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Up to 10% of the portfolio at the time of investment Adjusting asset allocation according to opportunities may be invested in collective funds selected by the Chief that{arise.
Executive, with the objective of outperforming Witans equity The selective use of borrowings with the aim of adding benchmark.
These may represent asset categories that to{performance.
are temporarily undervalued or funds which are viewed as attractive longer-term generators of superior returns.
This Direct investment in funds exposed to specialist asset portfolio is subject to limits set by the Board.
Controlled and selective use of exchange-traded The Board and the Executive under delegated guidelines derivatives to adjust asset allocation.
from the Board also seek to add to performance by adjusting Maintaining an e ective system of risk management and the level of gearing employed, by the selective use of exchangetraded derivatives to alter the asset allocation corporate governance.
and by the use of specialist funds to gain exposure to areas In addition to delegating investment management to underrepresented in the rest of the portfolio.
In essence, external portfolio managers, the Company operates an the Company seeks to have su cient levers to pull to take outsourced model for other corporate functions, such as fund advantage of investment opportunities that may arise, in accounting, custody and specialist professional services.
addition to the total returns arising from the investment These are overseen by the in-house Executive Team, covering managers portfolios, which are expected to be the most Investment, Operations and Marketing, headed by the Chief signi cant driver of the Companys performance.
Executive O cer, who is a Director of the Company.
Our Selected Benchmark The Boards and the Executives role The Companys benchmark is a reference point for what in investment management shareholders can expect from an investment in Witan, As already described, the selection of individual investments in terms of the underlying investment structure and in is delegated to external managers, subject to investment performance.
Since October 2007 the benchmark based on limits and guidelines which re ect the particular mandate the FTSE AllWorld indices has been: e. g. UK or Global equities and the speci c investment approach which the Company has selected e. g. value, higher 40% UK dividend yield, special situations.
The managers are chosen 20% North America by the Board after a disciplined selection process focused on 20% Europe ex-UK the managers scope to add value and their t with the overall 20% Asia Paci c. balance of the portfolio.
This re ects an investment policy that balances investment The overwhelming majority of the portfolio is managed in in the UK market both for its domestic and international segregated accounts, held at the Companys custodian, exposure with access to growth in other regions of the world.
which enables the Company to view the portfolio as a whole and analyse its risks and opportunities as well as those at the It should be emphasised that the portfolio is actively level of each managers portfolio.
managed and not designed to track any index.
Performance can be expected to vary, sometimes considerably, from At the end of 2013, the Company had 11 external investment that of the benchmark, while aiming for consistent managers, covering a range of investment remits.
outperformance in the longer term.
Information regarding the proportion of Witans assets managed by each and of their performance during the year Performance information for other commonly used indices is set out on page 12.
Details of the manager changes during is also given in the Key Performance Indicators summary the year are set out on page 11. section on page 2.
Annual Report 2013 Witan Investment Trust plc 09
