Corporate governance statement continued Principles of the AIC Code Application of the principles Shareholder communications The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that there is effective 19.
The board should regularly monitor the shareholder communication with the Companys shareholders.
He works pro le of the company and put in place a system for closely with the Chief Executive Officer and there is regular canvassing shareholder views and for communicating liaison with the Companys stockbroker.
There is a process in the boards views to shareholders.
place for analysing and monitoring the shareholder register and a programme for meeting or speaking with the institutional investors and with private client stockbrokers and advisors.
In addition to the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman, or the Senior Independent Director, expects to be available to meet the larger shareholders.
The Company encourages attendance at its Annual General Meeting as a forum for communication with the individual shareholders.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Chairman of the Remuneration and Nomination Committee all expect to be present at the Annual General Meeting and able to answer questions from shareholders as appropriate.
Details of the proxy votes received in respect of each resolution are made available to shareholders.
The Chief Executive Officer makes a presentation to the meeting.
The directors may be contacted through the Secretary at the address shown on page 88.
While the Chief Executive Officer and his team expect to lead on 20.
The board should normally take responsibility for, preparing and effecting communications with investors, all major and have a direct involvement in, the content of corporate issues are put to the Board or, if time is of the essence, communications regarding major corporate issues to{a Committee thereof.
even{if the manager is asked to act as spokesman.
The Board places importance on effective communication with 21.
The board should ensure that shareholders are provided investors and approves a marketing programme and budget each with su cient information for them to understand year to enable this to be achieved.
Copies of the Annual Report the risk: reward balance to which they are exposed by and the Half Year Report are circulated to shareholders, to those holding the shares.
who hold shares through the subsidiary companys products and, where possible, to investors through other providers products and nominee companies or written notification is sent when they are published on-line.
In addition, the Company publishes a fact sheet monthly and its net asset value per share daily.
All this information is readily accessible on the Companys website www.
The Company belongs to the Association of Investment Companies which publishes information to increase investors understanding.
38 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2013
