Strategic report Strategy and business model Strategy Under updated guidelines for UK-listed Companies Annual Reports, companies are required to publish The Company invests its shareholders funds primarily in a Strategic Report.
This replaces the previouslya broad geographical spread of global equity markets, in required Business Review, although the objectives order to participate in opportunities created by growth in the are similar.
The Strategic Report should provide a worlds economy and to outperform a representative equity benchmark.
The objective is to generate long-term growth in description of the objectives which the strategy is capital for shareholders, together with an income that rises designed to deliver for Shareholders, the business faster than the rate of in ation.
model and {the outlook for the year ahead see page 7.
It should also include analysis of {the The Company employs an active multi-manager approach, Companys performance during the {year, relative allocating funds for investment by selected managers with to the key elements of its {business strategy.
di ering styles and specialisations.
The aim is to access the best available management ability, including managers not This Strategic Report has been prepared solely to accessible on the same terms or at all to UK investors.
provide additional information to shareholders to assess the Companys strategies and the potential Witans multi-manager approach was adopted in 2004, in for those strategies to succeed.
The Strategic the belief that no single manager was likely to excel in all markets and at all points in the economic cycle.
Employing Report contains certain forward-looking managers to invest in their areas of greatest competence has statements.
These statements are made by the the potential to improve returns and to reduce risk relative to directors in good faith based on the information using a single manager across the investment waterfront.
available to them up to the time of their approval of this report and such statements should be Our approach aims to balance di erent factors such as treated with caution due to the inherent quality, value or growth approaches and geographical uncertainties, including both economic and exposure, aiming to pro t from managers combined ability to outperform over time.
business risk factors, underlying any such forward-looking information.
It is sometimes said of investment markets that whilst in the This report falls into four main sections: short-term they are a voting machine a ected by sentiment in the long-term they are a weighing machine recording Page substantive changes.
We seek managers who can capture the longer term growth rewards from equity investment by Strategy 08 focusing on fundamental share values rather than chasing Business model 08 short-term momentum.
Performance and principal developments in 2013 10 Business model Corporate and operational structure 17 Whilst the external managers are responsible for stock selection in their individual portfolios, the Companys Board and Executive team are responsible for the overall delivery of Witan is an Investment Trust, which was founded performance to shareholders, through the following means: in 1909 and has been listed on the London Stock Exchange since 1924.
It{is managed by an Executive Setting the overall investment objective.
team, under the control and supervision of the Selecting competent managers, who are expected Board of Directors.
to outperform a suitable benchmark relating to the investment remit set by the Company.
08 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2013
