Report of the Director s Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Investment managers Lindsell Train UK Lindsell Train was established in 2000 by Michael Lindsell and Nick Train and focuses on the management of UK, Global and Japanese equity mandates for institutional clients.
The business was founded Artemis Investment Management UK on the shared investment philosophy that developed while Michael Established in 1997, Artemis Investment Management Limited and Nick worked together during the early 1990s and which underlies manages over 17.3bn as at 31.12.13 on behalf of a range of retail and the business today.
The purpose of Lindsell Train is to provide a institutional clients.
Witans portfolio is a segregated mirror of Derek professional working environment that enables the rm to achieve Stuarts 1.9bn UK Special Situations Strategy launched in 2001 a strong investment results for their clients.
Lindsell Train think it contrarian fund that aims to outperform the FTSE All-Share Index by 3% important to maintain a small and simple organisational structure that per annum.
This approach seeks to exploit market ine ciencies, with an avoids the bureaucracy and distractions experienced within some larger, absolute return mindset, in order to generate maximum returns.
It is a more complex investment management businesses.
The structure stock-picking strategy that aims to achieve long-term capital growth by is designed to allow the investment professionals to concentrate on focusing on stocks that are out of favour and have turnaround potential.
investment issues and to give them the freedom to invest in line with their investment principles, which they believe will maximise returns to their investors over the longer term.
The business has grown steadily Equity Mandate Benchmark Investment style Inception date and assets under management total 3.4bn as at 31.12.13.
Lindsell UK FTSE All-Share Recovery special 06.05.08 Train continues to be majority owned by the two founders.
This is situations important because it ensures they maintain the integrity of the business principles on which the rm was founded.
Equity Mandate Benchmark Investment style Inception date UK FTSE All-Share Long-term growth 01.09.10 from undervalued brands Heronbridge Investment Management LLP Heronbridge is a long-only, value-biased equity investment management boutique.
Founded in November 2005, it is a small, Lansdowne Partners Limited focused, independent rm, controlled by its working partners who Lansdowne Partners Limited Partnership, acting through its general were previously with Merrill Lynch Investment Managers, Silchester partner Lansdowne Partners Limited Lansdowne Partners was International Investors and Goldman Sachs Asset Management.
Lansdowne Partners manages assets for a diversi ed Heronbridge currently manage 1.3bn as at 31.12.13 for institutional client base that includes some of the worlds largest and most and charity clients in the UK, the US and elsewhere.
In order to maximise sophisticated investors.
Assets under management are 10.5bn as at the alignment of interests, the rms partners have a considerable 31.12.13 across three distinct Equity investment strategies: European, proportion of their own assets co-invested alongside those of clients.
Developed Markets and Global Financials, each with its own dedicated team of portfolio managers and analysts, Lansdowne Partners employs 93 people in its London o ce.
The investment philosophy is predicated Equity Mandate Benchmark Investment style Inception date on generating consistent, absolute risk adjusted returns, through the UK FTSE All-Share Intrinsic value 17.06.13 use of exceptional investment talent within a leading-edge operational growth infrastructure.
Central to Lansdowne Partners investment philosophy is a rigorous process of fundamental research.
The Developed Markets Strategy is run by Co-Heads Peter Davies and Stuart Roden, who have been with Lansdowne since 2001.
The Developed Markets Long Only Strategy leverages the fundamental stock analysis of the team, investing predominantly in mega-cap companies $10bn market cap in developed markets.
Equity Mandate Benchmark Investment style Inception date Global DJ Global Titans Concentrated, 14.12.12 benchmarkindependent investment in developed markets Annual Report 2013 Witan Investment Trust plc 21 Strategic report Investment managers continued Tweedy, Browne Company LLC MFS Investment Management Tweedy, Browne Company LLC is principally engaged in the MFS is a global investment rm managing 248.9bn as at 31.12.13 management of international, global and global high dividend equity of equity and xed income assets for investors worldwide.
Founded in portfolios for institutional and individual clients.
Since the rm was 1924, MFS established one of the industrys first in-house fundamental founded in 1920 as Tweedy & Co. a dealer in closely held and inactively research departments in 1932.
Today, MFS o ers a broad range of traded securities, they have pursued a value oriented approach to investment styles that combine both fundamental and quantitative securities, first as a market maker, and later, as an investor and manager.
Their investment philosophy Their investment principles are based upon the broad concepts of has remained consistent: to identify opportunities on behalf of intrinsic value and margin of safety as conceived and practiced clients through the application of global research and bottom-up by the late Benjamin Graham.
For more than ninety years, through security selection.
MFS culture is investment driven, client centred, depressions, recessions, and stock market cycles, through a quadrupling and collaborative.
To underscore their values of collaboration and of interest rates and the advent of double digit in ation, and through accountability, they structure ownership and compensation to the emergence and disappearance of numerous investment fads, they reward long-term investment performance and teamwork.
Up to 22% have adhered to the same value oriented principles of analysis and ownership of MFS is available to key MFS contributors.
The consistency of their results over many decades has shareholder since 1982 has been Sun Life of Canada U. S. Financial con rmed their con dence in this approach.
As at 31 December 2013, Services Holdings, Inc. Tweedy Browne had 12.2bn of assets under management.
Equity Mandate Benchmark Investment style Inception date Equity Mandate Benchmark Investment style Inception date Global FTSE All-World Growth at an 30.09.04 Global FTSE All-World Fundamental value 02.12.13 attractive price Veritas Asset Management Veritas is an independent investment company, managing 10.0bn as{at 31.12.13 of assets, with the key objective of delivering Pzena Investment Management long-term real returns to its clients.
Veritas aligns its interest with Pzena Investment Management, an independent registered investment clients objectives and is committed to partnership.
Veritas manages management rm, began managing assets in 1996.
Pzena employs a both segregated portfolios and funds, with either long-only or classic value investment approach and manages U. S. non-U.
S. and long-short real return mandates.
Their clients include institutions, global portfolios with a goal of long-term alpha generation.
As of charities, trusts and private clients.
The Real Return Group Limited was 31 December 2013, Pzena managed approximately 16.1bn in assets set up in 2003 as a boutique focused on real return investing.
The Real for leading endowments, foundations, pension plans and individual Return Group Limited and Veritas Asset Management UK Limited investors.
The team comprises 71 employees: the rm is based in New merged in 2004.
In 2013 Veritas Asset Management UK Limited York City, and has a representative o ce for Business Development completed a corporate reorganisation and Veritas Asset Management and{Client Services in Melbourne, Australia.
LLP was formed as a regulated fund management boutique running Global and Asian Equity mandates.
Veritas Asset Management LLP is Equity Mandate Benchmark Investment style Inception date the{UK operating company of the Veritas Asset Partners Limited group, Global FTSE All-World Systematic value 02.12.13 of which Veritas Asset Management Asia Limited in Hong Kong is also a subsidiary.
The Real Return Group is 100% owned by management and{employees and operates as a partnership.
Equity Mandate Benchmark Investment style Inception date Global FTSE All-World Fundamental 11.11.10 value, real return objective 22 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2013 Report of the Director s Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Marathon Asset Management Marathon Asset Management was founded in 1986 and is totally independent, managing some 31.0bn as at 31.12.13 of institutional client assets.
At the heart of Marathons investment philosophy is the capital cycle approach to investment.
This is Trilogy Global Advisors based on the idea that the prospect of high returns will attract Trilogy Global Advisors is a long-only specialist equity investment excessive capital and hence competition, and vice versa.
In boutique managing global developed and global emerging addition, the assessment of management and how they respond market portfolios for institutional pension schemes.
Founded in to incentives and the forces of the capital cycle is critical to the 1999, it is wholly independent with all the equity owned by the investment outcome.
The investment philosophy is intrinsically principal partners, other sta and non-executive directors.
Given the long-term nature of the capital cycle, two investment o ces in New York and Orlando, Florida, and a Marathons investment ideas generally require patience and, marketing and client service o ce in London.
Total assets under by{industry standards, long stock holding periods.
management comprise 9.0bn as at 31.12.13 with approximately a third represented by UK pension fund clients and around a half of{total assets managed in dedicated global emerging market Equity Mandate Benchmark Investment style Inception date equity{portfolios.
PanEuropean FTSE All-World Capital cycles 23.07.10 Developed Europe Equity Mandate Benchmark Investment style Inception date Emerging Markets MSCI Emerging Fundamental, 09.12.10 Markets growth orientated Matthews International Capital Management Matthews Asia Matthews Asia, an independent, privately owned rm based in San Francisco, is the largest dedicated Asia only investment specialist in the U. S. Matthews has 15.6bn as at 31.12.13 in assets under management, including an Asia Dividend portfolio managed for Witan Paci c Investment Trust since April 2012.
Matthews Asia employs a fundamental, bottom-up investment process that seeks to identify companies with sustainable long-term growth prospects, strong business models, quality management teams and reasonable valuations.
Matthews Asia will seek to invest its portion of the Trust in companies that are paying high dividends relative to their current share price, or are well positioned to do so in the future.
Equity Mandate Benchmark Investment style Inception date Asia Paci c MSCI Asia Quality companies 22.02.13 including Japan Paci c Free with dividend growth Annual Report 2013 Witan Investment Trust plc 23
