Directors Report Statutory Information The directors present the Annual Report of the Group for the Substantial Share Interests year ended 31 December 2013.
As at 1 1 March 2014, the following had notified the Company of interests in the Companys voting rights: Activities and Business Review % A review of the business is given in the Chairmans and Chief Executives report on pages 4 to 7 and in the Strategic AXA Investment Managers SA 18.1 Report on pages 8 to 23.
The Directors are required by Legal & General Group plc direct 4.
5 the Companies Act to prepare a Strategic Report for each The above percentages are calculated by applying the shareholdings as notified financial year, which contains a fair review of the business of to the Company to the issued ordinary share capital as at 10 March 2014 the the Group during the financial year ended 31 December 2013 shareholdings representing the voting rights.
and of the position of the Group at the end of the year and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Assets Group.
This information can be found within the Strategic At 31 December 2013 the total net assets of the Group were Report on pages 18 to 20.
At this date the net asset value per ordinary share was 725.2p 2012: 581.8p.
Investment Policy The Companys investment policy is set out on the inside Revenue and Dividend front cover.
The total profit for the year was 303.9 million 2012: 146.3 million.
A profit of 29.3 million is attributable to revenue Status 2012: 27.7 million.
The profit for the year attributable to Witan Investment Trust plc the Company is incorporated revenue has been applied as follows: in the United Kingdom and registered in England and Wales 000 and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
It is an investment Distributed as dividends: company as defined in section 833 of the Companies Act First interim of 3.3p per ordinary share 2006 and operates as an investment trust in accordance with paid on 18 June 2013 6,229 section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010.
The Company Second interim of 3.3p per ordinary share has received confirmation from HM Revenue and Customs paid on 18 September 2013 6,248 that it has been accepted as an approved investment trust Third interim of 3.3p per ordinary share with effect from 1 January 2012, provided it continues to paid on 18 December 2013 6,247 meet the eligibility conditions of section 1158 and of the Fourth interim of 4.5p per ordinary share ongoing requirements for approved companies payable on 28 March 2014 8,519 in the Investment Trust Approved Company Tax Added to the revenue reserve 2,020 Regulations 2012.
29,263 Subsidiary Company The directors have declared a fourth interim dividend instead The Company has one subsidiary company, Witan of a final dividend in order to ensure that, as in previous Investment Services Limited, which provides marketing years, the distribution is made to the shareholders before services and investment products to the Company and 5 April.
The Company intends to grow the dividend in real executive management and marketing services to third terms, ahead of inflation.
Witan Investment Services Limited is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Company Revenue Account Authority to manage savings schemes for investors and As permitted by section 408 of the Companies Act 2006, the provide investment advice to professional investors.
Company has not presented its own income statement.
The profit on the revenue return of the Company dealt with in ISAs the accounts of the Group amounted to 29,150,000 2012: The Company intends to continue to manage its affairs so 27,660,000. that its investments fully qualify for the stocks and shares component of an ISA and Junior ISA.
28 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2013 Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Directors Directors Conflicts of Interest The current directors of the Company are shown on page s 26 Directors have a duty to avoid situations where they have, and 27. or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or{possibly could conflict, with the Companys interests.
All the directors held office throughout the year under With{effect from 1 October 2008, the Companies Act review.
In addition, Mr R A Bruce held office until his 2006 the Act has allowed directors of public companies retirement from the Board on 30 April 2013.
At the Annual to authorise such conflicts and potential conflicts, where General Meeting on 30 April 2014, Mr Oldfield and appropriate, but only if the Articles of Association contain Mr Watson will retire in accordance with the Companys a provision to this effect.
The Act also allows the Articles Articles of Association and, being eligible, will seek of Association to contain other provisions for dealing with re-election by shareholders.
Mr Henderson will also retire and directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
stand for re-election, as he has served as a director for more There{are two circumstances in which a potential conflict than nine years and is eligible to stand for re-election.
of interest can be permitted: either the situation cannot The Board considers him to be independent despite his reasonably be regarded as likely to give rise to a conflict of length of service.
This is explained in more detail in sections 1 interest or the matter has been authorised in advance by the and 2 on page 33. directors.
The Companys Articles of Association, which were adopted by shareholders on 27 April 2010, give the directors The Boards policy on the frequency of the re-election the relevant authority required to deal with conflicts of interest.
of directors is set out on page 34 in the Corporate Governance Statement.
Each of the directors has provided a statement of all conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest, if any, During the year the membership of the Audit Committee applicable to the Company.
A register of conflicts of interest comprised Mr Boyle Chairman, Mr Bruce, until his retirement has been compiled and approved by the Board.
The directors on 30 April 2013, Mr Watson, and Mrs Claydon who was have also undertaken to notify the Chairman as soon as they appointed as a member of the Committee on 6 August become aware of any new potential conflicts of interest that 201 3.
During the year the membership of the Remuneration need to be approved by the Board and added to the register, Committee comprised Mrs Claydon Chairman, which is reviewed annually by the Board.
It has also been Mr Henderson and Mr Oldfield.
agreed that directors will advise the Chairman and the Company Secretary in advance of any proposed As noted on page 33, Mr Henderson was formerly a senior external appointment and new directors will be asked to executive at Cazenove and a partner in its predecessor firm.
submit a list of potential situations falling within the conflicts As one of a number of institutional investors, the Company of interest provisions of the Act in advance of joining the purchased in 2001 a holding of shares in Cazenove Group plc Board.
The Chairman will then determine whether the Cazenove, which was disposed of in 2013 see note 10 vi relevant appointment causes a conflict or potential conflict on page 73. of interest and should therefore be considered by the Board.
Only directors who have no interest in the matter being No director was a party to, or had an interest in, any contract considered would be able to participate in the Board approval or arrangement with the Company at any time during the process.
In deciding whether to approve a conflict of interest, year or to the date of this report.
With the exception of directors will also act in a way they consider, in good faith, will Mr Bell, no director has or had a service contract with be most likely to promote the Companys success in taking the Company.
The Board can impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if the directors consider this to Directors Interests be appropriate.
The interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report The Board believes that its arrangements for the on page 46. authorisation of conflicts have operated effectively since they were introduced on 1 October 2008.
The Board also confirms that its procedures for the approval of conflicts of interest have been followed by all the directors.
Annual Report 2013 Witan Investment Trust plc 29 Directors Report continued Directors Indemnity Share Capital The Companys Articles of Association allow the Company, The Companys share capital comprises: subject to the provisions of UK legislation, to: a ordinary shares of 25p nominal value each shares The voting rights of the shares on a poll are one vote for a indemnify any person who is or was a director, or every four shares held one vote per 1 of nominal value.
a director of any associated company, directly or At 31 December 2012 there were 190,079,500 shares in indirectly against any loss or liability, whether in issue.
During the year a total of 768,500 shares was bought connection with any proven or alleged negligence, back by the Company for cancellation.
At 31 December default, breach of duty or breach of trust by him or 2013 there were 189,311,000 shares in issue and thus her, or otherwise, in relation to the Company or any the number of voting rights was 47,327,750 on a poll.
The associated company: and Companys Articles of Association permit the Company to purchase its own shares and to fund such purchases from b purchase and maintain insurance for any person who its accumulated realised capital profits.
At the AGM in April is or was a director, or a director of any associated 2013 a special resolution was passed giving the Company company, against any loss or liability or any expenditure authority, until the conclusion of the AGM in 2014, to make he or she may incur, whether in connection with any market purchases for cancellation of the Companys ordinary proven or alleged negligence, default, breach of duty or shares up to a maximum of 28,398,105 shares being 14.99% breach of trust by him or her, or otherwise, in relation to of the issued ordinary share capital as at 30 April 2013.
At the Company or any associated company.
the date of this report, the Company had valid authority, outstanding until the conclusion of the AGM in 2014, to make Directors and officers liability insurance cover is in place in market purchases for cancellation of 28,262,105 shares.
respect of the directors and was in place throughout the year The directors intend to seek a fresh authority at the AGM under review.
The Company makes use of share buybacks, purchasing shares for cancellation when they stand at a Directors Fees significant discount to NAV, with the objective of achieving The report on the directors remuneration is set out on pages a sustainable discount of 10% or less.
Shares are not bought 44 to 54. back unless the result is an increase in the net asset value per ordinary share.
Financial Instruments and the Management of Risk By its nature as an investment trust, the Company is exposed In addition, although the Companys shares currently remain to market risk, price risk, currency risk, interest rate risk, at a discount, the Board is seeking powers at the forthcoming liquidity risk and credit risk.
The Companys policies for Annual General Meeting to buy shares into treasury, for managing these risks are outlined in note 14 to the accounts possible reissuance in the event of the shares moving to a on pages 74 to 82. premium.
Shares will only be re-sold from treasury at or at a premium to the net asset value per ordinary share.
Investment Managers It is the opinion of the directors that the continuing The Company is also seeking shareholder approval to issue appointment of the investment managers listed on page shares, up to 10% of the starting total, provided that such 12 is in the interests of the Companys shareholders as a shares are issued at or at a premium to net asset value.
whole and that the terms of engagement negotiated with them are competitive and appropriate to the investment b 2.7% preference shares of 1 nominal value each mandates.
2.7% preference shares The 2.7% preference shareholders have no rights to attend The Board reviews the appointments of the investment and vote at general meetings.
At 31 December 2013 there managers on a regular basis and makes changes were 500,000 2.7% preference shares in issue.
details on the preference shares are given in note 17 on page 83.
30 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2013 Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information c 3.4% preference shares of 1 nominal value each Annual General Meeting 3.4% preference shares The next AGM will be held at 2.30 pm on Wednesday 30 April The 3.4% preference shareholders have no rights to attend 2014 at Merchant Taylors Hall, 30 Threadneedle Street, and vote at general meetings.
The formal notice of the AGM is set out in were 2,055,000 3.4% preference shares in issue.
Further the accompanying circular to shareholders, together with details on the preference shares are given in note 17 on explanations of the resolutions.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions At the AGM in April 2013 a special resolution was passed The Company has a staff of six employees, operating from giving the Company authority, until the conclusion of the small serviced office premises.
Accordingly it does not have AGM in 2014, to make market purchases for cancellation any significant greenhouse gas emissions to{report from its of the Companys own 2.7% preference shares and own operations, nor does it have responsibility for any other 3.4% preference shares up to a maximum of all those in emission producing sources under the Companies Act 2006 issue.
This{authority has not been used.
Accordingly, as Strategic Report and Directors Reports Regulations 2013, at 31 December 2013 the Company had valid authority, including those within{its underlying investment portfolio.
outstanding until the conclusion of the AGM in 2014, to make market purchases for cancellation of 500,000 By order of the Board 2.7% preference shares and 2,055,000 3.4% preference shares.
No{preference shares were bought back between Frostrow Capital LLP the year end and the date of this report.
Accordingly, the Secretary Company has valid authority to make market purchases for cancellation of 500,000 2.7% preference shares and 1 1 March 2014 2,055,000 3.4% preference shares.
The directors intend to seek a fresh authority at the AGM in April 2014.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Companys share capital and there are no shares or stock which carry specific rights with regards to control of the Company.
Independent Auditor Resolutions to reappoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys auditor and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Directors Statement as to the Disclosure of Information to the Auditor Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that: 1 so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and 2 the director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Annual Report 2013 Witan Investment Trust plc 31
