Report of the Director s Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Marketing Market liquidity and Discount Policy Witan is a self-managed investment trust, so the purpose Witan is a member of the FTSE 250 index, with a market of marketing is to provide e ective communication of capitalisation of over 1.2 billion.
The Board places great developments at the Company to existing and potential importance on the encouragement of a liquid market in shareholders to help sustain a liquid market in our shares.
Witans shares on the Stock Exchange.
The Company makes Clear communication of the Companys investment objective use of share buybacks, purchasing shares for cancellation and its success in executing its strategy make it easier when they stand at a signi cant discount to the NAV for investors to decide how Witan ts in with their own excluding income, with debt at market value, with the investment objectives.
Other things being equal, this should objective of achieving a sustainable and improving discount help the shares to trade at a narrower discount, from which of 10% or less subject to market conditions.
This policy all shareholders would clearly bene t. If the shares trade on a has the direct e ect of improving NAV per share with the premium, this creates the possibility of increasing the size of additional strategic aims of mitigating volatility in the the Company by issuing new shares, with bene ts in terms of discount and bringing the share price closer to the NAV.
greater liquidity as well as spreading costs over a larger base of shareholders funds.
The discount has shown an improving trend in recent years, particularly during 2013, illustrated in the chart below.
In view of these potential bene ts, the Company has felt for many years that it is bene cial to incur the limited costs of Witan Investment Trust Discount Trend operating a marketing programme in order to disseminate information about our investment strategy and performance -5 5 day average more widely.
This programme communicates with private and 3 month average -6 professional investors, financial advisers and intermediaries 1 year average -7 using a range of media including direct meetings, press -8 interviews and advertising through traditional media and -9 the internet.
The Company also provides an informative and easy to use web site www.
com to enable investors to -10 make informed decisions about including Witan shares in -11 their investment portfolios.
The web site includes a section -12 focused on the requirements of Financial Advisers, which was -13 set up following the introduction of the Retail Distribution Review in January 2013.
Costs In view of the substantial narrowing of the discount during Investment Management Fees Each of the external managers is entitled to a base 2013, the Company is seeking shareholder approval to buy shares into Treasury, for possible reissue if the shares were management fee rate, levied on the assets under management, and in some cases a performance fee, to trade at a premium in the future.
This would be more cost-e ective for shareholders than cancelling shares at a calculated according to investment performance relative to an appropriate benchmark.
The agreements can be discount and later issuing new shares at a premium.
terminated on one months notice except one, for which a 3 month notice period applies.
One of the investment Ad ditionally, the Company is seeking shareholder approval to issue shares, up to 10% of the starting total, provided that mandates is operated via a fund vehicle, to simplify custody arrangements in emerging economies.
such shares are issued at or at a premium to net asset value.
Annual Report 2013 Witan Investment Trust plc 15
