Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Principles of the AIC Code Application of the principles The Board Mr H M Henderson has been Chairman of the Company since the 1.
The chairman should Annual General Meeting in March 2003: he joined the Board in be independent.
The Board considers that Mr Henderson is, and has been since his appointment, an independent non-executive director.
Independence stems from the ability to make those objective decisions that may be in con ict with the interests of management: this in turn is a function of con dence, integrity and judgement.
Mr Henderson has served on the Board for more than nine years.
Accordingly, he stands for re-election by the shareholders each year and will do so for as long as he continues to serve on the Board.
The Board is rmly of the view, however, that length of service does not of itself impair a directors ability to act independently: rather, a directors longer perspective adds value to the deliberations of a well-balanced investment trust company board.
The other independent non-executive directors, under the chairmanship of the Senior Independent Director, review and evaluate annually the performance and continuing independence of the Chairman.
Mr Henderson was formerly a partner of Cazenove & Co. the rm which for many years acted as the Companys stockbroker.
However, he did not have responsibility for or involvement with Cazenoves role with the Company, being for many years responsible for aspects of Cazenoves fund management division.
Accordingly, the Board considers that the Chairman has no relationships that might create a con ict of interest between his interests and those of the other shareholders.
Mr A Watson was appointed as the Senior Independent Director in February 2008.
As noted above, he takes the lead in the annual evaluation of the Chairman.
He is also able to act as a sounding board for the Chairman and serve as an intermediary for the other directors, should this prove necessary, and to act as a channel of communication for shareholders in the event that contact through the Chairman has failed to resolve concerns or is inappropriate.
At 31 December 2013 the Board was composed of seven 2.
A majority of the board should independent non-executive directors and one executive director be independent of the manager.
The Board is therefore independent of the Companys executive management.
All the directors are wholly independent of the Companys various investment managers.
In the opinion of the Board, each of the directors is independent in character and judgement and there are no relationships or circumstances relating to the Company that are likely to affect their judgement see also section 1 above.
Annual Report 2013 Witan Investment Trust plc 33 Corporate governance statement continued Principles of the AIC Code Application of the principles The Board New directors stand for election by the shareholders at the annual 3.
Directors should be submitted for re-election at regular general meeting of the Company that follows their appointment.
Nomination for re-election should not be Thereafter all directors stand for re-election at least every three assumed but be based on disclosed procedures and years, as required by the Companys Articles of Association.
Directors who have served for more than nine years stand for re-election annually.
There is currently one director with service of{ more than nine years: Mr H M Henderson, the Chairman.
The Board has reviewed Provision B.
7.1 of the Corporate Governance Code, which states that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual election by shareholders.
The Board considers that the annual re-election of all the directors is inappropriate to the Company.
There are two main reasons for this view: a it appears to place excessive emphasis on the short term and insufficient emphasis on the need for an effective board to work together and to refresh its composition over time: and b there is some danger, because many small and nominee shareholders choose not to exercise their voting rights, that if all the directors seek re-election at once a minority of the shareholders could engineer the removal of the whole Board for reasons injurious to the interests of the Companys investors as a whole.
Therefore the Board considers it appropriate to continue to apply Provision B.
7.1 as if the Company were not a constituent of the FTSE 350 Index, a view which a number of prominent institutional investors have shared.
Every year the Board reviews its composition and the composition of its two Committees.
The Boards Remuneration and Nomination Committee oversees this process.
Further details are given under section 7 on page 36.
34 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2013 Report of the Directors Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Principles of the AIC Code Application of the principles The Board New directors are appointed for an initial term ending three 4.
The board should have a policy on tenure, which is years from the date of their first annual general meeting after disclosed in the annual report.
appointment and with the expectation that they will serve two three-year terms.
The continuation of directors appointments is contingent on satisfactory performance evaluation and re-election at annual general meetings.
Directors appointments are reviewed formally every three years by the Board as a whole.
None of the non-executive directors has a contract of service and a director may resign by notice in writing to the Board at any time: there are no set notice periods.
The Boards tenure and succession policy seeks to ensure that the Board is well-balanced and refreshed regularly by the appointment of new directors with the skills and experience necessary, in particular, to replace those lost by directors retirements.
Directors must be able to demonstrate their commitment to the Company, including in terms of time.
The Board seeks to encompass past and current experience of various areas that is relevant to the Companys objective and operations, the most important skill-sets being investment management, finance, marketing, financial services, risk management, custody and settlement, and investment banking.
Specialist agents are used to assist with recruitment.
While the roles and contributions of longer serving directors are subject to rigorous review, the Board is strongly of the view that length of service is only one factor and that the shareholders benefit from having directors with a longer perspective of the Companys history and its place in the savings market.
Therefore there is no absolute limit to the period for which a director may serve.
Details of the directors are set out on pages 26 and 27.
There should be full disclosure of information about the demonstrate a broad range of investment, professional and board.
commercial expertise and experience, gained overseas as well as in the United Kingdom.
The Board considers that it has achieved this aim.
The board should aim to have a balance of skills, details of each director are set out on pages 26 and 27. experience, length of service and knowledge of the Company.
Board Diversity The Company welcomes the objectives of the Davies Report to improve the performance of corporate boards by encouraging the appointment of the best people from a range of differing perspectives and backgrounds.
The Company recognises the benefits of diversity on the board, including gender, and takes this into account in its board appointments.
The Company is committed to ensuring that its director search processes actively seek both men and women with the right qualifications so that appointments can be made, on the basis of merit, against objective criteria from a diverse selection of candidates.
To this end the Board will continue to dedicate time to consider diversity during the director search process.
Annual Report 2013 Witan Investment Trust plc 35 Corporate governance statement continued Principles of the AIC Code Application of the principles The Board The Board has established a process to evaluate its performance 7.
The board should undertake a formal and rigorous on an annual basis.
This process is based on open discussion and annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its seeks to assess the strengths and weaknesses of the Board and committees and individual directors.
The Chairman leads on applying the conclusions of the evaluation.
The Chairman reviews with each director his or her individual performance, contribution and commitment to the Company.
The Senior Independent Director leads the annual evaluation of the Chairman and reviews the conclusions with him.
The Boards Remuneration Committee oversees this process.
In addition, in consideration of Provision B.
6.2 of the Corporate Governance Code, which states that evaluation of the board of FTSE 350 companies should be externally facilitated at least every three years, the Board concluded that, regardless of the size of the company, periodic external evaluation should add value to the process.
Accordingly, in July 2013, the Board appointed BoardAlpha Limited to carry out an evaluation programme.
The Board reviewed the report submitted to it and the Chairman has led on implementing those changes recommended by the report that the Board considered should be made.
The report did not identify any material weaknesses or concerns.
BoardAlpha Limited does not have any other connection with the Company.
The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 54 details the 8.
Director remuneration should re ect their duties, process for determining the directors remuneration and sets out responsibilities and the value of their time spent.
The Boards Remuneration and Nomination Committee oversees 9.
The independent directors should take the lead in the the recruitment process, which includes the use of a firm of appointment of new directors and the process should be non-executive dire ctor recruitment consultants.
However, all the disclosed in the annual report.
independent non-executive directors are asked to contribute and to consider serving on the sub-committee appointed to draw up the shortlist of candidates.
Notwithstanding this, the Chairman would not expect to be involved in the selection of his successor.
Directors newly appointed to the Board are provided with an 10.
Directors should be o ered relevant training and introductory programme covering the Companys strategy, policies induction.
and operations, including those outsourced to third parties.
Thereafter, directors are given, on a regular and ongoing basis, key information on the Companys investment portfolios, financial position, internal controls and details of the Companys regulatory and statutory obligations and changes thereto.
The directors are encouraged to attend industry and other seminars, conferences and courses, if necessary at the Companys expense, and to participate generally in industry events.
A log of directors training is maintained and reviewed each year by the Audit Committee.
The directors have access to the advice and services of the Companys executive team and of the Company Secretary, through its appointed representative, who are responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The chairman and the board should be brought into This principle does not apply to the Company, which is a long established investment trust company.
the process of structuring a new launch at an early stage.
36 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2013
