Report of the Director s Strategic Report Statutory Information Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Marketing Market liquidity and Discount Policy Witan is a self-managed investment trust, so the purpose Witan is a member of the FTSE 250 index, with a market of marketing is to provide e ective communication of capitalisation of over 1.2 billion.
The Board places great developments at the Company to existing and potential importance on the encouragement of a liquid market in shareholders to help sustain a liquid market in our shares.
Witans shares on the Stock Exchange.
The Company makes Clear communication of the Companys investment objective use of share buybacks, purchasing shares for cancellation and its success in executing its strategy make it easier when they stand at a signi cant discount to the NAV for investors to decide how Witan ts in with their own excluding income, with debt at market value, with the investment objectives.
Other things being equal, this should objective of achieving a sustainable and improving discount help the shares to trade at a narrower discount, from which of 10% or less subject to market conditions.
This policy all shareholders would clearly bene t. If the shares trade on a has the direct e ect of improving NAV per share with the premium, this creates the possibility of increasing the size of additional strategic aims of mitigating volatility in the the Company by issuing new shares, with bene ts in terms of discount and bringing the share price closer to the NAV.
greater liquidity as well as spreading costs over a larger base of shareholders funds.
The discount has shown an improving trend in recent years, particularly during 2013, illustrated in the chart below.
In view of these potential bene ts, the Company has felt for many years that it is bene cial to incur the limited costs of Witan Investment Trust Discount Trend operating a marketing programme in order to disseminate information about our investment strategy and performance -5 5 day average more widely.
This programme communicates with private and 3 month average -6 professional investors, financial advisers and intermediaries 1 year average -7 using a range of media including direct meetings, press -8 interviews and advertising through traditional media and -9 the internet.
The Company also provides an informative and easy to use web site www.
com to enable investors to -10 make informed decisions about including Witan shares in -11 their investment portfolios.
The web site includes a section -12 focused on the requirements of Financial Advisers, which was -13 set up following the introduction of the Retail Distribution Review in January 2013.
Costs In view of the substantial narrowing of the discount during Investment Management Fees Each of the external managers is entitled to a base 2013, the Company is seeking shareholder approval to buy shares into Treasury, for possible reissue if the shares were management fee rate, levied on the assets under management, and in some cases a performance fee, to trade at a premium in the future.
This would be more cost-e ective for shareholders than cancelling shares at a calculated according to investment performance relative to an appropriate benchmark.
The agreements can be discount and later issuing new shares at a premium.
terminated on one months notice except one, for which a 3 month notice period applies.
One of the investment Ad ditionally, the Company is seeking shareholder approval to issue shares, up to 10% of the starting total, provided that mandates is operated via a fund vehicle, to simplify custody arrangements in emerging economies.
such shares are issued at or at a premium to net asset value.
Annual Report 2013 Witan Investment Trust plc 15 Strategic report Performance and principal developments in 2013 continued The base management fee rates for managers in place at investment management fee payable to our external the end of 2013 range from 0.2% to 0.8 % per annum and managers, following changes in the managers used.
When the performance fees range from nil to 20 per cent of the performance fees due to the relevant external managers are relevant outperformance.
The average base management included, the OCF was 1.1 2% in 2013 2012: 0.97%, re ecting fee, weighted according to the value of the funds under a very strong year in performance terms.
This compares with management, was 0.47% as at 31 December 2013 2012: the average OCF of 1.69% in the IMA Flexible Investment 0.35%.
On a similar basis, the average performance fee is equity funds sector source: IMA, Financial Express as at 6% of the outperformance of the relevant benchmark 2012: December 2013 and 0.77% 0.83% including performance 11%, subject to capping of payments for any particular fees for the AIC Global Growth sector source: AIC, as at year.
The average base fee has risen, while the average 31 December 2013. performance fee across the portfolio has fallen.
This is due to a rise from 31% to 57% in the proportion of assets managed The Company exercises strict scrutiny and control over costs.
As a self-managed investment trust, any negotiated savings in investment management or other fees directly reduce the As an illustration, if our managers uniformly outperformed costs for shareholders.
Whilst this will not always generate their benchmarks by 3% after base management fees, the lowest absolute costs, the Board believes that it is in this would generate a performance fee of 0.19% of net shareholders interests to pay for managers who add value.
assets, giving total investment management fees of 0.66% The Board believes that the increase in the OCF during the including a 0.47% base fee.
The comparable estimate in year represented good value for money for shareholders, 2012 was 0.69% including a 0.3 5% base fee.
The actual given the signi cantly increased level of outperformance fees payable will of course vary according to the level of generated by the portfolio in 2013. performance and the variation in performance between managers with higher or lower fees.
There is continuing debate over the most appropriate measure of investment company costs, to enable investors Witan takes care to ensure the competitiveness of the fee to assess value for money and to make comparisons between rates it pays and that where higher fees are incurred they funds.
In recent years, the Total Expense Ratio TER was are linked to good performance, from which shareholders overtaken by the Ongoing Charges Figures OCF and there is bene t. A majority of the managers have base fees alone discussion in the fund sector about whether further changes without performance fees and a majority of the fee should be made, for example to distil all costs into a single structures incorporate a taper whereby the rate reduces for Cost of Ownership Figure for Investors.
Consensus on how larger portfolios.
to present a single gure remains elusive at present, partly because of concerns that oversimpli cation might distort The Companys external investment managers may use comparisons rather than facilitating them.
certain services which are paid for, or provided by, various brokers.
In return, they may place business, including In the meantime, the Company will continue to focus on transactions relating to the Company, with those brokers.
the OCF which is prepared in accordance with the AICs recommended methodology as a readily-understood Ongoing Charges and costs measure of the underlying expenses of running the business.
The ongoing charges gure OCF which is the recurring This year, Witan has decided to present the information operating and investment management costs of the on costs, previously given in di erent parts of the Annual Company, expressed as a percentage of average net assets Report, in a single table on page 17.
This indicates the main was 0.
The higher cost heading in money terms and as a percentage of net average level of net assets allowing xed costs to be spread assets.
The gures for relative NAV total return performance over a larger base was o set by an increase in the average are also included, for comparison purposes.
16 Witan Investment Trust plc Annual Report 2013
