228467 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp18 18 06 2013 10:40 Page 18 18Your Board Your Board The Board of Directors, all of whom are non-executive, supervise DR DAVID HOLBROOK the management of Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC and look Dr David Holbrook, aged 53, joined the Board in 2007.
He is a after the interests of shareholders.
qualified physician and a Director of MTI Partners Limited, a leading technology venture capital investor.
He attended SIR MARTIN SMITH CHAIRMAN London and Oxford Universities, and has an MBA from Harvard Sir Martin Smith, aged 70, joined the Board in 2007.
He has held senior positions in a number of as Head of Corporate Finance for Citibank in Europe, and blue chip biopharmaceutical organisations including Chairman of Bankers Trust International, he became a founder of GlaxoSmithKline and Roche.
Phoenix Securities, a private investment banking firm.
Following the acquisition of Phoenix in 1997 by Donaldson Lufkin and SAMUEL D. ISALY Jenrette DLJ, he chaired DLJs European Investment Banking Sam Isaly, aged 68, joined the Board at launch in 1995.
He subsequently became a founder and Vice Chairman Managing Partner of OrbiMed Capital LLC, the Companys of New Star Asset Management Group PLC.
He is a Director of a Investment Manager, and has been an international number of private companies.
He attended Oxford University pharmaceutical investment specialist for more than 20 years having worked in New York and Europe with Chase Manhattan, and has an MBA from Stanford University.
Socit Gnrale, Crdit Suisse and UBS Warburg.
SARAH BATES DOUG McCUTCHEON Sarah Bates, aged 54, joined the Board in May 2013.
A former Doug McCutcheon, aged 48, joined the Board in 2012.
Based in Chairman of the Association of Investment Companies, she is Toronto, Canada, Doug is both a Canadian and UK citizen.
Doug currently Chairman of JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc is the President of Gormley Limited, an investment company and a non-executive Director of New India Investment Trust PLC, focused on investing in private companies, and is also on the Polar Capital Technology Trust plc, St Jamess Place plc, Witan Board of Longview Asset Management.
Doug is involved in Pacific Investment Trust plc and Development Securities plc.
She several philanthropic organisations, with a focus on healthcare is also Chairman of Rutley Russia Property Fund Limited and of and education.
Until 2012, Doug was at UBS, where he was the Stena Line UK Pension Scheme Trustees Limited.
In addition, former head of UBS Healthcare Investment Banking for Europe, she is Chairman of, or a member of Charitable and pension fund the Middle East, Africa and Asia-Pacific.
He has over 25 years investment committees including that of the East Riding Pension experience as an investment banker.
Fund and is Chairman of the Kings Corner Project.
She attended Cambridge University and has an MBA from London Business ANTHONY TOWNSEND School.
Anthony Townsend, aged 65, joined the Board at launch in 1995.
Anthony has spent over 40 years working in the City and was JO DIXON Chairman of The Association of Investment Companies from Jo Dixon, aged 53, joined the Board in 2004 and is Chairman of 2001 to 2003.
Anthony is Chairman of Baronsmead VCT 3 plc, the Audit Committee.
She is currently a non-executive Director British & American Investment Trust PLC, F&C Global Smaller and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Standard Life Equity Companies PLC, Finsbury Growth & Income Trust PLC and Miton Income Trust PLC and Baring Emerging Europe PLC.
Jo is a Worldwide Growth Investment Trust Plc.
graduate Chartered Accountant having trained with Touche Ross in London.
Her career has spanned strategic development, Other than those stated above, none of the Directors has any finance and commercial management at a number of other connections with the Investment Manager and is not companies including The Eden Project, Cornwall, Serco Group employed by any of the companies in which the Company plc and Newcastle United PLC and also within the Investment holds an investment.
Bank and main group of NatWest.
Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nominations and Management Engagement and Remuneration Committees Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report 2013
