228467 Finsbury WWH pp19-pp29 18 06 2013 10:40 Page 19 Report of the Directors 19 Report of the Directors Incorporating the Business Review In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE AND BENCHMARK the Act and the UK Listing and Transparency Rules, the Directors The Company invests worldwide in pharmaceutical and present their annual report on the affairs of the Company together biotechnology companies and related securities in the with the audited financial statements and the Independent healthcare sector with the objective of achieving a high level of Auditors Report for the year ended 31 March 2013. capital growth.
With effect from 1 October 2010, the Companys performance has been measured against the MSCI World Health INTRODUC TION Care Index net total return, sterling adjusted.
Prior to this date, The Report of the Directors includes the Business Review and performance was measured against the Datastream World Corporate Governance Statement.
The Business Review contains Pharmaceutical & Biotechnology Index total return, sterling a review of the Companys business, the principal risks and adjusted.
uncertainties it faces and an analysis of its performance during the financial period and the position at the period end and the INVESTMENT POLICY future business plans of the Company.
To aid understanding of In order to achieve its investment objective, the Company these areas the Board has included an analysis using appropriate invests in a diversified portfolio of shares in pharmaceutical and Key Performance Indicators.
The Business Review should be read biotechnology companies and related securities in the in conjunction with the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 and 3, healthcare sector on a worldwide basis.
It uses gearing and the Review of Investments on pages 5 to 10 and the analyses on derivative transactions to mitigate risk and also to enhance pages 11 to 17. capital returns.
BUSINESS AND STATUS OF THE COMPANY Investment Limitations and Guidelines The Company is registered as a public limited company and is The Board seeks to manage the Companys risk by imposing an investment company within the terms of Section 833 of the various investment limits and restrictions: Companies Act 2006 the Act.
Its shares are listed on the The Company will not invest more than 10% of its gross Official List of the UK Listing Authority and traded on the main assets in other closed ended investment companies market of the London Stock Exchange, which is a regulated including investment trusts listed on the London Stock market as defined in Section 1173 of the Act.
Exchange, except where the investment companies The Company has received approval from HM Revenue & themselves have stated investment policies to invest no Customs as an authorised investment trust under Sections 1158 more than 15% of their gross assets in other closed ended and 1159 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 CTA 2010 for the investment companies including investment trusts listed year ended 31 March 2012.
This approval is subject to there on the London Stock Exchange.
being no subsequent enquiry under corporation tax selfThe Company will not invest more than 15% of the portfolio assessment.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company in any one individual stock at the time of acquisition: continues to direct its affairs so as to enable it to qualify for such At least 60% of the portfolio will normally be invested in approval.
In accordance with recent changes to CTA 2010, the larger companies i. e. with a market capitalisation of at least Company has obtained ongoing approval from HM Revenue & U. S. $5bn : Customs for all accounting periods commencing on 1 April At least 20% of the portfolio will normally be invested in 2012. smaller companies i. e. with a market capitalisation of less than U. S. $5bn : CONTINUATION OF THE COMPANY A resolution was passed at the Annual General Meeting held in Investment in unquoted securities will not exceed 10% of 2009 that the Company continues as an investment trust for a the portfolio at the time of acquisition: further five year period.
In accordance with the Companys A maximum of 5% of the portfolio, at the time of acquisition, Articles of Association, shareholders will have an opportunity to may be invested in each of debt instruments, convertibles vote on the continuation of the Company at the Annual General and royalty bonds issued by pharmaceutical and Meeting in 2014 and every five years thereafter.
biotechnology companies: Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report 2013 228467 Finsbury WWH pp19-pp29 18 06 2013 10:40 Page 20 20 Report of the Directors Report of the Directors continued Incorporating the Business Review KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPIs A maximum of 15% of the portfolio, at the time of At each Board meeting the Board assesses the Companys acquisition, may be invested in companies in each of the performance in meeting its investment objective and against following sectors: the following key performance indicators: healthcare equipment Net asset value total return see pages 1 and 11 healthcare technology Share price total return see pages 1, 11 and 38 providers of healthcare and related services Stock contribution analysis see page 10 The Companys gearing policy is to borrow up to the lower Share price premium discount to net asset value per share of 120 million or 20% of the Companys net asset value: see page 11 Derivative transactions can be used to mitigate risk and or Ongoing charges see page 11 enhance capital returns and will be restricted to 5% of the Benchmark performance see pages 1, 11 and 38 portfolio: and Issue of new shares repurchase of own shares see page 22 Equity Swaps may be used in order to meet the Companys and 52 investment objective of achieving a high level of capital growth and is restricted to 8% of the gross assets of the The management of the portfolio is conducted by the Investment Manager and the management of the Companys Company at the time of acquisition.
affairs, including marketing, administration and company Compliance with the Boards investment limitations and secretarial matters is conducted by the Manager.
Each provider guidelines is monitored continuously by Frostrow Capital LLP is responsible to the Board which is ultimately responsible to the Frostrow or the Manager and OrbiMed Capital LLC shareholders for performing against, inter alia, the above KPIs OrbiMed or the Investment Manager and is reported to the within the terms of their respective agreements by utilising the Board on a monthly basis.
capabilities of the experienced professionals within each firm.
PERFORMANCE PRINCIPAL RISKS AND THEIR In the year to 31 March 2013, the Companys net asset value total MITIGATION return was 30.3% compared to a rise of 31.4% in the Companys The Companys assets consist principally of listed equities: its benchmark, the MSCI World Health Care Index net total return, main area of risk is therefore stockmarket-related.
The Companys share price total return was key risks faced by the Company, together with the Boards 30.9% during the year.
Both the share price and the net asset mitigation approach, are as follows: value total return generated during the year were enhanced by virtue of the change in the Companys dividend payment policy Investment Activity and Strategy whereby a first interim dividend of 7.0p per share was paid in The Board regularly reviews the Companys investment mandate January 2013.
This extra dividend payment enhanced and its long-term investment strategy in relation to market and performance in total return terms by approximately 1.0%.
economic conditions, and the operation of the Companys peers, thereby monitoring whether the Company should continue in its The Review of Investments on pages 5 to 10 includes a review of the present form.
An inappropriate investment strategy, for example principal developments during the year, together with information asset allocation or the level of gearing, may lead to on investment activity within the Companys portfolio.
underperformance against the Companys benchmark index and RESULTS AND DIVIDEND peer companies, resulting in the Companys shares trading on a The results attributable to shareholders for the year and the wider discount.
The Board manages these risks by diversification of transfer to reserves are shown on page 41.
In order to maintain investments through its investment restrictions and guidelines investment trust status the Directors have declared two interim which are monitored and reported on by the Manager.
Each dividends for the year totaling 16.5p per share 2012: a single month the Board receives a monthly review report which interim dividend of 17.5p the second of which will be payable on monitors the Companys investment performance both on an 5 July 2013. absolute basis and against the benchmark and peer group and its Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report 2013 228467 Finsbury WWH pp19-pp29 18 06 2013 10:40 Page 21 Report of the Directors 21 Report of the Directors continued Incorporating the Business Review compliance with the investment guidelines.
Additional reports The Board reviews both the internal control and the disaster and presentations are regularly presented to investors by the recovery procedures put in place by its principal service providers Companys Manager, Investment Manager and also by on a regular basis.
Winterflood Securities, the Companys Corporate Stockbroker.
Financial Industry risk exists in all specialist industries.
Risks are inherent The Board undertakes a regular review of the level of in pharmaceutical companies with, for example, the potential discount premium and consideration is given to ways in which for drug withdrawals from the market or failures after launch share price performance may be enhanced, including the and lack of expected profit growth.
effectiveness of marketing and share buy-backs, where appropriate.
The Board has implemented a discount control The Board meets on a quarterly basis during the year and on an mechanism intended to establish a target level of no more than ad hoc basis if necessary.
At each meeting they consider the a 6% discount of share price to the diluted net asset value per asset allocation of the portfolio.
The Investment Manager has share.
Shareholders should note, however, that it remains responsibility for selecting investments in accordance with the possible for the share price discount to net asset value per share Companys investment objective and seeks to ensure that to be greater than 6% on any one day and is due to the fact that individual stocks meet an acceptable risk-reward profile.
the share price continues to be influenced by overall supply and The Companys assets comprise mainly readily realisable liquid demand for the Companys shares in the secondary market.
The securities, which can be sold to meet funding requirements if volatility of the net asset value per share in an asset class such as necessary.
healthcare is another factor over which the Board has no The Companys assets can be held by Goldman Sachs & Co. New control.
The average month end share price discount during the York as collateral for the loan provided by them to the Company.
The making and timing of any share buy-backs is Such assets taken as collateral may be used, loaned, sold, at the absolute discretion of the Board.
rehypothecated or transferred by Goldman Sachs & Co. New A significant proportion of the Companys assets are, and will York, although the Company maintains the economic benefits continue to be, invested in securities denominated in foreign from ownership of those assets.
Goldman Sachs & Co. New York currencies, in particular U. S. dollars.
As the Companys shares are may take up to 140% of the value of the outstanding loan as denominated and traded in sterling, the return to shareholders collateral.
The Company is afforded protection under both the will be affected by changes in the value of sterling relative to SEC rules and U. S. legislation equal to the value of the net assets those foreign currencies.
The Board has made clear the held by Goldman Sachs & Co. New York also see glossary on Companys position with regard to currency fluctuation, which is page 72. that it does not currently hedge against currency exposure.
Assets held by Goldman Sachs & Co. New York, as custodian, that Shareholder Relations and Corporate Governance are not used as collateral, are held in segregated client accounts.
The Board regularly reviews investment performance against the Further information on financial instruments and risk, as benchmark and against peer group.
The Board also receives required by FRS 29, can be found in note 18 to the financial regular reports that show an analysis of performance compared statements beginning on page 54. with other relevant indices.
The Investment Manager provides an The Company is also exposed to the risk that the custodian explanation of stock selection decisions and an overall rationale and or counterparties may fail and that title to stocks does not for the make-up of the portfolio.
The Investment Manager survive an ensuing liquidation.
The Companys Investment discusses current and potential investment holdings with the Manager is responsible for undertaking reviews of the credit Board on a regular basis in addition to new initiatives, which may worthiness of the counterparties that it uses.
The Board regularly enhance shareholder returns.
reviews the Investment Managers approved list of Operational counterparties.
Disruption to, or failure of accounting, dealing or payments Accounting, Legal and Regulatory systems or the custodians records could prevent accurate In order to qualify as an investment trust, the Company must reporting and monitoring of the Companys financial position.
comply with Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report 2013 228467 Finsbury WWH pp19-pp29 18 06 2013 10:40 Page 22 22 Report of the Directors Report of the Directors continued Incorporating the Business Review Section 1158.
Were the Company to breach Section 1158, it aggregate, to 6 June 2013, the shares re-purchased equate to a might lose investment trust status and, as a consequence, gains total of 5.6% of the issued share capital excluding shares held in within the Companys portfolio could be subject to Capital treasury at the beginning of the year.
As indicated in the Gains Tax.
The Section 1158 qualification criteria are continually Chairmans Statement, the Board has agreed that any treasury monitored by the Manager and the results reported to the shares remaining on 17 July 2013, the date of the Annual General Board each month.
The Company must also comply with the Meeting, will be cancelled.
A total of 2,941,518 shares held in provisions of the London Stock Exchange, the UKLA Listing treasury were cancelled on 17 July 2012.
During the year to date Rules and Disclosure & Transparency Rules DTRs.
A breach of all of the 378,408 shares bought back into treasury since the 2012 the Companies Act could result in the Company and or the Annual General Meeting were reissued at prices representing no Directors being fined or subject to criminal proceedings.
Breach more than a 4.9% discount to the prevailing fully diluted cum of the UKLA Listing Rules or DTRs could result in the Companys income net asset value per share, raising 4,000,000 of new funds shares being suspended in listing which in turn would breach for the Company.
The Board relies on the services of its Manager to No Subscription Shares were re-purchased for cancellation ensure compliance with The Companies Act and The UKLA during the year.
PROSPEC TS LOAN FACILITY The Companys Investment Manager continues to believe that The Companys borrowing requirements are met through the the outlook for the healthcare sector is positive and that there is utilisation of a loan facility, repayable on demand, provided by potential for continued outperformance of the wider markets Goldman Sachs & Co. New York.
At the year end total over the long term.
borrowings amounted to the equivalent of 31.4 million INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT representing 6.2% of net assets.
Further details can be found in Investment Management Agreement: note 11 on page 52 and in note 18 beginning on page 54.
The Investment Manager receives a periodic fee equal to SHARE CAPITAL 0.65% p. a. of the Companys net asset value.
The Investment On 4 September 2009, the Company made a bonus issue of Management Agreement may be terminated by either party subscription shares on the basis of one subscription share for giving notice of not less than 12 months.
The Investment Manager every five ordinary shares held at that date.
The subscription under the terms of the agreement provides, inter alia, the shares have quarterly subscription dates and the following following services: shares were allotted by the Company as a result of holders of seeking out and evaluating investment opportunities: the subscription shares exercising their subscription rights recommending the manner by which monies should be during the year: invested, disinvested, retained or realised: 2,213,584 shares were allotted on 2 May 2012 raising 14,123,000. advising on how rights conferred by the investments should 2,457,096 shares were allotted on 1 August 2012 raising be exercised: 15,676,000. analysing the performance of investments made: and 960 shares were allotted on 14 August 2012 raising 6,000. advising the Company in relation to trends, market movements and other matters which may affect the 9,946 shares were allotted on 1 November 2012 raising 70,000. investment policy of the Company.
33,336 shares were allotted on 1 February 2013 raising 233,000.
Subsequent to the year-end 49,760 shares were allotted on MANAGEMENT 2 May 2013 raising 348,000.
Company Management, Company Secretarial and During the year under review the Company re-purchased a total Administrative Services Agreement: of 2,411,340 shares to be held in treasury, at a cost of 19.2 million The Manager, receives a periodic fee equal to 0.30% per annum including expenses.
Since the year end and to 6 June 2013 no of the Companys market capitalisation up to 150 million, 0.20% per annum of the market capitalisation in excess of further shares have been repurchased by the Company.
In Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report 2013 228467 Finsbury WWH pp19-pp29 18 06 2013 10:40 Page 23 Report of the Directors 23 Report of the Directors continued Incorporating the Business Review extent that the cumulative outperformance gives rise to a total 150 million and up to 500 million, and 0.125% per annum of the market capitalisation in excess of 500 million, plus a fixed fee greater than the total of all performance fees paid to date.
amount equal to 57,500 per annum.
During the year performance fees totaling 643,000 crystallised The notice period on the Company Management, Company year ended 31 March 2012: 909,000 in relation to maintained Secretarial and Administration Agreement with Frostrow is outperformance of which 268,000 was payable at 31 March 12 months, termination can be initiated by either party.
2013 see note 3 on page 48 for further details.
The Manager, under the terms of the agreement provides, inter CONTINUING APPOINTMENT OF THE alia, the following services: MANAGER AND INVESTMENT MANAGER marketing and shareholder services: The Board has concluded that it is in shareholders interests that the administrative services: Manager and the Investment Manager continue in their roles.
The advice and guidance in respect of corporate governance review undertaken by the Board considered the Companys requirements: investment performance over both the short and longer terms, maintaining the books of account and record in respect of together with the quality and adequacy of other services provided.
Company dealing, investments, transactions, dividends and The Board also reviewed the appropriateness of the terms of the other income, the income account, balance sheet and cash Investment Management and Management Agreements, in books and statements: particular the length of notice period and the fee structures.
preparation and despatch of the audited annual and GOING CONCERN unaudited interim report and accounts and interim The Companys business activities together with the factors likely to management statements: and affect its future development, performance and position are set out attending to general tax affairs where necessary.
in the Report of the Directors on pages 19 to 28.
The financial Performance Fee: position of the Company, its liquidity position and its borrowing Dependent on the level of long term outperformance of the facility are set out in the notes to the financial statements beginning Company, the Investment Manager and the Manager are entitled on page 45.
In addition, the Corporate Governance Report, the to the payment of a performance fee.
The performance fee is Financial Statements and the associated notes give details of the calculated by reference to the amount by which the Companys Companys objectives, policies and processes, its financial risk net asset value NAV performance has outperformed the management objectives and its exposure to risks.
The Company has benchmark index.
See page 1 for details of the benchmark.
considerable financial resources and a good spread of investments The fee is calculated quarterly by comparing the cumulative across different geographical areas.
The majority of the Companys performance of the Companys NAV with the cumulative investments are listed on recognised stock exchanges and are performance of the benchmark since the launch of the readily realisable.
Having considered the Companys prospects, the Company in 1995.
The performance fee amounts to 16.5% of Directors believe that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern any outperformance over the benchmark, the investment basis in preparing the financial statements as the assets of the manager receiving 15% and the manager receiving 1.5% Company consist mainly of securities that are readily realisable and, respectively.
Provision is also made within the daily NAV per accordingly, the Company has adequate financial resources to share calculation as required and in accordance with generally continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
In order to ensure that only sustained outperformance is CREDITORS PAYMENT POLICY rewarded, at each quarterly calculation date any performance Terms of payment are negotiated with suppliers when agreeing fee is based on the lower of: settlement details for transactions.
While the Company does not i The cumulative out-performance of the investment portfolio follow a formal code, it is the Companys continuing policy to over the benchmark as at the quarter end date: and pay amounts due to creditors as and when they become due.
As at 31 March 2013, the Company did not have any trade creditors ii The cumulative out-performance of the investment portfolio over the benchmark as at the corresponding 2012: nil.
quarter end date in the previous year.
In addition, a performance fee only becomes payable to the Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report 2013 228467 Finsbury WWH pp19-pp29 18 06 2013 10:40 Page 24 24 Report of the Directors Report of the Directors continued Incorporating the Business Review CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS income.
The opportunity to invest in Ordinary Shares through an ISA is restricted to certain UK resident individuals aged 18 or The Company has not in the past and does not intend in future over.
Junior ISAs are available for UK resident children aged to make any charitable or political donations.
under 18 and born before 1 September 2002 or after 2 January ENVIRONMENTAL AND ETHICAL POLICY 2011.
Sums received by a shareholder on a disposal of Ordinary The Companys primary objective is to achieve a high level of Shares held within an ISA or Junior ISA will not count towards capital growth by investment in pharmaceutical and the shareholders annual limit.
Individuals wishing to invest in biotechnology companies and the Board recognises that this Ordinary Shares through an ISA should contact their should be done in an environmentally responsible way.
The professional advisers regarding their eligibility as should Directors support the action being taken by the major individuals wishing to invest through a Junior ISA for children pharmaceutical companies to make products more affordable under 18 years old.
to patients in developing countries.
The Directors believe that the Company would be in breach of its fiduciary duties to DIREC TORS The Directors of the Company, all of whom served throughout shareholders if investment decisions were based solely on the year, except as noted, are all non-executive and are listed ethical or environmental considerations.
The Company encourages a positive approach to corporate governance and below.
Their biographies can be found on page 18. engagements with investee companies.
Sir Martin Smith Chairman Sarah Bates appointed on 22 May 2013 INDIVIDUAL SAVINGS ACCOUNTS Jo Dixon The Companys shares are eligible to be held in the stocks and Professor Duncan Geddes retired on 17 July 2012 shares component of an ISA or Junior ISA, subject to applicable Dr David Holbrook annual subscription limits 11,520 for an ISA and 3,600 for a Samuel D. Isaly Junior ISA for the 2013 2014 tax year.
Investments held in ISAs Doug McCutcheon appointed on 7 November 2012 or Junior ISAs will be free of UK tax on both capital gains and Anthony Townsend DIRECTORS INTERESTS The beneficial interests of the Directors and their families in the Company were as set out below: Shares of 25p each Subscription Shares 31 March 2013 1 April 2012 31 March 2013 1 April 2012 Sir Martin Smith 5,859 5,859 400 400 Sarah Bates appointed 22 May 2013 7,200 Jo Dixon 3,000 3,000 600 600 Dr David Holbrook 1,094 Samuel D. Isaly 353,600 353,600 720 100,720 Doug McCutcheon appointed 7 November 2012 15,000 Anthony Townsend 21,619 21,619 25,793 25,793 As at 6 June 2013 there had been no changes in the above details.
Samuel D. Isaly is a partner in OrbiMed Capital LLC which is party to the Investment Management Agreement with the Company and receives fees as described on pages 22 and 23.
A number of the partners at OrbiMed Capital LLC have a minority financial interest totalling 20% in Frostrow Capital LLP, the Companys Manager.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report 2013 228467 Finsbury WWH pp19-pp29 18 06 2013 10:40 Page 25 Report of the Directors 25 Report of the Directors continued Incorporating the Business Review DIRECTORS FEES agreed to indemnify each Director, to the extent permitted by law, A report on Directors Remuneration is set out on pages 37 and 38. in respect of certain liabilities incurred as a result of carrying out his or her role as a Director of the Company.
The Directors are also DIRECTORS & OFFICERS LIABILITY indemnified against the costs of defending any criminal or civil INSURANCE COVER proceedings or any claim by the Company or a regulator as they Directors & officers liability insurance cover was maintained by are incurred provided that where the defence is unsuccessful the the Company during the year ended 31 March 2013.
It is Director must repay those defence costs to the Company.
The intended that this policy will continue for the year ending indemnities are qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the 31 March 2014 and subsequent years.
purposes of the Companies Act 2006.
A copy of each deed of indemnity is available for inspection at the DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES Companys registered office during normal business hours and will As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force between the be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
Company and each of its Directors under which the Company has SUBSTANTIAL SHARE INTERESTS The Company was aware of the following substantial interests in the voting rights of the Company: 30 April 2013 31 March 2013 Beneficial Number of % of issued Number of % of issued shareholder shares share capital shares share capital Investec Wealth & Investment 4,315,131 9.43 4,216,604 9.21 Alliance Trust Savings 2,401,636 5.25 2,370,495 5.18 Smith & Williamson 2,069,159 4.52 2,113,833 4.62 Brewin Dolphin 2,020,827 4.42 2,058,011 4.49 Henderson Global Investors 1,944,188 4.25 2,149,188 4.70 Charles Stanley, Stockbrokers 1,820,180 3.98 1,783,132 3.90 Newton Investment Management 1,728,842 3.78 1,764,947 3.86 Speirs & Jeffrey, Stockbrokers 1,507,516 3.39 1,537,031 3.36 Legal & General Investment Management 1,446,387 3.16 1,446,387 3.16 As at 31 March 2013 the Company had 45,434,746 shares in issue.
As at 30 April 2013 the Company had 45,504,746 shares in issue.
30 April being the latest practicable date before publication of the Annual Report.
still believes that the holding of a tender process is appropriate.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS The results of the tender will be published in next years Annual Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to continue Report and Accounts and will be voted on by shareholders at to act as Independent Auditors to the Company and a next years Annual General Meeting.
resolution for their re-appointment will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
AUDIT INFORMATION Ernst & Young LLP have been in post for over 18 years and the The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Board, after consideration, has agreed that a tender process for Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is the post of Auditor to the Company should take place in early no relevant audit information of which the Auditors are 2014.
As part of its deliberations, the Board has noted that the unaware: and that each Director has taken all steps they ought audit partners responsible for the audit are rotated at least every to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any five years, in accordance with professional and regulatory relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are standards, in order to protect independence and objectivity and aware of such information.
also to provide fresh challenge to the business, but the Board Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report 2013 228467 Finsbury WWH pp19-pp29 18 06 2013 10:40 Page 26 26 Report of the Directors Report of the Directors continued Incorporating the Business Review SECTION 992 OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2006 gives authority to the Directors to allot the unissued share capital The following disclosures are made in accordance with Section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,145,323 equivalent to 992 of the Companies Act 2006.
4,581,291 shares, or 10% of the Companys existing issued share capital on 6 June 2013, being the nearest practicable date prior to Capital Structure the signing of this Report.
Such authority will expire on the date of The Companys capital structure is summarised in note 13 on the next Annual General Meeting or after a period of 15 months page 52. from the date of the passing of the resolution, whichever is earlier.
Voting Rights in the Companys shares This means that the authority will be renewed at the next Annual Details of the voting rights in the Companys shares at the date General Meeting.
of this Annual Report are given in note 9 to the Notice of Annual When shares are to be allotted for cash, Section 551 of the General Meeting on page 66.
Companies Act 2006 the Act provides that existing CORPORATE GOVERNANCE shareholders have pre-emption rights and that the new shares A formal statement on Corporate Governance, which forms part must be offered first to such shareholders in proportion to their of this Report of the Directors, is set out on pages 30 to 35. existing holding of shares.
However, shareholders can, by special resolution, authorise the Directors to allot shares otherwise than BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF SHARES by a pro rata issue to existing shareholders.
Special INFORMATION RIGHTS Resolution 11 will, if passed, give the Directors power to allot for Beneficial owners of shares who have been nominated by the cash equity securities up to 10% of the Companys existing share registered holder of those shares to receive information rights capital on 6 June 2013 reduced by any treasury shares sold by under section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are required to the Company pursuant to Special Resolution 12, as described direct all communications to the registered holder of their below, as if Section 551 of the Act does not apply.
This is the shares rather than to the Companys registrar, Capita Registrars, same nominal amount of share capital which the Directors are or to the Company directly.
seeking the authority to allot pursuant to Resolution 11.
This authority will also expire on the date of the next Annual General NOTICE PERIOD FOR GENERAL MEETINGS Meeting or after a period of 15 months, whichever is earlier.
This Recent amendments made to the Companys Articles of authority will not be used in connection with a rights issue by Association included a provision allowing general meetings of the Company.
the Company to be called on the minimum notice period provided for in the Companies Act 2006.
For meetings other than Under the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury annual general meetings this is currently a period of 14 clear days.
Shares Regulations 2003 as amended the Treasury Share Regulations the Company is permitted to buy back and hold A Special Resolution was passed by shareholders at last years shares in treasury and then sell them at a later date for cash, rather Annual General Meeting approving this.
The Board is proposing than cancelling them.
The Treasury Share Regulations require such Resolution 15 as a Special Resolution to renew this approval for sale to be on a pre-emptive, pro rata, basis to existing shareholders a further year.
The notice period for annual general meetings unless shareholders agree by special resolution to disapply such will remain 21 clear days.
Accordingly, in addition to giving the Directors ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING power to allot unissued share capital on a non pre-emptive basis The formal Notice of Annual General Meeting is set out on pursuant to Resolution 11, Resolution 12, if passed, will give the pages 62 to 67 of this Annual Report.
Directors authority to sell shares held in treasury on a non pre-emptive basis.
No dividends may be paid on any shares held Resolutions relating to the following items of special business in treasury and no voting rights will attach to such shares.
The will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting: benefit of the ability to hold treasury shares is that such shares may Issue of Shares be resold.
This should give the Company greater flexibility in Ordinary Resolution 10 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report 2013 228467 Finsbury WWH pp19-pp29 18 06 2013 10:40 Page 27 Report of the Directors 27 Report of the Directors continued Incorporating the Business Review managing its share capital, and improve liquidity in its shares.
It is only be made on the London Stock Exchange.
the intention of the Board that any re-sale of treasury shares would Any purchases of Ordinary shares will be made within only take place at a narrower discount to the net asset value per guidelines established from time to time by the Directors, but share than that at which they had been bought into treasury, and they will only exercise the authority if, in their opinion, it would in any event at a discount no greater than 5% to the prevailing net be in the interests of the Company to do so and would result in asset value per share, and this is reflected in the text of an increase in net asset value per Ordinary share for the Resolution 12.
It is also the intention of the Board that sales from remaining shareholders and if it is in the best interests of treasury would only take place when the Board believes that to do shareholders generally.
Such purchases will only be made at so would assist in the provision of liquidity to the market.
The prices below the prevailing net asset value per Ordinary share number of treasury shares which may be sold pursuant to this and within the price constraints set out in paragraphs b and c authority is limited to 10% of the Companys existing share capital of the resolution.
on 6 June 2013 reduced by any equity securities allotted for cash Under the Companies Act 2006, the Company is allowed to hold on a non-pro rata basis pursuant to Resolution 11, as described its own Ordinary shares in treasury following a buy back, instead above.
This authority will also expire on the date of the next of cancelling them.
This gives the Company the ability to reAnnual General Meeting or after a period of 15 months, whichever issue treasury shares quickly and cost-effectively and provides is earlier.
the Company with additional flexibility in the management of The Directors intend to use the authority given by its capital base.
Shares held in treasury may be resold for cash Resolutions 10, 11 and 12 to allot shares and disapply prebut all rights attaching to them including voting rights and any right to receive dividends, are suspended while they are held in emption rights only in circumstances where this will be clearly treasury.
If the Directors exercise the authority conferred by beneficial to shareholders as a whole.
The issue proceeds would resolution 13, the Company will have the option of either be available for investment in line with the Companys holding in treasury or of cancelling any of its own shares investment policy.
No issue of shares will be made which would purchased pursuant to the authority and will decide at the time effectively alter the control of the Company without the prior of purchase which option to pursue.
The Directors will have approval of shareholders in General Meeting.
regard to any guidelines issued by investor groups at the time of Authority for the Company to purchase its own shares any such purchase, holding or re-sale of treasury shares.
The Companys Articles of Association permit the purchase by Purchases of Subscription shares will only be made through the the Company of its own Ordinary and Subscription shares market at prices where the Directors believe such purchases will subject to shareholders prior approval being obtained.
enhance Ordinary shareholder value and within the price Resolutions 13 and 14, if passed, would authorise the Company constraints set out in paragraphs b and c of the resolution.
to buy back up to 6,867,356 Ordinary shares and 350,791 Any Subscription shares repurchased by the Company will be Subscription shares, which represents approximately 14.99% of cancelled and will not be held in treasury for reissue or resale.
the Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding shares General Meetings held in treasury and 14.99% of the Companys Subscription Special Resolution 15 seeks shareholder approval for the shares as at 6 June 2013 respectively.
If given, these authorities Company to hold General Meetings other than Annual General will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting Meetings at 14 clear days notice.
of the Company after the passing of the resolution or, if earlier, 15 months from the date of the passing of the resolution.
The The authorities being sought under Resolutions 10, 11, 12, 13, 14 Directors intend to seek a renewal of such powers at each and 15 will last until the conclusion of the next Annual General Annual General Meeting.
Meeting or, if less, a period of 15 months.
Amendment to Articles of Association The resolutions specify the maximum and minimum prices at which shares may be bought, reflecting the requirements of the It is proposed to make certain changes to the Companys Companies Act 2006 and the Listing Rules.
Any buy back would Articles of Association in order to i take advantage of HM Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report 2013 228467 Finsbury WWH pp19-pp29 18 06 2013 10:40 Page 28 28 Report of the Directors Report of the Directors continued Incorporating the Business Review Recommendation Governments reform of the tax and company law rules affecting investment trusts by removing the prohibition on The Board considers that the resolutions set out above are, in distributing capital profits, which the Company is no longer the Boards opinion, in the best interests of shareholders as a required to include the Board is, however, not currently whole.
Accordingly, the Board unanimously recommends to proposing any change to the Companys dividend policy : ii shareholders that they vote in favour of the above resolutions to remove the upper limit of the Companys share capital, which is be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting as the no longer required pursuant to the Companies Act 2006: iii Directors intend to do in respect of their own beneficial delete provisions that were formerly contained within the holdings totaling 407,372 Shares.
Companys memorandum of association: iv clarify the procedure for dealing with Subscription Shares, once the By order of the Board Subscription Share Rights attaching to them have lapsed: and Frostrow Capital LLP v make other technical amendments so that the Articles of Company Secretary Association conform to the Companies Act 2006 and other 6 June 2013 legislation applicable to companies in its current form and current best practice.
Accordingly, Special Resolution 16 will be put to the Annual General Meeting to be held on 17 July 2013.
Details of the changes are set out on page 61 of this Annual Report.
Subscription Shareholder Class Meeting As the proposed amendments to the Companys Articles of Association vary the rights attached to the Subscription Shares, the passing of Special Resolution 16 at the Annual General Meeting is conditional on the approval of the Subscription Shareholders in a separate class meeting.
If adopted, the new Articles of Association will not affect the rights attached to the Ordinary Shares, and therefore a separate class meeting of the Ordinary Shareholders is not necessary and will not be held.
Only Subscription Shareholders are entitled to attend and vote at this class meeting.
The notice of the Subscription Shareholder class meeting, which will be held at 12.20pm on 17 July 2013 or as soon as the Annual General Meeting of the Company convened for 12 noon on the same day has concluded or been adjourned, may be found on pages 68 and 69.
The quorum for the Class Meeting is not less than two persons present in person or by proxy holding at least one-third of the nominal amount paid up on the Subscription Shares in issue.
If a quorum is not present at the time and place for which the class Meeting has been convened, the Class Meeting will be adjourned until Monday, 29 July 2013 when one person holding Subscription Shares whatever the number of shares held who is present in person or by proxy will constitute a quorum.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report 2013
