228467 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp18 18 06 2013 10:40 Page 04 04 OrbiMed Capital LLC Investment Manager OrbiMed Capital LLC Investment Manager OrbiMed was born in 1989 and has evolved over time to be the OrbiMed had over U. S. $7 billion in assets under management as largest dedicated healthcare investment firm in the world.
of 31 March 2013, across a range of funds, including investment OrbiMed has managed the portfolio since the Companys trusts, hedge funds, mutual funds, and private equity funds.
Exceptional returns and recipient of many investment awards signifies the aggregate talents of this exceptional team.
The Team has a global focus with a universe of coverage that THE TEAM covers the entire spectrum of companies, from early stage The OrbiMed Public Equity Investment Team continues to companies with pre-clinical assets to full integrated bioexpand.
Led by founding partner, Samuel D. Isaly, now over 60 pharmaceutical companies.
The universe of actively covered investment professionals cover all aspects of research, trading, companies is approaching 1,000. finance, and compliance.
This includes over 20 degree holders with MD and or PhD credentials, healthcare industry veterans, OrbiMed emphasises investments in companies with and finance professionals with over 20 years of experience.
underappreciated products in the pipeline, high quality management teams, and adequate financial resources.
A The firm has a global investment horizon and the OrbiMed disciplined portfolio construction process is utilised to ensure the footprint now spans 3 continents with offices in New York, San portfolio is focused on high conviction positions.
Finally, the Francisco, Tel Aviv, Shanghai, and Mumbai.
portfolio is subject to rigorous risk management process to moderate portfolio volatility.
INVESTMENT STRATEGY AND PROCESS The Team works constantly to identify sources of alpha generation with a focus on fundamental research.
In healthcare, there are many primary sources of alpha generation, especially in therapeutics.
Clinical events such as the publication of new clinical trial data is a prominent example and historically has been the largest source of share price volatility.
Regulatory events, such as new drug approvals by U. S. European, or Japanese regulatory authorities are also stock moving events.
Subsequent new product launches are carefully tracked and forecasted.
Other sources include legal events and, of course, M&A activity.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report 2013
