228467 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp18 18 06 2013 10:40 Page 12 12 Champions of Innovation Champions of Innovation INDUSTRY LEADING INVESTMENTS IN THE PORTFOLIO DURING THE YEAR ROCHE HOLDINGS Large Capitalisation Biopharmaceutical The worldwide leaders in oncology, Roche Holdings, are not resting on their past laurels.
Rather, the company continues to push the frontiers of science in developing novel therapies for the treatment of cancer.
Antibody Drug Conjugates or ADCs are a new type of targeted therapy which consist of antibody linked to a cytotoxic drug chemotherapy.
The antibody will seek and bind to the specific tumor cells, be internalised, and release the cytotoxin to kill the host cell.
Roche was the first company to get FDA approval for an ADC.
Known as Kadcyla ado-trastuzumab, adding the drug to current treatment regimens has increased the survival of metastatic breast cancer patients who are HER2 by almost 300% over chemotherapy alone.
Roche also has a followon drug to the mega-blockbuster cancer product, Rituxan rituximab, for blood cancers.
Referred to as obinutuzumab GA- 101, filing with regulatory authorities should occur late 2013.
Roche is also involved in a new class of cancer therapies immunotherapy with first data available later in 2013.
But Roche is not only a cancer company, with important pipeline projects in neuroscience, Alzheimers, and cardiovascular that could further their reputation as leaders in innovative medicines.
GILEAD SCIENCES Large Capitalisation Biotechnology Founded in 1987, the biotechnology company Gilead Sciences, has become a category leader in virology, in particular the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus HIV.
In 2012, the company posted global sales of U. S. $8 billion for HIV therapies alone.
In 2013, the company launched is what will probably be the next gold standard therapy for HIV, the four drug combination product known as Stribild elvitegravir, cobicistat, emtricitabine, tenofovir.
We expect Stribild to reach well over U. S. $3 billion in peak global sales.
Gilead has also attempted to become category leaders in another virology category, specifically hepatitis C. Once again through astute R&D and M&A, Gilead is on the cusp of redefining the treatment of hepatitis C with a 2-3 month all-oral therapy versus the current gold standard treatment regimen which includes weekly injections for a minimum of 6 months.
The Gilead approach not only simplifies the regimen into a single, once daily pill, but also avoids the very difficult side effects of todays regimen which causes many patients to discontinue therapy.
But most noteworthy is that Gileads therapy will also lead to a cure in the vast majority of patients with hepatitis C. We expect the drug cocktail to be available to patients in 2015 and take the majority share of what we expect to be a U. S. $10 billion market.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report 2013 228467 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp18 18 06 2013 10:40 Page 13 Champions of Innovation 13 Champions of Innovation continued INSULET CORPORATION Medical Devices Insulet Corporation develops, manufactures, and markets a tubeless insulin patch pump, called the OmniPod, to treat people with insulin-dependent diabetes.
The patch pump offers the patient freedom from tubes, ease of training and a more payer-friendly pay-as-you-go plan.
The company has recently launched a next generation pump that is smaller and lighter with lower cost of manufacture.
Insulet should benefit from greater demand and higher gross margins.
Going forward, Insulet may also eventually incorporate a continuous glucose monitoring capability and is working with pharmaceutical partners to use the patch pump technology to deliver other drugs.
JIANGSU HENGRUI MEDICINE Chinese Pharmaceutical We view Jiangsu Hengrui Medicine as the most established innovative pharmaceutical company in China.
While we acknowledge that drug development in China has very much lagged behind the developed countries, we like the tremendous market potential and growth trajectory the market offers.
Jiangsu Hengrui is the largest oncology drug developer and marketer in China, and is rapidly expanding its franchise into surgical anesthetic, autoimmune, and diabetes drugs.
Hengrui has one of the most solid drug pipelines among all Chinese pharmaceutical companies.
Among 60 plus drug applications filed with the State Food and Drug Administration, some noteworthy examples include apatinib a VEGFR 2 tyrosine kinase inhibitor for gastric cancer, sunitinib inhibitor for multiple receptor tyrosine kinases for renal cell cancer, long-lasting G-CSF for neutropenia, and a DDP-4 inhibitor for diabetes, among others.
In addition, Jiangsu Hengrui also has one of the most established and best managed sales and marketing channels in China.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report 2013
