228467 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp18 18 06 2013 10:40 Page 05 Review of Investments 05 Review of Investments.... healthcare outperformance in the period was both immediate and sustained.
for this unmet medical need.
The regimen is in late stage clinical PERFORMANCE REVIEW trials and we expect it to be available to patients in 2015.
In The year ended 31 March 2013 was recognition of such impressive productivity, the stock doubled marked by periods of volatility, but during the year.
This performance led to Gilead being the top primarily was a bullish period for the contributor to performance in the period.
Early returns Roche Holdings is another example of a large capitalisation were negative in the period, but a bio-pharmaceutical company that demonstrated continued turn in the markets in May 2012 leadership in product development, in this case, in cancer.
marked the beginning of a bull run Roche is the worldwide leader in oncology and sells the three that bore witness to a nearly 30% largest cancer drugs in the world Avastin, Rituxan, Herceptin.
swing in the MSCI World Index Over the past twelve months, the company made important measured in sterling terms on a net Samuel D. Isaly strides in maintaining that leadership with extensive life cycle total return basis.
Ultimately the management and pipeline developments to protect its MSCI World Index finished up an impressive 17.7% for the year.
Two drugs were approved for breast cancer, Despite such strong returns, global healthcare equities Perjeta pertuzumab and Kadcyla ado-trastuzumab, raising outperformed the broader market during the year.
Although the efficacy and safety bar first established by Herceptin.
Most following a similar pattern, healthcare outperformance in the notably was the approval of Kadcyla, the first antibody-drug period was both immediate and sustained.
The MSCI World conjugate ADC for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer.
Healthcare Index rose by 31.4% on a net total return, sterling This type of therapy, pioneered by Roche, helped the stock adjusted basis during the year.
This compares to the Companys outpace the NYSE Arca Pharmaceutical Index by over 50% in the net asset value per share total return of 30.3% and the share period.
price total return of 30.9% in the same period.
Shares of the specialty biotechnology company, Onyx While currency movements have been volatile in recent times, Pharmaceuticals, increased sharply due to the approval and including some precipitous swings in 2012 and early in 2013, launch of Kyprolis carfilzomib for treatment of multiple the currency impact was modest during the year.
A significant myeloma a type of bone marrow cancer.
Entering 2012, there majority of the portfolio holdings are denominated in U. S. was significant doubt that the regulatory package submitted to dollars, but the net move in sterling versus the dollar was the U. S. Food and Drug Administration FDA would be approximately 5% in the period.
sufficient for approval, as it was based on a phase II trial rather than a large, randomised phase III trial.
However, because of the CONTRIBUTION TO PERFORMANCE high unmet medical need represented by refractory myeloma, the drug received a positive review by an advisory committee Large capitalisation therapeutic stocks were the hallmark of and accelerated approval from the FDA.
The initial launch of the 2013 performance.
Dusting off the doldrums with renewed product has gone well, providing further support for the stock.
positive fundamentals, these stocks shook off historically low Future approval in Europe is expected.
Additionally during the valuations and re-rated to better reflect a new era of year under review, approval was received for Stivarga productivity and growth.
This led to the largest contributions regorafenib for the treatment of colorectal cancer by Bayer, during the year.
from which Onyx receives a meaningful royalty.
Gilead Sciences, is a good example of this phenomenon.
Another large capitalisation stock, Pfizer, utilised a host of levers Worldwide leaders in virology, the company maintained its to produce outperformance in the period.
The company leadership in HIV and grabbed the mantle in hepatitis C, as well.
successfully divested its Infant Nutritionals business to Nestl for During the period, the company was able to gain regulatory U. S. $11.9 billion.
The company also successfully spun off partially approval for the next generation of anti-viral combination its Animal Health business in a U. S. $2.2 billion  for HIV.
Known as Stribild elvitegravir, cobicistat, offering.
The company continued to return this cash to emtricitabine, tenofovir, the product launch was solid.
shareholders in the forms of increasing dividends and an industry Moreover, Gileads next generation anti-viral combination leading share buyback programme.
Moreover, the company therapy for hepatitis C began to usher in a new era for the participated in two of the most important drug approvals in treatment of this chronic liver disease.
The novel, all-oral therapy recent memory.
First, Pfizer was able to obtain U. S. FDA approval will likely set a new standard in efficacy, safety, and tolerability for Xeljanz tofacitinib, the first ever oral, disease modifying Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report 2013 228467 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp18 18 06 2013 10:40 Page 06 06 Review of Investments Review of Investments continued lived soon after initial data tracking the launch started coming agent for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis.
Second, the in below stock market expectations.
Public health funding company, along with partner Bristol-Myers Squibb, launched environment also provided a difficult backdrop for OraSures what we believe is the most important therapy ever approved core diagnostics business causing the company to provide for the prevention of stroke in patients with atrial fibrillation.
lacklustre future guidance for two consecutive quarters putting Known globally as Eliquis apixaban, this drug has shown to be additional downward pressure on the stock.
more efficacious at reducing strokes with less bleeding than the long time gold standard, Coumadin warfarin.
We expect both VIVUS, is a specialty pharmaceutical player that was the first Xeljanz and Eliquis to reach mega-blockbuster status.
company in the U. S. to launch a new drug for the treatment of The Paris-based bio-pharmaceutical giant, Sanofi, entered the obesity in over a decade.
The drug, known as Qsymia year in the midst of one of the largest patent cliffs in the phentermine and topiramate, was approved in July 2012 and industry.
However, while revenues and earnings suffered with the companys share price reached a 10-year high shortly the loss of patent protection for its U. S. $10 billion franchise for thereafter.
However, the small company with less than 150 blood thinner Plavix clopidogrel, the company was able to employees took a go-it-alone alone strategy and launched the align a host of additional growth platforms to drive above product without the marketing know-how of an established average growth in the future.
Sanofi has shown leadership in partner.
The result was woeful physician and patient awareness diabetes, vaccines, and consumer healthcare.
The acquisition of about the new weight loss drug.
An FDA mandated Risk Genzyme in 2011 also puts Sanofi in the forefront of the Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy turned into another obstacle biotechnology space, in particular for rare orphan diseases and for patients trying to get on therapy.
The net result was a multiple sclerosis.
The market was able to look past the spectacularly failed launch and a precipitous decline in share headwind of generics and the stock outpaced the NYSE Arca price.
This stock is no longer held in the portfolio.
Pharmaceutical Index by over 50% in the period.
Thus, Sanofi Humana is a managed care company in the United States.
The was another top contributor to performance.
company reported poor quarters in the first half of 2012 when it For stocks that were the largest detractors in the period, a became apparent they had underpriced premiums for the core common thread is more difficult to identify but one recurring Medicare Advantage product, a privately offered health theme that hurt many stocks in the portfolio was disappointing insurance programme that provides an eligible person with the new product launches for small and mid-capitalisation U. S. Medicare benefits.
The shares partially rebounded later in companies.
The company the year as the prospects improved for the Romney Presidential received approval in 2010 for their novel vaccine for the candidacy on the hopes that a Republican administration treatment of prostate cancer.
While expectations did reset lower, would provide a more favourable operating environment for the combination of high price, difficult procurement logistics managed care companies and Medicare Advantage plans.
This for both the patient and physician, and new competitor entries enthusiasm was reversed on Election Day when President continued a long string of quarterly sales disappointments.
More recently, there has been more Further exacerbating the move down was decreasing likelihood volatility in Humana shares due to pressures on Medicare rates.
of the company being acquired and thus the valuation Questcor Pharmaceuticals, a specialty pharmaceuticals compressed further.
Overall, the stock fell over 50% in the company based in California, was a notable detractor during the period.
The position was initially predicated on our belief that robust utilisation of their key drug Acthar corticotrophin OraSure Technologies is a leading diagnostics company that particularly in the nephrology setting could drive significantly underperformed the broader market during the exceptionally strong revenue and earnings growth for the year.
The stock lagged due to a muted over-the-counter HIV test company for several years.
In addition, we viewed the stock as launch coupled with deteriorating legacy diagnostics business attractively valued in light of anticipated growth.
Questcor was caused by a difficult public health funding environment.
OraSures over-the-counter HIV test received its FDA approval in a solid performer during the first half of the calendar year 2012, July 2012 on the heels of a unanimous recommendation from underpinned by strong prescription demand for Acthar.
the FDA advisory panel in May 2012.
The initial enthusiasm of However, in September, a brokers short report highlighted a the first FDA cleared over-the-counter HIV test became shortreimbursement policy change at an insurance carrier and the Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report 2013 228467 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp18 18 06 2013 10:40 Page 07 Review of Investments 07 Review of Investments continued company disclosed a government investigation into marketing and, moreover, we will see Health Insurance Market reforms practices for Acthar.
The back-to-back events triggered a beginning in 2014 as the rate of health insurance for Americans massive sell-off with the stock falling more than 60% in only four will increase significantly.
Specifically, Medicaid eligibility will be trading days.
Although a sell-off of that magnitude was expanded effective 1 January 2014.
Health insurance exchanges unwarranted, we exited our Questcor position as the stock no will be established on a state level for people to participate, with longer traded on fundamentals.
Questcor Pharmaceuticals is no subsides for insurance premiums available to individuals who longer held in the portfolio.
buy a plan from an exchange and have a household income between 133% and 400% of the poverty line.
Finally, a comment on derivatives and impact on performance.
The Company uses derivatives to enhance the capital return of PHARMACEUTICALS the portfolio, facilitate the management of portfolio volatility and improve the risk-return profile of the Company relative to Our new found bullishness for large capitalisation the benchmark.
For year ended 31 March 2013, the option pharmaceutical stocks continued this year.
Despite the welloverlay strategy added 1.1% to performance.
chronicled patent cliff reaching its nadir in 2012, the overall fundamentals of the group have improved dramatically.
A SECTOR UPDATE number of metrics have impacted the group, but none more important than increased R&D productivity and new product The calendar year of 2012 represented a clear inflection point in launches.
The new normal for pharmaceutical companies is the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries.
Evidence of that pipelines are delivering new and innovative medicines that resurgence in research and development R&D productivity are being approved by the FDA.
While valuations have moved was the key.
More positive late stage clinical trial read outs and up to reflect this thinking, the re-rating of the sector is far from product approvals were the hallmark metrics.
A total of 40 new complete given that the stocks still trade in the bottom quartile products were approved by the FDA in 2012, 10 more than in of their historical range and only at a modest premium to the 2011.
This is the most new approvals since 2004.
The outlook for the group is one of accelerating sales Certainly, the FDA has continued its upswing in industry and earnings, in particular off of the patent cliff trough, fueled friendliness that commenced in 2010.
Tellingly, many of the by new product launches.
new product reviews were completed on the first cycle, or Emerging markets reached critical mass from a global sales without delay.
This represents a dramatic improvement over as perspective earlier this decade.
Now, for many companies, little as two years ago when complete response letters emerging markets are a critical growth driver going forward.
implicit rejections were as common as approvals.
Additionally, Visibility into these markets has grown as well, and we are better 2012 was witness to multiple approvals that occurred before the able to assess this component of a companys sales and income mandated-by-law action dates for the FDA.
Finally, the FDA has commenced a new breakthrough therapy designation for investigational While our enthusiasm for the group has increased, we remain compounds in early stage development.
This enables sponsor cautious on some companies that comprise the universe.
Patent companies to gain better access to FDA staffers to obtain expirations will prove to be cyclical over time, and while the important input in designing and expediting pivotal trial majority of them for the industry have passed, some companies programmes.
A significant number of compounds received this still have significant generic headwinds in front of them.
Further, designation in the first four months of 2013.
R&D productivity is not created equal amongst this peer group.
We have highlighted some companies as leaders in bringing On the political front, a plethora of uncertainty existed in the new drugs to market, but some are relatively thin on late stage first half of the year with the constitutionality of Obamacare pipeline opportunities.
The Affordable Care Act or ACA debated at the Supreme Court of the United States SCOTUS, followed by the U. S. Presidential Finally, we remain very much focused on catalysts, in particular Election later in the year.
June brought resolution to the ACA as clinical and regulatory catalysts.
Short term shifts in sentiment can SCOTUS upheld the law in a close 5-4 vote.
Thus, there will be no follow unexpected positive or negative events.
Fundamentals are repeal of the new Medical Device tax that commenced in 2013 most critical, but we are mindful of trading opportunities.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report 2013 228467 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp18 18 06 2013 10:40 Page 08 08 Review of Investments Review of Investments continued nudged generic utilisation markedly higher, overwhelming BIOTECHNOLOGY pricing erosion in many major markets.
Throughout Asia, Our bullishness for the outlook of the biotechnology sector is economic expansion, favourable demographics, supportive perhaps at an all-time high, in particular for large capitalisation governmental policies and other contributing factors have stocks.
These stocks are trading at multiples that are comparable boosted generic utilisation in some regions to unprecedented to their pharmaceutical counterparts despite superior growth levels.
The combination of robust, future growth and still Although we are encouraged by these positive dynamics, depressed valuations has created a rare investment opportunity increased regulatory scrutiny, especially , in this space.
and reimbursement uncertainties have become global issues Once again, R&D is a key component of the strategy.
In-line with our positive views, we favour number of drugs in clinical development has been increasing many of the mid-sized and large global generic players, over the past decade.
With decreased attrition and higher especially those with emerging branded franchises.
We believe approval rates, more drugs are being approved now than these companies are best positioned to realise both near-term previously observed.
Moreover, six of the top ten current bestand longer-term growth opportunities.
Japan possesses the selling drugs worldwide were originally developed by fastest growing generic drug market in the world and 2013 biotechnology companies and a host of recently launched or promises to be the most dynamic in history.
In India, we favour soon-to-launch biotechnology drugs have blockbuster companies with geographic and product diversification with potential.
strong management teams in place.
Biotechnology companies are also incrementally more astute at targeting hot therapeutic categories ones in which there is a SPECIALTY PHARMACEUTICALS high unmet medical need, in specialist categories which do not We look at this sub-sector on a number of levels.
On one hand, require large sales and marketing infrastructures, and pricing we continually search for high-growth companies with flexibility remains high.
Such categories include immunology, attractive, growth-adjusted valuations.
On the other, we seek oncology and orphan diseases.
out contrarian stocks with underappreciated businesses often The topic of biosimilars generic alternatives to large molecule trading at depressed valuations.
In Europe, we remain very drugs has been a hotly debated one for most of this century.
selective, as we find conditions in several major markets to be However, most recent observations suggest that generic unfavourable for many specialty pharmaceutical companies.
companies attempting to develop, manufacture, and sell Finally, merger and acquisition activity is always a consideration biosimilars are finding the regulatory and cost barriers much and we continually look for companies that could become higher than originally expected.
Compared to small molecule acquisition targets.
generics, we expect fewer entrants, smaller share gains, lower pricing discounts, lower prospects for interchangeability, and MEDICAL DEVICES higher manufacturing hurdles.
We continue to believe that We remain cautious on the Medical Device sector, an industry biosimilars of some sort are inevitable, but do not believe that that has underperformed due to multi-year head winds.
they will materially effect the biotechnology industry.
Therefore Innovation and pricing go hand-in-hand and this sector has the patent cliff outlook for biotechnology versus been devoid of both.
Uncertain economic times have led to pharmaceutical remains decidedly in favour of the lower utilisation and decreased demand, clearly a headwind for biotechnology industry.
An inflection is possible if not inevitable, so we continuously monitor utilisation trends across the healthcare GLOBAL GENERICS sector.
These metrics are critical in considering the large Market conditions for generic drug manufacturers are capitalisation medical device stocks.
For small and midimproving across the globe.
In the U. S. pricing stability and a capitalisation companies, we look for undervalued quality and favourable patent cycle make the worlds largest generic market misunderstood product cycles that allow for opportunistic buys.
In Europe, austerity measures have Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report 2013 228467 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp18 18 06 2013 10:40 Page 09 Review of Investments 09 Review of Investments continued HEALTHCARE SERVICES EMERGING MARKETS It remains a dynamic time in history for the hospitals and We substantially increased our exposure to emerging market managed care companies in the U. S. the so-called HMOs or stocks after the 2011 sell-off.
The increased exposure was Health Maintenance Organisations.
For the next several years, through a combination of either direct holdings of companies the key variable for the services sector is the implementation of in the local geographies such as China and India, and indirectly healthcare reform emanating from the ACA.
The expansion of through our global large capitalisation holdings.
insurance coverage should improve the profitability of hospitals The size of our direct holdings in individual stocks in countries which previously were uncompensated for care provided to such as China and India, further increased from more than 8% at uninsured patients.
the end of fiscal year 2011 to roughly 11% through 2012.
In For the HMOs, privatisation of Medicare Medicaid Dual eligibles particular, it is noteworthy that we have ventured into the is an area of growth as stretched government budgets Chinese A share market via the Qualified Foreign Institutional encourage shifting these individuals to a managed care Investor QFII programme which allows licensed foreign platform.
"The HMOs have been able to maintain premiums by investors to buy and sell yuan-denominated ""A"" shares in China's assuming a recovery in utilisation: however utilisation is unlikely mainland stock exchanges."
to recover until the broader macro and employment Emerging market revenues for large capitalisation environment improves.
With attractive valuations, we are pharmaceutical stocks range up to 34% of total sales for these positive on the group.
For the period ending with the 2013 fiscal year, we estimate that this contributed an additional 10% of exposure to LIFE SCIENCES TOOLS AND DIAGNOSTICS emerging markets.
We continue to favour the Life Sciences Tools & Diagnostics subsectors as we enter 2013.
The sector is beginning to rebound from depressed multiples of the last few years as visibility in Samuel D. Isaly organic growth improves, fueled by innovations in genomic OrbiMed Capital LLC research.
The industry consolidation theme has been driving Investment Manager 6 June 2013 sector-wide multiples expansion as large bell-weather conglomerates begin to show explicit interests in acquiring smaller companies in growth areas.
Recovery in the macro economy, coupled with foreseeable resolution to sequestration in the U. S. should continue to support outperformance in the group especially as we head into second half of 2013.
Within the sub-sectors of Life Sciences Tools & Diagnostics, we favour companies with new innovative products in genomic research over the traditional life sciences names with more cyclical industrial markets exposures.
We continue to believe in the large market potential of next-generation sequencing, as it moves from research markets into clinical applications still in nascent stages.
Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report 2013 228467 Finsbury WWH pp01-pp18 18 06 2013 10:40 Page 10 10 Review of Investments Review of Investments continued CONTRIBUTION BY INVESTMENT Principal contributors to and detractors from net asset value performance over the year to 31 March 2013 Contribution Contribution for the year to per share 31 March 2013 pence Top Five Contributors 000 Gilead Sciences 13,923 31.07 Roche Holdings 13,405 29.91 Onyx Pharmaceuticals 8,249 18.41 Pfizer 6,573 14.67 Sanofi 6,139 13.70 107.76 Top Five Detractors Dendreon 2,688 6.00 Orsure Technologies 2,446 5.46 VIVUS 2,285 5.10 Humana 1,846 4.12 Questcor Pharmaceuticals 1,750 3.90 24.58 based on 44,819,199 being the weighted average number of shares in issue during the year ended 31 March 2013.
Source: Frostrow Capital LLP Worldwide Healthcare Trust PLC Annual Report 2013
