Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENT CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPOR AMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 T 2013 CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 22 22 23 Corporate social responsibility statement Statement by the Chairman of the Health, Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee, Bob Bowker Dear shareholders I am presenting this report in my capacity as chairman of the HSES Committee, a committee of the Board of Centamin.
At Centamin we are committed to responsible mining.
We realise that an ongoing commitment to sustainable development practices is critical to our business.
Guided by our company values, we are committed to meeting the highest standards of social responsibility by protecting the safety and health of our employees, by safeguarding the working environment and creating a longlasting positive impact on the communities in which we operate.
We believe that this policy delivers longer term value for our shareholders.
The Health, Safety, Environment and Sustainability Committee has worked closely throughout the year with the management of the Company to help achieve the objectives set by the Committee and management and aiming, where possible, Bob Bowker to exceed these high standards and targets.
We have especially welcomed and Chairman of the supported the steps taken in 2013 to improve, still further, the excellent results HSES Committee achieved in regard to workplace safety.
In 2013, the Board approved a strategy for the pursuit of Community Social Development initiatives and the HSES Committee receives regular reporting from management on social and environmental initiatives and projects.
As the first modern mining company to operate in Egypt, Centamin is particularly conscious of the role it is playing in developing the expertise of Egyptian nationals in the mining sector.
We take a great deal of pride in the fact that our Egyptian national employees are gaining skills and knowledge and taking advantage of opportunities for career progression and promotion.
Highlighted within the report is a case study on one of our highly valued supervisors, Mr Nagy Abdou, who is one of a growing number of talented Egyptians able to realise their potential and make a significant contribution to the growth and success of the Company.
Throughout this report references to HSES policies refer to the Companys Health Safety and Environmental Policy, the Companys Corporate Social Responsibility Policy and certain industry and operational policies in place at Sukari.
Our efforts in this area are guided by the Companys HSES Policies that aim to ensure high standards of safety and wellbeing for the workforce.
The HSES Policies outline our commitment to educating our employees and contractors to apply safe working standards which safeguard all employees and contractors and the workplace environment.
The HSES Policies also help develop a sustainable business where our activities benefit the wider community and the Companys stakeholders.
Bob Bowker Chairman of the HSES Committee 21 March 2014 Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 22 23 We aspire to the highest standard of corporate social responsibility and take seriously our duty to ensure safe and sustainable operations and growth.
Health, Safety, Environment Our target in 2014 is to further reduce our lost time injury and Sustainability Committee frequency rate from its current level of 0.36 per 200,000 man hours.
Our statistics include both our own employees The Centamin Board Health, Safety, Environment and and our contractors.
Sustainability Committee members are Bob Bowker Chairman, Mark Arnesen, Mark Bankes and Kevin Safety conscious culture Tomlinson, all of whom are independent directors of the Safety is the responsibility of each employee and the level of Company.
The key functions of the HSES Committee are set safety is a function of the collective behaviour of individuals.
out in the Committee Charter which can be found on the Accordingly we continuously invest in maintaining a safety Companys website.
conscious culture in our work place, encouraging individual In summary the Committee is responsible for making accountability for working safely.
recommendations to the Board on all matters in connection The following areas highlight the Companys commitment with issues of the environment, workplace health and safety, to a comprehensive training programme which we believe and the development of sustainable engagement with provides our best means for reducing work place incidents: communities and stakeholders.
1 a tailored safety induction programme for new During the year, the HSES Committee worked closely with employees, contractors and visitors: management to: 2 training modules addressing job hazard analysis, risk Review the steps taken to improve the lost time due to assessments, incident investigations, work permits, first injury LTI frequency rate: aid, fire extinguishing, and hazard identification: and Review monthly and quarterly reporting on corporate 3 technical competence tuition, such as isolation training, sustainable development CSD issues and initiatives: lifting procedures, confined space entry, hot work and Review environmental, health, safety and contingency working at height.
planning issues: and Full time trainers are available in almost all operational Receive updates, reports and associated KPIs in departments to provide infield training and coaching for relation to new and existing initiatives designed to the work force.
Tool box talks before shifts are used to support local social and environmental projects.
address safety issues, tips and lessons learnt.
Health and safety Other communication channels are used including weekly The Company strives for a harm free, healthy and and adhoc safety meetings within each department productive work place.
We have invested in robust systems, and safety alerts which are periodically communicated procedures and controls to manage occupational health and throughout the workforce.
safety risks to an acceptable level.
These working practices allow us to comply with local legislation, licence and permit conditions, as well as international best practice standards.
In 2013, we have witnessed a considerable improvement in the lost time injury frequency rate LTIFR as compared to 2012.
This is as a result of the programmes and activities we implemented to improve our performance and increase the safety levels in our work place.
We are pleased to report that we have never experienced any safetyrelated employee fatality.
On average, 75% of our injuries in 2013 required only first aid action with no longterm medical treatment.
Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENT CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPOR AMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 T 2013 CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 24 24 25 Corporate social responsibility statement continued Contractor management Proactive approach and emergency response planning Contractors are integrated into the Companys health and safety onsite programme whether for long periods of time Risk assessment is integrated into all operational activities or for short assignments.
Contractor numbers rose in 2013 onsite and we continuously evaluate potential and actual due to the expertise and outsourcing required to complete hazards, their probability and likely outcomes to determine Stage 4.
The number of contractors onsite averaged 1,030 the level of risk and appropriate risk mitigation and individuals during the year.
A variety of different procedures and systems have been developed and implemented including the We require all contractors operating onsite to adhere to Work Permit System and Job Hazard Analysis for new and the Companys health and safety policies and procedures.
We ensure they have the same health and safety induction training and also have full access to the health services Our approach towards emergency preparedness and available to our employees onsite.
response planning is detailed, rigorous and wellrehearsed, ensuring the mine is fully prepared for any conceivable Evaluating safety performance emergency.
In 2013, we rehearsed 43 emergency drills The evaluation of our safety performance is essential to at Sukari.
indicate the effectiveness of our systems and controls The emergency arrangements are supported by an and identify opportunities for continuous improvement.
infrastructure of fire hydrants, fire control panels and smoke The monitoring systems in place address: detectors throughout the site.
A fire truck and crew are in workplace and occupational health parameters: service in the event of severe fires.
In 2013, we added to fitness to work: and the infrastructure by establishing a fire extinguisher refilling workshop onsite, enabling maintenance and refilling of adherence to procedures and standards.
The performance evaluation is undertaken by an inhouse A medical evacuation scheme is in place which is supported team and reviewed by a third party.
Monitoring includes the by first aid facilities and an equipped clinic.
An ambulance is collation of data, medical surveillance, auditing and visual onsite to transport casualties to the nearest hospital.
inspection, as well as systematic observation of the work and behaviour of staff.
An inspection programme operates to ensure all emergency response equipment is maintained and is fit for purpose at Reactive or responsive evaluation is also undertaken to all times.
investigate and analyse incidents and identify root causes to help implement corrective measures.
Health and wellbeing We minimise health risks to our employees and contractors Employees and contractors are encouraged and expected by implementing control and management procedures to report all hazards and nearmisses for investigation including the protection of employees and contractors from and analysis.
This embodies the principles adopted by exposure to chemicals, dust, noise and other elements that the HSES Policies and procedures where everyone shares might cause health problems.
Areaspecific instructions and and contributes in a responsible manner to creating a safe signs are in place regarding additional personal protective working environment.
These instructions are reiterated during preshift meetings.
2013 2012 2011 2010 Medical tests, including blood analysis, are conducted Frequency Frequency Frequency Frequency 1 1 1 1 rate rate rate rate particularly for laboratory personnel and those working with chemicals and metals.
Health tests are also mandatory for Fatality FA people working in the kitchen.
Lost time Employees are expected to report for work and remain at injury work in a fit condition to perform their assigned duties free LTIF 0.36 0.69 1.25 0.47 from the use, presence, or effects of drugs and alcohol.
Medical The Company has a zero tolerance policy for use of treatment alcohol and drugs.
Drug and alcohol tests are undertaken injury MTIF 1.28 1.37 1.07 2.87 randomly or when needed and disciplinary actions are 1 based on 200,000 working hours taken accordingly.
Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 24 25 Our health programme has a special focus on food safety and hygiene, given we have a large mess that provides meals to about 1,500 employees and contractors per day.
In 2013, we implemented a programme to improve hygiene in the kitchen and dining facilities.
The programme included periodic inspections and food testing as well as hygiene and food preparation training.
Health campaigns in 2013 included a quit smoking campaign, personal hygiene and fasting Ramadan campaigns.
Within the campaigns we printed alerts on the back of pay slips, displayed posters and other notices around site as well as our doctor delivering toolbox talks about the topic.
In 2013, the following audits were carried out and the outcomes were as follows: 1 internal environmental audits confirmed the results were within acceptable limits: 2 water quality testing carried out by an external laboratory confirmed no major anomalies: 3 air quality audits conducted by Cairo University recorded no anomalies and confirmed that Sukari was compliant with required standards: and 4 emissions were reported to be at safe levels, as required by Egyptian law and international standards set by the World Bank.
Our employees and contractors Sukari blasting team Our people are core to the success of our business.
charging presplit holes Accordingly, we actively invest in securing the full spectrum of skills and competencies needed for effective operations.
The Companys activities provide direct and indirect employment, training and work experience to many Egyptian nationals, as well as creating an immediate revenue stream for the local economy and the Egyptian government.
Our workforce has witnessed considerable growth since we started production in 2010, both in terms of the number of employees and the range of skills and expertise now required by our workforce.
In Egypt, we employ 1,340 people of whom 93% are Egyptian nationals.
Approximately 50% of our Egyptian nationals are from upper Egypt, the area where Sukari is situated, which typically has less economic activity than the more prosperous areas around the Nile Delta.
Only 1% of our Egyptian workforce are women, mainly because social conditions in Egypt and in the Middle East in general do not encourage the work of female employees in remote sites.
A greater percentage of women are employed throughout the Centamin administrative offices.
Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENT CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPOR AMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 T 2013 CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 26 26 27 Corporate social responsibility statement continued The table below sets out the number of people employed by the Group excluding contractors by country, during the years stated.
The number of contractors onsite during the year averaged 1,030 individuals.
Human resources principles The appraisal process also identifies the need for training or coaching, modified responsibilities or opportunities to Our Policies set out the Companys approach and principles undertake more challenging roles and responsibilities.
in regard to human resource management, recruitment and retention.
Our policies aim to ensure that: Capacity building and development new or current employees are not discriminated against We strongly encourage and support our employees to be by the company due to their religion, nationality or selfmotivated and to realise their career potential.
We work political views or background: with all our employees closely and encourage those who show keenness and desire to develop new personal skills all employees have the opportunity for promotion and experience.
based on the ability of a person to perform the relevant job, without regard to personal characteristics that are We value regular communication and feedback unrelated to job requirements: with employees which helps enhance the efficiency, harassment of employees by anyone and in any way is effectiveness and safety of everyday activities and overall not tolerated: operational performance.
forced and compulsory labour are not allowed in any NonEgyptian foreign experts are required onsite for work related to our activities: their expertise and experience in the mining industry, all employees are entitled to a safe, healthy work and to enable their skills and experiences to be shared environment, and each employee is accountable for his under programmes to further train and develop or her HSE performance in the Company: Egyptian nationals.
we are committed to the highest ethical standards and behaviour.
Our Code of Conduct requires adherence to our principles and promotes confidence in the integrity of the Company: and child labour is prohibited, whether in our permanent employment or in contractors workforces.
Contractors are required by their agreements to abide by these requirements, and followup checks are undertaken seeking to establish that our conditions are met.
We expect every one of our employees to uphold our core value of honesty and integrity whilst maintaining a safe working environment.
All employees are encouraged to treat their fellow colleagues with respect, dignity and common courtesy.
Annual performance appraisals are undertaken for all employees.
The appraisal covers several areas including the employees job knowledge, skills attained during the year, quality of work and initiative and innovation.
The review is undertaken by the immediate supervisor and Sukari team the appraisal performance is agreed with the section head.
examining a drill hole in readiness for explosives Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 26 27 Case study career progression Mr Nagy Abdou, Senior Production Supervisor Mr Abdou, a graduate of intermediate industrial schools, first came to Sukari in the exploration phase.
Trained as an equipment operator working primarily with the machinery designed for early stage leveling and exploration drilling, his potential was soon noticed and he was promoted as a leading hand.
Mr Abdou recalls that this period of his career helped him to realise the importance of planning and managing people.
Nagy Abdou As an individual with the desire to grasp new addressing members of the team at Sukari knowledge and skills, whose passion for the job was recognised by his supervisors, he gained experience Resource management from expatriate employees who provided him with comprehensive theoretical and practical training Systems and procedures are in place to ensure correct and and coaching.
safe handling of chemicals and hazardous materials.
Mr Abdou was then promoted to a production Risk assessments are carried out for handling and usage supervisor.
His practical experience with equipment of all chemicals and hazardous materials.
Controls in made him aware of the efficiency potential and place include containment, automatic alarm and shutoff limitations of the equipment he was handling.
Preventative maintenance programs for tanks and equipment are also in place.
Emergency response As well as understanding the equipment required for the plans and facilities ranging from spill kits and eye wash operation, Mr Abdou can now discuss mining design stations to chemical suits address potential requirements models and plans with the geologists onsite.
He hopes for responding to chemical or hazardous waste spillages to be able to prepare mine design models one day.
We fully acknowledge the importance of managing In addition to creating a positive work environment, the chemicals in a sound manner so as to minimise harm Company believes it is important that employees enjoy their to the environment or the health of employees.
Hazard time before and after work.
The majority of our people live communication and chemical management handling is in the Sukari camp, and thus we have invested in a variety a core training programme in our continuous education of leisure facilities such as playing fields, a gymnasium, a system.
The systems in place set safe conditions for the library, internet access, satellite television and a swimming transportation, storage, labelling and handling of chemicals.
Special barbecue dinners are also held at the beach or around Sukari and sports tournaments are Water management and groundwater protection regularly organised.
We recognise responsible water use is a key component for The environment our sustainability programme and our policies commit us to conserve natural resources.
Our Policies outline our commitment to environmental responsibility.
Safeguarding the environment, and coaching As a result, we closely monitor our water use, strive to and training our employees to reduce the impact of our reduce our water footprint and take steps to safeguard activities are essential parts of our operations.
We remain committed to maintaining, and whenever Water is a critical component to our processes and thus it possible exceeding, the high level of environmental is essential to secure a sustainable source of water for our performance that we have achieved during 2013. operations.
In an area with limited fresh water resources or Maintaining an environmentally responsible culture municipal water, we rely on a sea water intake and pipeline from the Red Sea to provide a sustainable water supply to We run a wellestablished programme for training and the mine.
The programme addresses different environmental fields including As a secondary source of water, we have beach wells where chemical management, waste management, emissions sea water infiltrates into groundwater.
We have desalination and water conservation, as well as general environmental plants for generating fresh water for the process plant and management practices.
Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENT CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPOR AMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 T 2013 CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 28 28 29 Corporate social responsibility statement continued The sea water pumped to site is used, and reused We maintain a salvage area where valuable wastes are throughout the process plant ensuring maximum usage of temporarily stored until transferred offsite or recycled in this resource without needlessly taking more water from the different areas onsite.
Biodiversity Groundwater protection measures have been incorporated Centamin is committed to protecting the wildlife unique in the design of the tailing storage facility and other to the eastern desert by minimising the impact of our components where a layer of gypsum and a HPDE liner operations on the environment.
We are conscious that the are used to prevent seepage.
Workshops have concrete sea near Sukari is renowned for its crystalclear water, and working areas to prevent seepage.
Five monitoring bores includes a variety of coral reefs and marine biota.
The desert are downstream from the tailing storage facility to detect environment is characterised by its scarce terrestrial any potential contamination.
In 2013, the monitoring of biodiversity resources, and the area of Marsa Alam also these bores showed no contamination.
includes the Wadi ElGemal Protectorate, one of Egypts largest environmental protectorates, with about 100km of Desalinated water used in camps and offices is tested to pure beach and desert landscapes.
ensure its quality accords with chemical and bacteriologic parameters.
Bottled water used for drinking is also Biodiversity conservation principles were integrated into the periodically tested as a double check on suppliers and project design for Sukari from the outset and are applied to storage procedures.
All samples are compliant with all of our activities.
While we maintained careful monitoring of areas of potential Energy concern, such as migratory bird movement across the area, Marsa Alam, the region in which the Sukari mine is located, there were no incidents reported of adverse impact on is a remote area with no direct connection to any power wildlife as a result of operations at Sukari during 2013. grid.
The city has its own power plant whose capacity Land management and rehabilitation is only sufficient for residential uses and not suitable for Mining is a business that deals directly with natural industrial needs.
resources and it is inevitable that land will be disturbed.
Consequently, the project at Sukari powers the entire For our part, we are committed to leaving a positive legacy processing plant through our own diesel power for coming generations and development initiatives.
Accordingly, upon closure, the goal is to transfer Sukari A review of alternative fuel sources to supply the processing to a stable and selfsustaining condition, after taking into plant is ongoing.
account the beneficial uses of the site and surrounding land.
Due consideration shall be given to environmental and Emissions, effluents and wastes social impacts to avoid longterm challenges for parties that Programmes are in place to manage emissions, effluents, might live close by or depend on the area.
nonprocess waste, waste rock and tailings.
All our industrial water streams are recirculated within our operations.
The planning for the closure of the mine aims to ensure Sewage is treated in a tertiary wastewater treatment plant that mining activities are soundly phased out, the mine is and the treated water is used in landscaping.
To ensure closed in an environmentally sound manner, a physically effective performance periodic checks and inspections are and chemically stable landform is maintained, with minimal conducted on the treated wastewater.
erosion and minimal potential for dust generation and that the hazards are reduced to levels equal to or below those Our monitoring activities in 2013 confirmed that we naturally existing within the surrounding environment.
remained within legal requirements and international best practice standards in respect of the following areas: A draft restoration and rehabilitation plan is updated each year.
A provision for restoration and rehabilitation ambient air quality in the camp area in terms of dust is included in the annual budget.
The provision for future and emissions : restoration costs is the best estimate of the present value of dust concentration in different work areas: the expenditure required to settle the restoration obligation at the reporting date.
noise and illumination: work environment emissions, including carbon In addition to the longterm rehabilitation plan, we monoxide, sulphur dioxide and ammonia: undertake shortterm rehabilitation and restoration activities stack emissions due to fuel combustion: especially for construction sites and for spills.
As mentioned, we have a wide range of spill kits and personnel are trained quality of treated wastewater: and for cleanup operations.
Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 28 29 Community and society Case study knowing your neighbours Centamin recognises that it has a responsibility to support Ababda: eastern desert dwellers and enhance the community in which it operates, and to minimise our impacts on the environment and local The Ababda are nomads living in the eastern desert people at every stage of our activities.
We consider good and Red Sea mountains in southeast Egypt.
Ababda community relations as a key component of continued prefer to think of themselves as Arab Bedouin, and operational success as well as a corporate requirement.
not Beja, the more settled local population of the We are committed to acting at all times in a socially region.
They are often only able to speak Arabic.
Traditionally, Ababda lived as desert nomads herding camels and goats in the northern reaches of the eastern Stakeholder engagement desert.
By the 1920s, most Ababda were settled, only We attach considerable importance to maintaining dialogue venturing into the desert when necessary.
with the local community in areas in which we operate.
Many Ababda now live in towns and villages in the Nile A public consultation system has been in place at Sukari Valley and the Red Sea coast, and find employment since the project design phase, and during the construction in fishing, as truck drivers, or as day labour and, phase.
With mining in operation we have maintained open increasingly, in tourism.
Others, who cling to the channels of communication with all our stakeholders for the traditional way of life, still move through the desert purpose of information disclosure.
with their herds of goats and sheep.
In providing opportunities for raising concerns Whether living in small settlements along the coast and grievances we have been pleased to find that or as isolated families in the mountains living in huts, throughout 2013, as in previous years, the Sukari mine or in natural caves, as did their ancestors in classic continues to be welcomed by the local community and times, the Ababda Bedouin are a hearty, hospitable, government authorities.
exuberant and resourceful people who live in one of the most demanding regions of the world.
They know and Community development initiatives respect the desert and the environment.
We have supported infrastructure and services in Marsa Alam for a number of years.
The initiatives include: Preparatory work was undertaken in 2013 for a number providing the Bedouin with food waste to use as of community projects that will be announced and animal fodder: implemented in 2014. continuing to support a neighbouring We strongly contribute to the employment from Upper Bedouin settlement: Egypt.
Where possible, we tender contracts to local supporting the refurbishment of mosques and companies to aid local economic activity and progress.
youth centres: Across Egypt, we use local suppliers and contractors furnishing schools and finance maintenance activities: wherever possible, providing jobs and income to a much larger group of people than our direct employees.
supporting the celebration of local community and cultural events: and We provide summer training to students from the Egyptian supporting the treatment of Bedouin children in universities every year.
In 2013 we trained 42 students from the hospital.
various faculties of science, geology and engineering and mining.
University students are given an induction course and then sent to their respective departments for onthejob training.
They are required to prepare and present reports at the end of the training, which provides a unique opportunity for a practical interaction with modern mining and processing.
Eastern Desert dwellers with a small herd of camels.
