CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 12 Business model The following business model sets out how Centamin will deliver on its strategic aims and priorities.
Our key strengths Operate We believe our key strengths are: Maximise productivity and profitability at our flagship project, the Sukari Gold Mine, through enhancing operational efficiencies and maintaining a continual our track record of delivery focus on cost control.
Leverage Centamins management expertise and inhouse and cost control: technical resources to improve shareholder returns from operational and our strong production exploration developmentstage projects.
growth profile: Sukaris significant resource Develop reserve base with potential for Complete the production rampup at Sukari towards the longterm production further expansion: target of 450,000500,000 ounces of gold per annum from 2015 onwards.
our strong balance sheet and solid cash flow generation, Identify and pursue opportunities to further improve economic returns from following completion of the Sukari.
investment phase at Sukari: Identify explorationstage projects which offer the potential to materially enhance our firstmover status, shareholder returns and advance their development through to production.
relationships and experience in Egypt: and Minimise the requirement for additional finance to fund future growth opportunities through the utilisation of existing cash flows and cash reserves.
our management teams experience at project origination and delivery.
Explore Define additional resources and reserves at Sukari which offer the potential to improve the economic returns from the operation.
Priority is given to exploration of further potential high grade regions of the underground mine and regional prospects within the Sukari tenement.
Provide opportunities for future production growth, through the execution of systematic and cost efficient exploration programmes within the Companys project interests outside of Sukari, currently represented by projects in Ethiopia, Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire.
Acquire Evaluate opportunities for Centamin to acquire assets with the potential to further increase overall returns to its shareholders.
Unlock value in acquisition targets through the application of Centamins technical expertise and financial resources.
Sustain Ensure Centamin maintains its licence to operate through prioritising the safety and health of its employees, good environmental stewardship, the wellbeing of the communities in which it operates, and adherence to best governance practices, from the earliest stages of exploration until mine closure.
Main access route around the open pit Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 13 Process plant CV02 conveyor belt feeding the existing SAG Mill, Sukari Hill in the background CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 14 Performance review In this section we feature our operational performance, financial review and corporate social responsibility.
Sukari Open Pit Mining fleet in position at the open pit floor
