Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 81 Directors report Company legal form and structure Centamin plc the Company is incorporated in the island of Jersey with the company number 109180.
The Company conducts limited activity in its own right, with certain of the subsidiary and jointly controlled entities carrying out exploration, development and mining activity.
Details of all subsidiaries are listed in Note 21 to the financial statements.
The Companys principal asset, the Sukari Gold Project, is operated by the Sukari Gold Mining Company, a joint stock company established under the laws of Egypt, which is owned 50% by Pharaoh Gold Mines NL, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, and 50% held by the Egyptian Mineral Resource Authority.
Articles of Association The Articles of Association govern many aspects of the management of the Company.
The Articles may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
The Articles of Association were adopted on 15 December 2011 and, together with the Memorandum of Association, are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal office opening hours.
The liability of each member arising from the members respective holding of a share in the Company is limited to the amount if any unpaid on it.
The Company has unrestricted corporate capacity.
Capital structure The capital structure of the Company is detailed in the schedule below, which reflects the total issued shares in the Company at 31 December 2013 and those held by trustees pursuant to the Companys share plans.
As at 31 December 2013 Issued capital including shares issued under the Loan Funded Share Plans and Deferred Bonus Share Plan below 1,101,397,381 Total shares in issue under the Loan Funded Share Plans and Deferred Bonus Share Plan 11,013,888 Subsequent to the year end and at the date of this report, 38,151,563 ordinary no par value shares were issued as fully paid in relation to the acquisition of Ampella Mining Ltd.
The enlarged issued capital of the Company at the date of this report is 1,139,548,944 ordinary shares.
A total of 50,860,577 Centamin shares will be issued at completion of the acquisition of Ampella Mining Ltd.
The Company may from time to time pass an ordinary resolution by a simple majority authorising the Board to allot relevant securities up to the amount specified in the resolution.
The authority shall expire on the day specified in the resolution, not being more than five years after the date on which the resolution is passed.
Details of the share capital and reserves are set out in Note 17 to the financial statements.
Substantial shareholders In December 2013, based on shareholder disclosure and register analysis, the following shareholders had holdings of more than 3% being the applicable threshold adopted by Centamin in its Articles of Association, as though it were a UK issuer under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Financial Conduct Authority in the issued share capital of Centamin: % of Rank Shareholder Centamin shares issued capital 1 1 Josef ElRaghy 71,445,086 6.49 2 Van Eck Associates 71,444,794 6.49 3 Norges Bank Investment Mgt 45,676,554 4.15 4 Franklin Templeton Investments 40,470,607 3.67 5 ICM 38,684,323 3.51 6 Allan Gray 35,986,959 3.27 1 Includes the ElRaghy family.
The substantial shareholders do not have any different voting rights to other shareholders.
CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 82 Directors report continued Substantial shareholders continued Employees To the extent known to the Company: Information relating to employees is contained in the CSR Report together with details of the number of a No person other than the substantial shareholders employees at Sukari.
Centamin abides by antidiscrimination detailed above has an interest of 3% or more in the legislation in all jurisdictions in which it operates.
The Company is not aware of any principles are also set out in the Companys Code of persons who, directly or indirectly, jointly or severally, Conduct which sets out the framework in which Centamin exercise or could exercise control over the Company: expects all staff to operate.
and Strategic priority b There are no arrangements, the operation of which may The Centamin Group strategy is set out in the Strategic at a subsequent date result in a change of control of the Report.
In summary, the Sukari Project is set to double plant Company.
throughput to a nameplate rate of 10 million tonnes per Dividend policy annum Mtpa with a longterm target production rate of The Company has not declared or paid any dividends to 450500,000 ounces per annum from 2015. date as cash flows have been directed towards the staged Exploration at Sukari Hill and over the rest of the Sukari growth of the Sukari Gold Mine.
Centamin intends during concession area is continuing, with further significant the course of 2014 to outline its dividend policy following resource and reserve growth expected, particularly from the completion of the current expansion programme.
high grade underground mine areas.
Directors Operating experience in Egypt gives it a significant Directors may be appointed by ordinary resolution.
advantage in acquiring and developing other gold projects.
The Board may appoint a director but such a director In 2013 Centamin agreed a recommended takeover offer may hold office only until the dissolution of the next for ASXlisted Ampella Mining Ltd and formed a joint annual general meeting after his appointment unless he is venture with AIMlisted Alecto Minerals plc, adding highly reappointed during that meeting.
Each appointed director prospective licence packages in Burkina Faso and Ethiopia.
shall retire from office at each annual general meeting and may, if willing to act, be reappointed.
Environmental compliance The directors are aware of their commitment to All directors must notify the Company of any shares held, environmental, community and social responsibility, acquired or disposed of in the Company.
A register of details of which can be found in the CSR Report.
director shareholdings is held at the registered office which is open to inspection by the members.
The directors An environmental policy has been established with the are also required to disclose shares held by their aim of ensuring environmental protection and sustainable connected parties.
The policy is based on pollution prevention and abatement approaches to protect the environment, Details of the interests of directors and their connected community and indigenous people.
persons in the Companys shares are outlined in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The environmental management scheme for the Sukari Project includes a monitoring programme designed to Corporate Governance Compliance Statement evaluate compliance with local environmental laws and The statement on compliance with the UK Corporate regulations, company policies and international best Governance Code the Code for the reporting period is practices.
It provides information for periodic review contained in the Corporate Governance Report.
and adjustment of the environmental management Political donations plan ensuring that environmental protection is achieved Centamin does not make donations to any organisations through early detection and mitigation of negative with stated political associations.
Supplier and payment policy The Group is currently complying with relevant environmental regulations in the jurisdictions in which it It is the Companys policy that, subject to compliance operates and has no knowledge of any environmental with trading terms by the supplier, payments are made in orders or breaches against the Group.
accordance with terms and conditions agreed in advance with the supplier.
Further details on trade creditors are provided in Note 15 to the financial statements.
Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 83 Greenhouse gas emissions External auditors The greenhouse gas emissions reporting required by So far as each current director of the Company is aware, Schedule 7 of The Large and MediumSized Companies there is no information relevant to the audit of which the and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 as Companys auditors are unaware, and each director has amended by The Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report taken all the steps necessary as a director to make himself and Directors Report Regulations 2013, is a requirement aware of any such information and to ensure that the only on UK incorporated quoted companies.
Centamin is Companys auditors are aware of that information.
taking steps during 2014 to capture the data required by Following a review of its governance arrangements and in this legislation.
the light of recommendations in the Code, the Company Directors indemnity insurance envisages commencing an audit tender process to be concluded in June 2014 and will invite a number of leading In accordance with Companys Articles of Association and to audit firms to tender, including its current auditor, Deloitte.
the extent permitted by law, the Company may indemnify Pending the outcome of the tender, the Audit and Risk its directors out of its own funds to cover liabilities incurred Committee intend recommending to the Board the as a result of their office.
reappoint of Deloitte as auditor at the forthcoming Annual The Company has entered into indemnity agreements General Meeting.
with each director to indemnify each director to the extent Deloitte has expressed its willingness to continue in office permitted by applicable law and excluding any matters as auditor and be included in the tender process.
involving fraud, dishonesty, wilful default or bad faith on the part of a director.
Subsequent events During the year, the Company paid a premium in respect Subsequent to the year end, the Company acquired, via its of a contract insuring the directors and officers of the wholly owned subsidiary, a controlling interest in Ampella Company and any related body corporate against a liability Mining Ltd.
The details of all subsequent events occurring incurred as a director or officer to the extent permitted by after the reporting date are contained in Note 30 to the law.
This provides insurance cover for any claim brought financial statements.
against directors or officers for wrongful acts in connection By order of the Board with their positions.
The insurance provided does not extend to claims arising from fraud or dishonesty and it Darren Le Masurier does not provide cover for civil or criminal fines or penalties Company Secretary imposed by law.
21 March 2014 Going concern The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
The going concern statement is detailed in full in Note 3 to the financial statements.
