CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 54 Senior management In addition to Centamins directors, senior management includes the following: Andrew Pardey Lynne Gregory Chief Operating Officer General Counsel in current position since 29 May 2012 since 1 September 2013 Andrew Pardey was appointed Chief Operating Officer in Before joining Centamin, Lynne was Legal Director at May 2012 after having been General Manager Operations Charles Russell LLP, prior to which she was a solicitor at top at the Sukari Gold Mine since 2008.
He was a major driving law firms in London, Allen & Overy and Baker & McKenzie.
force in bringing Sukari into production, having joined She has worked for over 20 years as a lawyer specialising in during the mines construction phase.
Andrew holds a BSc complex international commercial litigation and arbitration in Geology and has over 25 years experience in the mining for corporate clients in a variety of sectors.
Lynne holds a and exploration industry, having previously held senior degree in law from University College London as well as positions in Africa, Australia and other parts of the world professional qualifications from the College of Law.
with Guinor Gold Corporation and AngloGold Ashanti.
Andrew Davidson Pierre Louw Head of Business Development and Investor Relations Chief Financial Officer since 13 August 2012 since 19 April 2011 Prior to joining Centamin in August 2012, Andy Davidson Pierre is a senior manager with more than 25 years worked for nine years as a mining analyst, including three handson experience within the mining industry in both years as an equity research director at the Londonbased major and midtier gold and copper mining companies.
Before this, Andy was Pierre is a member of the South African Institute of a senior exploration geologist within the mining industry, Professional Accountants and has extensive international including six years with Ashanti Goldfields closely involved experience having worked in Tanzania, Australia, Zambia in the discovery and development of the worldclass Geita and his native South Africa.
Pierre previously worked as project in Tanzania.
Andy holds an MSc in Mineral Project Finance Director for the Lumwana Copper Mine, an Equinox Appraisal from the Royal School of Mines and a BSc in Limited development in Zambia from 2005 to 2010.
He is also a Member of the Institute of Materials, to joining Equinox, he worked as Business and Financial Minerals and Mining.
Manager for Geita Gold Mine AngloGold Ashanti in Tanzania for the period 2000 to end 2004.
During this time he served as Honorary Treasurer on the Chamber of Mines of Tanzania and as an executive member of the Tanzanian Tax Stakeholders Forum representing the Tanzanian Mining sector.
He has held management roles in the AngloGold corporate office where he worked as Divisional Manager and with JCI Johannesburg Consolidated Investment Co where he started his career in 1986.
Pierre holds a National Diploma in Financial Accounting from the University of Johannesburg and completed a Leadership Development Programme through the University of South Africa UNISA.
Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 55 From left to right: Andrew Pardey, Pierre Louw, Lynne Gregory, Andrew Davidson, Youssef ElRaghy, Liesel Sobey, Darren Le Masurier Youssef ElRaghy Darren Le Masurier General Manager Egyptian Operations Company Secretary since 13 April 2006 since 8 July 2013 An officer graduate of the Egyptian Police Academy, Darren Le Masurier is a member of the Association of Youssef ElRaghy held senior management roles within the Chartered Certified Accountants and has over 15 years Egyptian Police force for a period in excess of ten years, experience in corporate administration, governance and having attained the rank of captain, prior to joining the offshore regulation in Jersey.
Prior to joining Centamin, Group.
He has extensive contacts within the government Darren worked at the fiduciary and law firm Ogier in and industry and maintains excellent working relationships Jersey for over ten years, providing professional company with all of the Companys stakeholders within Egypt.
secretarial, accounting, administration and director services for a diverse range of corporate clients and structures.
Liesel Sobey Group Accountant since 11 June 2012 Liesel Sobey is a Chartered Accountant with over 16 years postgraduate experience in the corporate sector and public practice.
Before joining Centamin in June 2012 as the Group Accountant, Liesel served as a director within the Assurance and Advisory division at Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu in Perth, providing assurance, advisory and accounting services to large organisations across a range of industries.
Through her role at Deloitte, Liesel had been associated with the company since 2006.
Liesel serves as a Member of the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants and Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia and holds a Bachelor of Accounting Science from SAICA and a Bachelor of Commerce Honours Accounting from the University of Natal.
