Introduction Strategic report Performance review Management discussion Governance Financial statements CENTAMIN PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2013 9 Strategic review Whilst disciplined and sustainable growth on our existing The capital expenditure programme for 2013 had projects remains a key focus, we continue to evaluate two key focus areas: completion of the Stage 4 plant potential opportunities to grow through the acquisition of expansion and the ongoing development of the projects which offer the potential for the Company to realise underground mine.
The total Stage 4 capital expenditure strong investment returns.
estimate is US$331.2 million including contingency, with US$327.8 million spent by the end of 2013.
The remaining 2014 will mark the year when the Stage 4 plant expansion is capital expenditure is due in early 2014.
The underground commissioned, the Sukari project concludes its investment expansion will continue through 2014 as will the phase and our annual capital expenditure requirements for underground exploration drilling to test the potential the mine begin to reduce significantly.
for significant resource and reserve expansion and the development of multiple production sources.
Maintaining our social licence Maintaining good community relations is a core part of our Based on the Companys calculation there was no Net operational strategy and corporate governance standards.
Profit Share due to EMRA as at 30 June 2013, nor is any As the first mining company in Egypt in modern times, we likely to be due as at 30 June 2014.
It is expected that there strive to set an example of a socially responsible industry will be profit share due to EMRA for the Sukari Gold Mine through adopting a good neighbour policy.
We take every SGM financial year ending 30 June 2015, based on action to ensure Sukari has the minimum impact on the budgeted production, gold price and operating expense social environment, as well as to deliver positive benefits forecasts.
Centamin has elected to make advance payments to Egypt and the community as a result of our investment.
against future profit share during 2013 to the value of US$18.95 million, in order to demonstrate goodwill towards In 2013 we nurtured dialogue, maintained open channels of the Egyptian government.
communication and built positive and constructive relations with all our stakeholders including the community in areas Centamins exploration programme in Ethiopia will prioritise in which we operate.
The Board approved principles progression of the two licences under the joint venture with and strategies for the pursuit of corporate sustainable Alecto Minerals plc.
The acquisition of Ampella Mining Ltd development initiatives.
is expected to be completed in early 2014, and Centamin will focus on implementing a systematic exploration Our work force is remunerated well above the average for programme in Burkina Faso and Cte dIvoire.
The targets Egypt and our career development programmes are highly for 2014 have been considered alongside the principal risks valued.
In general we enjoy a very positive and constructive affecting the Centamin Group.
Litigation Targets for 2014 As detailed in Note 20 to the financial statements, the Key targets for 2014 include the commissioning of Groups appeal against the 30 October 2012 ruling by the the Stage 4 plant, the conclusion of the Sukari project Egyptian Administrative Court remains ongoing.
Centamin investment phase and the significant reduction of our annual does not currently see the need to take the matter to a capital expenditure requirements for the mine.
court outside of Egypt as Centamin remains of the belief For the year 2014, we forecast production of 420,000 that the Egyptian court will rule in Centamins favour.
ounces at a cash operating cost of US$700 per ounce, which The Group continues to benefit from the full support of the will mark the fourth year of successive growth in output from Ministry of Petroleum and EMRA, both in the appeal and Sukari, and another step on the way to our longterm target at the operational level.
As part of our longterm strategy, for the project of 450,000500,000 ounces per annum from we look forward to continuing to share the benefits of this 2015 onwards at an industrycompetitive cost of production.
substantial investment as the operation emerges from its The key drivers of production growth this year will be an initial period of construction and thus sets the stage for a increase of the underground ore tonnes mined to 800,000t, new era of gold mining in Egypt.
as well as commissioning and rampup of the Stage 4 plant expansion to double the processing plants nameplate With the exception of the relationships with EMRA and the capacity to 10 Mtpa.
Egyptian government referred to above, we do not believe there are any third party relationships which are critical to As part of the implementation of Stage 4, the Company the Groups success or which would have a material impact is in discussion with EMRA and other government upon the Groups position if the relationship broke down.
departments in relation to increasing the daily usage of ammonium nitrate AN in order to increase open pit This strategic review, progress on strategy, key performance mining rates to the required level to feed the expanded indicators and business model, together form the Strategic plant.
The increase in the daily issue of AN is still Report which has been approved by the Board of Directors.
outstanding, and this has had an impact on the movement By order of the Board for and on behalf of Centamin plc.
of waste material compared to the current mining plan.
However from recent meetings with the relevant authorities, Josef ElRaghy we believe government approval is now in its final stages.
