Governance Board of Directors and Senior Executives BoarD of DirEctorS 4.
Mary francis cBE Senior Independent Director 1. rick Haythornthwaite Appointed as Non-Executive Director on 22 June 2004: Senior Chairman Independent Director with effect from 19 May 2006: Chairman of the Appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 14 October 2013 and as Corporate Responsibility Committee with effect from 1 March 2006.
Chairman with effect from 1 January 2014.
Mary will step down from the Board by no later than 31 December 2014.
Committee membership: N Chairman, R Committee membership: A, CR Chairman, N Deputy Chairman, R Skills and experience: Rick has a wealth of knowledge in the energy Skills and experience: Our longest serving Non-Executive Director, industry.
He has significant board experience, both as an executive and Mary has extensive knowledge of corporate business and has held a non-executive.
He led the rescue of Invensys from 2001 to 2005 and the variety of senior positions.
Mary is a former non-executive director of defence, turnaround and subsequent sale of Blue Circle Industries from Aviva plc, Cable & Wireless Communications Plc, the Bank of England, 1997 to 2001.
He spent his early career in various corporate, upstream Alliance & Leicester plc and St. Modwen Properties plc.
She is a former and leadership positions in BP from 1978 to 1995, including exploration director general of the Association of British Insurers, a former senior and production roles in the North Sea, Alaska, France and Venezuela civil servant in the Treasury and the Prime Ministers Office and former before moving to Premier Oil as commercial director from 1995 to 1997. chair of governors of James Allens Girls School.
He has served on the boards of Network Rail as chairman and Cookson, External appointments: Director of Swiss Reinsurance Company Ltd, Lafarge, ICI and Land Securities as non-executive director.
non-executive director of Swiss Re Group, non-executive director of External appointments: Chairman of the global board of MasterCard Inc Ensco plc and senior adviser to Chatham House.
Chairman of the Southbank Centre in London and the World Wide Web Foundation.
Mark Hanafin Managing Director, International Upstream 2.
Sam Laidlaw Appointed to the Board on 14 July 2008.
Chief Executive Committee membership: E Appointed to the Board on 1 July 2006.
Skills and experience: Mark has excellent midstream and trading Committee membership: CR, E Chairman, D Chairman credentials as well as a strong track record in developing supply and Skills and experience: Sam has an invaluable combination of upstream marketing businesses.
Before joining Centrica, Mark spent 21 years with and downstream expertise, a very considerable reputation for managing Royal Dutch Shell, most recently as CEO of Shell Energy North America a large-scale global energy business and a proven record of creating in Houston.
Prior to joining Shell, he worked for General Electric Company shareholder value.
Prior to joining Centrica, Sam was an executive vice GEC having qualified as a chartered engineer.
president of the Chevron Corporation, chief executive officer at Enterprise External appointments: Non-executive director of EDF Energy Nuclear Oil and president and chief operating officer at Amerada Hess.
Until the Generation Group Limited.
end of 2012, Sam was a member of the UK Prime Ministers Business Advisory Group.
Lesley Knox External appointments: Non-executive director of HSBC Holdings plc, Non-Executive Director lead non-executive director on the board of the Department for Transport Appointed as Non-Executive Director on 1 January 2012: Chairman and trustee of the medical charity RAFT.
of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 1 January 2012.
Margherita Della Valle Skills and experience: Lesley brings a wealth of strategic and financial Non-Executive Director experience across a range of businesses to the Board and she is an Appointed as Non-Executive Director on 1 January 2011: Chairman experienced remuneration committee chair.
She was previously with British of the Audit Committee with effect from 1 July 2013.
Linen Bank in 1997, becoming governor in 1999 and was subsequently Committee membership: A Chairman, CR, N, R a founder director of British Linen Advisers from 1999 to 2003.
She was Skills and experience: Margherita brings considerable corporate senior non-executive director of Hays Plc and also spent 15 years with finance and accounting experience and she has a sound background in Kleinwort Benson from 1981 to 1996, first in corporate finance and then marketing.
She was chief financial officer for Vodafones European region as chief executive of the institutional asset management business.
from April 2007 to October 2010 and chief financial officer of Vodafone External appointments: Non-executive director of SABMiller Plc, trustee Italy from 2004 to 2007.
Previously she joined Omnitel Pronto Italia in Italy of the Grosvenor Estates and chairman of Grosvenor Group Limited.
in 1994 and held various consumer marketing positions in business analytics and customer base management prior to moving to finance.
Omnitel was acquired by Vodafone Group in 2000.
External appointments: Group financial controller of Vodafone Group plc.
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 50 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Performance Measures Shareholder Information committee membership key Past Directors A Audit E Executive 14.
Sir Roger Carr stepped down as Chairman of the Board on 31 December 2013.
Phil Bentley stepped down as Managing Director, British Gas on 30 June 2013.
Andrew Mackenzie stepped down as a Non-Executive Director on 10 May 2013.
Paul rayner Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed as Non-Executive Director on 1 June 2013.
Appointed as Non-Executive Director on 23 September 2004.
Paul will Committee membership: A, N, R step down from the Board no later than 31 December 2014 having Skills and experience: Mike has considerable experience in the energy stepped down as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 1 July 2013. sector, particularly exploration and production and the US market.
He Committee membership: A, N, R founded and was previously chairman, CEO and president of LINN Skills and experience: Paul brings very considerable and wide-ranging Energy, LLC.
He was formerly president of Allegheny Interests and international experience.
He was finance director of British American president and CEO of Meridian Exploration Company, Pittsburgh.
He Tobacco plc from 2002 until April 2008.
In 1991 he joined Rothmans was the former chairman of the Independent Petroleum Association of Holdings Limited in Australia, holding senior executive appointments, America and was the Texas representative for the Legal and Regulatory and became chief operating officer of British American Tobacco Affairs Committee of the Interstate Oil and Gas Compact Commission.
He Australasia Limited in September 1999. was former president of the Independent Oil and Gas Association of New External appointments: Non-executive director and chairman of York, president of the Independent Oil and Gas Association of Pennsylvania the remuneration committee of Qantas Airways Limited, non-executive and president of the Independent Oil and Gas Association of West Virginia.
director and chairman of the audit committee of Boral Limited, chairman External appointments: Non-executive director of LINN Energy, LLC, and non-executive director of Treasury Wine Estates Limited.
non-executive board member of Nabors Industries, Black Stone Minerals 11. chris Weston and Western Refining Logistics and senior advisor to Quantum Energy Managing Director, International Downstream Partners.
Member of the National Petroleum Council and inducted into Appointed to the Board on 1 July 2009. the All American Wildcatters.
Nick Luff Skills and experience: Chris brings extensive management expertise, Group Finance Director with particular strengths in supply businesses and the US energy market.
Appointed to the Board on 1 March 2007, Nick submitted his resignation Prior to his appointment as Managing Director, International Downstream, in January 2014 and will step down from the Board no later than Chris was Managing Director, North America from July 2009, Managing 31December 2014.
Director, British Gas Services from June 2005 and Managing Director, Committee membership: D, E British Gas Business from January 2002.
He joined Centrica in November Skills and experience: Nick has a wealth of high level finance 2001, following the acquisition of One Tel where he was the Managing experience.
Prior to joining Centrica, Nick was previously chief financial Director of Europe.
Previously, he worked for Cable & Wireless and also officer of The Peninsular & Oriental Steam Navigation Company P&O spent seven years in the army with the Royal Artillery.
and held a number of other senior financial roles at P&O, having qualified as a chartered accountant at KPMG.
Until December 2010 he was a non-executive director of QinetiQ Group plc.
SENior ExEcutiVES External appointments: Non-executive director of Lloyds Banking 12.
Group Director, Human Resources Appointed as Group Director, Human Resources: 1 July 2011.
9. ian Meakins Skills and experience: Jill was previously HR Director for Centrica Non-Executive Director Energy having joined British Gas plc as a graduate in 1988 and has Appointed as Non-Executive Director on 1 October 2010. since held a wide range of roles across the Group including HR Director Committee membership: A, N, R for British Gas Business and British Gas Residential.
Skills and experience: Ian has broad general management and board experience and considerable experience in managing businesses with 13.
Ian is currently CEO of Wolseley plc and was, until April General Counsel & Company Secretary 2009, chief executive of Travelex Holdings Ltd, the international foreign Appointed as General Counsel & Company Secretary since the exchange and payments business.
Previously he was chief executive demerger from British Gas plc in February 1997 having joined British officer of Alliance UniChem plc until its merger with Boots in July 2006.
Between 2000 and 2004, he was president, European Major Markets and Skills and experience: Grant was called to the Bar in 1982, he spent Global Supply for Diageo plc, spending over 12 years with the company most of his career in industry joining the legal department of Racal in a variety of international management positions.
Electronics plc in 1984 and then STC plc as legal adviser in 1986 until they External appointments: Group chief executive of Wolseley plc.
were taken over in 1991 by Northern Telecom Limited.
Between 1991 and 1996 he was the Associate General Counsel for Nortel in Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
