Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Performance Measures Shareholder Information Governance Directors report The Directors present their report with the audited consolidated GrEENHouSE GaS EMiSSioNS Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended All disclosures concerning the Groups greenhouse gas emissions 31December 2013. can be found in the Corporate Responsibility Review on page 41.
StratEGic rEPort PoLiticaL DoNatioNS The Companies Act 2006 the Act requires the Company to present Centricas political donations policy states that Centrica operates on a fair review of the business and the Group during the financial year.
No donations were made by the Group for The Strategic Report can be found on pages 06 to 48. political purposes during the year.
However, in accordance with the Federal Election Campaign Act, Direct Energy has authorised the futurE DEVELoPMENtS establishment of a Political Action Committee PAC, to facilitate A description of future developments can be found in the Strategic voluntary political contributions by its US employees.
The PAC is not Report on pages 06 to 48. controlled by Centrica and contributions from the fund are determined by a governing board of PAC members.
Participation in the PAC is riSKS voluntary for eligible employees.
In 2013, contributions to the PAC A description of the Groups exposure and management of risks by employees amounted to $14,850.
The PAC made three political is provided in the Strategic Report on pages 42 to 48. donations totalling $1,800.
rESuLtS aND DiViDENDS SiGNificaNt aGrEEMENtS cHaNGE of coNtroL The results for the year are set out on pages 88 to 91.
Dividends The following are significant agreements to which the Company paid and proposed are set out on page 110. is party which take effect, alter or terminate in the event of a fiNaNciaL iNStruMENtS change of control in the Company following a takeover bid: Full details of the Groups financial instruments can be found as part of the demerger in 1997, BG Group plc which is a in notes 19, S3 and S6 on pages 120, 145 and 152 respectively.
separately listed company and not a part of the Centrica Group assigned ownership of the British Gas trademarks and related corPoratE GoVErNaNcE StatEMENt logos to Centrica for use in Great Britain.
BG Group plc has The Disclosure & Transparency Rules require certain information the right to call for a reassignment of this intellectual property to be included in the Corporate Governance Statement in the if control of Centrica is acquired by a third party: and Directors Report.
Information that fulfils the requirements of the in 2009, Centrica entered into certain transactions with EDF Group Corporate Governance Statement can be found in the Corporate in relation to an investment in British Energy, an owner and operator Governance Report on pages 52 to 62 and is incorporated into of nuclear power stations in the UK.
The transactions include rights this Directors Report byreference.
for EDF Group and Centrica to offtake power from existing British aMENDMENt of tHE coMPaNyS articLES of Energy nuclear power stations.
As part of these arrangements, on a aSSociatioN articLES change of control of Centrica, the Group loses its rights to participate on the boards of the companies in which it has invested.
Furthermore, Details of the authority required to amend the Companys Articles where the acquirer is not located in certain specified countries, are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 53.
EDF Group is able to require Centrica to sell out its investments DirEctorS to EDF Group.
The names of the Directors who held office during the year are oVErSEaS BraNcHES set out on pages 50 and51.
Details of the Groups overseas branches can be found in note S10 Details of the powers of Directors are set out in the Corporate of the Financial Statements.
Governance Report on pages 52 to 62 and details of the third party indemnity provisions for Directors are detailed on page 55. rELatED Party traNSactioNS Related party transactions are set out in note S8 to the Financial EMPLoyMENt PoLiciES Statements.
Reference to the Groups employment policies, including human rights, can be found on page 40 in the Corporate Responsibility EVENtS aftEr tHE BaLaNcE SHEEtDatE Review.
Further details, including employment of disabled persons, Events after the Balance Sheet date are disclosed in note 26 to the can be found in the online Corporate Responsibility Performance Financial Statements.
SHarE caPitaL MatEriaL SHarEHoLDiNGS The Company has a single share class which is divided into ordinary 14 At 31 December 2013, Centrica had received notification of the shares of 6 81 pence each.
The Company was authorised at the 2013 following material shareholdings pursuant to the Disclosure & Annual General Meeting AGM to allot up to 1,733,163,009 ordinary TransparencyRules: shares as permitted by the Act.
As at 31 December 2013 the Company had allotted 910,018 under this authority.
A renewal of this authority 31 December 2013 will be proposed at the 2014 AGM.
The Companys issued share Nature of Ordinary % of share capital as at 31 December 2013, together with details of shares holding shares capital issued during the year, is set out in note 25 to the Financial Statements.
Invesco Limited Indirect 258,200,185 5.08% riGHtS attacHiNG to SHarES No changes have been disclosed in accordance with these rules in Each ordinary share of the Company carries one vote.
Further the period 31 December 2013 to 20 February 2014. information on the voting and other rights of shareholders are set out in the Articles and in explanatory notes which accompany notices of general meetings, all of which are available on the Companys website.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | 63 Governance Directors report continued Company law requires the Directors to prepare Financial Statements rEPurcHaSE of SHarES for each financial year.
Accordingly, the Directors have prepared the As permitted by the Articles, the Company obtained shareholder Group Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial authority at the 2013 AGM to purchase its own shares up to a Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU maximum of 519,948,902 ordinary shares.
The minimum which and the parent company Financial Statements in accordance with must be paid for each ordinary share is its nominal value and the United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United maximum price is the higher of i an amount equal to 105% of the Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share of the law the Directors must not approve the Financial Statements unless Company as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of which the share is contracted to be purchased: and ii an amount the Group for that period.
In preparing these Financial Statements, equal to the higher of the price of the last independent trade of an the Directors are required to: ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Trading System, in each case, exclusive of expenses.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable On 4 February 2013, the Company announced a 500 million share andprudent: repurchase programme which commenced on 28 February 2013 state whether IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable UK and ran until 18 December 2013.
Between 28 February 2013 and Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material 14 18December 2013, 137,286,890 ordinary shares of 6 81 pence departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent were repurchased, the aggregate amount paid for the repurchased company Financial Statements respectively: and shares was 499,997,425.34 excluding fees.
This represents prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis approximately 2.7% of the Companys called up share capital unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will excluding treasury shares as at 18 December 2013. continue inbusiness.
The shares purchased have not been cancelled and are held as The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting treasury shares.
As at 31 December 2013, 119,138,235 shares were records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys held as treasury shares.
These shares held in treasury represent transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the 2.3% of the Companys issued share capital excluding treasury financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to shares.
Dividends are waived in respect of shares held in the ensure that the Financial Statements and the Directors Remuneration treasury shareaccount.
Report comply with the Act and, as regards the Group Financial On 18 December 2013, the Company announced a 420 million Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also extension to its share repurchase programme, which will be responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and conducted over the course of 2014. detection of fraud and other irregularities.
SHarES HELD iN EMPLoyEE BENEfit truStS Furthermore, the Directors are responsible for the maintenance and The Centrica plc Employee Benefit Trust EBT is used to purchase integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing shares on behalf of the Company for the benefit of employees, the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ in connection with the Deferred and Matching Share Scheme, from legislation in other jurisdictions.
the Deferred Bonus Plan and the Restricted Share Scheme.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts 2013, The Centrica plc Share Incentive Plan Trust SIP Trust is used when taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and to purchase shares on behalf of the Company for the benefit of provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the employees, in connection with the Share Incentive Plan SIP.
Both Groups performance, business model and strategy.
the Trustees of the EBT and the SIP, in accordance with best practice, have agreed not to vote any unallocated shares held in the EBT or Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on SIP at any general meeting and dividends are waived in respect of pages 50 and 51 confirm that to the best of their knowledge: these shares.
In respect of allocated shares in both the EBT and the the Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared in SIP Trust, the Trustees shall vote in accordance with participants accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view instructions.
In the absence of any instruction, the Trustees shall of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of theGroup: notvote.
the Strategic Report contained on pages 6 to 48 together with the GoiNG coNcErN Directors Report on pages 63 and 64, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position After making enquiries, the Board has a reasonable expectation of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and that the parent company and the Group as a whole has adequate uncertainties that it faces: resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable as outlined on page 57, there is no relevant audit information future.
For this reason, the Board continues to adopt the going of which PwC are unaware: and concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Further details they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a of the Groups liquidity position and going concern review are Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit provided in noteS3 of the Financial Statements.
information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware DirEctorS rESPoNSiBiLitiES StatEMENt of that information.
The Directors, who are named on pages 50 and 51, are responsible By order of the Board for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report, the Strategic Report and the Financial Statements in accordance GraNt DaWSoN with applicable law and regulations.
General counsel & company Secretary 20 February 2014 64 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
