Strategic Report Developments over the past year have reaffirmed Chief Executives Review the strategic priorities we announced in February Strategic 2013 and validated our strategic direction.
Overview Our strategic priorities what weve achieved so far Over 1.3 million smart meter installations Innovate to for homes and businesses in the UK Innovative new products such as drive growth and Hive, our remote heating control technology, launched in the UK Industry leading digital platforms: service excellence British Gas awarded best ecommerce utility supplier at 2013 ecommerce Lead with great service and efficient awards forexcellence operations Hess Energy Marketing acquisition Enable our customers to control enhances size and capability in North their energy use in a simpler, smarter, American business energy supply more efficient way Bounce Energy acquisition provides Grow in selected markets, building leading internet based digital platform on our leading capabilities in North American residential energy supply Direct Energy Services customer base increased by over 200,000 Suncor acquisition in Canada, in Integrate our natural partnership with QPI, doubles the size of our North American E&P business gas business, linked LNG contract with Cheniere signed, to export gas from North America from 2018 to our core markets UK shale exploration position taken through Bowland licence Grow and diversify our exploration and production portfolio for value 56mmboe of organic reserves additions: 318 million post-tax Develop our midstream business exceptional impairments to integrate along the gas value chain Realised value through divestment Maintain a low carbon power hedge of selected E&P and wind assets and invest where we see value Full-year dividend up 4% Increase our returns 500 million share repurchase programme completed: further through efficiency 420million programme commencing in2014 Group lost time injury frequency and continued capital rate LTIFR reduced by 45% 500 million Group-wide cost discipline reduction programme completed Further develop organisational capability Continuously focus on safety Deliver value to shareholders 08 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Performance Measures Shareholder Information key Performance Indicators on page 16 International Downstream Operating Review on page 18 International Upstream Operating Review on page 26 Principal Risks and Uncertainties on page 42 Managing the risks and challenges There are positive signs of economic recovery in our core markets in both the UK and North America.
However, real disposable income has declined for many consumers and economic uncertainty remains.
At the same time, there is unprecedented focus on the energy sector in the UK, with intense political and media scrutiny.
As a result, public trust in the sector has been damaged, with proposals for price controls and the potential for further adverse legislation, political intervention and regulation.
We will continue to engage in detailed discussions with all stakeholders to help the UK move towards a transparent and affordable energy policy.
In North America, rising energy prices and a challenging competitive environment are putting pressure on downstream energy margins and creating a difficult sales environment, impacting our Direct Energy business.
To address these challenges we have put new operational structures in place in both British Gas and Direct Energy to help ensure delivery against our strategy.
We are targeting industry leading service levels for our customers following a fall in levels in British Gas Residential in 2013, due in part to IT systems investment.
We are also focused on continued cost-efficiency and have set new specific targets to reduce operating costs in British Gas Business by 100 million by 2015 and to remove $100 million of cost from Direct Energy in 2014.
Building a range of innovative new products is also core to the long-term growth of our downstream businesses.
Our leadership in digital, smart and connected homes in the UK enables us to offer differentiated propositions, for example Hive.
In North America, innovation is also key, while our services protection plan offering is a unique differentiating factor and, over time, we see significant potential for combined energy and services propositions.
As the UK becomes increasingly reliant on gas imports, Centrica has been pursuing a three pronged strategy to enhance Britains energy security.
First, to maximise the potential economic extraction of the remaining resources of the North Sea and to evaluate the potential of natural gas from shale in the UK.
As unit costs in the UK North Sea are increasing, at the same time as gas and oil prices have fallen from their 2012 peaks, we are targeting cost savings to keep our unit cash production costs flat over the next three years.
Second, to develop gas resources internationally that can supply our UK customer base, Norway is particularly important here.
We will also increase our focus on North America, as our customer base grows there and where we are well placed to benefit from any increase in gas prices.
Finally, to contract for long-term supplies of gas from international sources.
Global commodity markets are uncertain and volatile.
To mitigate this, we continue to manage our risk exposure through active hedging programmes so that our competitive position is not negatively impacted and we continue to develop our midstream capabilities.
In power, market spark spreads remain low and, as a result, the returns from our gas-fired power stations are currently low.
Forward spreads show no immediate signs of recovery.
However, with much of the UKs coal fleet expected to close by 2015, we are positioning our existing gas-fired stations to capture the benefit from any improvement in market conditions.
The successful delivery of business change is fundamental to our future success.
It is managed through a combination of projects programme boards and regular review at both a business unit and executive level.
We have introduced new management structures in British Gas and Direct Energy to improve our core operations and continue to focus on attracting and retaining talented employees.
Health and safety remains a core priority as there are inherent hazards in our operations.
Security events could also cause disruption to our operations.
We will continue to develop a best practice safety culture, improving our process safety awareness and performance metrics.
We will continue to focus on delivering value for our shareholders and are maintaining our commitment to grow the dividend by at least inflation each year.
We will also continue our focus on capital discipline, rigorously evaluating investment decisions to ensure they meet our financial criteria.
We will only invest where we see value and return funds to shareholders where appropriate as demonstrated by the extension of our share repurchase programme in 2014.
Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | 09
