Strategic Report We are engaging with all stakeholders, to work Chief Executives Review towards a sustainable and affordable energy Review of policy which recognises the need for strong underlying economics and investmentcertainty.
the year with sustainable growth over the longer StRAtEGy AnD FOCUS REAFFIRMED term.
We also added reserves organically, In 2013, we saw unprecedented focus on mainly in Norway.
Moving forward, against the energy sector in the UK, with intense a backdrop of challenging economics political and media scrutiny against a backdrop We are taking positive upstream, particularly in the UK North Sea, of declining real disposable income for we will be increasingly selective in our many consumers.
However, much has been action across the Group investments, directing capital towards the achieved during the year.
We have simplified projects offering the most attractive returns our energy offering and now have just four to position the business with the lowest politicalrisk.
residential tariffs and are leading the industry in the transparency of our reporting.
SOlID EARnInGS AnD GOOD for the long-term, for The recently announced changes to StRAtEGIC PROGRESS In the Governments ECO energy efficiency CHAllEnGInG MARkEt COnDItIOnS the benefit of both programme will help more people at lower Centrica performed well in 2013, with cost and there is improved public good operational performance in gas understanding and recognition of the real customers and and oil production, power generation and costs of securing energy supplies, the gas storage and we are benefiting from impact of climate change objectives and shareholders.
improved scale from previous E&P and North the global market in which we operate.
We delivered further However, investor confidence and public trust improvements in our safety record, with the in the industry have been damaged, with frequency of lost time incidents falling by 45% proposals for price controls and the potential in 2013 compared to 2012 and no significant for further political intervention, at a time process safety incidents recorded during the when substantial investment is required to year.
I was also pleased to see another secure supplies of energy for the UK for increase in employee engagement levels in the long-term.
The consensus that existed 2013 and remain grateful to all my colleagues between political parties over key questions for their commitment and hard work during of energy policy has broken down.
We are the year, particularly during times when the engaging with all stakeholders, working Company was the subject of much political towards a sustainable and affordable energy and media scrutiny.
policy which recognises the need for We have made good strategic progress in strong underlying economics and 2013 in challenging market conditions investmentcertainty.
investing along the gas value chain to secure In February 2013, we announced new long term, affordable energy supplies, with strategic priorities: Innovate to drive customers at the core of our activities: growth and service excellence: Integrate we signed 14 billion worth of new gas supply our natural gas business, linked to our core agreements with Cheniere and Qatargas, markets: and Increase our returns through helping secure supplies for theUK: efficiency and continued capital discipline.
Developments over the past year have we completed the C$1 billion acquisition of a reaffirmed these priorities and validated our portfolio of Canadian gas assets in partnership strategic direction.
As existing sources of with Qatar Petroleum International QPI, gas decline and worldwide energy markets adding over 100mmboe of reserves to our become more interrelated, the UK will need international upstream portfolio at lower to look further afield to secure energy cost than for equivalent North Sea assets: supplies for the future.
we acquired a 25% stake in the Bowland shale exploration licence, bringing our Downstream, we have completed strategic expertise and resources to a potentially reviews in both British Gas and Direct important long-term source of gas for Energy and introduced new management ourcustomers: structures.
This will enable us to focus on we made over 1.5 billion of organic improving our core operations in order to investments across the Group, predominantly deliver better customer service, reduce in our North Sea E&P portfolio, including costs where appropriate and drive growth in major projects such as Cygnus: through innovative propositions.
we added 56mmboe organically to our Upstream, we entered into a number of reserves base, mostly from upgrades key transactions which will not only benefit to our Norwegian assets: our customers but provide the business 12 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Performance Measures Shareholder Information International Downstream Operating Review on page 18 International Upstream Operating Review on page 26 Centrica Storage Operating Review on page 32 we announced 650 million of disposals, Downstream in North America, we delivered sale of our Texas CCGTs, to be undertaken of selected North Sea assets, our Texas profit growth in both residential energy and over the course of 2014.
CCGTs and non-core UK wind assets, residential services, as we benefited from wORkInG tOwARDS A tRAnSPAREnt underlining our commitment to capital previous acquisitions and services account AnD AFFORDABlE EnERGy POlICy discipline and value: and growth.
However, total Direct Energy Over the past year, UK energy policy has seen profitability fell due to lower margins in Direct we acquired the Hess Energy Marketing unprecedented levels of debate and discussion Energy Business, with rising wholesale costs business for $1.2 billion, transforming amongst all stakeholders.
As a result, there is and a highly competitive power market the capabilities of our North American improved awareness of the costs of securing resulting in difficult trading conditions.
and supplying energy, the majority of which Upstream, gas and liquids production However, with economic and market headwinds are external to the business.
However, it is performance was good, as recent impacting many areas of the business, important that the facts are made public and acquisitions in the North Sea and Canada adjusted earnings per share were flat yearthat all stakeholders energy companies, delivered production better than our on-year at 26.6 pence.
We also recognised regulators, politicians, consumers and investment cases.
We also added 56mmboe pre-tax impairments and provisions totalling commentators engage in full and of 2P reserves organically, predominantly 1,064 million, 667 million after tax.
However, following Downstream in the UK, the post-tax margin reserve and resource downgrades and We have simplified our UK residential energy for residential energy supply fell to 4.5%, increases in expected costs on certain product range to four tariffs and led the way in part reflecting the impact of mild weather projects in the Southern North Sea and a earlier in 2013 with our unique Tariff Check, on consumption towards the end of the year.
reduction in North American natural gas making it easier for our customers to ensure This followed unusually cold weather in the prices since previous asset acquisition and they are on the most appropriate British Gas first half, with the benefit from higher developments, we recognised exceptional tariff for them.
We continue to improve the consumption used to absorb the increased post-tax impairments of 318million.
transparency of our reporting, including external costs being faced by the business publication of audited Ofgem segmental In UK power generation, the performance for as long as possible.
However, in October statements as part of our year end reporting of the nuclear fleet was once again strong.
we announced the decision to increase our and separating out our midstream power However, our gas-fired fleet was loss-making, residential energy tariffs, as a result of higher profits and call on others to follow.
We also reflecting weak spark spreads and the end commodity and non-commodity costs.
protected over half a million of our most of free carbon allocations.
In this environment, Following the announcement, the level of vulnerable customers from the November we continued to minimise our cost base and customer switching increased significantly price rise, through a special discount to be run our plants as efficiently as possible.
We and the number of residential customer applied to their bills.
As a result, we currently also recognised a 125 million exceptional accounts reduced by 2% over the year.
expect this group of customers to have lower onerous contract charge on the Rijnmond However, although account losses have bills in 2014 than in 2013.
We welcome the tolling contract in the Netherlands as a result continued in early 2014, with around proposed changes announced by Government of decreases in expected future revenues.
100,000 in the year to date, the position is to the ECO programme, enabling more now stabilising, with British Gas the first to Our Rough gas storage asset performed customers to benefit, at lowercost.
pass on savings in full to all our customers well, particularly during the prolonged cold However, the prospect of political following the announcement of changes to weather at the start of the year, making an intervention and a wide range of potential the ECO programme and the introduction invaluable contribution to UK security of supply.
policy initiatives has damaged investor of new fixed price propositions.
However, forward seasonal gas spreads confidence.
In particular, we believe that a remain very low, leading to a significant British Gas Services once again recorded price freeze is not a credible solution when reduction in profit in 2013.
The low seasonal operating profit growth despite the challenging the large majority of costs are external to spreads, together with the UK Governments economic environment, benefiting from cost the business.
Such proposals create both decision to rule out incentivisation for new reduction initiatives implemented over the short-term uncertainty for all energy suppliers gas storage projects to be built, caused us course of 2012 and 2013.
Early signs of and longer-term additional costs for customers.
not to proceed with the Baird storage project economic recovery are also benefiting With substantial investment required to and to put our project at Caythorpe on hold.
our central heating installations business.
secure energy supplies for the UK, these As a result, we have recognised exceptional Installations were 7% higher in 2013 compared uncertainties increase the cost of capital impairments and provisions relating to to 2012, while weekly sales of our remote and, in the eyes of major global producers, storage projects of 224 million aftertax.
heating control product have more than reduce the credit worthiness of prospective doubled since its launch under the Hive We successfully completed our 500 million buyers of their gas, impairing rather than brand in September.
In British Gas Business, Group-wide cost reduction programme, improving the UKs energy security position.
the trading environment remained difficult announced at the start of 2012.
We also Against this uncertain background, financial in a highly competitive market.
We led the completed our 500 million share repurchase stewardship and discipline remain important industry with our programme to end autoprogramme launched in February and in to our business, for the benefit of customers rollover of contracts at renewal, although December announced a further 420 million and shareholders.
Customers rely on us for this has placed further pressure on margins.
share repurchase programme, following the Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | 13 our financial strength to enter into long-term which has been warmer than usual in the year Strategic Report supply contracts and shareholders require to date.
The wider external environment also Chief Executives Review an appropriate return, reflecting the risks currently provides a challenging operating inherent in managing commodity price and backdrop.
In North America, although the Review of the year continued weather risk in the underlying business and Hess Energy Marketing business is in the investments we make.
Whilst delivering performing well, Direct Energy has had a good service and value for customers is difficult start to 2014.
With a weaker US dollar, paramount, with a significant proportion of continued margin pressures and exceptionally our share capital held by UK pension funds cold weather, which resulted in additional and around 700,000 individual shareholders, short-term system charges, we currently making appropriate investments and expect Direct Energy operating profit to be We are maintaining our delivering a fair level of return to investors broadly flat year-on-year.
Overall for the also remains a core responsibility.
Group, 2014 trading is in line with recent focus on operational market forecasts, other than the one-off We firmly believe that any form of price control impact from extreme weather conditions in in a competitive market is not the answer and capital efficiency, Direct Energy, with adjusted earnings per and is not in the best interests of customers, share in 2014 expected to be lower than this has been clearly demonstrated by in2013.
with specific new experience in other markets.
The industry requires a stable policy environment, which Recognising the challenges, we are targets appropriate recognises the need for strong underlying maintaining our focus on operational and economics and investment certainty, to capital efficiency, with specific new targets deliver secure supplies for our customers.
appropriate for each area of the business.
for each area of We will continue to engage with all We have now completed strategic reviews in policymakers to present proposals for more the business.
both British Gas and Direct Energy and our affordable ways to decarbonise and reduce downstream strategic priority Innovate to energy consumption, helping more people drive growth and service excellence remains at lower cost.
New organisational structures are in place on both sides of the Atlantic to ensure InvEStInG tO SECURE EnERGy delivery, as we target improvement in our SUPPlIES FOR OUR CUStOMERS core operations to enhance service and We have made substantial progress in reduce costs, while driving growth delivering our gas value chain strategy, through innovative propositions.
positioning the business for future growth.
In our UK residential energy and services In an increasingly global gas market, it is businesses, we are targeting industry leading important that the UK is able to source gas service levels for our customers.
We will at the most cost-effective price.
Centrica aim to improve service and deliver further plays an important role, with existing efficiencies by simplifying key customer relationships to secure pipeline gas from interactions, in part enabled by our investment Norway and Continental Europe and LNG in a single residential Customer Relationship from Qatar.
During the year we extended Management CRM system for energy and our LNG supply contract with Qatargas services, which is expected to be completed until 2018.
We also signed a contract with in2014.
Cheniere to take gas export capacity at the Sabine Pass facility in Louisiana, which gives Our leadership in digital, smart and connected us destination rights over cargoes for the homes enables us to offer compelling, first time and will allow us to benefit from differentiated propositions.
By the end of any differential between North American 2014 we are targeting over 100,000 sales of gas prices and other worldwide markets.
our Hive Active Heating smart thermostat and currently expect to have installed 1.3million With rising costs in the North Sea, we are residential smart meters.
We see the smart targeting our investment towards opportunities connected home as core to our customer that offer the best value, particularly in Norway proposition, materially improving the customer and in North America.
We have taken a experience and providing an opportunity for stake in UK shale exploration, potentially growth.
We also see further opportunities in a significant source of gas for the UK.
In residential services, leveraging our insurance power, our Lincs offshore wind farm, which capabilities to offer new pricing structures and is capable of providing electricity for up to an expanded product choice and from 200,000 UK homes, is now fullyoperational.
growing share in adjacent markets such as POSItIOnInG tHE BUSInESS the landlord sector.
Through enhanced price FOR tHEFUtURE competitiveness, improved service quality and innovation, we are aiming to return Market conditions are expected to remain to account growth in both UK residential challenging in 2014, with margin pressures energy and services.
in our energy supply businesses on both sides of the Atlantic, rising North Sea unit In British Gas Business, we are also costs and weak economics for both gas targeting industry leading service levels, storage and gas-fired power generation.
with a sustained programme of process In British Gas Residential, the level of margin simplification and the implementation of achieved in a competitive market is dependent a new billing system expected to deliver on a number of factors, including retail and improved service at lower cost.
A cost wholesale prices, service and the weather, reduction programme is underway, which 14 | Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Performance Measures Shareholder Information are well placed to benefit from any increase is expected to generate 100 million of annual in gas prices.
Taking account of forward UK savings by the end of 2015, helping to offset gas prices and higher costs, we are targeting the impact of continuing difficult market a reduction in our organic investment in gas conditions and the impact of our decision to and oil projects to approximately 900million lead the market in ending auto-rollover at on average over the next three years.
Longer term, we expect to around 20% lower than previously expected deliver growth from the development of new levels, but will have limited impact on near-term offerings tailored to the most valuable production, which we expect to be in the customer segments and from business range 8085mmboe per annum.
Our current services, where the market opportunity level of committed capital expenditure in the is comparable in size to business energy.
short to medium term gives us flexibility to In North America, with margin pressures consider acquisition opportunities, if the persisting in 2014, improving cost economics are attractive and the assets competitiveness is a core priority.
Against provide a good fit with our existing portfolio, this backdrop, we have launched a $100 while potentially divesting non-core assets million cost reduction programme, driving forvalue.
synergies from the enhanced scale of our business.
We are already benefiting from In UK power generation, reflecting the call centre consolidation and back office challenging market conditions that resulted integration, while we have started investment in losses for our gas-fired power stations, we in a new residential energy billing system.
will continue to optimise the running of our existing fleet to capture the benefit from We are also positioning the business for any improvement in market spark spreads.
growth and building a range of innovative However, following our decision not to invest product offerings is core to our North in new nuclear in the UK and to sell the Race American business model, enabling Bank offshore wind project to DONG, we improved customer retention and delivering expect our near-term investment in the growth.
Our Power To Go prepayment UK power sector to be limited.
Any future offering and our innovative Free Electricity investment in new build gas-fired generation Saturdays product have both proved popular capacity will depend on the economics of with residential energy customers, while we the projects and the successful introduction are targeting further growth in our services of a capacity market, including an assessment protection plan offering in 2014, which we of the political risk.
see as a unique differentiating factor in our business model.
Over time, we see significant Centrica is an important company, providing potential for bundling of energy and services energy or services for over 11 million homes propositions to our residential customerbase.
in the UK as well as serving some six million customer accounts in North America.
We In Commercial and Industrial energy supply, directly employ over 35,000 people worldwide, the integration of Hess Energy Marketing is make a tax contribution of around 1billion proceeding well.
Our priority for 2014 is to a year and make a valuable contribution to fully integrate the teams, retaining key personnel retirement savings through our dividend and systems and in turn to deliver good payments, as well as securing cost-effective service levels and high levels of customer sources of energy for the UK.
In the first three full months of our ownership, the business has delivered Centrica has a strong balance sheet, EBITDA in excess of our investment case.
providing flexibility for targeted investments Over time, the enhanced scale, dual fuel for value.
However, maintaining tight capital capabilities, advantaged positions along discipline is a core priority, as evidenced by the gas value chain and long-term customer our share repurchase programmes.
We are relationships delivered by the Hess acquisition recommending full year dividend growth of provide additional growth opportunities.
4% in 2013, in excess of the UK retail price index and are maintaining our commitment Our International E&P business has been to real dividend growth.
reorganised with a substantially new In a challenging external environment, we leadership team, to help realise the full remain committed to our guiding principles potential of the international resource base.
of offering good service and value for We have added 155mmboe in total to our customers and playing a vital role in the 2P reserves, organically and through transition to a lower carbon economy.
We also retain a number of the outlook for the UK business has been attractive investment options, particularly in impacted by short-term political uncertainty, Norway and Canada, having increased our we are taking positive action across the 2C resource base by 28% to 771mmboe Group to position the business for the long over the year.
However, with rising costs in term, for the benefit of both customers the UK in particular, we are targeting savings andshareholders.
to keep unit lifting and other cash production costs flat over the next three years.
SAM lAIDlAw Against this backdrop, we are being increasingly Chief Executive selective in our investment, concentrating 20 February 2014 on the most attractive opportunities.
An increasing proportion is expected to be directed towards North America, where we Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | 15
