18 Segmental review COUNTERMEASURES See more information online www.
co. uk Activities during the year Our business units: The two US countermeasures business units have been Chemring Countermeasures USA - incorporating Alloy integrated to form Chemring Countermeasures USA.
This Surfaces and Kilgore Flares - manufactures infrared IR air is enabling the Group to reduce overheads, retain the best countermeasures, and is the only dedicated manufacturer of management talent, reduce costs when volumes are low, and covert multispectral special material decoys.
It has also enabled the Group to focus operational and quality improvement resource on the The business is the foremost supplier of airborne expendable significant challenges at Kilgore.
The integration is delivering IR decoy flares, and serves as the solesource IR decoy flare cost savings and, more importantly, is improving performance supplier for some of the worlds most sophisticated and to customers.
Kilgore was the first expendable IR decoy flare manufacturer to introduce full automation to The US Government shutdown in October 2013 resulted the decoy manufacturing process, bringing a new level of in the closure of the DCMA, the government agency with safety and quality to the industry not previously seen.
responsibility for inspecting and approving products for Chemring Countermeasures - based in the UK, is a world delivery to the US Department of Defense.
This closure leader in the design, development and manufacture of impacted deliveries in the final weeks of the year, the advanced expendable countermeasures for air and sea effects of which were particularly felt at Kilgore, which platforms, and is also developing next generation launchers also continued to be impacted by production quality issues.
Further steps are being taken to strengthen the management team at this business, and in the past six months a new Chemring Australia - Australias only onshore manufacturer General Manager and a new Health, Safety & Environment of aircraft expendable countermeasures, and supplier of a Manager have been appointed.
These appointments are range of pyrotechnic and military training products.
already having a meaningful impact on the business, and relationships with customers have improved significantly as a Analysis consequence.
Revenue in the Countermeasures segment was The inclusion of decoy dispensers on the Joint Strike Fighter, 125.0 million, down 23.4% on the previous year.
This was with the significant costs associated with embedding these primarily due to a lower opening order book in the US and into the airframe and the development of a dedicated suite UK, resulting from the drawdown from Afghanistan, but of flares for this platform, gives confidence that the Group's also reflected US Department of Defense delays in product countermeasures technology will remain a critical element of acceptance, order funding and awards.
Both sequestration defensive aids for military aircraft.
and continuing resolution have caused delays to orders and sales, especially in relation to special material decoys.
Chemring Countermeasures USA has developed a number Further issues were experienced as a result of the US of new evolutions of its special material decoys, and has Government shutdown in October 2013.
Sales at the Group's successfully flighttested a new MJU66 decoy.
This decoy, Australian operation reduced as a result of lower expenditure which will be used on multiple platforms, including the F16, by the Australian Defence Force.
The closing order book A10 and C130 transport aircraft, will be fielded in 2014. for Countermeasures was 160.8 million, down 24.6% on In addition, the ASD1292 decoy, which is an advanced IR the previous year, reflecting generally lower order intake, decoy that was developed to beat multiple advanced threats, particularly in the US, due to the effects of the drawdown was successfully flighttested in 2013.
It is now scheduled from Afghanistan.
for further testing in 2014 by a number of US agencies and Chemring Group PLC Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 19 underlying Order book operating profit 160.8m 13.2m 2012: 213.3m 2012: 20.4m underlying Revenue operating margin 125.0m 10.6% 2012: 163.2m 2012: 12.5% services.
In flighttesting, this flare has been shown to be Outlook an effective single decoy solution against legacy and most The outlook for the air countermeasures market is expected advanced IR threats.
to remain challenging in the short term, with the decline in NATO procurement outpacing growth in nonNATO markets.
Chemring Countermeasures USA continues to win new export While Chemring has solesource qualified positions on the orders.
In 2013, the business received two FMS purchase two major new platforms, Joint Strike Fighter and Typhoon, orders from the US Army for M211 sales to a Middle Eastern delays in aircraft deliveries and expected inservice dates will customer, with further FMS orders expected shortly from lead to the deferment of procurements of war reserves and other customers in the region.
training rounds for these fleets.
Interest in Chemring Countermeasures USAs MJU7A B Encouragingly, these delays are driving capability extensions decoy remains high worldwide, as those countries using the to existing platforms and there is heightened interest in F15 move away from the older technology MJU10 to the Chemring's countermeasure products from nonNATO MJU7A B.
This decoy can be used on the F15 and F16 customers.
There is also a growing capability gap in fighters, as well as the C17 transport aircraft, which has customers naval countermeasures, with resulting interest in opened up new markets in India, the UAE and Oman.
However, the timing of orders in the current tight budget environment remains uncertain.
In Europe, Chemring Countermeasures and Chemring Technology Solutions have engaged in their first joint While demand for countermeasures has fallen dramatically development.
This relates to the CENTURION naval decoy in recent years, the Group considers that it is now close to launcher, where Phase 3 of development of the launcher minimum sustaining volumes.
This ensures that production software has successfully been completed.
These businesses lines can be maintained at a high state of readiness to have also cooperated in the development of an air quickly rampup output when new threats arise.
Chemring's countermeasure electronic sequencer - a small circuit board principal customers are maintaining some development effort which fits inside a standard flare cartridge case to provide to ensure their capability against the next generation of accurate time delays for a single flare capable of firing threats but until budgets recover, a material improvement in multiple shots.
This not only increases the decoy deployment production volumes will be dependent upon the new aircraft capacity within existing aircraft dispenser constraints, but programmes entering service.
also opens up technical and market opportunities in air countermeasures.
The CENTURION launcher continues to generate significant interest.
Originally conceived by Chemring Countermeasures to deliver accurate placement of countermeasures for antiship missile defence, the CENTURION launcher is now also being offered as a multirole system, capable of deploying a wide range of additional effectors.
These include acoustic decoys and shortrange missiles.
Since the year end, Chemring Countermeasures, in collaboration with Raytheon Missile Systems, successfully conducted a first proof of concept by launching a Raytheon Javelin missile from the CENTURION launcher.
