50 directors report The directors present their annual report, together with the The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its directors, which were in effect audited financial statements of the Group and the Company, throughout the year and remain in force at the date of this for the year ended 31 October 2013. report.
Business review None of the directors had a beneficial interest in any contract The strategic report on pages 2 to 45 provides a review of of significance to which the Group was a party during the year the Groups business development, performance and position ended 31 October 2013. during and at the end of the financial year: its strategy and likely future development: key performance indicators: and Information required as to directors shareholdings is set out a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing in the directors remuneration report on page 82. the business.
Further information regarding financial risk management policies and financial instruments is given in Substantial shareholdings note 24 of the group financial statements.
There have been At 22 January 2014, the following substantial holdings in the no significant events since the balance sheet date, other than ordinary share capital of the Company had been notified to as referred to in note 41 of the group financial statements.
the Company in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority: Results and dividends The loss attributable to the Groups shareholders for the year Name % Interest was 47.5 million 2012: 15.3 million profit.
The directors Invesco Limited 19.9 recommend a final dividend of 3.8p per ordinary share which, Investec Asset Management Limited 6.4 together with the interim dividend of 3.4p per ordinary UBS Global Asset Management 5.5 share paid in August 2013, gives a total for the year of 7.2p 2012: 9.5p.
The final dividend is subject to approval by Old Mutual Asset Managers 5.1 shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on JP Morgan Chase & Co. 4.9 20 March 2014, and accordingly has not been included as a Ameriprise Financial, Inc. 4.8 liability in these financial statements.
AXA S. A and its group of companies 4.8 Standard Life Investments Limited 4.6 Directors and their interests Tameside MBC re Greater Manchester Pension Fund 4.2 The present directors are shown on pages 48 and 49.
Norges Bank 4.0 Peter Norriss resigned as a director on 20 March 2013, and BT Pension Scheme Trustees Ltd as Trustees of Roger Freeman resigned as a director on 31 December 2013. the BT Pension Scheme 3.8 Cantillon Capital Management LLC 3.6 Mark Papworth was appointed as a director on 5 November Hermes Equity Ownership Services Ltd 2.9 2012 and Steve Bowers was appointed as a director on 7 January 2013.
These directors sought reappointment Employees and employee consultation under Article 87.1 of the Companys Articles of Association Details of the Groups employment policies and employee at the last Annual General Meeting.
consultation practices are set out in the corporate Nigel Young was appointed as a director on 1 May 2013 and responsibility review on pages 42 and 43.
Andy Hamment was appointed as a director on 1 July 2013.
Both of these directors will be seeking reappointment under Political donations Article 87.1 of the Companys Articles of Association at the No political donations were made during the year forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, all Contractual arrangements directors are required to submit themselves for reelection The Group contracts with a wide range of customers, every three years.
However, in order to ensure compliance comprising governments, armed forces, prime contractors with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors now and OEMs across the globe.
The US Department of Defense voluntarily submit themselves for reelection at every Annual is the largest single customer, and procures the Groups General Meeting.
products under a significant number of separate contracts placed with individual Group businesses.
Details of the service contracts between the Company and the executive directors are set out in the directors remuneration The Groups businesses utilise many suppliers across report on page 72.
The nonexecutive directors do not have the world, and arrangements are in place to ensure that service contracts with the Company.
businesses are not totally reliant on single suppliers for key raw materials or components.
Chemring Group PLC Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 Strategic report Governance Financial s Financial st tat atemen ement ts s Other in Other inf formation ormation 51 when given, can last for a maximum period of five years, but Share capital and shareholder rights the Board proposes that renewal should be sought at each General Annual General Meeting.
An ordinary resolution, seeking such The Companys share capital consists of ordinary shares of authority, will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General 1p each and preference shares of 1 each, which are fully Meeting.
paidup and quoted on the main market of the London Stock Exchange.
Full details of the movements in the issued share Section 561 of the Act requires that an allotment of shares capital of the Company during the financial year are provided for cash may not be made unless the shares are first offered in note 27 of the group financial statements.
to existing shareholders on a preemptive basis in accordance with the terms of the Act.
In accordance with general practice, All holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend, speak to ensure that small issues of shares can be made without the and vote at any general meeting of the Company and to necessity of convening a general meeting, the Board proposes appoint a proxy or proxies to exercise these rights.
At a that advantage be taken of the provisions of section 571 general meeting, every shareholder present in person, by of the Act to not apply the Acts preemptive requirements.
proxy or in the case of a corporate member by corporate Accordingly, a special resolution will be proposed at the representative has one vote on a show of hands, and on a poll forthcoming Annual General Meeting which, if passed, will have has one vote for every share held.
the effect of granting the directors the power to allot not more than 5% of the present issued ordinary share capital free of To decide who can attend or vote at a general meeting, the requirements of section 561 of the Act.
No issue of these the notice of meeting can give a time, which must not be shares will be made which would effectively alter the control of more than forty eight hours before the meeting, by which the Company without the prior approval of the shareholders in shareholders must have been entered on the register in order general meeting.
to have the right to attend or vote at the meeting.
Purchase of own shares If a shareholder has been properly served with notice under The Company did not purchase any of its ordinary shares section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 the Act requiring 2012: 1,215,000 during the year, and no ordinary shares information about interests in shares, and has failed to supply 2012: 359,331 were distributed following vesting of awards such information within fourteen days after the service of the under the Chemring Group Performance Share Plan.
At notice, then the shareholder is not entitled to attend and vote 31 October 2013, the Company held a total of 2,198,814 at a shareholder meeting.
ordinary shares in treasury representing 1.1% of the ordinary There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares shares in issue on 1 November 2013. in the capital of the Company, other than certain restrictions A special resolution will be proposed at the forthcoming which may from time to time be imposed by law, for example Annual General Meeting to renew the Companys authority to insider trading law.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the purchase its own shares in the market up to a limit of 10% of Financial Conduct Authority, certain employees are required its issued ordinary share capital.
The maximum and minimum to seek the approval of the Company to deal in its shares.
prices are stated in the resolution.
The directors believe that The cumulative preference shares carry an entitlement to it is advantageous for the Company to have this flexibility to a dividend at the rate of 7p per share per annum, payable make market purchases of its own shares.
The directors of the in equal instalments on 30 April and 31 October each year.
Company may consider holding repurchased shares pursuant Holders of the preference shares have the right on a to the authority conferred by this resolution as treasury windingup to receive, in priority to any other classes of shares.
This will give the Company the ability to reissue shares, the sum of 1 per share together with any arrears of treasury shares quickly and cost effectively, and will provide dividends.
the Company with additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
Any issues of treasury shares for the The Company is not aware of any agreements between purposes of the Companys employee share schemes will be shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of made within the 10% antidilution limit set by the Association securities and or voting rights.
The directors will only exercise this authority if they are satisfied that a purchase would result in The Companys Articles of Association the Articles may an increase in expected earnings per share and would be in only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of the interests of shareholders generally.
Issue of shares Under the provisions of section 551 of the Act, the Board is prevented from exercising its powers under the Articles to allot shares without an authority in terms of the Act contained either in the Articles or in a resolution of the shareholders passed in general meeting.
co. uk 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 52 directors report The Chemring Group Performance Share Plan Statement of directors responsibilities the PSP The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable The following conditional awards were made under the PSP law and regulations.
during the year: Number of Company law requires the directors to prepare financial Total number of participants statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Date of awards shares awarded receiving awards directors are required to prepare group financial statements 21 November 2012 413,412 1 in accordance with International Financial Reporting 31 January 2013 1,260,059 27 Standards IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union 27 June 2013 79,796 1 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation, and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements under Total 1,753,267 29 IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company The Chemring Group Restricted Share Plan law, the directors must not approve the accounts unless the RSP they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of The following deferred share awards were made under the the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial RSP during the year: statements, IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements Number of Total number of participants requires that directors: Date of awards shares awarded receiving awards properly select and apply accounting policies: 15 February 2013 542,032 34 present information, including accounting policies, in a The Chemring Group 2008 Uk Sharesave Plan manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: the Uk Sharesave Plan provide additional disclosures when compliance with the On 30 July 2013, options were granted over 222,874 specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users ordinary shares.
Options over 2,577 ordinary shares were to understand the impact of particular transactions, other exercised during the year and options on 166,091 shares events and conditions on the entitys financial position and lapsed.
Additional information is set out in note 31 of the financial performance: and group financial statements.
make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Chemring Group 2008 US Stock Purchase Plan the US Stock Purchase Plan The directors are responsible for keeping adequate On 30 July 2013, options were granted over 55,997 ordinary accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the shares.
No options were exercised during the year and Companys transactions, disclose with reasonable accuracy options on 65,515 shares lapsed.
Additional information is at any time the financial position of the Company, and enable set out in note 31. them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for Approach to share ownership safeguarding the assets of the Company, and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud The Group actively encourages its employees to share in the and other irregularities.
future success of the Group.
The sixth annual grant of options under the UK Sharesave Plan and the US Stock Purchase The directors are responsible for the maintenance and Plan, which were both launched in 2008, took place during integrity of the corporate and financial information included the year.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial Going concern statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Details of the conclusions arrived at by the directors in preparing the financial statements on a going concern basis are set out in the financial review on page 32.
Chemring Group PLC Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 Strategic report Governance Financial s Financial st tat atemen ement ts s Other in Other inf formation ormation 53 Directors responsibility statement Close company provisions We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: As far as the directors are aware, the close company provisions of the Taxes Acts do not apply to the Group nor the financial statements, prepared in accordance with has there been any change in that respect since 31 October International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true 2013. and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included Auditors in the consolidation taken as a whole: A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditors will be the strategic report includes a fair review of the proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included Annual General Meeting in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they to be held on 20 March 2014, together with explanatory face: and notes, appear in the separate Notice of Annual General the annual report and financial statements, taken as a Meeting sent to all shareholders.
whole, are fair, balanced and understandable, and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Approved by the Board of Directors on 23 January 2014 Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Signed on behalf of the Board Provision of information to auditors Sarah Ellard Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report Group Legal Director & Company Secretary confirms that: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. www.
