14 Market review The global defence market is dominated by US and European budget reductions which overwhelm growth in Asia Pacific, the Middle East and South America Chemrings business is driven by national defence Uk and Europe departments which are either its immediate customers or The UK and Europe have also cut their budgets since the the endusers of products incorporating its components.
2010 peak and these cuts will continue, with 2017 levels as The global defence market has suffered several years of much as 5% down on 2012 levels.
Defence spending in Europe decline since its peak in 2010 and this macro trend is likely is well below the NATO commitment of 2% of GDP, and the top to continue until 2015 before it begins to recover.
There are spending countries in Europe UK, France, Germany and Italy at least two coincident drivers for this.
The first is that the are reducing spend and all have conducted major reviews US and NATO are winding down their military presence and of future force requirements, scaling back both strategic combat operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, which at their ambition and required force structure.
Turkey and Poland peak intensity drove US Overseas Contingency Operations are the only major players in NATO which are increasing OCO spending of more than $150 billion per year over their spend, as they upgrade older equipment to modern and above the baseline US defence budget.
The second is the standards.
financial crisis, which has forced debtladen governments to take vigorous measures across all departments to reduce Middle East and North Africa their deficits.
Most countries appear to have completed their This region continues to face instabilities, ranging from the most draconian cuts but many have revised the longterm systemic ArabIsraeli tensions to the extended civil war in view of their strategic military ambition and are proposing a Syria, unrest in Egypt, and Irans uncertain position on its permanently smaller force structure to support this.
Saudi Arabia is the largest defence player in the region, and its oildriven economic growth, United States combined with aspirations to remain the local force of The US represents 40% of the worlds defence spend and stability and peace, mean that it is likely to continue to grow its rapid decline since 2010 dominates the overall market its spend.
With a decline in military operations, OCO funding has halved since 2010.
This downward trend has Asia Pacific been exacerbated by Washington's fractured politics which This region has enjoyed strong economic growth, enabling have crippled budget processes.
The US Governments increased funding to support national capability upgrades FY13 budget has been sequestered down by 10% from the throughout the region.
China is not an accessible market but departments original requests.
This had a direct impact its accelerating defence spending and increasingly aggressive on Chemrings performance in 2013, when the furlough posture have driven a major shift in US regional focus, as well of government officials in October impacted the ability of as encouraging other fastgrowing economies in the region to the Group's US businesses to ship products, causing some accelerate their own spend.
India, in particular, is modernising deliveries to slip beyond the year end.
The recently hailed its defence capabilities, although faltering economic growth Bipartisan Budget Act, announced in December 2013, and a declining rupee have eroded real growth.
The country partially alleviates the sequester but total budgeted spend for still imports approximately 65% of its military equipment 2014 will be down on the current year.
requirements, and the currency decline has therefore had a particularly pernicious effect on its buying power.
Its policy of make buy Indian aims to address this but has so far failed to transform the local defence industrial base.
Chemring Group PLC Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 15 of full operational capability.
There has been some relaxation South America of export restrictions on advanced countermeasure South America is dominated by Brazil, and its recent technologies, and it is expected that some new customers will economic slowdown has reduced its ability to maintain the add these to their inventory of decoys.
In addition, the fleet defence spending growth rates seen recently.
Brazils regional buildup and achievement of full operational capability for economic dominance means that its defence requirements the Joint Strike Fighter and Typhoon will drive a need for are more driven by security challenges than in deterring a significant war stocks of the unique decoys required for traditional full scale military attack by a neighbour.
Two key each of these platforms.
In addition, the recent successful programmes are SISFRON, an integrated border monitoring demonstration firings of the CENTURION launcher and the system, and SISGAAS, to secure the Amazon.
In addition, interest they have inspired suggest that there is real potential Brazil has established CDCiber to build a capability to protect for the system, which should also reinvigorate a flat naval state IT systems from cyberattacks.
Impact on Chemring segments Sensors & Electronics For Chemring, national defence budgets are an important Chemrings Sensors & Electronics products are environmental backdrop but they only form part of the innovationled, frequently developed in response to Urgent picture.
The Group's four strategic product business segments Operational Requirements UORs.
Whilst the operational operate with different drivers across defence markets.
In tempo has reduced, recent conflicts have demonstrated the addition, the Group is actively seeking to grow its presence in vulnerability of modern forces against asymmetric threats.
other markets where it is already establishing a foothold.
As a result, counterIED doctrine is becoming a key element of defence thinking and the equipment is migrating into Countermeasures core defence budgets, to establish a sustained capability for It is believed that the countermeasures market is close to future operations.
The HMDS is the most important example customers minimum sustaining rates of production, from of this for Chemring but the Groups electronic warfare and which the industrial base still has the capability to respond to electronic countermeasures products are other candidates.
surge demand from extended military operations.
The Group The Sensors & Electronics segment also has capabilities expects the market to slowly recover from these levels over in fastgrowing government and commercial information the next few years, driven by exports and new platforms network protection markets, where the growing threat posed achievement by cyberattacks is creating opportunities for new protection technologies.
Finally, this segment has the technology and products to solve a diverse range of problems in telecoms, medical, industrial and consumer markets, offering most scope to enable the Group to diversify away from dependence on defence.
Pyrotechnics & Munitions The global military pyrotechnic and ammunition market has suffered a steep decline following the dropoff in military activity in Afghanistan.
However, in regions where there is growth in defence spending and major capability upgrades, there is some growth in demand as countries buy war stockpiles of ammunition and pyrotechnics to support this.
Energetic SubSystems The Energetic SubSystems market remains steady, driven by the existing operational military aircraft fleets, longterm missile production programmes, and a sustained tempo of military and civilian satellite launches and deployments.
This segment has some nonmilitary applications, including space and the oil and gas markets, and the Group expects demand to remain steady in these niches.
Pictured: A HH60H Seahawk helicopter launches flares.
