48 Board of directors Length of service on the Board Government Name Position as at 23 January Public board Operational International Legal M&A Finance regulatory Committee membership 2014 Experience Independent experience experience experience experience experience experience Commentary Peter Hickson 3 years 7 months Finance experience from N A Peter Hickson joined the Group as a nonexecutive director on 1 July 2010, and was appointed Chairman of the Board CFO positions on 1 October 2010.
Currently Chairman of Communisis plc, and a nonexecutive director of Coalfield Resources plc.
He NonExecutive Board experience at has had senior management experience with a number of large international companies, and previous appointments Chairman Chairman level include Chairman of Anglian Water Group, Senior Independent Director of London & Continental Railways Ltd, Finance Remuneration Chartered Accountant Director of Powergen plc and nonexecutive directorships of Scottish Power plc, Marconi Corporation plc, RAC plc and Nomination Chairman Kazakhmys plc.
He is also a trustee and Board member of Orbis Charitable Trust, the international sight saving charity, and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Mark Papworth 1 year 3 months Extensive senior N A Mark Papworth formerly worked at Wood Group plc, a leading FTSE 100 company, where he served as Chief Executive management experience Officer of the Gas Turbines Services division from 2005 and also as an executive director on the Board from 2006.
Group Chief Executive in the servicing and His career has covered high technology, service and manufacturing companies serving aerospace, energy and manufacturing industries infrastructure markets.
During his tenure at Wood Group, he implemented and delivered a strategic review, which International experience resulted in a successful turnaround, improved manufacturing capabilities and substantial improvements in profitability.
Prior to his time at Wood Group plc, Mark spent two years as Executive Vice President of RollsRoyce Energy, based in the USA, and thirteen years with Alstom Power in various roles, finally as Managing Director of the Industrial Gas Turbines division.
Steve Bowers 1 year 1 month Financial expertise N A Steve Bowers was appointed Group Finance Director on 7 January 2013.
He was formerly Finance Director of Chartered Accountant Umeco plc until its acquisition by Cytec UK Holdings Limited in July 2012.
Group Finance Director During Steves time with Umeco he was involved in both acquisitions and disposals, as well as in the management of financial reporting, treasury functions and banking relationships.
Prior to his appointment as Finance Director of Umeco, he held a number of financial roles, alongside the role of Company Secretary.
He qualified as a Chartered Accountant with KPMG LLP and is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accoutants.
Sarah Ellard 2 years 4 months Fellow of the Institute of N A Sarah Ellard was appointed as Group Legal Director on 7 October 2011, having been Group Company Secretary since Chartered Secretaries 1998.
Prior to joining the Group, Sarah trained and worked at Ernst & Young LLP.
She is a Fellow of the Institute of Group Legal Director & and Administrators Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Company Secretary Appointed Group Company Secretary in 1998 Nigel Young 9 months Previously Interim Chief Nigel Young became a nonexecutive director on 1 May 2013.
This followed his appointment as Interim Chief Financial Financial Officer of the Officer in August 2012.
Nigel was previously finance director of ALVIS PLC, First Technology PLC and Babcock NonExecutive Group from August 2012 International PLC.
He was also Group Finance Director of the FTSE 250 company Morgan Advanced Materials plc, until Director to January 2013 he retired in 2004.
Since then, Nigel has undertaken a number of charitable, interim and consultancy roles including Audit Chairman Finance experience from roles with the UK Atomic Energy Authority and McBride PLC.
Remuneration CFO positions Chartered Accountant Nigel is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Andy Hamment 7 months Extensive knowledge of Andy Hamment was appointed as a nonexecutive director on 1 July 2013.
He is also a nonexecutive director of the defence industry Senior PLC, and was previously Group Marketing Director and a main Board director of Ultra Electronics plc.
NonExecutive Senior Board experience Director Andy has worked in the defence and manufacturing industries for most of his career, primarily in business development Audit and management roles.
He joined Dowty in 1988 as Managing Director of its Controls business, and participated in the Remuneration management buyout that created Ultra Electronics.
Ian Much 9 years 2 months Board experience at Ian Much joined the Group as a nonexecutive director in December 2004.
He is Senior Independent Director and Chief Executive level Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Previous appointments include Chief Executive of fide La Rue plc and Senior Independent Key shareholder T&N plc, and nonexecutive director of Admiral plc, Camelot plc, Manchester United plc and Simplyhealth Group Ltd. NonExecutive Director representative He is currently Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of Senior plc, and non Audit executive director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of BTG plc.
Remuneration Chairman Nomination Vanda Murray 2 years 3 months Board experience at Vanda Murray joined the Group as a nonexecutive director on 1 November 2011.
She currently holds a portfolio of OBE Chief Executive level nonexecutive directorships, including Carillion plc, where she chairs the Remuneration Committee, The Manchester Fellow of the Chartered Airport Group plc, and Microgen plc.
She also took up the role of Senior Independent Director of Fenner plc in January NonExecutive Institute of Marketing 2012.
Previous appointments include Deputy Chairman of the North West Regional Development Agency, non Director executive director of SIG plc, Chief Executive Officer of Blick plc, and UK Managing Director of Ultraframe PLC.
She is a Audit Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Marketing, and in 2002 was appointed OBE for Services to Industry and Remuneration to Export.
Nomination Chemring Group PLC Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 Strategic report Governance Financial s Financial st tat atemen ement ts s Other in Other inf formation ormation 49 The structure of the Board The Board consists of a balance of executive and nonexecutive directors who each bring a strong and indepth mix of knowledge, business skills and experience to the Boards deliberations.
Length of service on the Board Government Name Position as at 23 January Public board Operational International Legal M&A Finance regulatory Committee membership 2014 Experience Independent experience experience experience experience experience experience Commentary Peter Hickson 3 years 7 months Finance experience from N A Peter Hickson joined the Group as a nonexecutive director on 1 July 2010, and was appointed Chairman of the Board CFO positions on 1 October 2010.
