10 Strategy The Group's vision is to be: Maintain world leadership in countermeasures market The leading developer and manufacturer of advanced detection and countermeasure technologies to defeat Chemring has a clear lead in expendable decoys, as a result threats from radio frequency and networkbased electronic of its customer relationships and manufacturing facilities in warfare, IEDs, chemical and biological agents, and guided its core markets of the US, UK and Australia, combined with missiles.
advanced technologies in flare, radio frequency and special material decoys.
In the face of reduced shortterm demand, The Group's strategy is to reposition itself for growth the Group is integrating Alloy Surfaces and Kilgore Flares to through the innovation and exploitation of intellectual form Chemring Countermeasures USA, in order to reduce property.
This will focus on Chemring's core competancies, costs and raise efficiency levels.
directing investment into those lines of business which have technologies, products and market positioning that provide The three strategic priorities for the Countermeasures the greatest opportunity to achieve sustainable high margins segment are: and revenue growth.
Complete the integration of Chemring Countermeasures Historically, Chemring has adopted a strategy and structure USA.
The integration of Alloy Surfaces and Kilgore Flares focused on being able to respond quickly to urgent has already reduced the overhead base and enabled requirements in rapidly changing operational scenarios.
sharing of operational best practice to position Chemring This approach supported a regional divisional structure, and Countermeasures USA for profitable growth as new strong local investment in facilities, equipment and research platforms enter service.
As current NATO operations draw to a Maintain a technological lead in core markets.
Customers in close, Chemring has refocused its strategy on these markets are the most advanced in the world, and the highlytargeted investment across the portfolio, delivering Group will promote targeted customerfunded development structural efficiencies and improving operational projects to maintain national capabilities to support future performance.
Targeted investment Optimise the Group's manufacturing base and routes to market.
Current manufacturing capacity is scaled to meet The first element of Chemring's strategy is to manage the surge levels of demand.
This capacity and its utilisation Group businesses as a portfolio, based on a rational and will be optimised to ensure a flexible, efficient and safe objective analysis of their markets, and their competitive manufacturing base to meet customer requirements.
The summary of this analysis is shown below with clear priorities for each segment.
Build a worldleading technology base in Sensors & Electronics Strong Chemring has worldleading technologies in chemical, biological and IED threat detection, electronic warfare and cyber protection.
The Group will invest to extend this portfolio of Sensors & Electronics technology.
The key priorities are: Countermeasures Sensors & Ensure critical wins in the US defence market.
The US Electronics market is the worlds largest and the Group will continue to invest to secure its position and win key programmes.
Chemring competitive Build a worldleading technology base across the Group's position transatlantic footprint.
Chemring's technical centres in Energetic Sub-Systems the US and UK are wellrecognised nationally but do not fully exploit the scale and synergies of its international Pyrotechnics operations.
Chemring will build on existing customer & Munitions relationships to anticipate user needs and capitalise on its global capability, growing the Group's technology base through targeted investment.
Leverage Chemring's proven skills and reputation to expand Weak into adjacent areas, for example cyber protection.
Shrinking Market Growing Incubate technologies for nondefence markets.
attractiveness Complete the integration of Chemring Detection Systems and NIITEK in the US into a single organisation, Chemring Sensors & Electronic Systems, to leverage technology capabilities, coordinate customer interactions and maximise supply chain efficiencies.
Chemring Group PLC Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 11 Optimse operational performance of Deliver structural efficiencies Pyrotechnics & Munitions In 2013, a review of the Groups divisional structure was completed.
This highlighted that the organisational structure Military pyrotechnics and ammunition are used in both was more focussed on local agility than efficiency, and also training and active operations.
The global market for these risked creating some confusion in the marketplace, as products has been heavily impacted by the decline in NATO similar business units in the US and Europe sought export operations in Afghanistan, leaving many forces' stockpiles opportunities outside their home markets.
As a result, the full and a target for shortterm cuts.
The Group's strategic Groups operational structure has been reconfigured along priorities for this segment are: product and technology lines to eliminate regional divisional Establish operational excellence in pyrotechnics.
entities, and the integration of several key business units has Chemring's pyrotechnic portfolio includes many products been completed.
which are infrequently produced, which causes complexity and impacts margins.
The Group will rationalise this product Improve operational performance range and continue to improve production efficiency.
The restructuring has reduced the Groups overheads, and has facilitated both national and transatlantic synergies.
Maintain the leading position in large and mediumcalibre However, several businesses have a poor track record of ammunition niches.
Chemring has a strong position in naval delivery on time or to cost and quality.
This has driven a and light armoured vehicle ammunition, and will maintain highlyfocused thrust on manufacturing and operational the technologies and relationships which underpin this.
performance improvement throughout the Group, but The Group will also manage workload across its sites to with specific focus on certain businesses.
Actions include reduce manufacturing bottlenecks and maximise capacity improvements to financial systems, changing operational utilisation.
management, redistribution of work between sites and focus on performance improvement and elimination of manufacturing bottlenecks.
This will continue nearterm market opportunities in Energetic within the segments, where grouping similar businesses SubSystems together will better enable sharing of best practices, coordinated marketing strategies and establishment of Chemring's Energetic SubSystems segment is complex, centresofexcellence.
with a wide variety of products produced infrequently in batch production runs.
The market is stable, with significant qualification costs and other barriers to entry, and the segment therefore has the potential to improve margins.
However, recent operational challenges have impacted performance.
The key priorities for Energetic SubSystems are: Complete the integration of HiShear with Chemring Energetic Devices, in order to exploit HiShears strong market position on key programmes such as the PAC3 missile and the NASA Standard Initiatior, whilst eliminating manufacturing bottlenecks by distributing work between sites.
The integration will also deliver benefits from sharing best practices, systems and marketing resources.
Explore nondefence opportunities in civil aerospace, space and other markets.
co. uk 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 12 Global growth opportunities AREAS Of OPERATION AND POTENTIAL GROwTH With a footprint in the USA, Europe and Australia, Chemring is established in the worlds largest defence markets the Group is well positioned to move into fastgrowing markets in the Middle East, Asia Pacific and South America.
NORtH AMeRICA Market overview Regional defence spend Declining budget but reduced uncertainties following recent Bipartisan Budget Act Maintenance of key programmes $664bn including Joint Strike Fighter JSF Transition from urgent operational requirements to core Programs of Record Chemrings position Strong position on HMDS as it transitions to become a Program of Record Well positioned to capitalise on pre-emptive countermeasure technology and growth in JSF fleet Further opportunities in Sensors & Electronics SOutH AMeRICA Market overview Regional defence spend Growing regional defence and security spend Brazil is economically and strategically $69bn dominant in the region Chemrings position Well-positioned for cyber security opportunity with regional partner Partnership on largecalibre ammunition Chemring Group PLC Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 13 key tO MAP euROPe Market overview Regional defence wHeRe we OPeRAte spend Declining defence spend Several national strategic defence reviews Pockets of growth in newer NATO countries $280bn GROwtH POteNtIAL Chemrings position Well positioned for key IED detection and electronic warfare opportunities Supplier of choice for traditional and advanced countermeasures Growing interest in CENTURION naval launcher MIddLe eASt & NORtH AFRICA Market overview Regional defence spend Growing defence spend driven by regional tensions and economic growth Saudi Arabia maintaining its position as $142bn strategic and economic hub for the region Chemrings position Leading position to win countermeasure opportunities for large combat aircraft fleets UK support for cyber security collaboration Major coastal defence opportunity ASIA PACIFIC Market overview Regional defence spend Growing defence spend driven by economic growth Chinas economic growth and strategic $212bn aspirations driving increased focus and investment by US and its allies Chemrings position Chemring Australia well-positioned in southern hemisphere Building presence in India Major opportunities in countermeasures, missiles, radar and ammunition development programmes Source: The Military Balance 2013 excludes Iran, Syria, North Korea, Russia and China www.
