08 Chemrings business model Chemring creates value by developing and manufacturing protection solutions for the defence and security markets based on threat detection, countermeasures and energetic material products.
Countermeasures Sensors & Electronics Chemring is well established as the worlds leading Chemrings sensor and electronics products include manufacturer of expendable decoys to protect aircraft the worlds leading vehiclemounted system for and ships from the growing threat of guided missiles.
detecting IEDs, as well as core technologies for The Groups ares have been proven in peacekeeping electronic warfare, and detecting, intercepting operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, and the business and jamming communications, including continues to develop naval decoy technology radiocontrolled IEDs.
The Group is in response to emerging antiship exploiting its network protection missile threats.
capabilities to defend against the 1 growing threat of cyber-attacks.
TRACK AND IDENTIFY THREATS See page 10 for strategic focus See page 10 for strategic focus See page 18 and 19 for segmental review See page 20 and 21 for segmental review 2 4 LEVERAGE EXTEND INTELLECTUAL REACH PROPERTY Energetic Pyrotechnics & 3 COMMERCIALISE SubSystems KNOW-HOW Munitions Chemrings energetic subsystems are Chemring manufactures a range of safetycritical components of missiles, aircraft pyrotechnic products which are used by and space launch systems.
Operators and prime militaries and security forces around the world for contractors depend on Chemrings very high reliability, screening, signalling and illumination.
In addition, the Group singleuse devices to perform key functions, including produces a specialist range of medium and satellite deployment, aircrew egress and missile largecalibre ammunition for tanks, armoured selfdestruct.
vehicles, infantrymen and naval platforms.
See page 11 for strategic focus See page 11 for strategic focus See page 24 and 25 for segmental review See page 22 and 23 for segmental review Countermeasures Sensors & electronics Chemring Group PLC Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 09 1 TRACk AND IDENTIfy THREATS 3 COMMERCIALISE kNOwHOw Chemring delivers protection solutions in a world facing Chemring is a manufacturing business, and we maintain a rapidlyevolving threats from both organised militaries and high margin portfolio by producing and selling proprietary the growing base of insurgents.
This means that the Group optimises its threats and understanding their implications are critical manufacturing capability to protect our technology, product precursors to detecting and countering these threats.
The and processrelated intellectual property.
Energetic material Group has strong, longstanding customer relationships products, including countermeasures, energetic subsystems, around the world, which provide insight into a unique mix pyrotechnics and munitions, all involve the blending, forming of military doctrines and security challenges faced by and packing of energetic materials.
Rigour in these processes NATO, nonNATO and other security forces.
The home is critical to ensure product quality and performance, and markets in the US, UK, Europe and Australia provide a base the Group uses its worldleading capabilities in this field of sophisticated and influential users, whilst a network of to perform the majority of this inhouse at its large and relationships in the Middle East, Asia Pacific and South wellequipped sites.
For less critical production processes, America provide insight into specific security challenges, such as metal part manufacture, component production ranging from the Olympic Games to protecting offshore may be outsourced.
For sensors and electronics products, assets from pirates or insurgents.
Chemring monitors the the critical processes are associated with assembly, test and evolving pattern of threats, and this provides the base for software - the Group ensures that its production and delivery exploring technology options to address these threats.
capabilities in these processes meet our production needs.
In some cases, the Group exploits its knowledge by undertaking contract research and development for clients, where this 2 LEvERAGE INTELLECTUAL PROPERTy provides an opportunity to extend the knowledge base, understand new opportunities and operational scenarios, or Chemring has a strong portfolio of technology which it build new customer relationships.
draws upon to develop solutions for customers.
The Group strategically invests seedcorn capital to investigate technical alternatives and to secure critical intellectual 4 EXTEND REACH property underpinning potential solutions.
Where promising technologies are found outside the Group, a flexible approach Chemring sells to over sixty countries globally through an is adopted to securing this for the targeted application - for established network of sales partners.
These partners have example, by securing licences, funding joint development, or strong incountry relationships with national procurement in some cases, outright acquisition of a company to secure offices, and these channels are used in promoting Chemrings both the technology and the underlying ability to develop full range of products, technologies, capabilities and it.
Having secured the critical intellectual property, the solutions.
These partners are critical to the launch of the Group takes a pragmatic approach to product design and Group's new products into their markets, and also provide development.
In the case of specialist military products such local intelligence and product support.
as IED detectors, countermeasures or missile components, Defence is a sensitive capability for all countries, and many where the users specialist operational, qualification and test aim to develop a local industrial base to support their requirements place a disproportionate cost on development national security.
This is particularly true in consumables programmes, customer funding, support and qualification such as countermeasures, where the ability of a supply is sought to develop specific solutions.
For example, our chain to support military operations is key - the Group's US countermeasures products require significant investment and UKbased flare manufacturing capabilities were critical in flight qualification, and the business work closely with to support operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, and many a lead customer in the US or Europe to prove the product.
nations are seeking to be selfsufficient in their own supply Where military qualification costs are less prohibitive and chain.
The Group will work with nations who wish to develop their applications are wider than a single customers unique indigenous capability, and will support product development requirements, the Group invests its own development funding and manufacturing facilities.
For example, Chemring Australia to secure a more versatile solution which can be sold more has established a development programme in Australia, widely - for example, funding network protection offerings to in collaboration with Chemring Technology Solutions, to ensure the Group can fully exploit the commercial market for develop a nextgeneration enhancement to manportable these solutions.
Similarly, Mecar has signed an agreement to transfer technology for tank ammunition manufacture to a partner in Brazil, to enable it to meet national requirements locally - in this case, Mecar will control proprietary technologies through the longterm supply of Pictured left: critical components to its partner.
Pictured far left: HMDS is currently operational in Afghanistan.
