20 Segmental review SENSORS & ELECTRONICS See more information online www.
co. uk During the year, Chemring Sensors & Electronic Systems Our business units: and Chemring Australia were recognised in a prestigious Chemring Sensors & Electronic Systems - incorporating Australian defence industry award for their work in helping NonIntrusive Inspection Technology NIITEK and Chemring to deliver Australias protected route clearance capability.
Detection Systems - is the leading US manufacturer of The award recognised the close relationship between defence vehiclemounted ground penetrating radar mine detection and industry that is required to deliver complex military systems, and the leading developer and supplier of procurement projects in a timely and costeffective manner.
vehiclemounted chemical and biological detection systems.
The ground penetrating radar product range, which began Chemring Technology Solutions - incorporating Roke Manor with the largescale HMDS, is expanding into smaller scale Research and Chemring EOD - is a world class developer of solutions designed to deliver capability to dismount troops.
detection, portable electronic warfare and network protection These solutions include a vehiclemounted squad support technologies.
It also manufactures a range of products for unit designed for fastmoving infantry, an autonomous mine detection, assessment and neutralisation of improvised detection system mounted on a manpackable robot RVISOR, explosive devices and unexploded ordnance.
and handheld ground penetrating radar and metal detector solutions.
These solutions have continued to receive strong Analysis research and development funding from the US Department Revenue in the Sensors & Electronics segment was of Defense.
211.3 million, 7.7% lower than the previous year, and was underpinned by ongoing fulfilment of the $579 million The HMDS programme has historically been funded as an multiyear HMDS ground penetrating radar indefinite delivery, Urgent Operational Requirement UOR, driven by demand indefinite quantity IDIQ contract.
The closing order book for Iraq and Afghanistan, but is currently transitioning into a for Sensors & Electronics was 106.2 million, up 5.5% on longterm capability and is expected to be funded from the 2012, as a result of major orders for HMDS and chemical and US Department of Defenses core budget through a Program biological detection products.
In October 2013, Chemring Sensors & Electronic Systems Activities during the year was awarded a $10.6 million contract by the US Army for Chemring has integrated two US operations to create a single the procurement of six HMDS test systems.
These will be business unit - Chemring Sensors & Electronic Systems.
used for advanced testing in preparation for a longterm This integration allows the Group to leverage its technology HMDS procurement from base budget funds.
This is a capabilities, coordinate customer interaction and maximise significant development, potentially securing the position efficiencies within the supply chain.
of HMDS as a longterm capability for the US military.
Both the RVISOR robotmounted ground penetrating radar and Trading at Chemring Sensors & Electronic Systems was handheld detection solutions are also expected to transition strong, and included completion of the initial $161.3 million to Programs of Record during 2014.
The operational and delivery order placed under the HMDS IDIQ contract.
Orders logistical life cycle of these systems is expected to be over totalling $141.0 million were placed under this contract ten years.
The ground penetrating radar technology used in during the year, with these orders expected to be fulfilled these solutions is being augmented by additional capabilities, in the period to May 2014.
Encouragingly, the Group has including sensors from Chemring Technology Solutions, to continued to receive interest in its ground penetrating radar enhance performance.
from other NATO countries, with sales to Australia, Italy, Turkey and Spain during the year.
Chemring Group PLC Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 21 underlying Order book operating profit 106.2m 44.7m 2012: 100.7m 2012: 44.9m underlying Revenue operating margin 211.3m 21.2% 2012: 228.9m 2012: 19.6% Internationally, all of the HMDS orders received this year have The Group is raising the profile and level of investment in been delivered.
Several countries deployed these systems into nondefence products and technology, and a number of the current theatre of operations in the Middle East with concepts are showing early promise.
Efforts continue to great success.
Additionally, after the Turkish Ministry of diversify into commercial markets.
The SmartSwitch product, National Defence received its initial delivery of HMDS and which delivers a complete framework to optimise mobile data RVISOR systems, it is planning further expansion of this user experience and maximise operator profitability, has been fleet.
These systems, are now being used as an active tested by several global mobile network operators.
Product detection solution for the Turkish forces in conflict zones.
The evaluations indicate that SmartSwitch is a technically superior initial Italian Minebuster systems are currently undergoing product and a front runner for significant opportunities in testing at multiple sites around Italy.
Korean Ministry of National Defense began trials on a robot Alongside product development, there have been successes mounted midscale solution in late 2013. in winning customerfunded development, with Chemring Chemring Detection Systems also performed well during the Technology Solutions delivering over 1 million of specialist year, and in January 2013, was awarded a $28.5 million development capability to major customers.
delivery order against a multiyear IDIQ contract to supply Outlook chemical detection systems to the US Army.
This is the final order expected to be placed under the IDIQ.
Later in the year, The longterm outlook for Sensors & Electronics is robust.
the US Army placed a further order worth $25.2 million for Many countries acknowledge a significant and growing gap the production and delivery of thirty two Joint Biological Point in their capabilities to deal with the persistent and rapidly Detection Systems.
These systems will be installed in the evolving threat of IEDs.
This is resulting in sustained interest Stryker Nuclear Biological Chemical Reconnaissance Vehicle.
in Chemring's detection, jamming and defeat products from both NATO and nonNATO markets.
In the UK, Roke Manor Research and Chemring EOD have been integrated to create Chemring Technology Solutions, Other programmes, such as the Stryker reconnaissance with the explosive ordnance disposal business reporting vehicle, will complete during 2014.
The focus is therefore on alongside Rokes three other sectors of defence, security and investing in technology to ensure a strong position on new technology solutions.
Chemring Technology Solutions had a programmes as they arise.
The Group will continue to invest favourable sales mix in the year, weighted towards and develop new detection offerings, including handheld highermargin product sales and away from its historical and robotmounted variants.
There also continues to be focus on contractbased research and development activity.
significant interest in the Group's electronic warfare, security and cyber security solutions.
The Resolve electronic warfare manpack system continues to attract interest from around the world.
Development of the product range continues, in order to meet users' needs for lighter, yet more capable, systems and in September, a lightweight version designed specifically for onthemarch missions was launched.
Weighing just ten kilograms, the lightweight manpack system fits into a standard daysack, delivering dismounted soldiers more flexible electronic warfare capabilities.
A focused push on the Group's strategic electronic warfare capability is also delivering positive results, with sales of the Locate product into Europe.
co. uk 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 22 Segmental review PyROTECHNICS & MUNITIONS See more information online www.
co. uk Technology refreshments have also been used to improve Our business units: margins, exemplified by the development of new Simmel Difesa - a leading Italianbased supplier of naval microelectronics for proximity fuzes, resulting in a 6% gross ammunition, advanced fusing technology and missile margin improvement for these products.
Naval Mecar - a niche Belgianbased supplier of medium and The naval ammunition market remains stable, with revenue largecalibre ammunition for light armoured vehicles.
However, order intake has been disappointing due to delays in receipt of significant orders Chemring Defence - incorporating Chemring Defence UK from nonNATO customers, although the Group is confident and Chemring Defence Germany - designs, develops and of receiving these orders during 2014.
Nonetheless, the produces smoke and illumination pyrotechnics and payloads Group received several orders from Middle Eastern customers for military, OEM and safety customers.
and grew the level of naval munitions business with the NATO Chemring Ordnance - a leading US manufacturer of military Support Agency.
training pyrotechnics and ammunition for 40mm grenade In furthering market reach, Simmel has signed an agreement launchers.
with a Turkish partner for the technology transfer of naval Analysis munitions.
Initial activities will be focused on 40mm L70 munitions for the domestic market and selected export Pyrotechnics & Munitions revenue was 200.6 million, a countries, mainly in the Caucasus area.
Negotiations are also 19.6% reduction from 2012.
This reduction was partially a ongoing with a customer for the establishment of a consequence of mortar system delivery delays.
The closing coproduction capability in the Middle East.
order book for Pyrotechnics & Munitions was 315.5 million, a reduction of 9.9%.
Order intake included a $42.1 million Land ammunition contract for the procurement and supply of nonstandard Integration of the first turreted mortar system was completed ammunition for the US Government.
during the year, and Mecar is working towards additional Activities during the year orders for these systems.
Sales of munitions continued at historic levels, the majority of which were to strategic Middle A significant focus in Pyrotechnics & Munitions has been on Eastern customers.
Whilst order intake was disappointing in enhancing operational performance and optimising routes numerical terms, this was due solely to the delay in receipt of to market, whilst developing a coherent and comprehensive a single strategic order, due to the customer's reassessment product catalogue.
These activities have started to deliver of requirements.
This order is anticipated within the next results.
At Chemring Ordnance, the AntiPersonnel Obstacle quarter.
The Group remains in a very strong position to Breaching System APOBS production line has been exploit opportunities in the Egyptian marketplace when enhanced, resulting in improved gross margins.
The overall export licence approval activity resumes.
staffing and facilities layout at Chemring Ordnance has also been revised, to raise efficiency and throughput.
In seeking to develop its market presence, Chemring has signed a number of strategic agreements focused on At Simmel, a significant improvement in production efficiency technology sharing, coproduction and joint marketing.
has resulted from selective automation of processes and a general revision of layout and processes.
This has resulted in greater than 20% cost savings on our naval ammunition packing lines.
Chemring Group PLC Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 23 underlying Order book operating profit 315.5m 13.0m 2012: 350.1m 2012: 21.2m underlying Revenue operating margin 200.6m 6.5% 2012: 249.5m 2012: 8.5% Mecar has signed agreements with Burkan in the UAE, and with Emgepron in Brazil, to have Mecar products assembled incountry for local market needs.
The agreement with Emgepron puts Mecar in a strong position to meet the current 105mm tank and future 105mm light armoured vehicle LAV ammunition requirements, and provides a base to service other South American requirements.
Following the signing of a strategic agreement with ATK, Mecar will complete the development of the 30mm APFSDST and 120mm HEP rounds in 2014, to increase its product portfolio in two new calibres.
During 2013, development of the 120mm mortar red phosphorus smoke round was completed, and the first production delivery will take place in 2014.
Work has also now commenced on an improved 90mm MK8 TPFSDS round for the Belgian Army, which has a fleet of forty 90mmarmed LAVs.
Deliveries of 81mm mortar ammunition to NATO customers continued at a steady pace.
However, the withdrawal of troops will result in a slowdown in requirements.
The business is therefore actively pursuing opportunities in new markets for this product range.
Chemring Ordnance finished the year with strong order intake, exceeding its order forecast by over 50%.
The order improvement was helped significantly by capturing a $42 million nonstandard ammunition contract for the US Government.
Outlook The outlook for Pyrotechnics & Munitions is mixed.
NATO demand is reducing but this is being offset by Chemring's leading positions in naval ammunition and certain largecalibre tank and armoured vehicle munitions.
The Group will leverage its position in nonNATO markets, Pictured: particularly where customers are building up national A paratrooper mortar platoon team fires 81mm shells in capabilities with new armoured vehicle fleets.
support of a patrol in Afghanistan.
