24 Segmental review ENERGETIC SUBSySTEMS See more information online www.
co. uk In December 2013, the conditional sale of Chemring Our business units: Energetic Devices' business based in Clear Lake, South Dakota Chemring Energetic Devices - incorporating Chemring was agreed.
The gross sales proceeds will be $10.0 million Energetic Devices and HiShear Technology Corporation - is 6.1 million, subject to a working capital adjustment.
a leading US supplier of pyrotechnic and electromechanical systems for space, safety and military training applications.
Chemring Nobel had its best ever revenue year, whilst further developing the site and its processes to ensure business The business is a leading supplier of spacequalified initiators continuity at this level.
This business continues to develop its and lowshock satellite separation systems, and a range portfolio of products to suit the oil and gas industry, as well of pyromechanisms for aircrew egress.
It also develops as the defence primes.
advanced subsystems for ballistic missile defence and tactical weapons.
Chemring Energetics UK has successfully commissioned its stateoftheart primary explosive remote manufacturing Chemring Energetics - incorporating Chemring Energetics facility, built to replace an old labourintensive facility.
UK and Chemring Nobel in Norway - is a leading supplier of Product from the facility is now being qualified with detonators, actuators, rocket motors, high explosive filling, customers.
canopy cutting cords and pyromechanisms for safety and aircrew egress, and demolition stores for the UK Ministry Safety systems of Defence.
It is also a leading supplier of high explosives Chemring Energetic Devices successfully qualified product and energetic binders to the defence, security, oil and gas on the Digital Recovery Sequencer, a new product that industries.
will generate sales every year from the US Air Force and international customers.
Chemring Energetic Devices also Analysis won a product improvement programme for the US Air Energetic SubSystems revenue was 88.0 million, a 10.8% Force B1B bomber ejection system components that will reduction from 2012.
This was mainly as a result of the increase profitability from the manufacturing improvements.
reduction in defence spending in the US and UK.
The closing Additionally, the business received international orders for order book for Energetic SubSystems was 93.0 million, a fourteen JCAST pilot flight gear testers, and completed reduction of 3.9%.
qualification and received the first production order for the safe and arm fuze used on Lockheed Martins smart version of Activities during the year the 2.75 inch Hydra missile.
The Group is integrating HiShear with Chemring Energetic Devices to exploit common technology and production Chemring Energetics UK continues to be the sole supplier of synergies.
This integration is resulting in common systems energetic material for Martin Baker Aviation ejection systems.
and processes, which will facilitate better management of the operations.
In addition, the integration is improving the loading of production facilities to alleviate manufacturing bottlenecks, and has resulted in a more coordinated sales force.
The combined business will be better able to leverage volume and integrate technology development plans, while also having a streamlined management structure.
The combined portfolio of defence and nonmilitary customers provides an opportunity for future growth.
Chemring Group PLC Report and accounts for the year ended 31 October 2013 22918-04 6 February 2014 11:42 AM Proof 13 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information 25 underlying Order book operating profit 93.0m 11.3m 2012: 96.8m 2012: 12.3m underlying Revenue operating margin 88.0m 12.8% 2012: 98.7m 2012: 12.5% Space Civil aerospace Chemring Energetic Devices was awarded a $5 million Chemring Energetics UK has been selected and is supplying contract to produce the fore and aft thrusters used to product into the safety system for the Boeing Dreamliner.
separate the sidemounted booster modules on the Atlas V The product has been qualified in the aircraft oxygen release heavy lift launch vehicle.
HiShear was awarded a contract to system.
develop a new standard initiator for NASAs Orion project.
Demolition stores Chemring Energetics UK is developing leadfree explosive In the UK, Chemring Energetics secured a 9.9 million cords for the European space market, which will be a move contract to supply the UK Ministry of Defence with plastic into a new sector for the business.
explosive for a four year period commencing in April 2014.
This contract strengthens Chemring's position as a leader in Missiles the supply of demolition products to the military.
The contract HiShears newly developed and qualified electronic safe and was won after Chemring Energetics UK took part in the UK arm fuze for the Missile Segment Enhancement programme Ministry of Defences competitive tendering process that nearly doubles the existing Patriot Advanced Capability started in July 2012. missile performance envelope.
The missile has successfully completed all flight qualification testing.
Raytheon Missile A derivative of the SABREX family of flexible and Systems awarded a solesource contract for the manufacture explosivelyefficient linear cutting charges has been and future qualification of an ejector line cutter to be used on successfully developed for the US Navy, and this is expected the US Navys SM3Blk2A ballistic missile defence missile.
In to generate more interest in this product from other areas of the next phase of the programme, this cutter and its power the US Department of Defense.
cartridge will undergo a series of qualification tests to meet Outlook the US Navys stringent performance requirements.
The Energetic SubSystems segment is expected to be The Group has secured its position on a number of missile and relatively flat in the near term.
Growth will be generated space programmes, and its solesource position on a number by diversification into nondefence markets, with the of programmes secures a good level of base activity.
development of bespoke products for fire suppression, security and space applications.
Defence requirements will Chemring Energetics UK has continued to work on its major continue to reduce within NATO and emphasis will therefore contract for components for the Next Generation Light be on securing positions in emerging markets, particularly the AntiTank Weapon.
Sales under this contract have been Middle East and Far East.
delayed due to technical performance issues, and the business continues to work with its partners on the programme to complete delivery of its obligations.
