Biographies of Directors and Senior Management Non-Executive Directors Tim Clark, aged 62, Non-Executive Director.
He was a partner in Slaughter and May, one of the leading international law firms in the world, for 25 years: initially working as a corporate and M&A adviser to a range of companies and institutions and then for the last seven years as senior partner before retiring in April 2008.
He is also Group Senior Adviser of G3, and a Director trustee of the COIF charitable funds.
He is also a Senior Adviser to Chatham House and a member of the International Chamber of Commerce UK Governing Body, the Advisory Board of Uria Menendez, the Board of the Royal National Theatre and the Development Committee of the National Gallery.
He is Chairman of the trustees of the Economist Trust and a member of the Audit Committee of the Wellcome Trust.
He was appointed to the Board in August 2008.
Philip Burks, aged 54, Non-Executive Director, is a co-founder of Big Yellow in September 1998.
Prior to that he was joint Chief Executive of Edge Properties plc which he co-founded in 1989 which was subsequently listed on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange in 1996 and then taken over by Grantchester Properties plc in 1998.
Philip was the Groups Property Director until 30 March 2007, at which date he stepped down to become a NonExecutive Director.
He was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Goals Soccer Centres plc in December 2010.
Richard Cotton, aged 57, Non-Executive Director, headed the real estate corporate finance team at JP Morgan Cazenove until April 2009.
Richard is currently a Managing Director of Forum Partners and a Non-Executive Director of Hansteen Holdings plc.
Richard joined the Board in July 2012.
Mark Richardson, aged 56, Non-Executive Director, retired from Deloitte in 2008 after a career there of 29 years, the last 19 as an audit partner specialising in clients in the Real Estate and Construction sectors.
Mark is a co-opted member of the Audit and Risk Committee of the Natural History Museum, a Trustee of the Natural History Museum Development Trust, and he is also a trustee of the childrens communication charity ICAN.
He was appointed to the Board in July 2008 and is chairman of the Audit Committee.
Steve Johnson, aged 49, Non-Executive Director, started his career at Bain in the 1980s before joining Asda in 1993, where he carried out a number of roles, culminating in Marketing Director.
He left Asda in 2000, to join GUS as a Sales & Marketing Director, departing in 2002 to take up his first CEO role at Focus DIY, where he remained until 2007.
He joined Woolworths as part of the final turnaround team in late 2008.
He has most recently been working as an operating executive for Texas Pacific Group, and was also the Executive Chairman of Dreams plc between July 2011 and October 2012.
He joined the Board in September 2010.
Executive Directors Nicholas Vetch, aged 52, Executive Chairman, is a co-founder of Big Yellow in September 1998.
Prior to that, he was joint Chief Executive of Edge Properties plc, which he co-founded in 1989 which was subsequently listed on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange in 1996 and then taken over by Grantchester Properties plc in 1998.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Blue Self Storage S. L, a self storage operation in Spain, and a Non-Executive Director of Local Shopping REIT plc.
James Gibson, aged 52, Chief Executive Officer, is a co-founder of Big Yellow in September 1998.
He is a Chartered Accountant having trained with Arthur Andersen & Co. where he specialised in the property and construction sectors, before leaving in 1989.
He was Finance Director of Heron Property Corporation Limited and then Edge Properties plc which he joined in 1994.
Edge Properties was listed on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange in 1996 and then taken over by Grantchester Properties plc in 1998.
He is also a Non-Executive Director and shareholder of AnyJunk Limited.
Adrian Lee, aged 47, Operations Director, was previously a senior Executive at Edge Properties plc, which he joined in 1996.
Prior to that he was a corporate financier at Lazard for five years, having previously qualified as a surveyor at Knight Frank.
He was appointed to the Board in May 2000.
John Trotman, aged 35, Chief Financial Officer, is a Chartered Accountant having trained with Deloitte LLP, where he specialised in the real estate sector and self storage.
On leaving Deloitte in 2005, John worked for a subsidiary of the Kajima Corporation.
He joined Big Yellow in June 2007, and was appointed to the Board in September 2007.
Senior management biographies Shauna Beavis, aged 38, Financial Controller and Company Secretary, joined Big Yellow in March 2000, qualifying with CIMA in 2003.
Prior to that she was a Project Manager within the IT industry.
Anthony Chenery, aged 41, Head of Marketing and E-Commerce, joined Big Yellow in February 2011, having previously been employed as Head of Online Marketing with Teletext Holidays for seven years.
Prior to this, he has held marketing roles within the gaming and publishing industries and with the marketing agency Proximity London previously BHWG Proximity.
Paul Donnelly, aged 59, Corporate Social Responsibility Manager joined Big Yellow in August 2007 and is an Associate Member of the Institute of Environmental Management and Assessment.
Paul was previously the Sustainable Development Manager at Crest Nicholson PLC.
Prior to that he was also Environmental Manager at John Laing PLC.
Stuart Grinnall, aged 38, IT Manager, joined Big Yellow in July 2000.
He is a systems engineer with several years experience developing IT solutions for growth companies and NHS Hospital Trusts.
Nigel Hartley, aged 49, Construction Director, joined Big Yellow in January 2000.
He is a chartered surveyor with over 20 years experience in the construction industry, both overseas and in the UK, principally in the retail and industrial sectors.
Cheryl Hathaway, aged 47, Head of Human Resources, joined Big Yellow in March 2000, having previously been employed as a Human Resources Manager within the Harrods Group.
Prior to this she worked for Debenhams in a variety of human resources roles, both within head offices and in stores.
Chris Herbert, aged 58, Construction Manager, joined Big Yellow in September 1999, having previously worked for Leslie Clark, a Construction Consultancy, for 10 years.
Prior to that, he spent 10 years as a contracts project manager with John Lelliot Building Contractors.
Nicola Jordan, aged 46, Head of Store Operations, joined Big Yellow in March 2003, having previously been employed as an Area Manager with Superdrug for 5 years.
Prior to this she has held operational roles with Little Chef, Travelodge and Victoria Wine.
David Knight, aged 49, Head of Facilities, joined Big Yellow in June 2000.
He was previously an Estates Manager at Whitbread which he joined in 1997.
Prior to this he was Group Facilities Manager at Central Transport Rental Group Plc formerly Tiphook Plc having previously qualified as a surveyor at Edwin Hill.
Andrew Watson, aged 44, Property Director, joined Big Yellow in October 2000 having previously worked as a property acquisition surveyor for McDonalds Restaurants.
Prior to that, he was an acquisitions surveyor for Victoria Wine, having previously qualified as a chartered surveyor at Herring Baker Harris.
Tom Wilcockson, aged 56, Head of New Business Development, joined Big Yellow in July 2007.
He has significant experience of developing new business channels including international franchising, BTB and direct selling through key roles at Bhs and Early Learning Centre.
70 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Big Yellow Group PLC We have audited the financial statements of Big Yellow Group PLC for the year ended 31 March 2013 which comprise the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, the Consolidated and Company Balance Sheets, the Consolidated and Company Statement of Changes in Equity, the Consolidated and Company Cash Flow Statements, the Reconciliation of Net Cash Flow to Movement in Net Debt and the related notes 1 to 34.
The financial reporting framework that has been applied in their preparation is applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and, as regards the Parent Company financial statements, as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Chapter 3 of Part 16 of the Companies Act 2006.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditor As explained more fully in the Directors Responsibilities Statement, the Directors are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements and for being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
Our responsibility is to audit and express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
Those standards require us to comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Scope of the audit of the financial statements An audit involves obtaining evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements sufficient to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or error.
This includes an assessment of: whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups and the parent Companys circumstances and have been consistently applied and adequately disclosed: the reasonableness of significant accounting estimates made by the Directors: and the overall presentation of the financial statements.
In addition, we read all the financial and non-financial information in the annual report to identify material inconsistencies with the audited financial statements and to identify any information that is apparently materially incorrect based on, or materially inconsistent with, the knowledge acquired by us in the course of performing the audit.
If we become aware of any apparent material misstatements or inconsistencies we consider the implications for our report.
Opinion on financial statements In our opinion: the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of the Groups and of the parent Companys affairs as at 31 March 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union: the parent Company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and as applied in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006: and the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation Opinion on other matters prescribed by the Companies Act 2006 In our opinion: the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 2006: and the information given in the Directors Report for the financial year for which the financial statements are prepared is consistent with the financial statements.
Matters on which we are required to report by exception We have nothing to report in respect of the following: Under the Companies Act 2006 we are required to report to you if, in our opinion: adequate accounting records have not been kept by the parent Company, or returns adequate for our audit have not been received from branches not visited by us: or the parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are not in agreement with the accounting records and returns: or certain disclosures of Directors remuneration specified by law are not made: or we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit.
Under the Listing Rules we are required to review: the Directors statement contained within the business review in relation to going concern: the part of the Corporate Governance Statement relating to the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code specified for our review: and certain elements of the report to shareholders by the Board on Directors remuneration.
Darren Longley FCA Senior Statutory Auditor For and on behalf of Deloitte LLP Chartered Accountants and Statutory Auditor Southampton, United Kingdom 20 May 2013 71
