Directors Report The Directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Group, together with the audited financial statements and auditors report for the year ended 31 March 2013.
The Report on Corporate Governance on pages 36 to 42 forms part of this report.
Principal activity The principal activity of the Company and its subsidiaries is the provision of self storage and related services.
The subsidiary and associated undertakings principally affecting the profit and net assets of the Group in the year are listed in note 29 of the financial statements.
Review of business A detailed account of the Groups progress during the year and its future prospects is set out in the Chairmans statement on pages 16 and 17.
Detailed Business and Financial Reviews have been prepared and are set out on pages 18 to 29, and more specifically as follows: the business objectives and strategy is set out on page 17: the financing objectives are set out on page 40: the Groups going concern review is set out on page 41: the principal risks and uncertainties within the business are set out in the Risk Management section on page 39: and the key quantitative and qualitative performance indicators are included within the Highlights see page 14, Portfolio Summary see page 30 and Financial Review see page 24.
The Chairmans statement, the Business Review, the Financial Review, the Report on Corporate Governance and the Corporate Social Responsibility Report are incorporated by reference into the Directors Report.
Financial instruments The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group, along with any details of exposure to any liquidity and cash flow risk are set out on page 40, and notes 2 and 18 to the financial statements.
Results and dividends The consolidated statement of comprehensive income is set out on page 72 of the financial statements.
The Directors are recommending the payment of a final dividend of 6 pence per share for the year 2012: 5.5 per ordinary share.
An interim dividend of 5 pence per share was paid in the year 2012: 4.5 per share.
A property income dividend of 8 pence is payable for the year, of which 5 pence per share was paid with the interim dividend, and 3 pence per share was proposed for the final dividend.
Subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 19 July 2013, the final dividend will be paid on 24 July 2013.
The Ex-Div date is 12 June 2013 and the Record date is 14 June 2013.
Share capital Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together with details of the movements in the Company's issued share capital during the year are shown in note 22.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between holders of the Company's shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 23, and details of shares held in treasury and by the Companys Employee Benefit Trust are set out in note 22.
No person has any special rights of control over the Company's share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
With regard to the appointment and replacement of Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Association, the Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation.
The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The powers of Directors are described in the Report on Corporate Governance on page 36.
There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company such as commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease arrangements and employees' share plans.
None of these are considered to be significant in terms of their likely impact on the business of the Group as a whole.
Furthermore, the Directors are not aware of any agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
During the year the Company issued 369,935 shares to satisfy the exercise of share options 2012: 332,519.
55 Directors Report continued Directors and their interests The Directors of the Company who served throughout the year and to the date of approval, except as noted of the financial statements were as follows: Philip Burks Tim Clark Richard Cotton appointed 10 July 2012 James Gibson Steve Johnson Adrian Lee Mark Richardson Jonathan Short resigned 10 July 2012 John Trotman Nicholas Vetch Details of the interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company including share options are set out in the Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 59 to 68.
Biographical details of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors are set out on page 70.
Reappointment of Directors The Directors listed above constituted the Board during the year.
Following a performance appraisal process, the Board has concluded that the Directors retiring by rotation are effective, committed to their roles and should continue in office.
All of the Directors will retire in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and with the exception of Philip Burks, will offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The biographies of all Directors standing for re-election are included on page 70.
Directors and officers liability insurance The Company purchases liability insurance covering the Directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Payment of suppliers The policy of the Group is to settle supplier invoices within the terms of trade agreed with individual suppliers.
Trade creditor days of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2013 were 25 days 2012: 21 days.
This represents the ratio, expressed in days, between the amounts invoiced to the Group by its suppliers in the year and the amounts due, at the year end to trade creditors within one year.
Properties The changes in investment and development property during the year and details of property valuations at 31 March 2013 are shown in notes 13a and 14 to the financial statements.
Further commentary on our investment property portfolio is contained in the Business and Financial Review.
Disclosure of Greenhouse Gas GHG Emissions Companies Act 2006: Climate Change, the GHG Emissions Directors Reports Regulations 2013 This year the UK Government announced that all firms listed on the London Stock Exchange will have to disclose their GHG emissions in their Directors Reports.
The new rules are intended to encourage companies to better manage their impact on the environment, their energy consumption and the link between profitability and GHG emissions growth.
Using resources responsibly is in our business's own interests.
From October 2013, all listed companies are required to report annual quantities of GHG emissions measured as Carbon Dioxide Equivalent CO e 2 as follows: Scope 1 direct emission sources, such as our flexi-office gas heating, construction fit out generator gas oil, Company van diesel fuel, and store portfolio coolers and air conditioner top up or replacement: Scope 2 indirect or offsite power station electricity supply to our stores: and Scope 3 other voluntary GHG emissions, in particular from our waste and water supply chains.
In preparation for this regulation we have revised our Basis of Reporting methodology and restated CSR data from our financial years ended 31 March 2011 and 2012, as comparator years for 2013 and future years.
Summary of Scope 1 and 2 Total Carbon Footprint GHG carbon equivalent emissions tCO e 2 Including store electricity, gas, coolant, generator gas oil and van diesel 2011 2012 2013 Total Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions tCO e 7,450 7,319 7,542 2 Same Store GHG Emissions tCO e 7,450 7,113 7,182 2 Kg CO e Annual Revenue 0.12 0.11 0.10 2 Baseline year 2011 56 The total carbon footprint for all Big Yellow activities in 2013 increased from the 2011 baseline year due to increased store occupancy, new store openings and extensions to our existing storage areas.
However, the same store emissions showed reductions in 2012 and 2013 when compared to the 2011 baseline year.
The wider measurement of Scope 1 and 2 carbon intensity performance per revenue, shows a more consistent reduction over the last three years.
We have complied with the following assurance requirements in our Report: used our financial control organisational boundary to identify our Scope 1 and 2 emissions: disclosed relevant information on absolute carbon and carbon intensity emissions: and provided relevant data that can be disclosed annually for comparison.
A peak energy use base year, depending on new store development and customer occupancy growth, was identified as the year ended 31 March 2011.
Further information on GHG emissions and on other sustainable initiatives at Big Yellow is provided in our Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
Donations Charitable donations totalling 25,000 2012: 20,000 were made to UK resident charities in the year.
The Group also provided free storage to certain selected charities during the year forgoing income of 530,000 2012: 526,000.
No political donations were made in either year.
The Group encourages employee involvement in charitable giving and frequently matches any amounts raised by individuals.
Key management have been allocated budgets to support local charitable causes and the community.
Substantial shareholdings On 20 May 2013, the Company had been notified, in accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency rules, of the following voting rights as a shareholder of the Company.
of rights and ordinary issued shares share capital FMR LLC 16,995,602 12.0% Directors 16,501,308 11.7% Old Mutual PLC 7,118,200 5.0% Blackrock Inc 6,620,239 4.7% AXA SA 6,578,222 4.7% Morgan Stanley Invs Mgmt Ltd 6,248,875 4.4% These holdings were unchanged from those that the Company had been notified of at 31 March 2013, with the exception of FMR LLC, whose holding at 31 March 2013 was 16,820,179, representing 11.9% of the issued share capital.
Employees Adrian Lee, Operations Director, has responsibility to the Board for all employee matters.
The Group seeks to ensure employee commitment to its objectives in a number of ways.
Strategic changes are communicated directly to all staff who are encouraged to address queries to the Executive Directors.
The Directors executive meetings are frequently held in stores and in addition Directors and senior management visit the stores on a regular basis.
Furthermore, there are regular team briefings at store level to provide employees with information about the performance of and initiatives in their store.
A wide range of information is also communicated across the Groups Intranet, including the epublication of the Groups financial results and all press releases, the publication of a quarterly newsletter, and the publication of a weekly operations bulletin.
The Group carries out annual surveys of employee satisfaction.
Employees are encouraged to participate in the Groups performance through Employee Share Schemes and performance related bonuses.
Customer service is a key priority of the Group and this is achieved through recruiting good people and investing in training and development leading to high levels of retention.
The Groups recruitment policy is committed to promote equality, judging neither by race, nationality, religion, age, gender, disability, sexual orientation, nor political opinion and to treat all stakeholders fairly.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
57 Directors Report continued Health and safety The Board recognises the importance of maintaining high standards of health and safety for everyone who may be affected by our business.
The Groups Health and Safety policy is reviewed on an ongoing basis.
It is applied in two distinct areas construction and operations.
The policy states that all employees have a responsibility for health and safety but that managers have special responsibilities.
Additional duties are placed on Adrian Lee, Operations Director, to keep the Board advised on health and safety issues, compliance with the policy in respect of construction activity and store operations respectively.
The Group has a Health and Safety Committee, which meets quarterly and comprises Adrian Lee and appointed managers.
They meet to discuss any issues that have been reported from meetings held at head office and the stores, and any construction sites.
In addition, the Group has appointed an external consultant to review policy and perform audits of stores on a rolling programme to ensure the implementation of the Groups Health and Safety policies.
Health and Safety audits are also carried out by external consultants on each construction site prior to the opening of a store.
A review of health and safety for the year is included within the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 52 and 53.
Annual General Meeting The notice for the 2013 Annual General Meeting is distributed as a separate document.
The meeting will be held at Holborn Bars, 138-142 Holborn, EC1N 2NQ on 19 July 2013.
Auditor and disclosure of information to auditor In respect of each Director of the Company, at the date when this report was approved, to the best of their knowledge and belief: so far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he might have reasonably been expected to take as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Auditor The auditor, Deloitte LLP has expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditor and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf of the Board Shauna Beavis Secretary 20 May 2013 58
