undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY: SHoRTTERm ACTIonS good leasing activity in tough markets SECuRIng InComE THRougH ASSET mAnAgEmEnT oFFICes our high-quality, well-designed buildings portfolio at 7.1% ahead of ERv.
our office We also made further good progress preletting continue to attract strong demand from investment portfolio has a high occupancy rate our new developments, with 200,000 sq ft prelet occupiers, both new and existing.
and our asset management activity over the year and under offer during the year.
our 2.3 million mainly focused on occupiers extending their sq ft committed office development programme We had another successful year with 778,000 leases, although there have also been a number of is now already 61% prelet or under offer.
sq ft of leasing activity within the investment lettings to new occupiers at our existing buildings.
7 78,000sq ft 7.1% 8.5m Investment lettings and extensions Compared to estimated rental value new contracted rent added from all new lettings and extensions London offices London offices lease extensIons lettIngs LEASE ExTENSIONS NEW OCCUPIERS Area sq ft Herbert Smith 315,000 sq ft and Area sq ft portfolio and 200,000 sq ft of F&C 54,000 sq ft extended their development pre-lets agreed Herbert smith 315,000 Itochu additional 6,000 long-term leases at Exchange or under offer.
F&C 54,000 Banco Itau additional 12,000 Square and 10 Exchange House and ICAP 174,000 Hill dickinson 39,000 we have agreed a minimum two year There have been a number of new Tullett Prebon PLC 66,000 nippon oil 15,000 extension with ICAP 174,000 sq ft occupiers at Broadgate Tower, at 12 Broadgate.
On average these including Itochu, Banco Itau and The majority of our activity has been We are continuing to see demand lease extensions improved the Hill Dickinson at rents accretive focused at Broadgate which continues for our space from high-quality average term on their leases by 7.4 to ERV.
The newly refurbished to maintain its position as the premier occupiers, attracted by the quality years, and were accretive to value.
199 Bishopsgate has seen good City of London office estate.
We have of our buildings and our high levels levels of interest with new occupiers seen many of our existing occupiers of customer service.
We are pleased Nippon Oil and two further floors commit to stay on the estate and have to see our occupier base diversifying under offer.
extended renewed 611,000 sq ft of into a broader industry mix.
In this leases as we continue to deliver what year, we have agreed 124,000 sq ft customers need.
of lettings across our investment 18 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 directors report and business review ovERvIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY ouR PERFoRmAnCE govERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEmEnTS And oTHER InFoRmATIon undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY: SHoRTTERm ACTIonS ReTAIL Fort kinnaird For many retailers, the inter-relationship We continued to leverage our strong between in store and online sales is relationships with our traditional retail becoming ever more blurred.
We signed next Home and garden need the same volume of space, but the at Camberley, the third in the country and need for the right space is as strong as major lettings to debenhams in Leamington ever.
With our portfolio heavily weighted Spa and Edinburgh.
to prime well-located properties this has been to our advantage.
We are improving the retail offer with new It has been an active year at Fort Kinnaird, trading formats and continue to take retailers our 510,000 sq ft retail park in Edinburgh.
We have been delighted with the continued such as Whole Foods and office outoftown Next has expanded and refitted its store volume and price of our leasing activity with for the first time.
increasing it to 38,000 sq ft. We have also lettings to 210 different occupiers and the tenth signed Outfit, the Arcadia brand, which will consecutive quarter of lettings ahead of ERv.
We are expanding our leisure offer, be new to the park.
Expanding retailers, In what has continued to be a tough market, we improving the overall customer experience Smyths Toys and Mamas & Papas have signed 1.1 million sq ft, 7.6% ahead of ERv and and upgrading the experiential element both opened new units and we have signed have a further 420,000 sq ft under offer.
49 food, beverage and leisure a pre-let with Debenhams, subject to assets have seen a great volume of activity, lettings and renewals were signed over the planning, for a 60,000 sq ft department particularly drake Circus in Plymouth where last 12 months and we have five cinemas store.
We are also significantly enhancing we have completed eight lettings including in the planning process or on site including the leisure offer.
We are under offer to a Bank, Ernest Jones and Apple which opened glasgow Forts leisure extension opening major cinema operator and several in April this year.
in July 2013. restaurants, again subject to planning.
1m sq ft 7.6% 5.4m Total lettings and renewals Compared to estimated rental value new contracted rent added from new lettings and renewals GLASGOW FORT Taking new retailers out-of-town DEBENHAMS First out-of-town lettings 2,800 sq ft Ofce, Leveraging strong relationships 825 sq ft Chisholm Hunter 40,000 sq ft at Leamington Spa and 60,000 sq ft at Fort Kinnaird TK MAXX Securing lease extensions MEADOWHALL 98,000 sq ft of lettings renewals including Attracting a premium consumer Lease renewals on Victorias Secret, Armani 54,000 sq ft of space at Exchange, Cath Kidston, Lego Crown Wharf, Walsall, Parkgate, and Carluccios lettings Rotherham and Glasgow Fort DRAKE CIRCUS, PLYMOUTH Broadening the tenant mix Apple, Bank, Ernest Jones, The Fragrance Shop and Everything Everywhere lettings NEXT Introducing new formats with our retail partners 59,000 sq ft of lettings including 43,000 sq ft Next Home and Garden letting third store directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 19 undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY: SHoRTTERm ACTIonS AddIng vALuE THRougH dEvELoPmEnT We made significant further progress in building out and preletting our committed development pipeline.
In the City, we reached practical completion at 199 Bishopsgate and our other three City developments remain on schedule to reach practical completion in the next two years.
In the West End, our current developments are reaching their conclusion, with all completing during 2013.
In Retail, our developments at Whiteley and glasgow Fort are also both due to open this year.
Following further preletting activity in recent months, our development programme is now 65% prelet or under offer.
See Portfolio review P4859 See Development www.
5 broadgate aspx# development 70 0,000 sQ ft COMPLETION: q4 2014 312M PROFIT DELIVERED TO DATE the leadenhall buIldIng whIteley hereford 61 0,000 sQ ft 32 0,000 sQ ft 3 10,000 sQ ft COMPLETION: q2 2014 COMPLETION: q2 2013 COMPLETION: q3 2014 All quarters relate to calendar years not financial years.
1030 brock street, 10 portman sQuare 39 vIctorIa street marble arch house regents place 13 4,000 sQ ft 93, 000 sQ ft 86, 000 sQ ft 50 0,000 sQ ft COMPLETION: q2 2013 COMPLETION: q3 2013 COMPLETION: q4 2013 COMPLETION: q2 2013 20 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 directors report and business review ovERvIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY ouR PERFoRmAnCE govERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEmEnTS And oTHER InFoRmATIon undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY: SHoRTTERm ACTIonS City office development the leadenhall buIldIng: a defInIng buIldIng for london designed by Rogers stirk Harbour Partners, a Joint venture between British Land and oxford Properties For more information http: www.
com 736 ft 224m high OFFICE OFFICE LET RECEPTION Mechanical Penthouse LIFTS RETAIL PLANT Tapered shape provides 610,000 sq ft variety of floor plate Total floor space sizes from 20,000 sq ft to 6,000 sq ft with spectacular views of London.
312M PROFIT DELIVERED TO DATE EXCELLENT BREEAM sustainability rating Amlin to occupy 95,000 sq ft levels 1924 and 45, with options to take up a further 53,000 sq ft. 50% Pre-let office space PROGRAMME Aon global headquarters  September 2011 191,000 sq ft levels 413. main construction started.
Galleria  Q2 2014 practical Seven-storey Galleria completion to shell space at the base covers and core.
Basement directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 21 undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY: SHoRTTERm ACTIonS next generation retail Hereford whIteley: the rIght type of space In a hIgh-QualIty envIronment 90 million forward funding 310,000 sq ft fashion and leisure scheme c. 50% already pre-let Debenhams, Waitrose, Next, Odeon and TK Maxx Yield on cost: over 7% 100 Liverpool street Whiteley opens on 23 may 2013.
Located Situated between the two harbour in Hampshire just one mile from cities of Portsmouth and Southampton Existing 380,000 sq ft building Junction 9 of the m27, the 320,000 sq ft and adjacent to an existing Tesco UBS lease break extended to 2016 next generation retail scheme comprises supermarket, the newly opened centre Crossrail station due to open 2018 over 50 units totalling 292,000 sq ft of will transform the existing scheme into retail space, 28,000 sq ft of restaurants, a significant shopping centre destination, cafs and other facilities and 1,500 car which will serve a large and affluent park spaces.
catchment of 1.2 million people with The Clarges estate an estimated 3.1 billion of potential designed by architect Corstophine spending power.
The catchment is set to and Wright, Whiteley represents the expand further in the foreseeable future latest in retail design incorporating with 3,500 new homes at north Whiteley.
dramatic double height retail units with oak panelling, centred around a new Whiteley is 91% let by rent and will be town square with highquality public anchored by marks & Spencer and next.
realm, landscaped areas and public It will feature a great range of some of art.
Extensive energy and sustainability the best retailers in the uK including features mean that Whiteley is the fashion brands Topshop, H&m and River first uK shopping centre to achieve Island.
other signed retailers include the BREEAm 2008 Excellent Jones Bootmaker, mamas & Papas, sustainability rating.
Almost 4,000 Paperchase, Schuh, Body Shop and people attended a recruitment day WH Smith.
In addition, ten units are in April 2013 for 1,000 jobs.
dedicated to restaurants and cafs, 129 million acquisition including Frankie & Bennys and Starbucks and seven units are reserved Major office residential development for local independent retailers, including opportunity a bakery, fruit shop, beauty parlour, Prime Mayfair location of around an acre, childrens shoe shop and cycle shop.
freehold site Revised planning application submitted For more information for 193,500 sq ft scheme www.
co. uk 22 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 directors report and business review ovERvIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY ouR PERFoRmAnCE govERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEmEnTS And oTHER InFoRmATIon undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY: SHoRTTERm ACTIonS REPLEnISHIng ouR dEvELoPmEnT PIPELInE We continue to see a shortage of space in our We have made good progress at the Clarges core markets and believe that we can generate Estate, which was acquired in July 2012. superior returns through accretive investment In march of this year, we reached agreement and development activity.
We are therefore with The Kennel Club to relocate and develop investing in future growth by replenishing our their new headquarters.
Just after the year development pipeline, as our existing committed end, we submitted a revised planning developments are all due to reach practical application, for a major new 193,500 sq ft At the Clarges Estate, completion in the next two years.
mixeduse scheme, which increases the we will create a residential element from 63,000 sq ft to Recent investments include the acquisition 94,000 sq ft, which we will develop and sell landmark building of the Clarges Estate, a major office and on completion.
It also includes a remodelled in the heart of residential development site in mayfair and office element, as well as the new, agreed the Hempel Hotel, a potential residential Kennel Club headquarters.
Mayfair and further development in Bayswater.
We have enhance British See development also acquired retail development sites www.
com our-propertiesin Lancaster and Hereford city centres.
aspx# development in the West End.
See P3435, 49, 56, 59 TIm RoBeRTs Head of offices at British Land 1, 966m sq ft Prospective development pipeline The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 23 MAYFAIR W1 LONDON undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY: SHoRTTERm ACTIonS recyclIng capItal to drIve growth SELLIng mATuRE ASSETS REInvESTIng In HIgHERgRoWTH oPPoRTunITIES.
during the year we have increased the pace In total in 2012 13, we sold 795 million of our recycling programme, selling our of mature assets at an average net initial more mature assets to redeploy capital into yield of 5.3%.
We have reinvested that capital new investments as well as into our existing into 544 million of new acquisitions in our committed developments.
core sectors, on a net initial yield of 6.3% for income generating assets, and into our highly It has been a busy year, with 1.6 billion of gross attractive committed development programme investment activity overall, including the sales of on an anticipated yield on cost of 8.8%.
Ropemaker Place and the Beehive Centre Retail Park in Cambridge, and the acquisitions of the Clarges Estate in mayfair, Eden Walk Shopping Centre in Kingston and the Ealing Broadway Shopping Centre.
3 CITY OFFICES SOLD The largest sale was Ropemaker Place, for 461 million after costs in March 2013 482 million 5 DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITIES ACQUIRED Primarily the Clarges Estate in London 23 RETAIL AND LEISURE and Retail Quarter in Hereford ASSETS SOLD 269 million This includes the Beehive Centre retail park, eight superstores, 6 RETAIL ASSETS ACQUIRED and HIF 243 million This includes three Greater London RESIDENTIAL SALES shopping centres, Kingston, Ealing Ongoing sales of residential and Surrey Quays properties as we manage our exposure 258 million 30 million Of our development pipeline 25 residential units sold 28 million 24 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 directors report and business review ovERvIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY ouR PERFoRmAnCE govERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEmEnTS And oTHER InFoRmATIon undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY: SHoRTTERm ACTIonS 795m Assets sold 5.
3% LuCIndA BeLL net initial yield on income Finance director producing assets sold 4.
5% Percentage above march 2012 valuation Q&A 544m leveragIng our scale to secure Assets bought access to competItIve capItal Q: How does British Land use financing 6.
A: during a time when banks had been net initial yield on income reducing their lending to property companies, producing assets bought we have raised 2.8 billion over the last two 3 CITY OFFICES SOLD years.
our access to flexible, low cost debt finance together with the recent share placing The largest sale was Ropemaker provides the firepower to exploit opportunities Place, for 461 million after costs Well-timed such as the Clarges Estate and Ealing in March 2013 Broadway Shopping Centre.
financing 482 million 5 DEVELOPMENT OPPORTUNITIES ACQUIRED Q: How do you think about leverage?
is further Primarily the Clarges Estate in London A: The amount of debt we employ is a very 23 RETAIL AND LEISURE and Retail Quarter in Hereford important judgement for us.
Leverage ASSETS SOLD diversifying 269 million enhances our property returns and we weigh up This includes the Beehive Centre the rewards from owning a larger portfolio with our sources retail park, eight superstores, the risks of having more debt.
The strong, high 6 RETAIL ASSETS ACQUIRED and HIF quality cash flows of our leases together with of funding.
243 million the quality of our debt book means we believe a This includes three Greater London RESIDENTIAL SALES LTv range of 40%50% is right for our business.
shopping centres, Kingston, Ealing LuCIndA BeLL Ongoing sales of residential and Surrey Quays Finance director properties as we manage our exposure Q: What made you take the decision 258 million to issue equity?
30 million A: We decided to issue equity because we Of our development pipeline are seeing an increasing flow of investment 25 residential units sold opportunities, many of which are in our core 28 million sectors and markets, where we will be able to use our scale and property, development and financing expertise to create value.
Q: What is your biggest financing challenge over the next year?
A: Because weve achieved a series of successful financings recently, our requirements are actually quite modest in the coming year.
However if we see interesting opportunities we will explore these.
So, I see our challenges as being more how the finance team can continue to add value to the business in other areas such as further developing our See our financing strategy risk sophistication and working on transactions www.
com where we have particularly strong corporate about-us our-business finance and structuring expertise.
 directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 25 undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY: SHoRTTERm ACTIonS g REEn BuILdIngS Add vALuE WE dESIgn SuSTAInABLE, FLEXIBLE BuILdIngS And WE mAnAgE THEm EFFICIEnTLY.
We believe that sustainable, flexible and There are growing indications to support our 1 efficiently managed buildings perform better view that sustainability and particularly energy financially over the long-term, for two key efficiency add value to assets in the longerterm.
We are convinced this will be proven over time.
1 I n our experience these buildings let more We have achieved 5.2 million energy and easily and occupiers are more willing to sign carbon cost savings for occupiers over the last long leases for this space, supporting the four years and have certified 4.9 million sq ft longterm cash flows that underpin our of space BREEAm Excellent for sustainability.
We are well on track to achieve our 40% 4.
9m sq ft reduction target in landlordinfluenced energy 2 S ustainable, flexible and efficient buildings use in our existing buildings by 2015, compared B ReeAm excellent for sustainability are less at risk from factors that can cause to 2009, a market leading target by some obsolescence.
stringent environmental regulations, changing occupier demands, and extreme weather, such as flooding.
Above: Following a comprehensive refurbishment, 199 Bishopsgate has achieved BREEAM Excellent, with a 60% more carbon efficient design than the original building.
26 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 directors report and business review ovERvIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY ouR PERFoRmAnCE govERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEmEnTS And oTHER InFoRmATIon undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY: SHoRTTERm ACTIonS Community See our corporate responsibility review P6061 For more information www.
com responsibility our communIty charter In actIon We want to be good neighbours local peoples concerns when managing WE dESIgn SuSTAInABLE, FLEXIBLE BuILdIngS wherever we operate and aim to our properties and considering implement our Community Charter development opportunities.
And WE mAnAgE THEm EFFICIEnTLY.
at all our major properties and developments by 2015.
In addition, we believe it makes us more likely to become the partner of This brings benefits to the people who choice for local authorities and others.
live near our assets, as we work with our planning proposals are also more them to help address local priorities, likely to be in tune with what local such as training, employment and communities want helping us achieve education.
It also helps us understand better quality planning permissions, more quickly.
Sustainability considerations inform all our investment decisions.
Choosing Regents Place as our EMEA headquarters allowed us to achieve the first BREEAM 2008 Excellent fit-out in the UK.
Lend LeAse, oCCuPIeR at 20 Triton street Our long-term partnership with The has provided valuable work experience Princes Trust has created opportunities to 160 local young people who were not for 225 disadvantaged young people in in education, employment or training.
For instance, our award- 60% have moved on to positive winning Get into Retail programme at outcomes soon afterwards, including St Stephens Shopping Centre in Hull employment and further training.
5.2m energy and carbon cost savings In summer 2012, over 100 local school professional artist, and took their over the last four years children created temporary artworks inspiration from the art and at Regents Place, as part of our architecture at Regents Place.
Around award-winning project with Camden 330 primary school children have 1 BREEAm is a registered trademark of BRE the Building School Improvement Service.
participated in Creative Curriculum Research Establishment Ltd. Community Trade mark The pupils worked alongside a since 2007.
The BREEAm marks, logos and symbols are the copyright of BRE and are reproduced by permission.
directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 27
