ovERvIEW undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY OUR PERFORMANCE govERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEmEnTS And oTHER InFoRmATIon ouR PERFoRmAnCE: FInAnCIAL PoLICIES And PRInCIPLES fInancIal polIcIes and prIncIples The scale of our business combined with the quality, security ouR FIve guIdIng PRInCIPLes and stability of our rental income and our management skills 1 Diversify our sources means that we are able to arrange finance on competitive of finance terms from a broad range of sources.
Here we outline our approach to financing, including our preferred level of gearing 2 Maintain liquidity and the five guiding principles that govern how we manage our debt portfolio.
3 Extend and stretch our approach maturity of debt portfolio At the heart of our approach to financing and resources to grow and develop the is the need to ensure that we have sufficient business.
In arranging and monitoring 4 Maintain flexibility competitively priced financing available our financing we include important risk to support our property strategy, operating disciplines, ensuring that all relevant within our stated gearing range.
To achieve risks are fully evaluated and managed.
this we have five guiding principles that govern the way we finance the business British Land uses debt to enhance 5 Maintain strong balance and manage its debt book.
good access sheet metrics to capital and the debt markets gives Finance contributes to the groups success, us a competitive advantage, allowing us most importantly by providing the liquidity to exploit opportunities when they arise.
gearing The gearing level adopted by the Board are rising from the low part of the cycle is a significant judgement as it impacts on gearing will be at a higher level in the range, the net asset value of the Company, the scale while when values are around the high point of British Land and the amount of debt that of the cycle gearing will be in the lower level can be comfortably sustained.
It is in the nature of real estate loan to value ratio debt as a percentage that transactions are often large in size which of the value of our assets, or LTv, to measure can cause large movements in loan to value our gearing.
our gearing is currently at the bottom end of our range, At British Land we have settled on a and is expected to increase as the monies preferred LTv range of between 40% raised from our share placing and the sale and 50% on a proportionally consolidated of Ropemaker Place in march 2013 are basis i. e. including our share of joint reinvested, and with continuing expenditure ventures and funds.
At 31 march 2013, this on our development programme.
British Land has a competitive advantage In choosing this range of gearing the Board as, by leveraging our scale through joint has weighed up the returns we get from ventures and funds financed with nonrecourse owning more property through borrowing debt, the LTv at 40.2% on a proportionally to buy property against the risks that debt consolidated basis is higher than the group necessarily entails.
The range reflects the measure for our unsecured lenders, which is strength of our operational business, the less than 25%.
We can operate with a higher reliability of our cash flows, the way in which level of proportionally consolidated LTv we manage our debt book and, in particular, without taking unnecessary risk in terms our refinancing risk.
of our unsecured credit profile.
overall, and subject to transaction activity, we aim to manage the level of gearing over the property cycle such that when values directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 69 4050% our LTv range 40.2% our LTv at 31 march 2013 t b e S d e p c u o u 1 r. r 6 G i t b i i s l l n a i t o o t i i n b 0.5 billion o l l e n i USPP d b s k 1 n. a 2 b 0.4 billion d bond e n r w Convertible u a D c a n e e r d s d 1 0.2 billion b n l. n o 0 e U Drawn a U b n i n l t l i u n o o r n t e e s s ouR PERFoRmAnCE: FInAnCIAL PoLICIES And PRInCIPLES ouR FIvE guIdIng PRInCIPLES ouR FIve guIdIng PRInCIPLes 1 dIversIfy our sources of fInance 1 Diversify our sources We borrow from a large number of lenders, gRouP of finance and have a total of 45 debt providers of bank Shorterterm financing by the group is facilities and private placements alone.
The principally unsecured debt of British Land, scale and quality of the groups business raised through bilateral and syndicated 2 Maintain liquidity enables us to access a broad range of secured unsecured revolving bank facilities.
These and unsecured, recourse and nonrecourse credit facilities are based on relationships debt markets.
We arrange our finances so as with a wide range of banks, reducing reliance to be able to choose between different types on any particular lender.
At 31 march 2013, 3 Extend and stretch of debt to suit our own and, where appropriate, 19 different financial institutions from nine our partners needs within the constraints of countries provided finance to the group via maturity of debt portfolio our borrowing covenants.
We aim to maintain bilateral or syndicated facilities totalling a balance between longerterm and shorter 2.3 billion at floating interest rates based term financings.
on LIBoR plus an average margin of 82 bps 4 Maintain flexibility or 0.82% per annum: of this 0.2 billion was drawn at the year end at an average margin deBT PRoFILe of 43 bps or 0.43% per annum.
PRoPoRTIonALLy ConsoLIdATed As AT 31 mARCH 2013 5 Maintain strong balance medium to longerterm financing comprises public and private bond issues, including sheet metrics private placements, convertibles and debentures.
The unsecured funding with recourse to British Land includes uS private placements, issued in full at fixed rates, requiring no amortisation and with terms up to 14 years.
Secured debt with recourse to British Land is provided by debentures at fixed interest rates with long maturities and no amortisation.
debentures without recourse to British Land comprise two fixed rate debentures of 73 million in total.
We also aim to ensure that potential debt JoInT venTuRes And Funds providers understand our business and we our joint ventures and funds are each financed adopt a transparent approach so that lenders in ringfenced structures without recourse can understand the level of their exposure to British Land.
External debt in total of within the overall context of the group.
We 5.0 billion 2011 12: 5.4 billion has been ensure that we operate within the relevant arranged through securitisation or bank covenants of our facilities and we have a senior debt according to the requirements of the unsecured debt rating of A from Fitch, business of each venture.
These factors increase our attractiveness to lenders, and since April 2012 we have arranged 1.2 billion British Land share 1.0 billion of new facilities from banks, insurers and the convertible bond.
70 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 directors report and business review t d b n n e a o d e i l r k l u i n t s b n a d e b 8 n v. u t d 0 f n n i d o u n J f a s e r u t n e v t n i o j e s r u o c e r n o N ovERvIEW undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY OUR PERFORMANCE govERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEmEnTS And oTHER InFoRmATIon ouR PERFoRmAnCE: FInAnCIAL PoLICIES And PRInCIPLES 2 maIntaIn lIQuIdIty 4 maIntaIn flexIbIlIty We aim to always have a good arising from the difference We negotiate flexibility into our of our expected requirements level of undrawn, available, between borrowing and deposit debt facilities and our bank to ensure we always have unsecured revolving bank rates while reducing credit revolving credit facilities provide adequate financing availability facilities.
At 31 march 2013 full flexibility of drawing and and to support future business financial liquidity, reduce the need we had cash and undrawn repayment at short notice without requirements.
operational to hold liquid resources in cash facilities of 2.2 billion.
These provide flexibility is maintained with our and deposits, and minimise costs valuable operational support, are combination of unsecured arranged with standard terms revolving debt and secured and financial covenants and are term debt with good substitution committed for terms of generally rights, where we have the five years.
We arrange these ability to move assets in and revolving credit facilities in excess out of our debentures.
2.2bn our cash and undrawn facilities 3 extend and stretch maturIty of debt portfolIo 5 maIntaIn strong balance sheet metrIcs The maturity profile of our debt over a long period: taking into British Lands operational metrics The strength of our debt portfolio is managed by spreading the account undrawn facilities and are strong.
The strength of our and low refinancing risk is repayment dates and extending cash as well as committed property portfolio is emphasised illustrated by the range within facilities, and by monitoring the development expenditure, we are by the longevity and quality of our 12 months to 23 years of our debt various debt markets so that comfortably ahead of our two year cash flows, with long average maturities: our diversified pool of we have the ability to act quickly refinancing date horizon.
during outstanding lease lengths 10.7 finance confirming our avoidance to arrange new finance at the last year the new facilities years : high occupancy 96.8% : of reliance on single debt sources: advantageous rates as raised had maturities averaging the inbuilt growth of our portfolio our efficiency with a low average opportunities arise.
The average length of 25.5% with fixed or RPI linked cost of debt of 4.6%: our interest maturities are well spread our debt maturities is 9.9 years.
uplifts : low levels of lease cover of 2.3 times proportionally expiries over the next three years consolidated: our use of non 9.6% of income : and reduced recourse debt: and operational levels of development risk with flexibility, supported by our 49 million already contracted continued success at raising future income from prelets.
9.9 years 4.6% our average debt maturity our weighted average interest rate directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 71 ouR PERFoRmAnCE: FInAnCIAL PoLICIES And PRInCIPLES BoRRoWIngS And CovEnAnTS, And oTHER PoLICIES monIToRIng ouR LTv And deBT The use of derivatives is managed by a We administer the tax compliance for 468 We monitor our projected LTv and our debt derivatives committee.
The interest rate companies covering group and joint ventures requirement using several key internally management of joint ventures and funds and funds 383 uK companies and 85 overseas generated reports focused principally on is addressed by each entity for its business.
companies : details of which are shown in our borrowing levels, debt maturity, covenant annual return filed with Companies House headroom and interest rate exposure.
We also The groups exposure to derivative on 28 February 2013. undertake sensitivity analysis to assess the counterparties is monitored on a regular impact of proposed transactions, movements basis, as are their external credit ratings.
HmRC have awarded us a Low Risk tax rating in interest rates and changes in property which is in part a reflection of our REIT status values on the key balance sheet, liquidity and FoReIgn CuRRenCy exPosuRe together with our transparent approach where profitability ratios.
our policy is to have no material unhedged we keep them informed.
Also, we maintain a net assets or liabilities denominated in foreign regular dialogue with HmRC and, in complex In assessing our ongoing debt requirements, currencies.
The currency risk on overseas areas where there is a range of ways in which including those of our development programme, investments is hedged via foreign currency a transaction could be undertaken, we seek we consider potential downside scenarios denominated borrowings and derivatives.
clearance from HmRC for what we do.
We also such as an unexpected fall in valuations and the When attractive terms are available to do so, discuss with HmRC potential or proposed effect that might have on our covenants and the the group may choose to borrow in freely changes in the taxation system that might affect potential impact on the differing categories of available currencies other than sterling.
us, particularly those relating to REIT legislation.
The group fully hedges its foreign currency risk on such borrowings.
In the year to 31 march 2013, British Land paid We monitor the credit standing of our more than 200 million in tax to HmRC.
on top counterparties to minimise our risk exposure our overseas assets are held in Spain, Portugal, of that, our investments bring wider economic to deposits placed.
Italy and France and total 255 million our and social benefits.
They are hedged by borrowings of equal calculated for British Land the impact its mAnAgIng ouR InTeResT RATe exPosuRe amounts in euros from a range of British, 2.1 billion development programme is having We manage our interest rate exposure and risk german and other European banks.
on communities across the uK.
Between 2011 independently from our debt exposure.
The and 2015, British Land will have contributed Board sets an appropriate maximum level of TAx 1.2 billion in terms of gross value Added sensitivity of underlying earnings and cash flows Being a Real Estate Investment Trust REIT to the uK economy and created 32,300 jobs to movements in market rates of interest over British Land does not pay tax on its property through its construction projects.
For every a rolling fiveyear period.
The proportion of fixed income or gains on property sales, provided that 1 million British Land spends on construction, rate debt required to remain within the target we distribute as a dividend at least 90% of our it generates an estimated 31 jobs.
sensitivity varies with the levels of gearing and property income to shareholders, which interest cover.
becomes taxable in their hands.
In addition, we have to meet certain conditions such as ensuring our debt finance is raised at both fixed and our property rental business represents more variable rates.
derivatives primarily interest than 75% of our total profits and assets.
We do rate swaps are used to achieve the desired pay tax on overseas property income, which is interest rate profile across proportionally subject to taxation in the relevant jurisdiction.
Currently 85% of Any uK income that does not qualify as property projected net debt including our share of joint income within the REIT rules such as fees and ventures and funds is at fixed rate over the interest is subject to tax in the normal way.
We also collect vAT and withholding tax on the dividends, as well as employment taxes, on behalf of HmRC.
72 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 directors report and business review ovERvIEW undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY OUR PERFORMANCE govERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEmEnTS And oTHER InFoRmATIon ouR PERFoRmAnCE: FInAnCIAL PoLICIES And PRInCIPLES gRouP BoRRoWIngs These covenants, which have been consistently The unencumbered Assets of the group, Shorterterm financing by the group is raised agreed with all unsecured lenders since 2003, not subject to any security, stood at 4.3 billion principally through bilateral and syndicated are: as at 31 march 2013. unsecured revolving bank facilities with a a net Borrowings not to exceed 175% wide range of banks.
unsecured medium and Although secured assets are excluded from of Adjusted Capital and Reserves: and longerterm finance is also arranged in private unencumbered Assets for the covenant placements and convertible bonds, issued at fixed b net unsecured Borrowings not to exceed calculations, unsecured lenders benefit from rates of interest with no amortisation.
The same 70% of unencumbered Assets.
the surplus value of these assets above the unsecured financial covenants apply across related debt and the free cash flow from them.
each of the groups unsecured facilities.
no income interest cover ratios apply to these during the year ended 31 march 2013, these facilities, and there are no other unsecured assets generated 43 million of surplus cash debt financial covenants in the group.
In addition, while investments in joint ventures do not form part of unencumbered Assets, our share of profits generated by these ventures are regularly CovenAnT RATIo passed up to the group.
At 31 march 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 1 Secured debt with recourse to British Land is net unsecured Borrowings to unencumbered Assets 6% 14% 25% 34% 23% provided by longerterm debentures at fixed 2 net Borrowings to Adjusted Capital and Reserves 83% 37% 36% 44% 31% interest rates with no amortisation.
The 0.9 billion of debentures issued by British Land Highest during the year to 31 march 2013: 1 40%: and 2 50%.
are secured against a single combined pool of assets with common covenants: the value of those assets is required to cover the amount of these debentures by a minimum of 1.5 times and net rental income must cover the interest at least once.
We use our rights under the debentures to withdraw, substitute or add properties or cash collateral in the security pool, in order to manage these cover ratios effectively and deal with any asset sales.
BoRRoWIngs In ouR JoInT venTuRes And Funds The debt in our joint ventures and funds is income must cover interest and scheduled arranged without recourse to British Land for amortisation 1 times : there are no loan to value repayment and secured on the assets of the covenants.
These securitisations provide for relevant entity, where gearing can often be quarterly principal repayments with the balance satisfactorily maintained at a higher level than outstanding reducing to approximately group debt.
20%30% of the original amount raised by expected final maturity, thus mitigating of external debt totalling 5.0 billion 2011 12: refinancing risk.
5.4 billion in our joint ventures and funds, 63% is provided by long dated securitisations.
other debt arrangements with banks and other lenders include loan to value ratio covenants The securitisations of the Broadgate Estate with levels ranging from 40%90%: and most 1,812 million, meadowhall 768 million have rental income to interest or debt service and the Sainsburys Superstores portfolio cover requirements.
There is no obligation 610 million, have weighted average on British Land to remedy any breach of these maturities of 14.0 years, 12.2 years, and 8.6 covenants and any remedy needed would years respectively.
The only financial covenant be considered by the parties on a caseby applicable to these securitisations is that case basis.
directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 73
