undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY: ouR STRATEgY ALIgnmenT WITH RemuneRATIon our strategy Remuneration of our Executive directors and employees is aligned to the groups strategic development and the financial performance of the ouR STRATEgIC PRIoRITIES guIdE business.
All Executive directors and employees performance is measured against our KPIs which THE dECISIonS And ACTIonS WE are aligned to our strategic priorities.
TAKE To dRIvE ouR PERFoRmAnCE.
property performance grow income grow value Incremental value prIorItIes We focus on uK retail and London dominate their catchment areas.
our offices because they are large In offices, we operate across and liquid markets with the best London but with an increasing long-term growth potential for rents and emphasis on infrastructure capital values.
decIsIons Across our portfolio, we are The security and stability of our our macro calls on property increasing our exposure to business means we are able to cycles, our sector and asset London and the South East in invest in highly profitable activities selection and our capital particular, reflecting its growing such as development.
status as one of the most for incremental activity such important cities in the world.
In as development, repositioning, Retail, we are focusing on owning buying and selling properties and creating the best experiential, to meaningfully add to the returns convenience or functional we generate for our shareholders.
shopping destinations which our RenT seCuRed THRougH PRe-LeTs short-term actIons 49m The individual actions we take which support our long-term decisions.
sHARPenIng ouR FoCus deveLoPIng THe RIgHT on InCome sPACe To sATIsFy demAnd seCuRIng THe RIgHT deALs Our focus on creating the right We are one of only a few companies We are able to do smart deals environments and world-class with the financial resources and because we have the expertise and customer service means we expertise to have been able to financial firepower to take on more continue to attract and retain exploit the shortage of high-quality complex transactions and have a occupiers even in todays difficult space in retail and London offices.
proven track record meaning people markets.
At Broadgate, we have Our early decision to start a major trust us.
This means we have been extended 1.5 million sq ft of development programme in 2010 able to take advantage of the leases with existing occupiers and has already delivered significant increased flow of attractive signed 0.1 million sq ft of leases value to shareholders with opportunities coming to market for new space over the last two 49 million of rent already secured over the last year.
All of this has helped through pre-lets and a capital include the Clarges Estate, an keep occupancy high 96.8% and value uplift of 312 million, exciting office residential leases long 10.7 years.
equivalent to a 31.2 pence development in Mayfair, Ealing contribution to our net asset Broadway Shopping Centre and two value per share.
in-town retail leisure developments in Hereford and Lancaster.
Property returns See KPIs P2829 how we gross income growth development commitment See Remuneration Policy measure Customer satisfaction P9499 ourselves 16 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 directors report and business review ovERvIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY ouR PERFoRmAnCE govERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEmEnTS And oTHER InFoRmATIon undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY: ouR STRATEgY mAnAgIng RIsk We evaluate the external environment to set out our risk appetite and determine our longterm decisions accordingly.
We ensure that the results of our shortterm actions fall within acceptable thresholds of our key risk indicators.
See managing risk in delivering our strategy P4247 corporate people use scale to our advantage spend wisely A great place to work Scale is increasingly important It helps us keep our operating our people are one of our We believe that staff to our business in a number costs low so that we generate major assets and we aim engagement is important to of ways.
more profit for every pound of to attract and retain the best the success of our business.
rent we collect versus our peers.
people, whose efforts, skill and The scale and breadth of our judgement we can leverage business both gives us a broader And along with the quality of our across our extensive portfolio.
understanding of our markets, cash flows, scale ensures we and means we have been have good access to debt finance able to build strong longterm at competitive rates.
The way we relationships with our occupiers.
manage our debt book and our ability to access new finance is a competitive advantage.
RAIsed FRom ConveRTIBLe Bond Issue 400m WoRkIng As A TeAm WeLL-TImed FInAnCIng InTeRnsHIPs CommunITy dAy We have been working closely with We actively look to take advantage Over the last three years, 14 Some 163 members of our Debenhams across their business, of demand and pricing opportunities exceptional individuals have joined management team and staff took providing them not only with exciting across different debt markets our internship programme, part in our first Community Day, new retail space but also a new to diversify our sources of finance pursuing opportunities in strategy, each choosing one of ten different head office.
Later this year, they will and keep our financing costs low.
sustainability and records opportunities near our key London move into our new 10 Brock Street In September 2011 we raised management.
Over 90% said it had development at Regents Place, $480 million in the US private have all gone on to be successful increased their pride in the allowing them to bring all their head placement market and in in their next roles, particularly Company and was an effective team office staff under one roof for the September 2012, having tracked value spending time with our building activity.
Over the past year they the strong investor appetite for management team, gaining insights our staff took part in community have committed to opening 100,000 corporate convertible bonds, into our sector and receiving career activities in work time this year, up sq ft of new space at two of our we issued a five year 400 million support.
In turn, our internship from 42% last year.
We also offered largest retail parks and we are convertible bond with a coupon programme helps us attract a wider more skills-based opportunities, working with them on a major of 1.5%.
pool of talent to our sector and such as mentoring.
refurbishment of their flagship brings new enthusiasm and ideas store on Oxford Street.
Total accounting return See KPIs A great place to work See Remuneration Policy P2829 P9499 Loan to value dow Jones Sustainability Cost control Index Score See Remuneration Policy Financing costs P9499 directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 17
