undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY: ABouT ouR BuSInESS about our busIness BRITISH LAnd IS A LEAdIng EuRoPEAn REAL ESTATE InvESTmEnT TRuST We own or manage over 16.4 billion of mainly uK properties making us one of the largest listed managers of property in Europe.
We are a uk-focused business the largest ouR vALues listed manager of retail properties in the 16.4bn uk and a significant operator in the London InTegRITy office market.
Around two thirds of the assets We do what is right British land owned or managed properties we manage are in joint ventures or property funds.
Taking into account only our share not what is easy.
of these joint ventures and funds, our gross assets are 10.5 billion.
10.5bn ouR APPRoACH one TeAm We run an outsourced operating model, Working collaboratively with our share of assets focusing only on the most highly skilled and valueadding activities across the business both internal and external in asset management, finance, investment stakeholders.
So, for the size of portfolio we manage, we are a small Company in terms ReITs As PRoPeRTy InvesTmenTs of headcount with around 215 permanent exCeLLenCe REITs are an established property asset employees.
We are the best we can be class with an estimated 35 countries around the world having REIT or REIT like regimes.
A combination of what we do and how we do it, and have a growth mindset.
is key to our ability to create longterm value The uS is by far the largest REIT market measured and is at the heart of the British Land brand by market capitalisation of companies listed.
This is reflected in the quality of the The uK is the fifth largest market.
buildings and environments we create: the CommeRCIAL ACumen quality of the people we employ who are We take the lead in our field.
specialists in their fields: our highly customer BReAkdoWn oF gLoBAL ReIT mARkeTs centric approach: our interaction with partners: our responsible approach to 13% developing and managing properties: the close links we establish with local communities: 5% the transparency of our communication with See What we do investors and other stakeholders: and the P23 5% emphasis we place on staff engagement.
See our markets doing the right thing is fundamental to the Total P1213 way we do business and ensures that our c. 560 billion 7% brand is trusted and valued by our stakeholders.
The way in which we do business is guided by our four values shown on the right.
60% 10% By ensuring we live by these values, we are able to differentiate British Land and deliver US REITs Rest of World REITs a brand with which people and organisations Australia REITs UK REITs want to engage.
Japan REITs Europe REITs Source: EPRA.
30 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 directors report and business review ovERvIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY ouR PERFoRmAnCE govERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEmEnTS And oTHER InFoRmATIon undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY: ABouT ouR BuSInESS ouR PRoPeRTy PoRTFoLIo BReAkdoWn oF ouR PoRTFoLIo PoRTFoLIo ReTuRns ReLATIve To IPd our portfolio is focused on high-quality assets in sectors with long-term growth 4.3% 12 months 310 bps 0.8% potential uk Retail and London offices.
360 bps 23.9% 17.9% Within these sectors, our focus is on prime 3 years 240 bps assets highquality buildings in the right 290 bps locations which meet the current and future needs of occupiers.
They consistently attract 5 years 180 bps highquality occupiers willing to sign longterm 240 bps leases on favourable terms.
We believe that Source: Investment Property Databank.
prime assets, underpinned by sustainable and 16.7% growing rental income, over time will perform Total return 12.4% Capital return better than average or poorer quality property.
The balance of our portfolio principally consists 2.4% See our portfolio review of properties being developed or being held for 17.1% 4.5% P4859 future development.
OFFICES RETAIL our aim is to create properties with enduring City Offices Retail parks West End Offices Superstores appeal to occupiers, by virtue of their location, Provincial Shopping centres design, overall costs to occupy, environment Department stores and the way in which they are managed and Other Europe maintained.
We aim to provide occupiers with properties which satisfy their current needs and anticipate their future needs and are mAJoR AsseTs environments in which they and the local communities they work among can thrive.
At 31 march 2013 British Land share Sq ft Rent occupancy Lease 1 2 3 excluding developments % 000 m pa rate % length years 400 our focus on prime property has delivered Broadgate, London EC2 50 4,009 175 95.9 7.8 consistent outperformance against the broader Regents Place, London nW1 100 1,210 49 95.9 8.0 300 property market in recent years, as measured meadowhall Shopping Centre, Sheffield 50 1,374 82 98.0 9.0 by IPd.
Sainsburys Superstores 52 2,864 67 1020 0.0 0 16.2 Tesco Superstores 50 2,659 60 100.0 15.1 100 Teesside Shopping Park, StocktononTees, 100 451 14 93.1 7.6 drake Circus Shopping Centre, Plymouth 100 570 15 97.9 7.2 0 debenhams, oxford Street 100 363 16 100.0 26.0 12 months 3 years 5 years Ealing Broadway Shopping Centre 100 406 11 97.8 7.7 Total return Capital return 1 Annualised contracted rent including 100% of joint ventures York House, W1 100 132 5 100.0 4.7 Source: Investment Property Databank and funds.
glasgow Fort Shopping Park 41 442 16 99.9 6.6 2 Includes accommodation under offer or subject to asset St Stephens Shopping Centre, Hull 100 410 9 99.4 7.4 management.
oCCuPIeRs RePResenTIng oveR 0.5% oF RenT At 31 march 2013 % of total rent % of total rent % of total rent Tesco plc 7.7 marks & Spencer Plc 1.3 mayer Brown 0.8 Sainsbury group 6.2 Royal Bank of Scotland plc 1.3 mothercare 0.7 debenhams 4.4 Hutchison Whampoa 1.3 Hennes 0.7 uBS Ag 3.7 Asda group 1.2 ICAP Plc 0.7 Home Retail group 2.9 House of Fraser 1.1 Lend Lease 0.7 Hm government 2.6 new Look 1.0 Jd Sports 0.7 Kingfisher B&Q 2.3 Sports direct 1.0 Credit Agricole 0.6 virgin Active 2.2 Aegis group 0.9 Carlson TgI Fridays 0.6 Arcadia group 2.2 JP morgan 0.9 Henderson 0.6 next plc 2.2 Reed Smith 0.9 Lewis Trust River Island 0.6 Spirit group 1.7 C&W Plc Cable & Wireless Plc 0.8 Primark 0.6 Alliance Boots 1.5 TJX Cos Inc TK maxx 0.8 Pets at Home 0.6 dSg International 1.5 gazprom 0.8 Herbert Smith 1.4 deutsche Bank Ag 0.8 directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 31 undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY: ABouT ouR BuSInESS See Retail about our busIness contInued www.
com our-properties retail# retail ouR uk ReTAIL PRoPeRTIes Teesside Retail Park glasgow Fort Retail Park We are the largest listed retail landlord in the uk with 189 individual assets.
our portfolio of 24 million sq ft of retail space is focused on properties in highquality retail locations and includes 69 retail parks, 91 superstores, 16 shopping centres, 9 department stores and 4 high street units.
Teesside Shopping Park near Stockton-on-Tees Glasgow Fort Shopping Park, a 395,000 sq ft We create the right environment where people has 46 units covering 410,000 sq ft.
It attracts scheme just outside Glasgow, is one of the want to shop and where retailers can thrive.
around ten million shoppers every year and is pre-eminent shopping parks in the UK with annual What many of our assets have in common home to some of the best known retailers in the footfall of around 12 million people.
Key occupiers is that they are locally dominant, and provide UK including Marks & Spencer, Arcadia, Boots, include Zara, Topshop, Next, River Island and retailers with modern, affordable and flexible WH Smith and River Island.
In response to consumer demand, a units in environments where people want to in the year include Footasylum, O2 and Carphone significant extension providing a multiplex cinema shop and increasingly spend their leisure time.
Warehouse and Schuh is going to open a new and a range of family oriented restaurants will out-of-town format at the park shortly.
be completed later this year.
Because our portfolio has flexible planning consents this means we can adapt our properties to a wide range of trading formats, Food superstores meadowhall shopping Centre allowing us to actively manage our portfolio and deliver the most attractive space to both retailers and consumers.
Our superstores are primarily held in joint Meadowhall Shopping Centre is the fourth largest ventures with Tesco and Sainsburys.
We have 36 super regional shopping centre in the UK.
It is Sainsburys stores and 41 Tesco stores.
In total, owned in a 50:50 joint venture with Norges Bank.
our stand-alone foodstores occupy 6 million sq ft There are around 280 shops which provide of accommodation 3 million sq ft our share approximately 1.5 million sq ft of retail space with an average gross store size of 63,000 sq ft. to a broad range of international, national and During the year Tesco extended or refurbished local retail and leisure brands.
It attracts 24 2 4m sq ft 16 stores in our joint venture portfolio.
In the million shoppers every year.
Recent retailers year, Sainsburys extended stores in Croydon taking space include Victorias Secret, Lego, uk Retail space and Northampton and undertook store Cath Kidston and Carluccios.
refurbishments in Hereford and Sheffield.
drake Circus shopping Centre debenhams, oxford street 9 7.4% uk Retail occupancy 9.8bn uk assets under management Drake Circus, bought in 2011 and located in the Debenhams, Oxford Street is a flagship 367,000 sq ft British Land share 6.1 billion centre of Plymouth, is the West Countrys most store close to Bond Street tube station in the heart popular shopping destination, attracting around of Londons most popular shopping destination.
The 18 million shoppers every year.
The modern department store is currently being revitalised using uk Retail portfolio centre, which was opened in 2006, covers 560,000 an innovative over-cladding system that will create 41% Retail Parks sq ft and includes Marks & Spencer, Primark, a captivating interactive faade in keeping with the Boots, Next and Topshop among its biggest sites prominent location next to the upgraded 30% shopping centres retailers.
Bond Street underground and Crossrail station.
21% superstores Completion is scheduled for November 2013.
8% department stores 32 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 directors report and business review ovERvIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY ouR PERFoRmAnCE govERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEmEnTS And oTHER InFoRmATIon undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY: ABouT ouR BuSInESS See offices www.
com our-properties offices# offices ouR oFFICe PRoPeRTIes broadgate We are a significant operator in the London office market with 6 million sq ft of modern, Broadgate Broadgate Tower high-quality, well located offices.
We have an attractive mix of highquality buildings in wellmanaged environments, and a pipeline of development projects that will add significant floor space.
our portfolio is located in the City and West End and comprises investments including Broadgate, the premier City office estate 50% share and Regents Broadgate, is the premier office estate in the City Place in the West End.
totalling 4 million sq ft of office, retail and leisure which has been built around Liverpool Street our aim is to create properties with enduring Station, the Citys main transport hub and will appeal to occupiers, by virtue of their location, benefit from a new Crossrail station in 2018.
Covering 30 acres, it is made up of 16 independent design, overall costs to occupy, environment buildings set around four landscaped squares and the way in which they are managed and with around 60 restaurants, pubs, wine bars, maintained.
We focus on worldclass property shops and health clubs.
Over 950,000 sq ft of the management, covering everything from estate has been developed over the past four The 33-storey 395,000 sq ft Broadgate Tower is estate services to the development of new years.
We have recently refurbished 199 the Citys fourth tallest building rising to a height buildings.
our customer focus helps us retain Bishopsgate and are currently redeveloping of 165m 540 ft and offering stunning views of the and attract occupiers to our properties.
5 Broadgate which will add 700,000 sq ft of new London skyline.
The offices are now 93% occupied Companies are willing to commit to long leases modern space.
Broadgate is owned in a 50:50 joint by a range of occupiers including Reed Smith, for the right building and landlord relationship.
venture with Blackstone, the private equity group.
Hill Dickinson and Banco Itau.
regents place 6 m sq ft Regents Place 20 Triton street office space 9 6.3% Regents Place, is a 13-acre mixed-use office estate occupancy in a prominent position at the north end of Londons West End, which we have progressively developed over the last 25 years.
The estate today, consists of 1.2 million sq ft, including six independent office buildings alongside residential, restaurants, shops and leisure units.
Like Broadgate, it also has 5.4bn excellent transport links with four tube and two mainline railway stations close by.
Construction Assets under management of 1030 Brock Street to provide 500,000 sq ft mixed British Land share 3.7 billion office and residential development is nearing 20 Triton Street forms part of the most recent completion in summer 2013.
This development will development phase at Regents Place and provides complete Regents Place, which will increase to 254,000 sq ft of Grade A accommodation over nine London office portfolio some 1.7 million sq ft, providing accommodation floors.
The building is now 93.8% let to occupiers 48% City for 14,000 workers and residents.
including Gazprom and Lend Lease.
52% West end ResIdenTIAL we focus on highend luxury properties and before schemes complete.
We currently have British Land has a long history of owning, have completed a number of successful a total residential portfolio of 383 million.
managing, developing and financing schemes over recent years, as owneroccupier residential property assets.
and investor demand has been and remains In addition, we also manage a 270 million strong.
We are looking to selectively increase residential portfolio on behalf of a thirdparty Residential plays an important role in our office our exposure to the residential sector in London, Trust.
This generates some fee income developments in the West End and is also a although our business model is to recycle and provides further insight into the London profitable business in its own right.
In London capital very quickly, as we develop and sell residential market for British Land.
directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 33 undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY: ABouT ouR BuSInESS about our busIness contInued ouR deveLoPmenTs our committed pipeline Broadgate Circle to improve the public space development forms a key part of our In recent years, a shortage of highquality and enhance the food and retail offer.
This forms overall activity and we regularly undertake space combined with a lack of finance has made part of an ongoing investment programme major development and refurbishment development more attractive, particularly in to revitalise and evolve Broadgate to a more programmes.
during 2010 11, we started a major vibrant, mixeduse estate appealing to a greater generally considered higher risk than those development programme, committing early into variety of occupiers.
The Leadenhall Building, available from existing income producing a strong cyclical upturn in development returns.
a striking 610,000 sq ft tower sitting next to the properties.
The risk arises from the length our programme was focused on delivering 2.3 Lloyds Building, is already attracting high of time the development takes from inception million sq ft of offices along with 104 residential quality insurance occupiers.
In the West End, our to completion and the potential uncertainty units into a supply constrained London market.
biggest development is at Regents Place where of finding an occupier.
The degree to which Today, we have 1.4 billion of capital committed we have nearly completed 500,000 sq ft of a property is let during the development to developments equivalent to around 14% offices, residential and retail.
Just north of process is an important factor in evaluating of our total gross assets.
The capital committed oxford Street, in an area which is being the risk of doing development.
We distinguish includes the latest market value of the regenerated by investment, we have completed our development activities into those that are development plus the estimated costs to 10 Portman Square and we are well advanced fully committed and underway and potential complete, including financing costs.
In 2012, with marble Arch House.
We started work on the or prospective developments which may we completed, a 1.4 million sq ft shopping centre major refurbishment of 39 victoria Street during be activated at some point in the future.
in Zaragoza Spain which opened 90% let and a the year.
We also have a number of smaller 142,000 sq ft office refurbishment in the City, 199 highend residential projects in the West End.
Today, we have a significant committed Bishopsgate which recently completed its first development programme which will complete letting and has a further two floors under offer.
In Retail, Whiteley opens at the end of may.
Because we remain This 320,000 sq ft retail scheme is over 90% positive on the outlook for development returns, In London we have seven office projects prelet.
At glasgow Fort a 45,000 sq ft cinema we are replenishing our pipeline and expect currently underway three in the City and four and restaurant extension which is fully prelet to commit to a number of new projects during in the West End.
In the City at Broadgate, we are will also open in July this year.
Construction the course of the coming year with the aim building a new 700,000 sq ft building on a 18.2 is also underway at the retail development in of maintaining our development exposure at year lease for uBS, our largest existing occupier Hereford where we have a funding agreement around current levels but not exceeding 15% on the estate.
We are also redeveloping the in place with Stanhope.
1 From 1 April 2013 to practical completion.
5 A further 4.4 million of prelets were under offer at the year end including a 3.0 million letting 2 Based on a notional cost of finance of 6%.
to Amlin at The Leadenhall Building.
3 Estimated headline rental value net of rent payable under head leases excluding tenant incentives.
6 Includes 126,000 sq ft of residential.
4 Parts of residential development expected to be sold, no rent allocated of which 107 million 7 Excludes 25,000 sq ft of offsite residential and retail 9599 Baker Street, which was sold in the completed or exchanged.
8 Includes 10,500 sq ft of residential.
34 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 directors report and business review ovERvIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY ouR PERFoRmAnCE govERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEmEnTS And oTHER InFoRmATIon undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY: ABouT ouR BuSInESS The estimated rental value ERv of all our key PRe-LeTs developments is 86 million this represents Company Space let Lease length Sector Building our valuers estimates of the rental income the projects would generate if the developments uBS 700,000 sq ft 18.2 years Financial services 5 Broadgate were fully let at todays rents.
of this, we have Aon 191,000 sq ft 19.0 years Insurance The Leadenhall already successfully prelet or have under offer Building 65% of the space to a range of highquality Amlin 95,000 sq ft 14.6 years Insurance The Leadenhall occupiers, securing 49 million of annual rent.
Building of the 204 residential units under construction, debenhams 174,500 sq ft 25.0 years Retail 10 Brock Street we have already sold 168.
Saudi Aramco 33,600 sq ft 15.0 years oil 10 Portman Square Aspect Capital 24,500 sq ft 10.0 years Financial services 10 Portman Square PRosPeCTIve deveLoPmenTs manchester City Limited 7,200 sq ft 10.0 years Sport 10 Brock Street over time we seek to replenish our pipeline of development opportunities land or buildings with relatively short leases.
We split our prospective pipeline into near term developments where our plans are well 1.4bn 107m developed, generally where we already have planning permission or planning pending Committed development Residential units pre-sold and are looking to start within the next year to eighteen months and mediumterm, developments with a longerterm time horizon.
neAR-TeRm PRosPeCTIve deveLoPmenTs British Land In line with our aim to maintain our development share Sq ft Total cost 1 commitment, we have been expanding our At 31 march 2013 Sector % 000 m Status nearterm pipeline which currently stands at 963 The Clarges Estate mixeduse 100 194 388 Planning submitted million sq ft and 614 million taking the value of Yalding House offices 100 29 22 Presubmission the existing site and our estimates of the cost to milton Keynes, Kingston Centre Retail 50 21 4 Planning granted complete including notional interest.
The largest Surrey Quays extension Retail 100 98 24 Planning granted scheme is the Clarges Estate, a major mixeduse Fort Kinnaird, Edinburgh Retail 21 84 5 Planning submitted residential and office site in mayfair see page 23 meadowhall Surrounding Land Retail 50 22 6 Planning submitted which we bought for 129 million and will cost Broughton Park, Chester Retail 41 54 7 Planning submitted around 240 million to complete.
Surrey Quays The Hempel Hotel Residential 100 40 62 Planning submitted is an existing shopping centre in South London, where we have recently acquired the 50% share Aldgate Place Residential 50 422 96 Planning submitted we did not already own and where we have Total near-term prospective 964 614 planning permission for a 100,000 sq ft extension along with plans for a major refurbishment of the 1 Total cost including site value and notional interest at 6% per annum.
medIum-TeRm PRosPeCTIve deveLoPmenTs 10 Portman square British Land share Sq ft At 31 march 2013 Sector % 000 Status 100 Liverpool Street offices 50 496 Presubmission glasgow Fort Retail Retail 41 142 Planning submitted Power Court, Luton Retail 100 158 Presubmission Lancaster Retail 100 n a Presubmission Whiteley Phase 2 Retail 50 59 Presubmission deepdale, Preston Retail 21 73 Planning submitted Harmsworth Quays Residential 100 n a Presubmission Wardrobe Court Residential 100 74 Presubmission Total medium-term prospective 1,002 Located a few minutes walk north of Oxford Street and facing onto one of Londons famous garden squares, 10 Portman Square is now completed.
We have already let nearly half of the space to Saudi Aramco and Aspect Capital.
directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 35 undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY: ABouT ouR BuSInESS about our busIness contInued ouR CusTomeRs ouR RenTAL InCome By IndusTRy We aim to be the partner of choice for % occupiers, understanding and anticipating 9 6.8% their needs and helping them to achieve general retail 20 their objectives by providing modern, occupancy across the business Fashion and beauty 18 flexible accommodation in the best locations.
Supermarkets 16 Banks and financial services 14 We attract some of the highest quality Professional and corporate 10 occupiers to our properties, including well Food leisure 9 known uK and international companies.
5.2m dIY 7 This reflects the nature of the properties government 3 we own, the strength of the relationships energy reduction cost savings for other businesses 3 we build with them, the service we provide occupiers over the last four years and the way in which we continually seek to understand and anticipate their ouR ToP 20 oCCuPIeRs changing needs.
% of Rank Tenant group annualised rents We have a diverse occupier base, both by 9 5% number and by industry.
no single occupier 1 Tesco plc 7.7 accounts for more than 8% of our total occupiers in our new office buildings 2 Sainsbury group 6.2 revenues.
The quality and diversity of our rate British Land and our buildings 3 debenhams 4.4 occupier lineup, coupled with the length of as good or excellent 4 uBS Ag 3.7 leases they sign with us, gives us significant 5 Home Retail group 2.9 security of income.
The strength of our 6 Hm government 2.6 occupiers is important to us, not only in 7 Kingfisher B&Q 2.3 providing security of our rental income but 8 virgin Active 2.2 also in determining the value of our properties.
9 Arcadia group 2.2 10 next plc 2.2 We are making positive progress in building a brand which sees prospective occupiers 11 Spirit group 1.7 choosing our space because it is owned and 12 Alliance Boots 1.5 managed by us.
In a market where leasing 13 dSg International 1.5 activity has been generally slow, we have 14 Herbert Smith 1.4 continued to maintain high occupancy levels 15 marks & Spencer Plc 1.3 of 96.8%.
This reflects both the highquality 16 Royal Bank of Scotland plc 1.3 of our assets and the market leading 17 Hutchison Whampoa 1.3 customer service we offer.
18 Asda group 1.2 19 House of Fraser 1.1 20 new Look 1.0 They are one of the best landlords in the country.
They understand the needs of their tenants.
They are keen to work with you and if you are not happy they will work to put it right.
meRnA kennedy Property manager at sports direct Above: The launch of contemporary operatic experience Opera di Peroni at Regents Place.
Event activities across our portfolio attract thousands of occupiers, shoppers, local people and other visitors each year.
36 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 directors report and business review ovERvIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY ouR PERFoRmAnCE govERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEmEnTS And oTHER InFoRmATIon undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY: ABouT ouR BuSInESS mAnAgIng ouR CusTomeR ReLATIonsHIPs transactions.
daytoday facilities management service charge management In Retail, our internal asset management is undertaken by Broadgate Estates, a stand specialists are responsible for overall alone inhouse team which also provides strategy, decision making and relationships facilities management and other services with occupiers, both existing and potential.
We outsource the daytoday operational CusTomeR sATIsFACTIon management of most of our retail properties, In 2013 the results of our independent such as maintenance and cleaning, to external occupier survey confirmed that we continue agents.
We also engage specialists to provide to outperform industry averages for occupier This year, British Land again scored highly support with rent reviews and lease renewals.
in independent audits of service charge outsourcing daytoday management to expert management standards, with four agents, who manage on a large scale, helps us Through our fifth biennial customer survey properties securing Platinum, the minimise operational costs for our occupiers we looked beyond our property sector peers, top award.
and ourselves, gives us significant operational to learn from bestin class customer service flexibility, and further broadens our insights into companies.
This has helped us identify We are the only landlord to have achieved occupier and consumer trends.
We work closely opportunities for further improvements, which the coveted Platinum award, which is with our managing agents and proactively we will be developing action plans to address only given in exceptional circumstances, monitor their performance on our customer during the coming year.
to recognise outstanding service charge focused standards.
management standards to the benefit In addition to our biennial independent occupier of occupiers.
The audits were carried out In offices, the strategic and operational surveys, initiatives to engage with our customers by the Property Managers Association management of our portfolio is managed by include an active key account programme, PMA, which represents 110 of the UKs two separate inhouse teams, City of London proactive participation in industry groups and leading retailers.
Like Retail, the asset managers events, and management and performance focus on strategy and occupier relationships monitoring of our managing agents.
Altogether, we have achieved 10 Platinum and control the majority of the leasing activity, and 19 Gold awards in recent years.
This reflecting the fact that single occupiers tend year, we also became the first landlord to be larger and there are far fewer leasing to pilot the PMA audit at office properties, securing Platinum awards at both 201 Bishopsgate and 20 Triton Street.
BIennIAL CusTomeR sATIsFACTIon suRvey sCoRes We believe that occupiers should be able to 1 Rating out of 10 British Land British Land Industry 2 benchmark how well their service charges office occupiers Retail occupiers average are being managed in line with the voluntary 2013 2011 2009 2013 2011 2009 RICS Service Charge Code.
We continue to work with our peers and industry Satisfaction with landlord 8.0 7.5 7.5 7.7 7.7 7.5 5.1 associations to drive performance.
Communication with landlord 7.7 7.3 7.3 7.6 7.0 7.4 5.0 Service charge arrangements 7.7 7.7 8.3 7.3 4.7 Interaction on environmental issues 8.2 7.8 6.6 3.8 Satisfaction with managing agents 8.0 7.2 6.8 7.4 7.8 6.0 British Land is best-in-class.
understanding needs 7.9 7.2 7.0 7.6 7.2 7.1 They have quality assets Responsiveness 7.8 7.1 8.1 7.5 7.7 7.3 value for money service charge 7.1 6.9 5.6 7.3 6.4 5.8 and have taken the customer to the heart of their business.
1 We report scores out of 10, so that our performance can easily be benchmarked against the Property Industry Alliances occupier Satisfaction Survey.
I have seen their client focus 2 Industry average: occupier Satisfaction Survey 2012. develop and would highly recommend doing business with them.
FRed kInAHAn director of Facilities Henderson global Investors directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 37 undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY: ABouT ouR BuSInESS about our busIness contInued our latest research shows key stakeholders, Responsibility including occupiers, investors, lenders, government and our own staff, increasingly want us to lead on corporate responsibility.
our leadership position on environmental, social and governance issues supports our corporate managIng buIldIngs aim of building the best REIT in Europe.
We believe that developing sustainable buildings, effIcIently In actIon managing them efficiently, helping communities address local priorities and engaging staff enhances our reputation, helps us manage some of our key risks and adds real value to our business, thus delivering value to our shareholders.
Working with occupiers greening our buildings is central to our strategic to reduce energy use priority to create incremental value through and cut carbon emissions developing, repositioning assets and exploiting Retrofitting green roofs market anomalies.
to improve insulation and enhance biodiversity Similarly, we believe businesses today need to operate with far greater awareness of public opinion.
our strong reputation for managing our environmental, social and economic impacts not only makes us more likely to Fitting water saving become the partner of choice for occupiers, devices and introducing local authorities, local communities and others, rainwater harvesting it protects our licence to operate.
It can be Installing metering and challenging to establish direct relationships, actively monitoring energy for instance to prove the link between our use to identify ongoing Community Charter and our highquality reduction opportunities planning permissions and joint venture agreements.
However, this does not discourage us from undertaking innovative work that we know, from experience, positions us well for Installing motion sensors future opportunities.
and replacing lighting with Matching heating and energy efficient alternatives cooling plant run times THe BIggeR PICTuRe with operational hours Resource shortages and unpredictable agreed with occupiers climate patterns pose evergreater risks to wellbeing and economic stability in developed and developing nations.
Public concern about how businesses operate is leading people to ask questions Providing recycling about the role of business in shifting to facilities and diverting Increasing intake of external more sustainable models of consumption waste from landfill ambient air to reduce need and supporting wide societal needs.
for heating and cooling There are local, national and global issues stemming from low economic growth, challenges in accessing employment and skills shortages.
Business has a key part to play in responding.
Installing bicycle spaces, lockers and showers to encourage green travel 38 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 directors report and business review ovERvIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY ouR PERFoRmAnCE govERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEmEnTS And oTHER InFoRmATIon undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY: ABouT ouR BuSInESS AdRIAn PenFoLd Head of Planning and Corporate Responsibility ouR FouR FoCus AReAs ARe: 1 Managing buildings efficiently 2 Developing sustainable Q&A buildings beIng the best at the sustaInabIlIty Issues that matter most 3 Supporting communities Q: How do you identify what matters most?
A: more than 650 stakeholders recently completed our first online survey on corporate responsibility, and over 50 took part in independently facilitated 4 Engaging staff workshops to explore key issues.
We can learn from We have also worked with people across the business, consulted experts, other sectors in driving reviewed best practice, benchmarked innovation and managing performance, monitored the external context and carried out risk risk through the supply For each of these areas, we target our efforts assessments.
and resources at the properties, developments and initiatives where we can achieve the biggest Q: What were the key messages AdRIAn PenFoLd impacts.
Head of Planning and A: Investors expect us to engage Corporate Responsibility See our corporate responsibility review more with occupiers helping to reduce P6061 their energy use and occupiers are See our CR Report 2013 more open to this.
com crreport an opportunity to be more active in reducing the embodied carbon footprint of our developments, where this does not increase costs.
We can also learn from other sectors in driving innovation and managing risk through the supply chain.
Q: How are you raising standards across your sector?
A: Sometimes we take a lead, for instance, helping Reading university Real Estate Foundations Pathways to our performance on the dow Jones Property programme get off the ground sustainability Index is one of our eight corporate to encourage wider diversity in the key performance indicators.
We also set ourselves how managing our environmental, social and challenging targets and participate economic impacts is central to how we do in a wide range of initiatives to improve business and deliver value to our shareholders.
environmental and social standards From 2013, the Annual Incentive remuneration across the sector, working in of all members of our executive Committee partnership with our occupiers and will be linked to our performance on the dow suppliers, the government, industry Find out more about Pathways to Property Jones sustainability Index.
html directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 39 undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY: ABouT ouR BuSInESS about our busIness contInued ouR PARTneRs Partnerships are an important part of our business providing us with access to attractive investment opportunities and additional capital and allowing us to spread our risk.
We also benefit from working with likeminded partners with complementary skills and expertise.
our partnerships are based on developing deep and longterm relationships rather than shortterm transactions.
our highquality partners include norges Bank Investment management, oxford Properties, Tesco and Sainsburys.
In the majority of cases, we provide asset management, development, corporate and financial advisory services and we earn performance and management fees for these services.
This enhances our overall returns, strengthens our relationships with key customers and suppliers and keeps us close to our markets.
The joint ventures and funds own investment mAIn JoInT venTuRe PARTneRs properties and developments worth Portfolio value 10.6 billion.
of this, our share is 4.9 billion, Partner Asset m Share around half of our gross assets.
our net Blackstone Broadgate 3,042 50% investment after our share of the associated norges meadowhall 1,525 50% debt is 2.3 billion.
We have 15 active joint Tesco 34 superstores 1,700 50% ventures where we partner with one investor and two principal funds where there are 3 shopping centres several investors.
3 retail parks Sainsburys 33 superstores 1,203 50% our joint venture partners oxford Properties The Leadenhall Building 318 50% our two biggest single assets, Broadgate and uSS 2 Shopping Centres 164 50% meadowhall are coowned in joint ventures orion Partners Puerto venecia, Zaragoza 242 50% as is The Leadenhall Building our major city development.
The decision to own part rather than all of these assets is principally to reduce the concentration risk of owning mAIn Funds single large assets.
Portfolio value Fund Fund life Assets m Share The majority of our Retail superstore assets are held in joint ventures alongside the respective Hercules unit Trust HuT 2020 20 retail parks, 1,496 41.2% retail operators, Tesco and Sainsburys, with 1 shopping centre in the uK whom we work in close partnership.
We are Pillar Retail Europark Fund PREF 2016 9 retail parks in Europe 204 65.3% the largest owner of retail superstores outside of the operators themselves.
our funds We act as the property adviser and asset In August 2012 British Land sold its 26.1% Around 11.9% of our Retail assets are held in manager to the funds and receive performance stake in Hercules Income Fund HIF, to clients two funds which we coown alongside a range and management fees in respect of the services of La Salle Investment management, which is of investors.
The properties within the two we provide.
The funds are mainly focused on now the sole owner of HIF.
funds together are valued at 1.7 billion of which investing in outoftown retail parks.
Hercules British Lands share is 750 million.
Each is a unit Trust HuT, where we have a 41.2% closedend fund with a fixed life which can be holding, accounts for the majority of our See Joint ventures and funds extended with the agreement of the holders.
P168 40 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 directors report and business review t b e S d e p c u o u 1 r. r 6 G i t b i i s l ovERvIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY ouR PERFoRmAnCE govERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEmEnTS And oTHER InFoRmATIon l n a i t o o t i i n b 0.5 billion o l l e n i USPP d b s k 1 n. a 2 b 0.4 billion d bond e n r w Convertible u a D c a n e e r d s d 1 0.2 billion b n l. n o 0 e U Drawn a U b n i n l t l i u n o o r n t e e s s undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY: ABouT ouR BuSInESS ouR suPPLIeRs We employ a relatively small inhouse team We aim to finance the business from a diverse We retain all commercial decision making totalling around 215 people.
This is a major range of sources with a broad mix of maturities.
within our business, while outsourcing much distinction and provides a cost advantage our joint ventures and funds are financed of the delivery of property management and between us and our key competitors and most separately on the strength of their assets and our development activities such as design other FTSE 100 companies.
As a result, the without recourse to British Land for repayment.
structure and processes of the business are effectively aligned with its strategy.
There are our debt financing includes longterm This enables us to manage costs effectively, limited levels of management and individuals securitisations, unsecured private placements, adapt quickly to changing circumstances in have exposure to senior people through a wide convertible bonds, debentures and secured our portfolio and employ the most appropriate range of Company activities and the opportunity bank facilities as well as shorterterm revolving resources for each activity.
We work closely to make a real impact in the business.
unsecured facilities available for immediate with our suppliers to achieve our ethical drawdown.
standards and corporate responsibility goals, In 2013 we again achieved a one star meeting regularly, providing extensive guidance accreditation in the Sunday Times Best deBT PRoFILe for instance through our Sustainability Briefs, Companies to Work for survey which provides PRoPoRTIonALLy ConsoLIdATed implementing audit processes such as ISo invaluable feedback for further improvements As AT 31 mARCH 2013 14001 certified Environmental management in staff engagement through an employee System for developments and writing action plan.
key performance indicators into contracts where appropriate.
We have a full programme of formal and informal staff communications including As already described in our customers section monthly allstaff meetings, annual Company on pages 36 and 37, daytoday activities on conferences and adhoc events with smaller our existing property portfolio are managed groups.
We are currently reviewing all policies through managing agents.
and procedures to ensure that they remain appropriate and relevant.
our development activities are managed separately from asset management.
FInAnCIng We develop new buildings in partnership with The scale of our business combined with the a team of external specialists which includes security and stability of our rental income project managers, architects, engineers, means we are able to finance our business building contractors and trade contractors.
on competitive terms from a broad range We have developed robust methodologies to of sources.
ensure our development suppliers meet our high standards.
We use Building Confidence as Finance contributes to our success, most determining the optimal level of gearing for our thirdparty construction supplier importantly by providing the liquidity and the business is a very important judgement accreditation scheme.
This is increasingly being resources to grow and develop the business.
for us, and one which involves weighing up the recognised as the standard for supplier risk and rewards from owning a larger portfolio excellence within the construction industry We aim to ensure that the group and its joint and having more debt on our balance sheet.
and we encourage our suppliers to sign up ventures and funds are financed with sufficient our preferred range of gearing is between 40% to the scheme.
Accreditation status is only resources and flexibility to pursue and execute and 50% on a proportionally consolidated basis.
awarded to contractors who meet the their strategy, covering additional requirements requirements of the scheme and this is and opportunities which may arise.
We use debt In addition to the 493 million raised from purposefully designed to significantly increase to enhance returns, provide flexibility and grow our share placing in march 2013, over the last supply chain standards and performance.
24 months we have raised 2.8 billion of debt, The accreditation includes checking the all on competitive terms and from a range of suppliers financial, safety, environmental Access to capital and to the debt markets is different sources.
By borrowing at a low cost sustainability, social and ethical, occupational a competitive advantage, allowing us to exploit we are able to deliver enhanced returns to health and quality management systems, opportunities when they arrive.
We are also to finance has also made us one of a relatively signatories to the uK governments Prompt few companies able to invest in major London our balance sheet metrics remain strong Payment Code.
and provide capacity for future investments: we paid 80% of invoices, within 30 days in loan to value 40.2%: the year.
We have five guiding principles that we weighted average interest rate 4.6%: employ in managing our debt book: 1 diversify interest cover 2.3 times: and ouR PeoPLe our sources of finance: 2 maintain liquidity: the average maturity of our debt 9.9 years.
our approach is to recruit small teams of 3 Extend and stretch maturity of debt portfolio: experts in their fields who procure additional 4 maintain flexibility: and 5 maintain strong specialist resource as and when needed.
directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 41 t d b n n e a o d e i l r k l u i n t s b n a d e b 8 n v. u t d 0 f n n i d o u n J f a s e r u t n e v t n i o j e s r u o c e r n o N
