undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY: BuSInESS modEL busIness model ouR vISIon IS To BuILd THE BEST REIT In EuRoPE.
As a ReIT, our objective is to create superior HIGH-qUALITY PROPERTY WITH STRONG Each year our properties are visited over total returns for our shareholders through OCCUPATIONAL AND INVESTOR DEMAND 300 million times and are home to over 1,000 a combination of income through our our core business is highquality property.
By being the dividends and capital returns the increase We own, manage and develop properties which best located, in places where people want to in the value of our portfolio which over time we believe are capable of generating high work and shop, our properties and approach is reflected in the value of our shares.
quality and sustainable rental income streams attracts highquality occupiers committed and where the capital value will increase to long leases.
We expect dividends to make up an important over time.
proportion of our total returns over time, both We also believe in a responsible approach reflecting the importance of income as a driver We invest only in properties and locations to business.
Buildings that are efficient, of longterm value creation across the property where we see good, lasting demand from sustainable and meet business needs give industry and our commitment as a REIT to occupiers and investors.
our occupiers competitive advantages, cutting distribute at least 90% of our tax exempt profits their costs, enhancing staff morale and as dividends.
Property is a longterm business but is meeting corporate responsibility goals.
In our also cyclical with demand from both occupiers experience, these buildings therefore let and investors significantly impacted by more quickly and hold longterm value better.
A PARTneR oF CHoICe economic activity.
We recognise our responsibility to the local communities in which we build and manage Across all our business activities, we our ability to create value requires us not only properties and we work closely with them.
aim to be a partner of choice, valued and to identify and invest behind longterm trends trusted by our stakeholders.
This is key but also to ensure that we manage the risks and sTRong And susTAInABLe CAsH FLoWs to our ability to create long-term value opportunities created through economic cycles.
dRIvIng suPeRIoR sHAReHoLdeR vALue and lies at the heart of British Lands our properties attract highquality occupiers brand offer.
This is reflected in the quality gReAT PeoPLe WITH sIgnIFICAnT who sign long leases we have industryleading of the buildings we create, the quality exPeRIenCe And exPeRTIse occupancy levels and lease lengths and this of the people we employ, our highly We have a highly outsourced operating model underpins our strong and sustainable rental consumer-centric approach and our with around 215 permanent employees.
responsible approach to managing and developing buildings.
We believe our people are one of our major The scale of our business, combined with assets: they have significant experience and our focus on managing our costs closely and expertise and are specialists in their field.
spending wisely, means a high level of the We aim to leverage their skill and judgement rent we generate is available for distribution across our business.
to our shareholders as dividends.
our outsourced operating model also allows us The quality and security of our cash flows also to manage our costs most efficiently we have allows us to finance our business competitively the lowest operating costs of any of the major and helps lower our cost of capital.
REITs in the uK and ensures we can respond quickly to changing market dynamics.
We believe the strength of our access to capital markets is a competitive advantage.
usIng ouR ResouRCes To CReATe It has allowed us to invest in development envIRonmenTs WHeRe BusInesses And at a time when development finance has LoCAL CommunITIes CAn THRIve been scarce as well as move quickly to take We use our resources to ensure our properties advantage of acquisition opportunities.
are well suited to a diverse range of occupier needs and benefit from customer demand and rental growth.
We aim to create properties with enduring occupier appeal.
To us appeal means buildings which provide modern, flexible accommodation in the best locations, which are managed and maintained to high standards and where we continually seek to understand and anticipate the changing needs of our occupiers.
14 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 directors report and business review ovERvIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY ouR PERFoRmAnCE govERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEmEnTS And oTHER InFoRmATIon undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY: BuSInESS modEL REITs are property companies that allow people and organisations to invest in commercial property, and receive benefits as if they directly owned the property themselves.
For more information about REITs www.
com about-us our-business  HIGH-QUALITY GREAT PEOPLE PROPERTIES WITH SIGNIFICANT WITH STRONG INDUSTRY OCCUPATIONAL EXPERIENCE AND INVESTOR AND EXPERTISE DEMAND PARTNER OF CHOICE STRONG AND USING OUR RESOURCES SUSTAINABLE CASH TO CREATE ENVIRONMENTS FLOWS DRIVING WHERE BUSINESSES SUPERIOR AND LOCAL COMMUNITIES SHAREHOLDER CAN THRIVE VALUE directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 15
