ovERvIEW: WHAT WE do what we do WE ARE onE oF EuRoPES LARgEST REITS And ouR vISIon IS To BE THE BEST And THE PARTnER oF CHoICE.
FoR uS, BEIng THE BEST mEAnS dELIvERIng SuPERIoR ToTAL RETuRnS To ouR SHAREHoLdERS.
ouR PoRTFoLIo ouR APPRoACH And vALues British Land manages a portfolio of commercial We take a responsible and collaborative property worth 16.4 billion, of which our share 16.4bn approach to business so our brand is both is 10.5 billion.
our portfolio is focused primarily trusted and valued by stakeholders.
managing on highquality uK retail locations and London Commercial property value our environmental, social and economic offices.
We like those sectors because they impacts is also central to how we do business, are large and liquid markets with the best adding value to our assets and delivering value growth potential for rents and capital values.
We also have property in sectors which complement our core business, principally 10.5bn our people are one of our major assets and leisure and residential.
how they do business is embodied by our British Land share values which differentiate us and help deliver We invest in and develop highquality buildings a brand people and organisations want to in prime locations and then manage them to engage with.
We aim to attract and retain a high standard with a focus on occupier needs experts in their fields and to leverage their at every stage.
Its an approach thats proved significant experience, specialist expertise, successful: each year our properties attract 9 6.8% skill and judgement across our business.
over 300 million visits and are home to over They understand and anticipate the changing 1,000 different organisations and retail brands.
Percentage of portfolio let needs of stakeholders and their approach The quality and attractiveness of our portfolio helps make British Land a partner of choice is reflected in the high level of occupancy for a wide range of stakeholders.
96.8% and the fact that occupiers sign long leases with us.
This means we generate secure longterm rental income.
only a small 3 00m proportion 9.6% of rent is subject to break or expiry in the next three years significantly number of visits each year lower than the sector average.
ouR PoRTFoLIo dId you knoW?
InTegRITy We do what is right 4.3% We partner with a range of wellknown OTHER businesses and manage assets on their not what is easy.
A number of our properties are 35.4% held in joint ventures with other investors OFFICES including norges, Tesco, Sainsburys, Blackstone and uSS.
one TeAm Recent research showed our development Working collaboratively with 10.5 billion activity will contribute 1.2 billion to both internal and external the uK economy and create 32,300 jobs between 2011 and 2015.
of our construction activity takes place 60.3% in London, it creates jobs in communities RETAIL exCeLLenCe across the uK.
We are the best we can be Recent awards won include: Property Company of the year offices: Property and have a growth mindset.
Week Sustainability Achievement Award: Carbon disclosure Project Leadership Index: and Best FTSE 100 website.
com CommeRCIAL ACumen aboutus awards.
We take the lead in our field.
See our strategy P1617 2 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 directors report and business review OVERVIEW undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY ouR PERFoRmAnCE govERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEmEnTS And oTHER InFoRmATIon ovERvIEW: WHAT WE do WHAT Is A ReIT?
REITs are property companies that property income to shareholders as dividends.
For more information about REITs www.
com about-us allow people and organisations to invest As a result, over time, a significant proportion our-business  in commercial property and receive benefits of the total return for shareholders is likely as if they directly owned the properties to come from dividends.
The effect is that themselves.
The rental income, after costs, taxation is moved from the corporate level is passed directly to shareholders in the form to the investor level as investors are liable of dividends.
In the uK REITs are required for tax as if they owned the property directly.
to distribute at least 90% of their tax exempt British Land became a REIT in January 2007. uk Retail offices We are the uks largest Our assets are either: our offices business is Regents Place.
Currently the listed retail landlord with focused on London reflecting London portfolio split is 48% in experiential: locations that 189 individual properties.
its long-standing position as the City and 52% in the West End, are attractive to families and our portfolio is focused on a leading global city and one following our strategic shift where consumers can spend properties in high-quality, of the largest centres for towards the West End market.
well-located retail locations financial and business services Typically there is a strong line-up and includes retail parks, in the world.
We own and In 2010, we committed early of fashion brands and a large superstores, shopping centres, develop modern, high-quality to a 1.2 billion development leisure component such as a department stores and high and well-located office programme which will deliver cinema and restaurants.
accommodation which meets 2.3 million sq ft of high-quality Convenient: places where the needs of a broad range space by 2014.
Increasingly, our consumers shop regularly such Most of our assets are locally of organisations.
We aim offices are mixed-use including as retail parks with free parking dominant, and provide retailers to provide industry leading retail and residential elements.
and flagship stores with depth with modern, affordable and customer service and of range and a good food offer.
We aim to create management of our buildings.
We also deliver standalone environments where retailers Functional: such as superstores residential projects, a profitable can thrive and where people and DIY centres that customers Our Offices are concentrated in business in its own right and want to shop and increasingly visit regularly for items they the City of London and in the West manage a large UK residential spend their leisure time.
End the largest of which are our portfolio on behalf of a thirdtwo office estates, Broadgate and party Trust.
uk ReTAIL PoRTFoLIo London oFFICes PoRTFoLIo 41% 8% RETAIL PARKS DEPARTMENT STORES 48% CITY 6.1 billion 3.6 billion 30% SHOPPING 52% CENTRES WEST END 21% SUPERSTORES ReTAIL: ouR ToP 10 oCCuPIeRs ReTAIL: ouR key PRoPeRTIes oFFICes: ouR ToP 10 oCCuPIeRs oFFICes: ouR key PRoPeRTIes % British Land rent British Land share m rent % British Land rent British Land share m rent 01 Tesco plc 7.7 01 meadowhall shopping Centre 41 01 uBs Ag 3.7 01 Broadgate 87 02 sainsbury group 6.2 02 debenhams, oxford street 16 02 Hm government 2.4 02 Regents Place 49 03 debenhams 4.4 03 drake Circus shopping Centre 15 03 Herbert smith 1.4 03 york House 5 04 Home Retail group 2.9 04 Teesside shopping Park 14 04 Royal Bank of scotland plc 1.2 04 The Leadenhall Building n a 05 kingfisher B&Q 2.3 05 ealing Broadway 05 Aegis group 0.9 05 10 Portman square n a shopping Centre 11 06 Arcadia group 2.2 06 JP morgan 0.9 07 next plc 2.2 07 Reed smith 0.9 08 Alliance Boots 1.5 08 C&W Plc 0.8 09 dsg International 1.5 09 gazprom 0.8 10 marks & spencer Plc 1.3 10 deutsche Bank Ag 0.8 See Short-term actions See Performance review: Retail See Short-term actions See Performance review: Offices P1827 P5356 P1827 P5759 directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 3
