undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY: ouR mARKETS our markets THE uK HAS A LARgE And LIQuId CommERCIAL PRoPERTY mARKET WHICH ConTInuES To ATTRACT A BRoAd RAngE oF domESTIC And InTERnATIonAL InvESToRS.
uk property market The uK property market remains one and investment destinations of choice.
uk ToTAL PRoPeRTy ReTuRns of enormous contrast.
It is a market For the uK property market, polarisation 2012 13 Total where occupiers and investors have been has again been the main theme with the % growth offices Retail market increasingly discriminating between the differential in performance between Prime 8.8 4.3 5.6 types of property they want to be in or want the best and poorer quality assets being secondary 6.6 3.4 3.3 to buy.
And despite the travails of the uK even more marked.
Sector and asset economy as a whole, London continues to allocation has been an even more Source: Investment Property databank.
grow as one of a few international business important determinant of performance.
Retail In A FAST CHAngIng mARKET, HIgHERQuALITY, WELLLoCATEd RETAIL SCHEmES ConTInuE To SIgnIFICAnTLY ouTPERFoRm.
There was a significant step up in retail The retail market is changing rapidly with the ReTAIL CAPITAL vALue gRoWTH investment activity in the second half, economic pressures overlaid by what are far focused on the better quality schemes which % growth 2011 2012 2013 reaching changes to how and where people underpinned the valuations of prime properties Prime 5.9 1.4 0.8 are choosing to shop.
At the heart of this is the explosion in the use of digital technology where where yields were stable.
given the makeup secondary 3.9 6.3 10.0 the uK consumer is one of the most techsavvy of our portfolio, we have continued to benefit.
We now lead the world in online buying with over 13% of all retail sales in the ReTAIL RenTAL vALue gRoWTH uK now estimated to be purchased online.
% growth 2011 2012 2013 For retailers unable to adapt their business Looking forward Prime 1.7 1.6 1.0 models or for those who are overburdened Although we expect the line between secondary 3.6 3.6 3.9 with debt, business has remained challenging.
shopping in store or online to become even Source: Investment Property databank.
In the months either side of Christmas the more blurred, we also believe consumers number of retailer failures increased with some will continue to want the immediacy, onLIne sALes As A % oF ReTAIL sALes wellknown names going into administration.
convenience and experience of buying, Even strong retailers who are prospering, collecting or returning products in-store.
UK 13.2% continued to close stores in structurally weaker Add to that the increasing trend of going locations, migrating to better quality schemes shopping as a leisure activity, our view Germany 10.0% and reducing their overall store footprint.
is that the physical shop will retain its France 8.7% central position in the retail landscape.
While there is clearly too much retail floor But retail landlords will need to offer much Sweden 8.0% space in the uK, there is also not enough of the more to their occupiers more flexible right quality space either in existence or being spaces along with an attractive leisure Spain 4.1% built.
Retail development remains well below and food offering to attract shoppers and Italy 1.6% its 2008 peak with only six new shopping centre encourage them to stay longer.
At British Source: Centre of Retail Research.
schemes reported to be due for completion Land, we believe its not just a question in 2013 or 2014 of which two were British of providing free wi-fi, its about having Land schemes.
And this is where we are focusing our effort to So, for the retail property market, the retain our position as the partner of differences in performance we predicted have choice for retailers.
Higherquality schemes are performing significantly better than poorerquality space, both in terms of demand from occupiers and from investors.
12 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 directors report and business review ovERvIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY ouR PERFoRmAnCE govERnAnCE FInAnCIAL STATEmEnTS And oTHER InFoRmATIon undERSTAndIng ouR STRATEgY: ouR mARKETS The uK market grew modestly in the year reflecting a more challenging economic environment.
Rental values for the market as a whole flat 0.5% ahead.
London offices once again was the standout performer although rental and capital value growth was more muted than the previous year.
London London EnJoYS A SPECIAL PoSITIon AS onE oF A SmALL numBER oF gLoBAL CITIES And ITS PRoPERTY mARKET ATTRACTS A BRoAd RAngE oF domESTIC And InTERnATIonAL oCCuPIERS And InvESToRS.
London is regularly voted as one of the sectors.
Toward the end of our year, there oCCuPIeR demAnd FoR London oFFICes most attractive places to invest, do business, were early signs of an improvement in live or visit and is one of the most important occupier demand, particularly in the West 11% 15% financial and business services centres End where occupiers have less choice globally.
With a transparent legal system, but also in the City from smaller occupiers 10% skilled workforce and positioned midway and on smaller floorplates.
between the united States to the west and the growing economies of the middle East Residential and Asia to the east, it attracts a broad range The London residential market performed 8% of businesses and investors, both domestic well in the year, with capital values ahead and international.
In contrast to the uK by 7.9% overall.
This is a reflection of the as a whole, the London economy has grown continued good underlying demand we see, steadily over the last two years.
both foreign and domestic, in the context 25% 10% of a structurally supplyconstrained market, London also has the strongest performing especially for welllocated highquality stock.
11% 10% property market in the uK with values ahead by 8.8% over the last two years Finance Insurance compared to the market overall which is down Business Services Manufacturing by 2.0%.
All major asset classes in London Hi-tech and Energy MIE offices, retail and residential have Looking forward Consumer and Professional contributed.
Through our major development We expect London to retain its pre-eminent Leisure CSL Public Sector programme, we have positioned our business position as a world-leading City.
Its to benefit from this growth, taking advantage population is forecast to continue growing InvesToR demAnd FoR London oFFICes both of the shortage of highquality space more people are choosing living in London mainly in offices but also in residential, and over commuting and international 2012 9,543m higher growth in the West End.
businesses continue to be attracted to the capital.
Large tracts of London are being 4,423m In the year to 31 march 2013, London regenerated by major infrastructure 2011 4,496m continued to outperform the broader property projects, notably Crossrail, and this includes 3,908m market, up 4.4% in offices and 7.9% in areas previously considered to be less residential.
This outperformance reflected attractive and more peripheral.
We expect 2010 5,828m strong investor demand along with relatively on-going improvements to benefit these 3,911m limited supply of good quality space both areas for a number of years to come.
Investors show no signs of deserting 2009 5,072m London as an investment property market 1,899m offices of choice the list of international investors In offices, investment transactions at in London has never been more diverse Source: CBRE.
13.8 billion during the year were the highest with particularly strong demand for the Overseas purchasers since 2007 and nearly 30% higher than the sorts of high-quality, well-let buildings UK purchasers longterm average.
International investors that British Land owns.
remained the mainstay of the market, accounting for nearly 70% of all transactions.
Crossrail is a 14.8 billion government ResIdenTIAL vALues In CenTRAL London funded rail project which will transform While occupier demand was some way below transport links north of the Thames from % growth 2010 2011 2012 the longterm trend, with business confidence Heathrow in the west, through London and Capital values 11.7 11.9 7.9 generally at a low ebb and the financial sector to Canary Wharf in the east.
Due to open continuing to retrench, the shortage of quality Rental values 10.8 6.5 3.2 in 2018, it will dramatically cut journey space across the market kept rental growth times across London Heathrow to Bond Source: PmA.
We successfully tapped into Street in 25 minutes, to Liverpool Street pockets of strong demand from the insurance in 32 minutes and to Canary Wharf in and technology, media and telecoms TmT 38 minutes.
directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 13
