James Fisher and Sons plc Directors report James Fisher and Sons plc is incorporated as a public limited company and is registered in England with the registered number 211475.
Its registered office is Fisher House, PO Box 4, Barrow in Furness, Cumbria, LA14 1HR.
The Directors present their Annual Report and the Group audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Principal activities The principal activities of the Group are the provision of marine and specialist engineering services.
A description and review of the Groups activities during the financial year and an indication of the likely future trends and factors that might affect the development and performance of the Group is described in the Strategic report, which together with Board of Directors, Corporate governance report, the Audit Committee report, the Directors Remuneration report and Directors responsibilities statement all form part of the Directors report.
Results and dividends The Groups profit for the financial year attributable to equity shareholders of the parent was 38.3m 2012 restated: 39.5m.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 13.54p per share 2012: 11.83p making a total of 20.00p per share 2012: 17.70p for the year.
The final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 9 May 2014 to ordinary shareholders who were on the register on 11 April 2014.
Directors Charles Rice, Nick Henry, Stuart Kilpatrick, Michael Everard, Malcolm Paul, Maurice Storey, Michael Salter and David Moorhouse all served as Directors of the Company during the year.
Directors interests The following are the beneficial interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company: Holdings of ordinary shares of 25p each At 31 December 2013 At 31 December 2012 Number Number Nick Henry 126,013 91,606 Stuart Kilpatrick 2,289 2,250 Charles Rice 12,222 5,000 Malcolm Paul 5,000 5,000 1 Between 31 December 2013 and 3 March 2014, there were no changes to the holdings of serving Directors: 2 No Director has an interest in the preference shares of the Company, or in the shares of any subsidiary undertaking: 3 A t no time in the year did any Director hold a material interest in any contract with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings other than the service contracts between each Executive Director and the Company.
Re-election of Directors In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association Articles, any Director who has held office for more than three years since his last appointment must offer himself up for re-election at the Annual General Meeting AGM and at least one third of the Board is subject to re-election at each AGM.
However, in accordance with the requirements of the Code, all of the Directors will offer themselves for re-election or election, as appropriate at the forthcoming AGM apart from Maurice Storey who retired on 30 December 2013 and Michael Everard who will retire in April 2014.
A statement about Board evaluation and the contribution of Directors is set out in the Corporate governance report on page 24.
No contract in relation to the Groups business in which the Directors of the Company had an interest, existed at 31 December 2013 or at any time during 2013.
Share capital The structure and details of the Companys share capital are set out in note 20 on page 84.
Ordinary shares The Companys issued ordinary shares are fully paid and rank equally in all respects.
Subject to rights attaching to existing shares, any share may be issued with such rights or restrictions as the Company may by advisory resolution determine, or if the Company has not so determined, as the Directors may determine.
In addition to those rights conferred by law the holders of ordinary shares of 25p each are entitled to receive dividends when declared, the Companys report and accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
These rights and obligations are set out in the Articles, copies of which can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
Other than those specific provisions set out in the Articles, there are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company or on the exercise of voting rights attached to them except that: certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws and market requirements relating to close periods : and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, whereby certain employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys shares.
Preference shares The 3.5% cumulative preference shares of 1 each carry a fixed cumulative dividend of 3.5% per annum, payable in priority to any dividend on the ordinary shares and payable half-yearly in arrears on 30 June and 31 December.
The preference shares carry one vote for every 1 in 42 Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc nominal amount.
On a winding up of the Company the preference shareholders have a right to receive, in preference to payments to ordinary shareholders, repayment of the capital paid up on such shares plus any accrued dividend.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
The powers of the Directors are determined by the Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and any directions given by the Company in general meeting.
The Directors are authorised by the Articles to issue and allot ordinary shares and to make market purchases of shares.
These powers are referred to shareholders at the AGM for renewal.
Any shares purchased may be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
During the year the Company did not purchase any of its own shares, however, during the year 31,193 ordinary shares were issued in respect of options exercised under the Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS.
The James Fisher Employee Share Ownership Trust, holds 154,170 ordinary shares 2012: 186,329 of the Company in trust for the purposes of the various share incentive plans referred to in this Report.
The rights attaching to these shares are controlled by independent trustees, who may take into account any recommendation by the Company.
The Company also operates a Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, details of which are set out on pages 32 and 38.
Additional information for shareholders The Articles may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
Directors are reappointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
The Board can appoint a director but anyone so appointed must be elected by an ordinary resolution at the next general meeting.
Authority to allot shares and disapply statutory pre-emption rights The Directors will be seeking to renew their authorities to allot unissued shares and to dis-apply statutory pre-emption rights at the AGM.
Purchase of own shares At the AGM held on 2 May 2013, the Company was given authority to purchase up to 2,503,391 of its ordinary shares until the date of its next AGM.
No purchases were made during the year by the Company.
The Directors will be seeking a new authority for the Company to purchase its ordinary shares at the forthcoming AGM.
Further details regarding the authority to allot shares and dis-apply statutory pre-emption rights and the purchase of own shares are set out in the Notice of the AGM at page 107.
Substantial shareholders As at 3 March 2014 the Company had been notified in accordance with Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests in its issued share capital: Ordinary shares Preference shares No % No % Shareholder Rowland Hart Jackson non-beneficial 8,895,763 17.76 - - Schroder Investment Management 6,463,611 12.90 - - Therapia Investments Limited 3,539,550 7.07 100,000 100.00 Montanaro Investment Managers 2,501,830 4.99 - - Standard Life Investments 2,028,599 4.05 - - Blackrock Investment Management Limited 1,805,661 3.60 - - 25,235,014 50.37 100,000 100.00 Total number of shares in issue 50,099,015 100.00 100,000 100.00 Auditor KPMG Audit plc has instigated an orderly wind down of its business.
The Board has decided to put KPMG LLP forward to be appointed as auditor and a resolution for the appointment of KPMG LLP as auditor of the Company will be proposed at the AGM to be held on 1 May 2014.
Each Director in office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirms that: so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Policy on payment of suppliers It is the Companys and the Groups policy to agree to terms of payment at the start of business with each supplier and to adhere to these, subject to satisfactory performance by the supplier.
Where payment terms are not negotiated the Company endeavours to adhere to suppliers standard terms.
At 31 December 2013 the Group and Company had an average number of 54 days and 75 days purchases outstanding in trade creditors respectively 2012: Group 59 days, Company 57 days.
Directors and officers liability insurance The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance for the Directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries and, to the extent permitted by section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors may be granted indemnity by the Company pursuant to the Companys Articles.
Copies of the Companys Articles are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours.
43 James Fisher and Sons plc Directors report Directors conflict of interest Stuart Kilpatrick, Group Finance Director, was appointed a trustee of the Groups Shore Staff Pension Scheme in 2012.
This role could give rise to a situation where there is a conflict of interest and the Board has reviewed this and has allowed him to act as a trustee.
Were a conflict to arise, Stuart Kilpatrick is required to excuse himself from participating in the relevant trustee discussion and decision making process.
Employment policies The Chief Executive Officer is the Board member responsible for employee matters and he is assisted by the Group Head of Human Resources.
The Group values the diverse backgrounds of all its people and works to create an open atmosphere of trust, honesty and respect.
Harassment or discrimination, including that involving race, colour, religion, gender, age, disability, sexual orientation or any other similarly protected status, is not acceptable.
The Group is committed to providing equal employment opportunities for all of its people and all job applicants based on abilities of the employee and the needs of the business Group-wide.
It is Group policy to comply with all applicable laws governing employment practices and not to discriminate on the basis of any unlawful criteria.
Employment arrangements are intended to be fair, equitable and consistent with the skills and abilities of the employee and the needs of the business.
The Group also actively encourages the training of its employees through participation in industry training schemes.
Additionally, both in-house and external training is provided for staff.
The Group communicates with its employees principally through regular presentations by senior management and by means of publication of a Company newsletter.
The Group also operates a number of option schemes and long term incentive plans to encourage employees to participate in the ownership of the Company.
Employment of people with disabilities People with disabilities have equal opportunities when applying for vacancies.
In addition to complying with legislative requirements, the Group strives to ensure that disabled employees are treated fairly and that their training and career development needs are met.
For those employees who become disabled during the course of their employment, the Group will provide support, whether through re-training or re-deployment, so that they will continue to be employed, wherever practicable, in the same job, or if this is not practicable, every effort will be made to find suitable alternative employment.
Significant agreements change of control The Company is a guarantor of all of the Groups bilateral bank facilities which upon a change of control could be withdrawn.
The following contracts may terminate upon a change of control of the Company or its relevant subsidiary or associated undertaking: the Singapore Submarine Rescue Service Agreement dated 17 October 2008, between James Fisher Marine Services Limited and First Response Marine PTE Ltd: and The Export Tanker Support Services Contract dated 3 February 2012 made between BP Exploration Angola Ltd, and James Fisher Angola Limitada.
The rules of the LTIP, SRSOS and ESOS schemes set out the consequences of a change of control on the rights of participants under those schemes.
Participants are generally able to exercise their options on a change of control, provided that the relevant performance conditions have been satisfied.
Except as provided above, the Company is not party to any agreements which take effect, alter or terminate in the event of a change of control of the Company.
Furthermore there are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that arise in the event of a change of control of the Company.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future performance, the financial position of the Group and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties are set out in the Strategic report.
The Groups primary sources of funding are a number of bilateral facilities with a core group of banks.
These bilateral facilities, totalling 147.9m at 31 December 2013 2012: 147.9m fall due for renewal over the next 5 years with none falling due for renewal by 31 December 2014.
Compliance with banking covenants is reported half yearly and involves tests for the ratio of net debt: EBITDA, interest cover and fixed charge cover.
There were no breaches of covenants during the year.
The Group uses cash flow forecasts derived from budgets, forecasts and medium term planning to identify headroom under the covenant tests and having evaluated the ongoing trading of the businesses, the Directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future as a going concern.
As a result, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
UK Corporate Governance Code In accordance with the requirements of the Code, the Board has carried out a thorough review of the Annual Report and Accounts and the processes involved in compiling the accounts and is satisfied that the Annual Report and Accounts taken as a whole is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
Annual General Meeting The AGM of the Company will be held on 1 May 2014.
The Notice of AGM is set out on page 107.
The Directors report on pages 42 to 44 and the Strategic report on pages 1 to 21 are hereby approved by the Board.
By Order of the Board Michael Hoggan Company Secretary 3 March 2014 44
