James Fisher and Sons plc Board of Directors Chairman Executive Directors Charles Rice Nick Henry Stuart Kilpatrick Chairman of the Board and Nominations Chief Executive Offi cer Group Finance Director Committee aged 52 aged 51 aged 60 Joined James Fisher in February 2003 as Managing Stuart was appointed to the Board as Group Joined the Board in April 2004 and was appointed Director of James Fisher Tankships Limited and Finance Director in December 2010.
Formerly as non-executive Chairman on 1 August 2012.
He was appointed Chief Executive Offi cer in December Group Finance Director of Empresaria Group Plc, has wide experience in commercial shipping having 2004.
He worked for 20 years for P&O Containers Stuart is a member of the Institute of Chartered held a number of commercial and operational and P&O Ports, of which 10 years were in senior Accountants of England and Wales and qualifi ed roles with Overseas Containers Limited.
During management positions based in Singapore, with BDO Binder Hamlyn.
He has previously held the 1990s he was responsible for P&Os Trans Hong Kong, Australia, Netherlands and the Indian senior fi finance roles with Vodafone Group Plc, European Division progressing to a main board Sub-Continent.
His experience encompasses a Charles Baynes plc and Elementis Group Plc.
director of The Peninsular and Oriental Steam wide range of commercial and operational roles, Navigation Company P&O in 2001.
He is currently including fl fleet management and information Chairman of the Transport Research Foundation.
He is a member of the board of the UK Chamber of Shipping.
Non-Executive Directors Malcolm Paul Michael Everard Michael Salter David Moorhouse CBE Senior Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director # # # from 31 December 2013 aged 65 aged 66 aged 66 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee from 31 December 2013 Joined the Board in August 2013.
Joined the Board in August 2013.
Joined James Fisher in December # aged 62 Formerly Chief Operating Offi ce at Formerly Executive Chairman of 2006 following the acquisition of F. T. Abbot Group plc and earlier in his Lloyds Register and earlier in his Everard and Sons Limited in which Joined the Board in February 2011. career, CEO of Smedvig UK Limited career, CEO of John Brown plc, he held the position of Chairman from He is a fellow of the Institute of and General Manager of Bawden Director of Trafalgar House plc and 1988 to 2006.
He is a past president Chartered Accountants in England Drilling UK Ltd. Michael has recently Executive Vice President of Kvaerner of The Baltic and International and Wales and was a founder and stepped down as Chairman of the where he had particular responsibility Maritime Council, the Chamber of former Finance Director of WSP Scottish Chambers of Commerce.
for their engineering and process Shipping, the Institute of Chartered Group plc between 1987 and 2009.
He is a Non-Executive Director businesses.
David is currently a NonShipbrokers and the Institute of Prior to that he was a Principal at the of Ferguson Group Ltd and NonExecutive Director of OAO Sovcomfl ot Marine Engineers, Science and corporate fi finance boutique Financial Executive Chairman of CQS Rig and Braemer Shipping plc as well as Technology.
He was a Non-Executive Decisions and an equity partner at Finance Funds plc AIM listed and of holding a number of senior voluntary Director of P&O.
posts including Deputy Chairman of He is currently Chairman of Anthesis Maritime London and of the Mission to Consulting Group a private equity Seafarers.
He is also a life member of backed international company the UKs Foundation for Science and providing global clients with Technology.
environmental and sustainable business solutions.
Audit Committee # Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee 22
