Board of Directors Martin Scicluna Chairman Toby Courtauld Chief Executive BCom MA, MRICS Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Chairman of the Nomination Committee Chairman of the Executive Committee, Chairman of the Environmental Policy Committee Date appointed to the Board: October 2008 Date appointed to the Board: April 2002 Independent: Yes Independent: No Skills and experience: Chairman of RSA.
Formerly Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Lloyds Banking Group Skills and experience: Joined the Group in April 2002 as Chief Executive.
following 34 years at Deloitte, including Chairman from 1995 to 2007.
Previously with the property company MEPC for 11 years, he gained Age 62. broad experience ranging from portfolio management through to corporate transactions and general management as a member of the Group Current external commitments: Executive Committee.
Chairman of RSA Current external commitments: Member of the British Property Federation Board and Policy Committee, Member of the Management Board of the Investment Property Forum, Director of The New West End Company, Non-Executive Director of Live-Ex Limited Charles Irby Non-Executive Director Jonathan Nicholls Non-Executive Director FCA BA Hons, ACA, FCT Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Member of the Remuneration Committee, Member of the Audit Committee, Member of the Nomination Committee Member of the Nomination Committee Date appointed to the Board: July 2009 Date appointed to the Board: April 2004 Independent: Yes Independent: Yes Skills and experience: Formerly Group Finance Director of Old Mutual plc Skills and experience: Formerly Chairman of Aberdeen Asset and Hanson plc, and previously non-Executive Director of Man Group Plc.
Management and a Non-Executive Director of QBE following 27 years Age 55. in corporate finance and investment banking at ING Barings.
Current external commitments: Current external commitments: Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of SIG Plc, Non-Executive Director of North Atlantic Smaller Companies Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Investment Trust DS Smith Plc 46 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2013 Nick Sanderson Finance Director Neil Thompson Portfolio Director BA Hons, ACA BSc Hons, MRICS Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Member of the Executive Committee Member of the Executive Committee, Chairman of the Health and Safety, Environmental and Corporate Date appointed to the Board: July 2011 Responsibility Working Group Independent: No Date appointed to the Board: August 2006 Skills and experience: Joined the Group in July 2011 as Finance Independent: No Director.
Formerly Partner, Head of Real Estate Corporate Finance Advisory at Deloitte, following ten years of real estate investment banking experience Skills and experience: Joined the Group in December 2002 and was in Europe and Asia with Nomura, Lehman Brothers and UBS Investment appointed to the Board as Development Director in August 2006, becoming Bank.
He has worked for more than 20 years in the central London commercial property market.
Formerly with Current external commitments: Derwent Valley and Legal and General Investment Management.
Member of the Finance Committee of the British Property Federation, Member of the Reporting & Accounting Committee of EPRA Current external commitments: Senior Vice President and Member of the Management Board of the British Council of Ofces, Member of the Operations Working Group of the Westminster Property Association Jonathan Short Non-Executive Director Elizabeth Holden Non-Executive Director BSc, ACIB, FRICS MA Hons Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Member of the Audit Committee, Member of the Audit Committee, Member of the Remuneration Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Date appointed to the Board: March 2006 Date appointed to the Board: September 2012 Independent: Yes Independent: Yes Skills and experience: Founding Partner of Internos Global Investors LLP, Skills and experience: Formerly a corporate partner at Slaughter and a pan-European real estate investment management business.
May specialising in mergers & acquisitions, corporate advisory and Previously CEO of Pramericas real estate private equity business following governance matters.
16 years in investment banking at Lazard, Barings and SG Warburg.
Current external commitments: Formerly a Non-Executive Director of Big Yellow Group plc.
None Current external commitments: Executive Chairman of Internos Global Investors LLP, Independent Director to the Grosvenor Shopping Centre Fund Annual Report 2013 Great Portland Estates 47
