Report of the directors Business review Directors The principal business of the Group is the investment in, Biographical details of the directors of the Company are shown and development of, freehold and leasehold properties.
The information that fulls the requirements of the Business Elizabeth Holden was appointed as a Non-Executive Director Review can be found on pages 2 to 65, which are incorporated by the Board on 3 September 2012 and is offering herself up into this Report of the directors by reference.
A review of the for election by shareholders for the first time at the Annual performance and development of the Groups business during General Meeting.
Elizabeth Holden was formerly a corporate the year including KPIs, the position at the year end and partner at Slaughter and May specialising in mergers and prospects, is set out in the sections covering our business and acquisitions, corporate advisory and governance matters.
financial results on pages 28 to 41.
A description of the principal The Nomination Committee believes that the Board will benefit risks and uncertainties facing the Group and how these are from Mrs Holdens skills and experience and, therefore, mitigated can be found on pages 53 and 55.
Additional recommends her election as a Non-Executive Director.
information on employees, environmental matters and social and community matters is included on pages 48 to 51 and on The Companys Articles of Association require that a director pages 56 to 65. shall retire from ofce if he or she has been appointed since the previous Annual General Meeting or if it is the third Annual The purpose of the Annual Report is to provide information to the General Meeting following that at which he was elected or last members of the Company, as a body.
The Company, its directors, re-elected.
However, in accordance with the UK Corporate employees, agents or advisers do not accept or assume Governance Code the directors will all retire and will offer responsibility to any other person to whom this document themselves for election or re-election at the forthcoming Annual is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such General Meeting.
The Chairman has confirmed that following responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
The Annual Report the Board evaluation process, the performance of all of the contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the directors continues to be effective and to demonstrate their operations, performance and financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results and developments In January 2013, Martin Scicluna became Non-Executive to differ from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements Chairman of RSA in the knowledge that he would be resigning as reect knowledge and information available at the date of a non-executive director from Lloyds Banking Group in March preparation of this Annual Report.
Nothing in this Annual Report 2013.
The Board remains satisfied that he has sufficient time to should be construed as a profit forecast.
devote to his role of Chairman of the Company.
Results and dividends for the year Directors shareholdings The Group results for the year are set out on pages 68 to 92.
At 31 March At 31 March 2013 2012 An interim dividend of 3.3 pence per share 2012: 3.2 pence Number of Number of was paid on 2 January 2013, and the directors propose to pay 1 1 shares shares a final dividend of 5.3 pence per share on 9 July 2013, to Martin Scicluna 8,636 8,636 shareholders on the register of members as at the close of business on 31 May 2013.
This makes a total of 8.6 pence per Toby Courtauld 848,304 602,827 share 2012: 8.4 pence for the year ended 31 March 2013.
Nick Sanderson 74,468 30,907 Neil Thompson 412,261 246,835 Freehold and leasehold properties A valuation of the Groups property portfolio at 31 March 2013 Charles Irby 5,181 5,181 was carried out by CBRE on the basis of fair value which Jonathan Nicholls 10,000 10,000 amounted to 1,859.1 million 2012: 1,334.7 million.
Jonathan Short 13,455 13,455 The difference of 40.4 million between the book value and the fair value relates to the capitalisation of finance leases in 1.
Includes shares held by the Executive Directors in the Groups 2010 Share Incentive Plan.
respect of the present value of future ground rents.
No account All directors shareholdings are in ordinary shares and are has been taken of any additional value which may be attributed beneficial, unless otherwise stated.
There have been no changes to the portfolio if it were to be grouped judiciously prior to sale.
in the shareholdings of any director between 1 April 2013 and 22 May 2013 apart from shares bought by the Executive Directors in the Companys Share Incentive Plan.
No director had any interest in or contract with the Company or any subsidiary undertaking other than service contracts during the year.
Directors indemnities On 14 September 2007, an indemnity was given by the Company to the directors in terms which comply with Company law and remains in force at the date of this Report.
128 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance statement Change of control The information fullling the requirements of the Corporate The Company has a number of unsecured borrowing facilities Governance Statement can be found in this Report of the provided by various lenders.
These facilities generally include directors and on pages 100 to 112, which are incorporated provisions that may require any outstanding borrowings to be into this Report of the directors by reference.
repaid or the alteration or termination of the facilities upon the occurrence of a change of control of the Company.
significant shareholdings The Companys 2010 LTIP contains provisions relating to the As at 13 May 2013, the Company had been notied of the vesting of awards in the event of a change of control.
following beneficial or discretionary interests amounting to 3% or more of the voting rights of the issued share capital: Financial instruments Number of shares % Details of the financial instruments used by the Group are set out in notes 1 and 17 forming part of the Group financial Norges Bank Investment Management 30,637,673 8.91 statements on page 74 and pages 85 to 88, which are BlackRock, Inc 27,967,011 8.13 incorporated into this Report of the directors by reference.
Ell Capital Manegement Inc 20,777,071 6.04 The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies are included in the Risk management overview on pages Legal & General Investment 54 and 55, in Financial management on pages 36 and 37 Management Limited 12,322,508 3.58 and in Our financial results on pages 39 to 41.
Standard Life Investments Limited 11,738,557 3.41 Creditor payment policy Scottish Widows Investment Partnership 10,661,321 3.09 It is the Companys policy that suppliers be paid in accordance with those terms and conditions agreed between the Company Share capital and control and the supplier, provided that all trading terms and conditions On 31 March 2013, there were 343,926,149 ordinary shares have been complied with and we have signed up to the UK of 12.5 pence in issue.
There are no restrictions on transfer or Governments Prompt Payment Code.
For the year ended limitations on the holding of the ordinary shares.
None of the 31 March 2013, the average payment period for trade creditors shares carries any special rights with regard to the control of was 28 days 2012: 28 days.
There are no known arrangements under which financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of Essential contracts the shares and no known agreements on restrictions on share transfers and voting rights.
The Company has no contractual or other arrangements which are considered essential to the business.
The Great Portland Estates plc LTIP Employee Share Trust the Trust is an employees share scheme which holds ordinary Charitable and other donations shares in the Company on trust for the benefit of employees Charitable donations for the year supporting organisations within the Group.
The Trustee of the Trust has the power to involved in health, the homeless and the community amounted exercise all the rights and powers including rights with regard to 48,804 2012: 52,339 : no contributions for political to control of the Company incidental to, and to generally act purposes were made.
in relation to, the ordinary shares subject to the Trust in such manner as the Trustee in its absolute discretion thinks t Going concern as if it were absolutely entitled to those ordinary shares.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors affecting As far as the Company is aware, there are no persons with its performance, position and future development are set out in significant direct or indirect holdings in the Company other the Annual review on pages 2 to 65.
Details of the nances of than those noted above.
the Group, including its strong liquidity position, attractively priced borrowing facilities and favourable debt maturity prole are set The powers of the directors are contained in the Companys out in Our financial results on pages 39 to 41 and in notes 16 Articles.
These include powers, subject to relevant legislation, and 17 of the accounts on pages 84 to 88. to authorise the issue and buy-back of the Companys shares by the Company, subject to authority being given to the directors The directors have reviewed the current and projected financial by the shareholders in a general meeting.
position of the Group, making reasonable assumptions about future trading performance.
As part of the review the Group has The rules about the appointment and replacement of directors considered the Groups cash balances, its debt maturity prole, are contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
including undrawn facilities, and the long-term nature of tenant Changes to the Articles of Association must be approved by leases.
On the basis of this review, and after making due the shareholders in accordance with legislation in force from enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the time to time.
Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Annual Report 2013 Great Portland Estates 129 Report of the directors ordinary shares referred to in paragraph a i of Resolution 14, 2013 Annual Report and Accounts further of the Companys ordinary shares in connection with Having taken all matters considered by the Board and brought to a pre-emptive offer by way of a Rights Issue to ordinary the attention of the Board during the year into account, the Board shareholders up to a maximum nominal amount of 28,660,512, is satisfied that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a representing approximately two-thirds 66.6% of the Companys whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
The Board believes existing issued share capital and calculated as at 21 May 2013 that the disclosures set out in of the Annual Report provide the being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys Report.
The directors have no present intention of exercising this performance, business model and strategy.
However, if they do exercise the authority, the directors intend to follow best practice as regards its use as recommended Statement as to disclosure of information by the ABI.
to the auditor Resolution 14 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution to renew So far as the directors who held ofce at the date of approval this authority until the conclusion of the next AGM or, if earlier, the of this Report are aware, there is no relevant audit information close of business on 1 October 2014. of which the auditor is unaware and each director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director to make Disapplication of pre-emption rights himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
Also at last years meeting, a special resolution was passed, under sections 570 and 573 of the Companies Act 2006, Auditor empowering the directors to allot equity securities for cash without first being required to offer such shares to existing A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as auditor of the Company shareholders.
Resolution 15 will seek to renew this authority.
will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
If approved, the resolution will authorise directors in accordance with the Articles of Association to issue shares in connection Annual General Meeting with a rights issue or other pre-emptive offer and otherwise The Notice of Meeting on pages 134 and 135 sets out the to issue shares for cash up to a maximum nominal amount resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting and of 2,149,538 which includes the sale for cash on a non gives details of the voting record date and proxy appointment pre-emptive basis of any shares held in treasury.
The maximum deadline for that meeting.
Resolutions 1 to 13 comprise ordinary nominal amount of equity securities to which this authority relates business and resolutions 14 to 17 special business.
represents approximately 5% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 21 May 2013 being the latest practicable date Authority to allot shares and grant rights prior to publication of this Report.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 5 July 2012, shareholders authorised the directors, under section 551 of the The directors do not intend to issue more than 7.5% of the issued Companies Act 2006 to allot ordinary shares without the prior share capital of the Company for cash on a non pre-emptive basis consent of shareholders for a period expiring at the conclusion in any rolling three year period without prior consultation with the of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2013 or, if earlier, shareholders and the Investment Committees of the Association on 1 October 2013.
Resolution 14 will seek to renew this of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds.
authority and to authorise the directors under section 551 of the Resolution 15 will be proposed as a special resolution to Companies Act 2006 to allot ordinary shares or grant rights to renew this authority until the conclusion of the next AGM or, subscribe for or convert any securities into shares for a period if earlier, the close of business on 1 October 2014. expiring no later than 1 October 2014.
Paragraph a i of Resolution 14 will allow the directors to allot ordinary shares up to a maximum nominal amount of 14,330,256 representing approximately one-third 33.3% of the Companys existing issued share capital and calculated as at 21 May 2013 being the latest practicable date prior to publication of this Report.
In accordance with institutional guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers, paragraph a ii of Resolution 14 will allow directors to allot, including the 130 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2013 Authority to purchase own shares Notice of general meetings A special resolution was also passed at last years meeting The notice period required by the Companies Act 2006 enabling the Company to purchase its own shares in the market.
for general meetings of the Company is 21 days, unless Resolution 16 will seek to renew this authority.
The maximum shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot number of shares to which the authority relates is 51,554,530. however be less than 14 clear days.
Annual General Meetings This represents 14.99% of the share capital of the Company in must always be held on at least 21 clear days notice.
The directors intend only to exercise At last years Annual General Meeting, shareholders authorised this authority if to do so would, in their opinion, enhance the calling of general meetings other than an Annual General shareholder value.
If Resolution 16 is passed at the Annual Meeting on not less than 14 clear days notice and Resolution 17 General Meeting, the Company will have the option of holding as seeks to renew this authority.
The authority granted by this treasury shares any of its own shares that it purchases pursuant resolution, if passed, will be effective until the Companys next to the authority conferred by this resolution.
This would give the Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that a similar Company the ability to sell treasury shares or use them to satisfy resolution will be proposed.
share awards under employee share schemes, providing the Company with additional exibility in the management of its Note that in order to be able to call a general meeting on less capital base.
No dividends will be paid on shares whilst held in than 21 clear days notice, the Company must make a means of treasury and no voting rights will attach to the treasury shares.
electronic voting available to all shareholders for that meeting.
Any shares purchased by the Company under this authority The exibility offered by this resolution will be used where, would be cancelled unless the shares are being purchased by taking into account the circumstances, the directors consider the Company to hold as treasury shares.
this appropriate in relation to the business to be considered at The price paid for ordinary shares will not be less than the the meeting and in the interests of the Company and nominal value of 12.5 pence per share and not more than the shareholders as a whole.
higher of 5% above the average of the middle market quotations of the Companys ordinary shares as derived from the London Recommendation Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the five business days The directors consider that all the resolutions to be put to preceding the day on which the ordinary shares are purchased the meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its and the amount stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and shareholders as a whole.
Your Board will be voting in favour Stabilisation Regulation 2003. of them and unanimously recommends that you do so as well.
There were no purchases of shares by the Company during the By order of the Board year.
At 31 March 2013, the number of shares which may be purchased under the shareholders authority given at the 2012 Annual General Meeting was 46,870,154.
At 21 May 2013, the Company held no shares in treasury.
Resolution 16 will be proposed as a special resolution to renew Desna Martin Company Secretary this authority until the conclusion of the next AGM or, if earlier, Great Portland Estates plc the close of business on 1 October 2014.
Company number: 596137 22 May 2013 Annual Report 2013 Great Portland Estates 131
