DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT: POLICY POLICY DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The auditors have reported on certain parts of the Report and stated whether, in their opinion, those parts of the Report have been properly The Directors Remuneration Report Report is presented to reflect prepared.
Those sections which have been subject to audit are clearly the recent changes in reporting requirements on remuneration indicated with an asterisk.
matters, particularly the UKs new Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment DIRECTORS REMUNERATION POLICY Regulations 2013.
The Report and pages 100 to 103 also describe The Directors Remuneration Policy as set out below Policy will how the Board has complied with the provisions set out in the take effect for all payments made to Directors with effect from the UK Corporate Governance Code relating to remuneration matters.
conclusion of the AGM to be held on 23 April 2014, subject to Two votes on remuneration matters will be presented at the approval by the shareholders at that meeting.
The table below 2014 Annual General Meeting AGM : a binding vote on the must be read alongside its footnotes which together set out and Directors Remuneration Policy as set out in the policy section explain the Policy.
of this Report, and an advisory vote on the 2013 Annual Remuneration Report section of this Report.
FIXED REMUNERATION Purpose, policy and role in supporting Element the Companys strategic objectives Operation and opportunity Base salary Ensure the Company continues to attract Paid monthly in cash.
In undertaking reviews, the Committee will take into account Benchmarking considered at both base salary and total remuneration and retain quality leaders.
factors including market conditions and the level of salary level, and the Committee generally considers that pay will be within Pensionable.
increases awarded to other employees of the Group, and a a range of - 10% of median benchmark but also takes into account Recognise: Reviewed annually by the Committee.
comparison against both a relevant property peer group and such other factors as it considers appropriate and is not constrained Accountabilities a market cap group as selected by the Committee currently by this default.
Skills the largest REITs and an appropriate pan-sector group of For 2013 and 2014 The base salary for any Executive Director shall not exceed 850,000 Experience see pages 87 and 88. companies with a comparable market capitalisation.
per annum or the equivalent if denominated in a different currency.
Value Benchmarked against the main markets in which Hammerson competes for talent.
Pension Ensure the Company continues to attract Executive Directors may receive an allowance Pension Choice to Arrangements for Executive Directors who participate in the Other and retain quality leaders.
be paid either i as an employer contribution to the Companys Hammerson Group Management Pension and Life Assurance In addition to receiving a salary supplement, Jean-Philippe Mouton defined contribution pension plan or ii as a payment to a SIPP Scheme Scheme participates in the collective supplementary defined contributions Provide market-competitive retirement personal pension plan or iii as a salary supplement or iv a The Scheme closed to new joiners at the start of 2003. retirement plan operated by his French employing company, and benefits.
The Pension Choice is up to an aggregate Peter Cole and David Atkins participate in the Scheme instead employer contributions are made at the annual statutory limit.
of the arrangements described on page 74.
For 2013 The contractual pension entitlements of existing Executive Directors see pages 87 and The salary supplement is non-pensionable and does not qualify for are set out in the summary of Executive Directors service agreements Scheme members affected by the UK annual allowance may 92 to 93.
on pages 82 and 83. choose to limit their benefit and receive a salary supplement No compensation for public policy or tax changes.
of the actuarially assessed balance, which is paid shortly after The Company will comply with any local legal obligations in respect the end of the relevant tax year.
The maximum benefit including in respect of any salary The Company keeps the pension arrangements for Executive supplement in lieu of accrual will remain 2 3 of final Directors under review to ensure they remain appropriate.
pensionable salary although the costs of such provision will change depending on, for example, actuarial assumptions.
Entitlement to receive Pension Choice of 30% of base salary if the Executive Director chooses to cease accruing service in the Scheme, payable only whilst employment continues.
74 74 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 APPROACH TO REMUNERATION POLICY Generally, two-thirds of the Executive Directors total target remuneration excluding pension and benefits is performance The overall objective of the Remuneration Committee Committee related, through an annual performance-related bonus plan is to determine an appropriate remuneration policy for Annual Incentive Plan or AIP and a long term incentive plan recommendation to the Board that ensures that the Company can Long Term Incentive Plan or LTIP, and this is considered continue to attract, retain and motivate quality leaders who are to be appropriate.
capable of making a major contribution to the Companys success whilst avoiding paying more than the Committee considers necessary.
The Committee has received clear advice that formal limits are In implementing the Policy, the Committee takes into account various required in the Policy and has retained sufficient flexibility to factors, including remuneration packages available within other enable it to continue to act in the interests of the Company and its comparable companies, the Companys overall performance, internal shareholders.
The limits will not lead to pressure on reward levels relativities, achievement of corporate objectives, individual and the Committee is satisfied that it has adopted a suitably performance and experience, published views of institutional investors conservative approach to date and will continue to do so.
and general market trends performance.
com 75 75 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT: POLICY CONTINUED FIXED REMUNERATION CONTINUED Purpose, policy and role in supporting Element the Companys strategic objectives Operation and opportunity Benefits Provide a range of benefits in line with Executive Directors may receive such contractual and nonBenefits are non-pensionable.
In addition to the benefits outlined: general practice.
contractual benefits as the Committee considers to be appropriate Where benefits are provided by a third-party provider, the Where Executive Directors are relocated to work in a different country and consistent with market practice in the relevant market in Ensure the Company continues to attract Company covers the cost at market rates.
the Company may i pay global relocation support up to a maximum of which the Executive Director is based.
400,000 : and or ii provide tax equalisation arrangements in relation to The aggregate value of contractual and non-contractual These benefits currently include a car allowance or a company car, all elements of remuneration.
benefits received by each Executive Director based on the For 2013 private medical insurance for the Executive Director and their value included in the individuals annual P1 1D tax calculation While the Committee does not consider it to form part of benefits in the see page 87. spouse life partner, and permanent health insurance and or a broadly equivalent basis for a non-UK based Executive normal sense, Executive Directors can participate in corporate hospitality life assurance.
Director shall not exceed 100,000 per annum with this including travel and where appropriate, with a family member, whether Benefits additionally available to employees of Hammerson France maximum increasing annually at the rate of RPI.
paid for by the Company or another, within its agreed policies.
currently include seniority allowance and an employers contribution of up to 2,000 per annum to an employee savings scheme.
VARIABLE, PERFORMANCE RELATED REMUNERATION Purpose, policy and role in supporting Element the Companys strategic objectives Operation and opportunity Performance Annual Incentive Align Executive Director remuneration The current maximum bonus opportunity is 200% of base salary.
Deferred shares element The performance measures and conditions will be set by the Committee Plan AIP, with with annual financial and Company The deferred shares element is currently awarded under the on an annual basis.
The Committee reserves the power to increase the maximum deferral under the strategic targets as determined by the DBSS but may be delivered under a different plan with bonus opportunity to up to 300% of base salary, although there is The performance conditions will be assessed over a period of one year, Deferred Bonus Companys Business Plan for the relevant equivalent terms.
no current intention to do so.
The Committee would only increase and may consist of a combination of: Share Scheme financial year.
the maximum bonus level above the current 200% of base salary The deferral period is currently two years, and may not Financial measures at the group or divisional level : DBSS In the view of the Committee, to after appropriate consultation with shareholders.
Operational measures: and differentiate appropriately on the basis Awards are subject to continued employment, save in the leaver The deferred shares are subject to the leaver conditions as Individual performance objectives.
circumstances described in the Payment for Loss of Office section set out in the Payment for Loss of Office section of this Policy.
The Committee reserves the right to include such other measures as it Partial award in shares aligns interests of this Policy.
No further performance targets apply to the deferred shares considers to be an appropriate means of assessing the performance of with shareholders and supports retention.
Awards are paid in a mix of cash and deferred shares, with the as these represent previously earned bonuses.
deferred shares element being at least 40% of the total award.
The awards are structured as nil-cost share options.
see pages 87 and The Committee retains discretion to amend the vesting level up or down 88 to 89.
Subject to clawback and malus provisions in situations of personal Participants are entitled to a dividend equivalent for the where it considers it to be appropriate, but not so as to exceed the misconduct and or where accounts or information relevant to period from grant until the vesting date, delivered as maximum bonus potential.
performance are shown to be materially wrong and the bonus additional shares when the shares are transferred Once set, performance measures and conditions will generally remain paid was higher than should have been the case.
unchanged for the year, except in exceptional circumstances.
Long Term Incentivise the creation of long-term A discretionary annual award up to a value of 200% of base salary.
Participants are entitled to a dividend equivalent for the The performance measures may consist of a combination of financial Incentive Plan returns for shareholders.
The Committee reserves the power to increase the maximum award period from grant until the vesting date, delivered as and non-financial measures.
LTIP to 300% of base salary in exceptional circumstances, although there additional shares when the shares are transferred Align interests of Executive Directors with Vesting under each condition is on a straight line basis with no more is no current intention to do so.
The extent of vesting is determined to the participant.
than 25% vesting at threshold performance.
The Committee has discretion to settle awards as a cash Support retention.
The LTIP rules impose a minimum performance period of three years.
Awards are subject to continued employment, save in the leaver payment in place of the transfer of shares.
However, the Committee has determined that the performance period The performance period is set to reflect circumstances described in the Payment for Loss of Office section Non-pensionable.
the capital intensive and cyclical nature For outstanding of this Policy.
Subject to clawback and malus provisions in situations of The Committee retains the discretion to amend the performance measures awards and 2014 Awards are normally structured as nil-cost share options but can personal misconduct and or where accounts or information and or conditions used, and or the weighting of each for future awards and awards see pages The choice of performance measures is take other forms for example, awards made to France-based relevant to performance are shown to be materially wrong or the performance measurement periods.
It is the current intention of the 90 to 91. determined by those drivers which deliver employees may be made in the form of a conditional award and vesting was higher than should have been the case.
Committee that future awards be granted with the same performance value to shareholders in the longer term.
measures and conditions as for the 2014 awards detailed on page 90 to 91.
Once set, the Committee may only amend the performance conditions in respect of outstanding awards in the event that exceptional circumstances occur which make it appropriate to do so, provided that the amended condition is not, in the view of the Committee, materially less difficult to satisfy.
76 76 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 FIXED REMUNERATION CONTINUED Purpose, policy and role in supporting Element the Companys strategic objectives Operation and opportunity Benefits Provide a range of benefits in line with Executive Directors may receive such contractual and nonBenefits are non-pensionable.
com 77 77 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT: POLICY CONTINUED OTHER Purpose, policy and role in supporting Element the Companys strategic objectives Operation and opportunity Share ownership To encourage share ownership by the The Chief Executive is expected to accumulate and maintain a guidelines Executive Directors, in order to ensure holding in ordinary shares in the Company equivalent to no less alignment with shareholders.
Other Executive Directors are expected to accumulate and maintain a holding in ordinary shares in the Company equivalent in value to no less than 100% of base salary.
Details of all Directors Shares to be included in the calculation are: shareholdings are Shares held beneficially by the Executive Director and the set out in the table on page 98.
Executive Directors spouse life partner.
Shares held by the Executive Director under the Share Incentive Plan.
Executive Directors are normally required to achieve the minimum shareholding requirement within five years of the date of appointment.
The share price to be used for annual calculation of shareholdings as a percentage of salary is the closing middle market quotation on the last business day in December.
No formal sanctions exist for non-compliance.
All-employee In order to be able to offer participation UK based Executive Directors arrangements in these plans to employees generally, Eligible UK employees may participate in the Sharesave and Share the Company is either required by the Incentive Plan, and the Executive Directors will be entitled to relevant UK and French legislation to participate on those same terms.
Maximum participation levels allow Executive Directors to participate for all staff, including Executive Directors are set by relevant on the same terms, or chooses so to do.
France based Executive Director All employees of Hammerson France are eligible to participate in a profit share plan, which rewards performance against such measures as the Committee considers to be appropriate.
Awards are subject to an annual limit determined by French legislation.
The Committee considers the performance measures currently applied to the AIP and LTIP to be appropriate measures of performance.
It recognises the need to balance the enhancement of the portfolio including increasing net rental income and the efficient management of capital and, over the longer term, should be aligned to the interests of shareholders.
For details regarding remuneration of other Company employees, please refer to the section on Employee Pay and Conditions elsewhere in the Group on page 85.
Details of outstanding LTIP and DBSS awards granted to the Executive Directors prior to this Policy coming into force, including awards granted in 2013, and details of the performance targets are set out on pages 88 to 91 and 96 to 97.
All awards granted prior to this Policy coming into force, together with any awards outstanding on the appointment of an existing employee as a new Executive Director, will continue on their existing terms, including as to the exercise of discretion to amend such awards.
Those Awards granted as nil cost options prior to this Policy coming into force entitle participants to a dividend equivalent for the period from grant until exercise of the option, rather than only until vesting as is the Companys future policy.
Please refer to the section on Payment for Loss of Office on pages 84 to 85 for details regarding impact on the AIP, the DBSS and the LTIP following a change of control.
The Committee will determine components of remuneration for new Executive Directors, as outlined in the section on Recruitment on page 80.
For the AIP, DBSS and LTIP, clawback and malus provisions were introduced for awards made from 2012 onwards.
78 78 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 SCENARIOS David Atkins Peter Cole Timon Drakesmith Jean-Philippe Mouton 3,000 2,563 23% 2,500 2,000 1,846 47% 1,731 24% 24% 1,519 1,491 1,500 10% 23% 47% 39% 47% 1,085 1,017 48% 10% 1,000 877 10% 40% 773 10% 40% 40% 100% 51% 30% 541 507 436 500 100% 50% 29% 100% 50% 29% 100% 50% 29% 0 Fixed On-Target Maximum Fixed On-Target Maximum Fixed On-Target Maximum Fixed On-Target Maximum Fixed remuneration Annual variable remuneration Long-term incentives ASSUMPTIONS Fixed Consists of base salary, benefits, pension and participation in the UK all-employee share plans.
Base salary is that to be paid in 2014.
Benefits are as shown in the Single Figure Remuneration Table for 2013 on page 87 except for Jean-Philippe Mouton where the amount he received under the profit sharing plan has been excluded from his 2013 benefits figure for these purposes.
See On-Target and Maximum below.
Pensions are as shown in the Single Figure Remuneration Table for 2013.
Jean-Philippe Moutons data has been converted at a rate of 1: 1.178.
Base Salary Benefits Pension Total Fixed 000 000 000 000 David Atkins 597 16 160 773 Peter Cole 435 16 90 541 Timon Drakesmtih 408 19 80 507 Jean-Philippe Mouton 346 12 78 436 On-Target Based on what the Executive Director would receive if performance was in line with expectation excluding share price appreciation and dividends : AIP: consists of on-target levels equal to 50% of bonus maximum.
LTIP: consists of the threshold level of vesting, being 25% of the face value of the award.
France profit sharing Jean-Philippe Mouton only : consists of on-target levels equal to 50% of the current capped vesting level of 18,186.
Maximum Based on the maximum remuneration receivable excluding share price appreciation and dividends : AIP: consists of the maximum bonus 200% of base salary.
LTIP: assumes maximum vesting of awards 100% of base salary for 2014 only.
France profit sharing Jean-Philippe Mouton only : assumes maximum vesting at the current capped vesting level of 18,186. www.
com 79 79 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT: POLICY CONTINUED RECRUITMENT Approach to recruitment for Executive Directors Statement of Principles The Company will pay total remuneration for new Executive Directors that enables the Company to attract appropriately skilled and experienced individuals, but is not, in the opinion of the Committee, excessive.
The Company will not pay new Executive Directors any inducements to join the Company over and above buy-outs of existing forfeited awards, as outlined below.
The Company may provide a new Executive Director with global relocation support and or tax equalisation arrangements as set out in the Policy on page 77 although, to date, the Company has not had occasion to do so.
Additionally, the Company may make a contribution towards legal fees in connection with agreeing employment terms.
Approach and limits Annual salary, pension, benefits, annual bonus and long-term incentive arrangements including performance measures and or conditions and maximum award levels as described in the Policy will be the starting point for the structure of any package.
The level of variable remuneration that may be awarded to a new Executive Director will not exceed the maximum AIP and LTIP limits that can be awarded in line with the principles set out in the Policy, with the exception of any compensation for variable remuneration forfeited.
The limits contained within the Policy for base salary do not apply to a new Executive Director either on joining or for any subsequent salary review within the period of this Policy, although the Committee would seek to avoid exceeding those limits in practice.
For a new Executive Director who is an internal appointment, the Company may also continue to honour contractual commitments made prior to the internal appointment even if those commitments are otherwise inconsistent with the Policy in force when the commitments are satisfied.
Any relevant incentive plan participation may either continue on its original terms or the performance conditions and or measures may be amended to reflect the individuals new role, as the Committee considers appropriate.
Compensation for variable remuneration forfeited by a new Executive Director The Company may, where appropriate, compensate a new Executive Director for variable remuneration that has been forfeited as a result of accepting the appointment with the Company.
Where the Company compensates a new Executive Director in this way, it will seek to do so under the terms of the Companys existing variable remuneration arrangements, but may compensate on terms that are more bespoke than the existing arrangements where the Committee considers that to be appropriate.
In such instances, the Company will disclose a full explanation of the detail and rationale for such recruitment related compensation.
In making such awards the Committee will seek to take into account the nature including whether awards are cash or share-based, vesting period and performance measures and or conditions for any remuneration forfeited by the individual when leaving a previous employer.
Where such awards had outstanding performance or service conditions which are not significantly completed the Company will generally impose equivalent conditions.
In exceptional cases, the Committee may relax those requirements where it considers this to be in the interests of shareholders, for example through a significant discount to the face value of the replacement awards.
80 80 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 SERVICE AGREEMENTS Service agreements: New Executive Director appointments from 23 April 2014 The Committees approach is for new Executive Directors to have service agreements that have regard to market practice at the date of appointment.
The key elements for service agreements for newly appointed Executive Directors will be: Notice period 12 months notice both notice to and from the Executive Director.
A longer period of notice from the Company may apply to new appointments for a limited time if the Committee considers this is appropriate, but would then reduce to no more than 12 months.
Retirement date There is no default retirement age.
Requests for retirement are considered on a case-by-case basis.
At Executive Director level, it is anticipated that 12 months notice will be provided.
Post-termination restrictions To protect the Groups confidential information for an appropriate period for that information, and to prevent poaching of its senior workforce and its customer and supplier connections for 12 months after termination.
Payment in lieu of notice Employment can be terminated with immediate effect by paying a PILON comprising base pay, pension, PILON medical insurance and car allowance.
A PILON will not apply on termination for gross misconduct, in which situation no compensation will be due.
The Company will have discretion to pay on a phased basis, subject to mitigation.
Expiry date There will be no fixed expiry date.
The appointment of new Executive Directors will be terminable in accordance with the notice period.
Change of control and The Executive Director will not have a right to liquidated damages.
liquidated damages The terms summarised above will be subject to any local statutory or collective bargaining requirements where applicable.
OTHER APPOINTMENTS Executive Directors are able to accept, with the consent of the Companys Board of Directors, non-executive appointments outside the Company provided that such appointments do not lead to a conflict of interests on the basis that such external appointments can enhance their experience and skills and add value to the Company.
Any fees received by an Executive Director for such external appointments can be retained by the individual except where the Executive Director is appointed as the Companys representative.
com 81 81 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT: POLICY CONTINUED SERVICE AGREEMENTS CONTINUED Service agreements: Executive Directors in office as at 31 December 2013 The following table sets out a description of any obligations contained in the UK Executive Directors service agreements which could give rise to, or impact upon, remuneration payments or payments for loss of office.
Peter Cole David Atkins Timon Drakesmith Date of service contract 28 February 2002 11 January 2008 18 January 2011 Expiry date Rolling service contracts with no fixed expiry date.
Notice period 12 months notice to the 12 months notice both notice to and from the Executive Director.
Executive Director and six months notice from the Executive Director.
Base salary fee Base salary, subject to annual review save where the Executive Director is under notice of termination.
There is no obligation to increase base salary following a review.
Incentive plans Participation in the annual bonus arrangements and the LTIP.
The rules of the annual bonus arrangements and the LTIP that apply on cessation of employment are set out in the Payment for Loss of Office section of this Policy on page 84.
In addition, Timon Drakesmiths service agreement provides that he will be treated as a good leaver in respect of the bonus arrangements in the event of a successful claim for constructive dismissal.
1 2 Pension contributions Entitled to participate in the Scheme, subject to its rules.
Entitled to a Pension Choice of 20% of base salary.
Entitled to have benefits of the Scheme maintained or, on three months notice, to be provided with alternative arrangements which are actuarially no worse.
Contractual Insurance Permanent disability insurance.
benefits Personal accident and life insurance.
Private medical insurance for the Executive Director and his spouse life partner.
Car Each Executive Director receives a car allowance.
Sick pay Base salary plus contractual benefits for up to 26 weeks in any 12 month period.
Termination Notice Entitled to 12 months base pay and contractual benefits.
payments Payment in lieu Employment can be terminated with immediate effect by paying a Employment can be terminated of notice lump sum PILON comprising base salary, contractual benefits and a with immediate effect by PILON bonus based on the Executive Directors average bonus over the paying a PILON comprising previous three years but pro-rated to reflect the part of the bonus base salary, pension, medical year actually worked.
PILON will not apply on PILON will not apply on termination for gross misconduct.
termination for The Company has discretion to gross misconduct.
pay on a phased basis, subject The Company has discretion to to mitigation.
pay on a phased basis, subject to mitigation.
Liquidated Entitlement to liquidated damages calculated by reference to PILON if the Company terminates the damages employment in breach of the service agreement or if, within 12 months after a change of control, the Change of Company terminates the employment or the Executive Director terminates the employment because of Control a fundamental breach by the Company.
Liquidated damages are subject to deductions for new earnings.
For details of Scheme participation please see Pension disclosures on pages 92-93 for further details.
Pension Choice is explained on page 74.
82 82 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 Jean-Philippe Mouton has been employed by Hammerson Asset Management SAS HAM since 14 April 2003 as Divisional Director France.
He is based and works in France and, as a result, it was considered appropriate for him to continue to be employed under a French law governed employment contract with HAM upon his appointment as Executive Director.
His employment contract with HAM means that French law applies to his terms and conditions of employment as Divisional Director France.
Jean-Philippe Mouton entered into a separate English law letter of appointment, which governs his directorship of the Company.
Jean-Philippe Mouton also holds French corporate offices, including Chairman and Unique General Director of Hammerson France SAS and General Manager of Hammerson SAS, to which he was appointed by written resolution of the board of Hammerson France SAS.
As at 1 January 2013, his aggregate global gross base salary in respect of his directorship of the Company, his role as Divisional Director France and his French corporate offices is 400,000 per annum.
In addition, he is paid a supplementary pension benefit.
While, of necessity, to comply with French law, his termination provisions are more complex than the UK based Executive Directors and split between three distinct parts as summarised below, the overall financial implications, before the impact of any collective bargaining agreements, are very similar and in aggregate the outcome would broadly equate to one times his global base salary.
Jean-Philippe Mouton Date of service agreement and French employment: 25 March 2013. appointments UK directorship: 25 March 2013.
French corporate offices: 9 February 2014 Expiry date Rolling service contract French employment with no fixed expiry date.
Notice period Three months notice both notice to and from the Executive.
Base salary fee French employment: base salary.
UK directorship: basic annual fee, subject to annual review.
French corporate offices: basic annual fee.
Pension contributions Eligibility to benefit from the statutory retirement regimes in force from time to time in France, and the collective supplementary defined contributions retirement plan, which was put in place at HAM level subject to the annual statutory limits on contributions.
Entitlement to receive an annual salary supplement of 80,000 per annum in lieu of any other supplementary pension benefit.
Contractual Insurance Insurance benefits are provided under a French collective scheme applicable to all employees of HAM.
benefits Car Receives a company car.
Sick pay Entitlement to receive the minimum benefits set out in the collective bargaining agreement currently 90% of his global base salary, contractual remuneration and benefits less statutory sick pay for a duration determined by the length of his continuity of service.
Thereafter any global base salary, 1 contractural remuneration and benefits are payable under the health insurance prvoyance scheme.
Termination Notice French employment: entitlement to three months fixed and variable remuneration.
payments UK directorship: entitlement to three months fees.
French corporate offices: no notice.
Severance Entitlement to a severance payment equal to 25% of average global base salary and contractual payment remuneration over the 12 months preceding termination multiplied by years of service capped at six months if terminated on grounds of redundancy and if in excess of the legal minimum termination payment.
Restrictive Entitlement to 30% of global base salary for the duration of the 12 month non-competition covenant covenants to the extent such covenant is enforced.
As a senior executive, Jean-Philippe Mouton may also be entitled to receive enhanced benefits under the prvoyance, which applies on a mandatory basis to executive level employees pursuant to the terms of the collective bargaining agreement.
com 83 83 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT: POLICY CONTINUED PAYMENT FOR LOSS OF OFFICE Notice periods and contractual rights The notice periods and contractual rights on termination of each of the Executive Directors, and the key terms that will apply under service agreements for new recruits, are set out in the section on Service Agreements on pages 81-83.
Annual bonus and long-term incentives The following table describes the provisions which apply to leavers and the discretions available under the annual bonus arrangements and the LTIP.
Further detail as to the potential exercise of discretion by the Committee is set out below the table.
Arrangements Leaver provisions AIP Under the rules of the AIP, where prior to the end of the performance period an Executive Director gives or receives notice, or ceases to be employed by the Group, due to death, ill-health, injury or disability, then the Executive Director remains entitled to a bonus, subject to the performance conditions.
Any bonus payable will, unless the Committee determines otherwise, be time pro-rated.
Where the date of cessation or notice is after the end of the performance period but prior to payment, the Executive Director will remain entitled to payment if the cessation is for any of the reasons above, or in addition if the cessation is due to retirement, redundancy or the sale of the company or business for which he works.
Where the cessation or notice does not fall within the above provisions, the bonus shall not be payable, unless the Committee determines otherwise which it may do at its discretion.
Payment will be on the normal payment date, unless the Committee decides to accelerate payment.
DBSS deferred share Share awards, which represent deferrals of previously earned bonus, lapse on the Executive Director resigning element of AIP or giving notice of resignation, provided that the Committee may exercise its discretion to treat the Executive Director as a good leaver.
Share awards will also lapse on the Executive Director being dismissed for cause.
In any other case the share award will continue and will vest in full on the normal vesting date, unless the Committee decides to accelerate vesting.
LTIP An Executive Director who ceases to be a Director or employee of the Group by reason of death, retirement, ill-health, injury or disability, redundancy, or the sale of the company or business for which he works will be a good leaver.
Where the cessation is on any other grounds, awards will lapse, provided that the Committee has a discretion to treat the Executive Director as a good leaver.
Awards held by good leavers will continue and will vest on the normal vesting date, unless the Committee decides to accelerate vesting.
Awards will remain subject to the performance conditions and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, be time pro-rated.
In exercising discretion in respect of the annual bonus arrangements or under the LTIP, the Committee will take into account all factors it determines to be appropriate at the relevant time including, but not limited to the duration of the Executive Directors service and its assessment of the contribution towards to the success of the Company during that period: whether the Executive Director has worked any notice period or whether a PILON payment is being made: the need to ensure an orderly handover of duties and continuity in the business operations of the Company and the need to compromise any claims which the Executive Director may have.
In exercising any discretion the members of the Committee will take account of their duties as Directors.
No discretion will be exercisable to treat an Executive Director as a good leaver where he is dismissed summarily for cause or following a formal disciplinary process.
In respect of the Companys HMRC-approved, all-employee share plans, the Sharesave and the SIP, and the profit share plan for employees of Hammerson France, the Executive Directors are subject to the same leaver provisions as all other participants.
84 84 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 Other If the Company terminates an Executive Directors employment by reason of redundancy, the Company will make a redundancy payment to the Executive Director in line with his service agreement, any applicable collective bargaining agreement and under statute, and reserves the right to adjust for unfair dismissal.
In addition, and consistent with market practice, the Company may pay a contribution towards the Executive Directors legal fees for entering into a statutory settlement agreement and may pay a contribution of up to 50,000, plus VAT, towards fees for outplacement services as part of a negotiated settlement.
Payment to a departing Executive Director may be made in respect of accrued benefit and untaken holiday.
In connection with an Executive Director ceasing employment, the Company may, if the Committee believes it necessary and in the best interests of the Company, enter into appropriate new contractual arrangements with the departing Executive Director including but not limited to settlement, confidentiality, restrictive covenants and or consultancy arrangements on such terms as it considers appropriate.
In such case, the Company will make appropriate disclosures of such terms.
A departing gift may be provided up to a value of 5,000 plus related taxes per Executive Director on termination of office.
Change of control On a corporate action affecting the Company, the rules of the AIP, DBSS and the LTIP will apply.
In summary, on a change of control of the Company awards under the LTIP will vest, subject to the performance conditions and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, be time pro-rated.
Bonuses may be awarded under the AIP, based on performance to the date of the change of control and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, be time pro-rated.
Awards under the DBSS, which represented deferrals of previously earned bonus, will vest in full.
Under the LTIP, the Committee may also determine that a demerger or similar event shall constitute a corporate action.
On a variation of share capital or similar event, the Committee may make such adjustment to awards under the LTIP and DBSS as the Committee considers appropriate.
EMPLOYEE PAY AND CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE GROUP Employee remuneration packages Remuneration packages for all Company employees may comprise both fixed and variable elements.
The more senior the individual, the greater their general opportunity to impact directly upon Company performance, and therefore the remuneration packages of senior managers and Executive Directors have a greater emphasis on variable pay than those of more junior employees.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the full range of Company benefits offered to employees.
In addition, they are eligible for certain remuneration to which other employees are not eligible.
Executive Directors may opt to receive a salary supplement in lieu of pension, which is not available to other employees.
Executive Directors are eligible to participate in an LTIP, whereas senior managers across the Group participate in other share and incentive plans.
Eligible employees, including Executive Directors, may participate in the relevant all-employee share plans namely UK plans for employees in the UK and French plans for employees in France.
Considerations in setting Executive Director remuneration When setting Executive Director remuneration, the Committee takes into account Group-wide pay and employment conditions, along with market and commercial factors.
The Company strives to pay competitively and to ensure its reward structures recognise superior performance.
The Company therefore undertakes external benchmarking and internal moderation to ensure that, in its view, at all levels the Companys remuneration approach reflects the appropriate market rate position.
When determining base salary increases for Executive Directors, the Committee reviews the average Group-wide increase, paying particular attention to the senior manager population.
The Committee reviews performance against the AIPs performance measures.
Personal performance rating impacts bonus calculations for all employees and these ratings are calibrated internally to ensure consistency.
Executive Director performance ratings are calibrated annually by the Committee.
Having reviewed both Company and personal performance, and considering payments being made to shareholders, the Committee makes a judgement as to what level of bonus payment, if any, is reasonable.
The Committee retains discretion to review bonus payments upwards as well as downwards subject to the over-riding limits.
In accordance with prevailing commercial practice, the Committee did not consult with employees in preparing the Policy or the implementation thereof.
com 85 85 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT: POLICY CONTINUED CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Policy as relates to Non-Executive Directors Element Approach to determining element of fees and operation Fees The Chairmans fee is determined by the Committee and those of the other Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board on the recommendation of the Executive Directors.
Fee levels are reviewed periodically taking into account independent advice and the time commitment required of Non-Executive Directors.
Aggregate total fees payable annually to all Non-Executive Directors is subject to the limit as stated in the Companys Articles of Association from time to time.
The Committee reserves the right to provide additional fees within the stated limit including for membership of any additional committee the Board may establish.
The fees paid to the Chairman and the fees of the other Non-Executive Directors aim to be competitive with other fully listed companies which the Committee in the case of the Chairman and the Board in respect of the Non-Executive Directors consider to be of equivalent size and complexity but are not set by reference to a prescribed benchmark.
Fees are paid monthly in cash in arrears and are not pensionable.
Additional fees The Chairman does not receive any additional fee in respect of membership of any of the Committees.
Other Non-Executive Directors may receive additional fees for membership and or chairmanship of the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
There is also an additional fee for the Senior Independent Director.
The level of additional fees is set to reflect the responsibilities of the role.
Other benefits There are no other benefits currently available to any of the Non-Executive Directors.
Whilst the Company does not consider that reimbursing travel and accommodation expense including to the Companys London office is a benefit in the normal sense, should any assessment to tax be made on such reimbursement, the Company reserves the ability to settle such liability on behalf of the Non-Executive Director.
Non-Executive Directors are not eligible for performance-related bonuses or participation in the Companys share plans.
While the Committee does not consider it to form part of benefits in the normal sense, Non-Executive Directors can participate in corporate hospitality including travel and, where appropriate, with a family member, whether paid for by the Company or another, within its agreed policies.
A departing gift may be provided up to a value of 5,000 plus related taxes per Non-Executive Director on termination of office.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements with the Company.
Their appointments are governed by letters of appointment, which are available for inspection on request.
The letters of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are reviewed by the Chairman and the Executive Directors every three years.
Appointments of Non-Executive Directors are for a term of three years, subject to the right of either party to terminate the appointment on not less than three months notice or immediately should a conflict of interest arise.
If any Non-Executive Director is not re-elected at the Companys Annual General Meeting, the appointment will cease automatically.
On termination of an appointment, a Non-Executive Director is only entitled to such fees as may have accrued to the date of termination, together with the reimbursement in the normal way of any expenses properly incurred prior to that date.
The dates of the appointments of the Non-Executive Directors in office as at 31 December 2013 are set out below.
Date of original appointment to Board Commencement date of current term Unexpired term as at April 2014 Gwyn Burr 21 May 2012 21 May 2012 1 year, 1 month Terry Duddy 3 December 2009 3 December 2012 1 year, 8 months Jacques Espinasse 1 May 2007 1 May 2013 2 years, 1 month 1 Judy Gibbons 1 May 2011 1 May 2011 1 month 2 John Hirst 1 March 2004 1 May 2013 Retiring at the end of 2014 AGM David Tyler 12 January 2013 12 January 2013 1 year, 10 months Anthony Watson 1 February 2006 1 February 2012 10 months Notes 1.
Judy Gibbons appointment has been extended for three years with effect from 1 May 2014.
John Hirsts appointment was renewed for a further period to expire at the end of the 2014 AGM.
SHAREHOLDER VIEWS The Company welcomes dialogue with its significant shareholders and seeks their views when major changes are being made to remuneration policy.
Recently, following feedback from representatives of shareholders, the accumulation period for dividends on shares held in the LTIP and DBSS schemes was shortened to cover only the period from the date of grant of the award to vesting for awards from 2014 onwards.
86 86 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT: 2013 ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT 2013 ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT 2013: DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The table below demonstrates the remuneration of the Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2013, and the comparative figures for the year ended 31 December 2012.
During the year, no payments were made to Executive Directors for expenses other than those incurred wholly and directly in the course of their employment.
Details of David Atkins external non-executive appointments are disclosed in the Your Board section on page 62.
He does not receive a fee for any of his external appointments.
The pension figures disclosed in the above table incorporate a cash supplement of 97,829 2012: 69,744 plus the increase in accrued pension over the year net of inflation multiplied by a factor of 20.
The pension figures disclosed in the above table represent the increase in accrued pension over the year net of inflation multiplied by a factor of 20.
For 2012, this produces a nil answer reflecting that Peter Coles accrued pension increased by less than inflation over 2012.
Timon Drakesmith acts as the Companys representative as a non-executive director of Value Retail PLC.
He does not receive a fee for this appointment.
For the purposes of consistency and to facilitate comparison against other Executive Directors, Jean-Philippe Moutons remuneration has been converted from euros into sterling in the above table.
The exchange rate that has been used is 1: 1.178 Jean-Philippe Mouton was appointed as an Executive Director on 1 January 2013 and so only his 2013 remuneration has been disclosed in the above table.
Benefits include taxable benefits company car or car allowance and private medical health and for Jean-Philippe Mouton, a seniority allowance and welfare contribution and all-employee arrangements for UK Executive Directors, SIP and Sharesave: for France Executive Director, profit sharing scheme and employers contribution to an employee saving scheme.
The Company financial targets together with individual achievement against personal objectives resulted in an average payout to Executive Directors represents approximately 54% 2012:90% of the maximum opportunity.
Details of annual bonus outcomes are on page 89.
Full Pension details are on pages 92 and 93.
The table below sets out the values attributable to each performance measure for the LTIP for all Executive Directors and, for Timon Drakesmith only for the second tranche of his Recruitment Share Award that is scheduled to vest in June 2014.
The 2013 figure for TSR is shown for the LTIP award that vested in 2013.
The performance period ended on 29 April 2013 for awards for David Atkins and Peter Cole and 13 December 2013 for the award for Jean-Philippe Mouton.
There was no LTIP vesting in 2012.
The 2013 figure for TPR is an estimated value for the awards that are scheduled to vest in 2014 where the performance period ended on 31 December 2013 as the relevant IPD data is not available at 14 February 2014.
The estimated vesting value is nil.
The 2012 figure for TPR is the actual value for the awards that vested in 2013 but where the performance period ended on 31 December 2012.
The 2013 figure for Absolute NAV is an actual value for the awards that are scheduled to vest in 2014 where the performance period ended on 31 December 2013.
Absolute NAV was not a performance measure for the LTIP awards that vested in 2013.
For outcomes of the LTIP award that vested in 2013, please see page 90. www.
com 87 87 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT: 2013 ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED BASE SALARY During 2013, no salary increases were awarded to Executive Directors who were in office as at 31 December 2012, which was consistent with the approach for most senior managers across the Group.
Jean-Philippe Mouton was appointed as an Executive Director with effect from 1 January 2013 and received a salary increase to 400,000 inclusive of directorship fees as summarised in the section on service agreements on page 83 upon appointment.
His salary and the other elements of his remuneration is denominated in euros.
When converted, the sterling equivalent will vary with currency movements.
In respect of 2014, the Committee reviewed benchmark data, the personal contributions of Executive Directors, and Group-wide salary increases for all employees.
The Committee determined the revised base salaries as set out on page 79, all to take effect from 1 April 2014, and which represent a range of between a 2% and 3.6% increase on 2013 base salaries.
ANNUAL INCENTIVE PLAN The following table details the performance conditions and composition of financial targets for the AIP.
Maximum award Proportion of Proportion of award Year of award potential award paid in cash paid in shares Weighting of performance measures Composition of financial targets 1 2014 award Up to 200% 60% 40% subject 70% for Group financial targets 30% based on adjusted Group to be paid of salary to a two-year earnings per share in 2015 vesting period 30% based on Total Property Return 3 relative to IPD 10% for Group operational targets 1 30% for personal objectives 2 2013 award Up to 200% 60% 40% subject 70% for Group financial targets 30% based on adjusted Group to be paid of salary to a two-year earnings per share in 2014 vesting period 30% based on Total Property Return 4 relative to IPD 2 10% for Group operational targets 2 30% for personal objectives 2012 award Up to 200% 60% 40% subject 70% for Group financial targets 30% based on adjusted Group paid in 2013 of salary to a two-year earnings per share vesting period 30% based on Total Property Return 4 relative to IPD 10% for Group operational targets 30% for personal objectives Notes 1.
In the opinion of the Board AIP performance conditions and personal objectives for 2014 are commercially sensitive and accordingly are not disclosed.
These will be reported upon with disclosure next year.
Details of the AIP outcome for 2013 are on page 89.
IPD is the Investment Property Databanks aggregate full-year UK Retail Property 70% and France Retail Property 30% indexes.
IPD is the Investment Property Databanks UK Quarterly Property Index, annualised.
From 2013, the metric has been adjusted from All Property to Retail Property only, to reflect the Companys new retail focus.
88 88 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 The following table shows how the Executive Directors AIP structure works.
AIP BONUS STRUCTURE AIP BONUS OUTCOME: FINANCIAL TARGETS 2013: target to 2013 closing Level of Total bonus Financial targets breakdown Performance measure achieve 100% bonus measurement payout EPS 23.2p 23.1p 95% 10% 10% 30% TPR relative to IPD IPD 2.5% IPD 0.2% 0% Growth in NRI 3.5% 2.1% 30% 60% Overhead control 36.6m 37.8m 42.8% 60% 60% 10% Personal objectives weighting 30% % Salary: Earnings Per Share % Salary: TPR relative to IPD Index Group financial targets weighting 70%: % Salary: Growth in NRI Group financial element % Salary: Overhead control Group operational element The targets for each performance measure to achieve any bonus payout, and the percentage of maximum for the measure that such performance would achieve were: for EPS, 21.1p would pay 10%: for TPR, IPD 0.5% would pay 25%: for Growth in NRI, no bonus is payable until growth is greater than 1.5% from which point payment is pro-rated: for Overhead Control, no bonus is payable until the overheads are less than 38.7m from which point payment is pro-rated.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS PERSONAL OBJECTIVES Executive Directors are able to earn up to 30% of the maximum award for achieving personal objectives.
All Executive Directors personal objectives were designed to focus not only on the delivery of the Business Plan for 2013, but also on the strategic objectives of creating high-quality property, maximising income and maintaining capital strength.
Targets addressed the areas of investing to upgrade venues: focusing on sustainability: improving consumer insight and digital expertise: maximising the contribution of our people: strengthening our retailer relationships: and maintaining a prudent and flexible financial structure.
Payout levels for David Atkins, Peter Cole and Timon Drakesmith were 80%, and for Jean-Philippe Mouton, it was 65%.
The table below provides detail of some of the significant personal objectives for each of the Executive Directors.
David Atkins Develop and lead the retail strategy of the business to create best in class retail destinations.
Maximise the financial performance of the business and its standing with all key stakeholders.
Particular focus on EPS and TPR growth.
Review of capital and human resources with a particular focus on key developments, multi-channel and marketing.
Peter Cole Progress the key developments including Leeds, Brent Cross, Croydon and Bishopsgate Goodsyard.
Effect capital recycling in order to boost portfolio returns.
Complete the sale of the residue of the London Office portfolio.
Timon Drakesmith Improve the Companys rating from an equity and capital markets view point.
Maintain a strong focus on cost management, including restructuring many of the Companys financial instruments in order to reduce the Companys interest payments.
Further develop the Companys relationship with Value Retail.
Jean-Philippe Mouton Drive operational and financial performance in the French portfolio and target selective accretive acquisitions.
Progress key developments at Marseille and Beauvais.
Review group marketing and accelerate multi-channel proposition.
com 89 89 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT: 2013 ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED LONG TERM INCENTIVE PLAN The Committee reviews the structure of the LTIP awards, as well as the performance measures and conditions attached to the awards, on an annual basis to ensure that they continue to align closely with the business strategic focus.
Since 2011, the awards have incorporated a balance of relative and absolute measures, and the Committee believes that this balance is still appropriate.
The structure of the 2014 awards remains the same as the 2013 awards.
In 2013, the relative performance measures were adjusted to reflect the Companys change in strategy to focus on the retail property sector: the comparator group for the Total Shareholder Return TSR measure now focuses on major European retail real estate companies and the Total Property Return TPR measure compares performance against a retail only property index.
With regard to the absolute performance measure, Absolute Net Asset Value Absolute NAV was replaced in 2013 with Earnings per Share EPS to align further the interests of Executive Directors and shareholders.
Details of the LTIP structure are as set out below: Weighting of Performance Performance performance Year of grant Level of award period measures measures TSR comparator group 2014 100% of salary Four years TSR 33.33% Altarea, British Land, Capital and Regional, Intu Properties previously called Capital Shopping Centres, Corio, TPR 33.33% Eurocommercial, IVG, Klepierre, Land Securities, London Metric, EPS 33.33% SEGRO, Shaftesbury, Unibail-Rodamco, Wereldhave and the FTSE 100 Index 2013 200% of salary Four years TSR 33.33% As for 2014 TPR 33.33% EPS 33.33% 2012 200% of salary Four years TSR 33.33% British Land, Capital and Regional, Capital Shopping Centres, Corio, Derwent London, Great Portland Estates, IVG, Klepierre, TPR 33.33% Land Securities, Quintain Estates, SEGRO, Shaftesbury, St Absolute NAV 33.33% Modwen Properties, Unibail-Rodamco and the FTSE 100 Index 1 300% of salary 50% of award: TSR 33.33% 2011 As for 2012 three years TPR 33.33% 50% of award: Absolute NAV 33.33% four years 2 2010 200% of salary Three years TSR 50% British Land, Capital and Regional, Corio, Derwent London, Great Portland Estates, IVG, Klepierre, Land Securities, Liberty TPR 50% International, Quintain Estates, SEGRO, Shaftesbury, St Modwen Properties, Unibail-Rodamco and the FTSE 100 Index Notes 1.
In order to smooth the transition from a three-year performance period to a four-year performance period, an enhanced award of 300% of salary was made, with half of the award subject to a three-year performance period vesting in 2014 and half subject to a four-year performance period vesting in 2015.
This will ensure there is no vesting gap in 2014 and, overall, will result in only a modest reduction in potential awards vesting to Executive Directors in the three-year period from 2014 to 2016 assuming a consistent level of performance is achieved.
This award vested during 2013, in the amounts as set out below: 1 2 TSR TPR Value of award Value of award Share price Vesting Number of that vested Number of that vested Vesting date on vesting level shares vested 000 Vesting level shares vested 000 David Atkins 09 05 2013 534.00 85.1% 121,904 651 87.85% 125,843 672 Peter Cole 09 05 2013 534.00 85.1% 97,523 521 87.85% 100,674 538 Jean-Philippe Mouton 19 12 2013 498.55 00.0% 87.85% 37,010 185 Notes 1.
The performance period for TSR for the awards made to David Atkins and Peter Cole ended on 29 April 2013 and for the award made to Jean-Philippe Mouton ended on 13 December 2013.
Therefore, the value of the award that vested under this performance measure is included in the Single Figure Remuneration Table for 2013 on page 87.
The performance period for TPR for all awards ended on 31 December 2012.
Therefore the value of the award that vested under this performance measure is included in the Single Figure Remuneration Table for 2012 on page 87 except for Jean-Philippe Mouton who became an Executive Director on 1 January 2013.
The value of the award that vested under this performance measure.
90 90 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 THE PERFORMANCE MEASURES TSR TPR EPS Absolute NAV Performance is measured over the Performance is measured over the three EPS For awards granted from 2013. three four-year period from the date of four financial years commencing with the Performance is measured over the four-year grant, in comparison with a comparator year of grant and in comparison with a period from1 January in the year of grant, group, including some European composite index comprising: and is calculated with reference to the real estate companies.
For awards to be granted from 2013 EPRA Best Practices recommendations.
onwards: Investment Property Databanks UK Annual Retail Property Index and Absolute NAV For awards granted in 2011 France Annual Retail Property Index.
For awards granted from 2009 to 2012: Performance is measured over the three Investment Property Databanks UK Annual four financial years commencing with the All Property Index and France Annual All year of grant, and is calculated with Property Index.
reference to the Best Practices recommendations of EPRA, being the The relative composition of the indices may adjusted shareholders funds divided by vary with each grant to ensure that it the adjusted number of shares in issue.
THE PERFORMANCE CONDITIONS TSR TPR EPS Absolute NAV Vesting under the TSR performance measure Vesting under the TPR performance measure Vesting under the EPS performance measure is as follows: is as follows: for the 2013 and 2014 awards is as follows: Less than TSR of median-ranked Less than Index 0% Less than RPI 3.0% p. a. growth 0% entity in comparator group 0% Equal to Index 25% Equal to RPI 3.0% p. a. growth 25% Equal to TSR of median-ranked Index 0.5% average p. a.
55% Equal to or more than RPI 7.0% entity in comparator group 25% p. a. growth 100% Index 1.0% average p. a.
85% Equal to TSR of upper quartileIndex 1.5% average p. a.
100% Vesting under the Absolute NAV ranked entity in comparator group 100% performance measure for the 2012 award is Vesting for intermediate performance Vesting for intermediate performance as follows: between these levels will be pro-rated on a between median and upper quartile-ranked linear basis between 25% and 100%.
Less than RPI 3.0% p. a. growth 0% entities is on a linear scale between 25% and Equal to RPI 3.0% p. a. growth 25% 100%.
For awards prior to 2014, this was Equal to or more than RPI 7.0% calculated by interpolating by ranking.
For p. a. growth 100% awards made from 2014 onwards interpolation is between the TSR of the Vesting under the Absolute NAV median and upper quartile-ranked performance measure for the 2011 award is companies on a straight line basis on as follows: performance of those positions between 25% and 100%.
Less than 7.5% p. a. growth 0% Equal to 7.5% p. a. growth 25% Vesting under the TSR performance measure is subject to the Committees satisfaction that Equal to or more than 15.0% the Companys underlying performance has p. a. growth 100% been satisfactory in comparison with that of Vesting for intermediate performance for all the FTSE Real Estate sector.
awards will be pro-rated on a linear basis between 25% and 100%.
com 91 91 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT: 2013 ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED PENSION In accordance with his service agreement Timon Drakesmith receives a Pension Choice of 20% of base salary.
He has elected not to participate in the Companys defined contribution pension scheme.
Part of his Pension Choice is paid by way of an employer contribution into an approved SIPP and the balance as a salary supplement subject to Income Tax and National Insurance Contributions NIC.
The amount paid by the Company for the year ended 31 December 2013 was 80,000.
Jean-Philippe Mouton was appointed as an Executive Director with effect from 1 January 2013.
In accordance with his service agreement, he receives a salary supplement of 80,000 in lieu of any supplementary pension benefit.
He participates in a legacy collective supplementary defined contribution pension scheme operated by his French employing company where the contributions are subject to statutory limits.
For 2013, the benefit he received under this plan was 11,939.
Neither the salary supplements paid to Timon Drakesmith and to Jean-Philippe Mouton, nor the pension benefit received by Jean-Philippe Mouton, qualify for AIP purposes or entitlements under the LTIP.
David Atkins and Peter Cole currently participate in the Scheme, the Companys defined benefit pension scheme, as outlined in the table on page 75 and more fully described in note 6 to the accounts on pages 125 to 127.
The normal retirement age is 60: members may retire from age 55 subject to actuarial reduction and the Companys consent.
Members may draw their pension from age 55 whilst remaining in employment.
Pension entitlements are based on base salary.
The Scheme is non-contributory for members, therefore neither David Atkins nor Peter Cole have made any contributions during the year.
The Finance Act 2004 resulted in various changes to the taxation of pension benefits, including the introduction of the annual allowance, which is the maximum amount of an individuals pension savings that can benefit from tax relief each year.
David Atkins pension in the Scheme is based on a 1 60th accrual rate.
This is the rate of accrual received by all members of the Scheme who joined after 1 July 1994.
David Atkins elects to restrict the value of the pension benefits he accrues each year to the annual allowance currently 50,000.
In return, the Company pays David Atkins a cash supplement during his employment in respect of the pension benefits above the annual allowance that he would otherwise have accrued each year.
For the year ended 31 December 2013, David Atkins will receive a cash supplement of 97,829 2012: 69,744.
This supplement will be subject to Income Tax and NIC and will not qualify for AIP purposes or entitlements under the LTIP.
Peter Cole joined the Scheme before 1 July 1994.
His pension has been accruing at a rate which would provide him with a pension of two-thirds of final salary at retirement should he continue to work for the Company until age 60.
This is equivalent to an accrual rate of approximately 1 45th.
The Company has agreed that if either David Atkins or Peter Cole chooses to cease accruing service in the Scheme and continues to be employed by the Company, they will be entitled to a Pension Choice of 30% of base salary.
Any part of the Pension Choice paid as a salary supplement will be subject to deductions for Income Tax and NIC and will not qualify for AIP purposes or entitlements under the LTIP.
The following tables set out information on Executive Directors entitlements under the scheme.
In the table below, for each Executive Director, the total accrued benefit at 31 December 2013 represents the annual pension that is expected to be payable on eventual retirement, given the length of service and salary of each Executive Director at 31 December 2013.
The increase in accrued benefit earned during the year represents the increase in this expected pension, including the effect of inflation, when compared with the position at 31 December 2012.
The increase in accrued benefit during the year excluding the effect of inflation over the year is also shown.
Increase in Total accrued Increase in accrued benefit Age at Years service at benefit at accrued benefit during the year 31 December 31 December Normal 31 December 2013 during the year excluding inflation 2013 2013 retirement age 000 000 000 David Atkins 47 15 60 82 4 3 Peter Cole 54 24 60 232 9 5 92 92 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 In the table below, the transfer values have been calculated in accordance with regulations 7 to 7E of the Occupational Pensions Schemes Transfer Values Regulations 1996 and subsequent amendments.
For each Executive Director, the transfer value of the increase in accrued benefits under the Listing Rules is the transfer value at 31 December 2013 of the increase in accrued benefits during the period excluding inflation.
Transfer values of accrued entitlement represent the value of assets that the Scheme would need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the Schemes liability in respect of the Executive Directors pension benefits.
They do not represent sums paid or payable to individual Executive Directors and therefore cannot be added meaningfully to annual remuneration.
Instead, they represent a potential liability of the Scheme.
The statutory disclosures are based on required assumptions: from the perspective of the participants, it is generally felt that the economic benefit of final salary pension promise is higher than indicated above.
The Listing Rules Transfer value at 31 December 2013 of increase in accrued benefit over 2013 net of inflation 000 David Atkins 35 Peter Cole 66 Whilst the calculation of transfer values under the Companies Act 2006 is not required to be disclosed, it is believed that these are still meaningful and so details of these calculations are included in the table below: Companies Act 2006 Transfer value at Transfer value at 31 December 2012 31 December 2013 Value of increase in of total accrued of total accrued benefit benefit accrued benefit during the year 000 000 000 David Atkins 834 920 86 Peter Cole 3,150 3,411 261 PAYMENTS TO PAST DIRECTORS Simon Melliss retired as an Executive Director in June 2011 and retained a pro-rated interest in share awards granted to him prior to his retirement.
During 2013, the LTIP award granted to Simon Melliss on 30 April 2010 vested in the amounts shown in the table below: Notional dividend Lapsed Share price Awards held at shares accrued Vested on forfeited on on vesting on Award date 1 January 2013 during 2013 9 May 2013 9 May 2013 9 May 2013 LTIP 30 April 2010 92,015 1,739 81,067 12,687 5.34 PAYMENTS FOR LOSS OF OFFICE There were no payments for loss of office to any former Directors in 2013.
RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF SPEND ON PAY The table below demonstrates the Companys total employee costs compared with dividends paid.
The Company did not buy back any of its own shares during 2013.
Employee Shareholder 1 2 Remuneration Distributions 2013 44.0m 130.1m 2012 44.9m 120.9m Difference -2.0% 7.6% Notes 1.
These figures have been extracted from Note 4 Administration Expenses to the accounts on page 124.
These figures have been extracted from Note 10 Dividends to the accounts on page 131. www.
com 93 93 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT: 2013 ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN INDEX 31 December 2008 100 180 170 160 150 140 130 120 110 100 90 80 31 Dec 2008 31 Dec 2009 31 Dec 2010 31 Dec 2011 31 Dec 2012 31 Dec 2013 Hammerson plc FTSE EPRA NAREIT UK Source: Thomson Reuters The graph above shows the total shareholder return in respect of the Companys ordinary shares of 25 pence each for the five years ended 31 December 2013 relative to the return of the FTSE EPRA NAREIT UK Index which comprises shares of the Companys peers.
The total shareholder return is rebased to 100 at 31 December 2008.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year ends.
REMUNERATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OVER THE LAST FIVE YEARS The table below demonstrates the remuneration of the holder of the office of Chief Executive for the last five years for the period from 1 January 2009 to 31 December 2013.
John Richards retired as Chief Executive on 30 September 2009.
David Atkins became Chief Executive on 1 October 2009, having been an Executive Director since 2007.
The figure shown in the above table for 2009 has been pro-rated accordingly.
REMUNERATION FOR CHIEF EXECUTIVE COMPARED WITH ALL OTHER EMPLOYEES OF THE HAMMERSON GROUP The table below demonstrates the percentage change from 31 December 2012 to 31 December 2013 in base salary, taxable benefits and bonus for the Chief Executive compared to all employees of the Hammerson group.
Movement % Salary Benefits Annual bonus Total David Atkins 0.3% -36.8% -23.4% Total Group 3.00% 7.8% -9.74% -0.4% Notes 1.
David Atkins is excluded from the Group calculation.
London Group employees who have left the Company have been excluded.
The exchange rates used to convert data for French employees is 1: 1.178 for 31 December 2013 and 1:1233 for 31 December 2012.
94 94 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS: SINGLE FIGURE REMUNERATION TABLE The table below sets out the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors for the year ended 31 December 2013, and the comparative figures for the year ended 31 December 2012.
During the year, no payments were made to Non-Executive Directors for expenses other than those incurred wholly and directly in the course of their appointments.
Fees Benefits Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Additional responsibilities Notes 000 000 000 000 000 000 David Tyler Chairman Remuneration Committee member 1 226 226 Gwyn Burr Audit Committee member 58 34 58 34 Terry Duddy Remuneration Committee member 58 55 58 55 Jacques Audit Committee member Espinasse 58 55 58 55 Judy Gibbons Audit Committee member Remuneration Committee member 63 60 63 60 John Hirst Audit Committee Chairman 68 65 68 65 John Nelson Chairman Remuneration Committee member 2 108 270 14 122 270 Anthony Senior Independent Director Watson Remuneration Committee Chairman 78 75 78 75 717 614 14 731 614 Notes 1.
David Tyler was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 12 January 2013.
On the same date, he was appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee.
For the period from 12 January 2013 to 8 May 2013 inclusive, he received fees of 50,000 pro-rated as a Non-Executive Director and 5,000 pro-rated as a member of the Remuneration Committee.
When he became Chairman of the Company on 9 May 2013, he received the Chairmans fee of 320,000 pro-rated.
He does not receive any additional fees for his membership of the Remuneration Committee.
John Nelson received the Chairmans fee of 300,000 pro-rated for the period from 1 January 2013 to 9 May 2013 inclusive when he retired from the Board.
He did not receive any additional fee for his membership of the Remuneration Committee.
On his retirement, John Nelson received a leaving gift to the value of 7,366 post-tax prior to a formal policy on leaving gifts being set.
The gross value has been disclosed in the above table.
The figures shown in the Single Figure Remuneration Tables for Executive Directors on page 87 and for Non-Executive Directors above have been rounded to the nearest thousand.
The actual aggregate total remuneration emoluments being salary fees, benefits and bonus for all Executive and Non-Executive Directors for 2013 was 4,480,432 2012: 4,604,126.
FEES PAYABLE TO NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS In 2013, annual fees payable to the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors were increased as follows: Previous fee Revised fee Increase 000 000 effective from 1 Chairman John Nelson 270 300 1 January 2013 1 Chairman David Tyler 320 9 May 2013 2 Non-Executive Director: base fee 50 55 1 July 2013 Notes 1.
As disclosed last year, prior to 2013, the Chairmans fee was last increased to 270,000 in April 2010.
The Chairmans fee was reviewed in 2012 and it was determined that the appropriate fee for the Chairmanship of the Company was 320,000.
It was decided that David Tyler would receive this fee when he assumed Chairmanship of the Company in May 2013.
In light of the review, it was determined that John Nelsons fee should also be increased from 270,000 to 300,000 with effect from 1 January 2013.
The Non-Executive Directors base fee was last increased in April 2010.
Further fees payable to the Senior Independent Director, and Chairmen and members of the Audit and Remuneration Committees have not been increased and remain as follows: Additional fee 000 Senior Independent Director 10 Audit Committee chairmanship 15 Audit Committee membership 5 Remuneration Committee chairmanship 10 Remuneration Committee membership 5 Notes 1.
The Company Chairman does not receive any additional fee in respect of membership of any Committees.
No additional fees are payable for Chairmanship or membership of the Nomination Committee.
At the 2013 Annual General Meeting, the limit as stated in the Companys Articles of Association for aggregate total fees payable annually to all Non-Executive Directors was increased from 750,000 to 1,000,000.
No fee increases are planned for 2014. www.
com 95 95 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT: 2013 ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SHARE PLAN INTERESTS INCLUDING SHARE OPTIONS The table below sets out the Executive Directors interests under the Annual Bonus Scheme ABS which preceded the AIP, the DBSS, the LTIP and the Sharesave.
Awards under the ABS, the DBSS and the Sharesave are not subject to any performance conditions other than continued employment as at the vesting date.
The LTIP awards are subject to performance conditions, details of which can be found on page 91.
The table also shows details of the second tranche of Timon Drakesmiths Recruitment Share Award RSA which is scheduled to vest in June 2014.
The award has been made on materially the same terms as the 2011 LTIP award.
Face value of DBSS and LTIP awards made in 2013 have been calculated using the grant price in accordance with the respective plan rules: For the DBSS, the grant price was 5.173, which was the average share price over the three business days immediately preceding the award date: and For the LTIP, the grant price was 4.8750, which was the average share price over the five business days immediately preceding the award date.
The threshold vesting percentage for the LTIP awards made in 2013 was 25% for each performance measure.
Details of the performance measures can be found on page 91.
The aggregate gain of Directors from share awards that vested during 2013 was 3,025,252 2012: 257,339.
The higher gain in 2013 was attributable to the vesting of the LTIP award that was granted in 2010.
Details can be found on page 90.
For LTIP awards made to Jean-Philippe Mouton prior to 2014, there is no accrual of notional dividend shares.
The Executive Directors interests in ordinary shares of the Company under the SIP as at 31 December 2013 are shown in the table below.
The shares are held under a SIP trust.
Jean-Philippe Mouton is not eligible to participate in the SIP.
1 Total SIP shares Partnership shares Matching shares Free shares Dividend shares Total SIP shares 1 1 January 2013 purchased awarded awarded purchased 31 December 2013 David Atkins 9,006 588 280 9,874 Peter Cole 10,239 588 317 11,144 Timon Drakesmith 1,795 297 594 588 74 3,348 Note 1.
The free shares were awarded on 19 April 2013 at a price of 510.00 pence per share.
com 97 97 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT: 2013 ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS The beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the Company held by Directors who were in office during the year ended 31 December 2013 are set out below.
For Executive Directors, the table also shows actual share ownership against guidelines full details of which can be found on page 78.
The Company does not operate a share ownership policy for Non-Executive Directors, although they are encouraged to acquire a shareholding in the Company.
Executive Directors shareholdings 1 Guideline on share Actual beneficial 1 ownership as share ownership as 1 1 January 2013 31 December 2013 14 February 2014 % of salary % of salary Guideline met David Atkins 177,938 296,414 296,414 150% 254% Yes Peter Cole 246,200 247,105 247,105 100% 295% Yes 2 Timon Drakesmith 175,594 177,147 177,291 100% 222% Yes Jean-Philippe Mouton 171,474 215,623 215,623 100% 318% Yes Notes 1.
As at and based on the share price of 502.00p on 31 December 2013.
The exchange rate that has been used to convert Jean-Philippe Moutons global base salary from euros to sterling is 1: 1.178.
The change in share interests for Timon Drakesmith from 31 December 2013 to 14 February 2014 is due to share purchases awards made under the SIP on 14 January 2014 72 shares and 4 February 2014 72 shares.
Shareholding shown as at 12 January 2013, this being the date of David Tylers appointment to the Board.
Shareholding shown as at 9 May 2013, this being the date of John Nelsons retirement from the Board.
Between 1 January 2014 and 14 February 2014, the Non-Executive Directors beneficial interests above have remained unchanged.
At 31 December 2013, in addition to the interests in shares disclosed in the table above, Anthony Watson also had an interest in 60,000 nominal 6.875% sterling bonds due 2020.
98 98 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE AND ITS COMPOSITION The Committees responsibilities are set out in its terms of reference which are available on request to shareholders and on the Companys website.
The terms of reference are reviewed annually by the Board, and if necessary updated.
They were most recently reviewed in December 2013.
Member Date of appointment to the Committee Meetings attended during 2013 Anthony Watson Chairman 01 02 2006 5 5 Terry Duddy 18 02 2011 5 5 Judy Gibbons 03 02 2012 5 5 1 John Nelson 21 07 2006 2 2 David Tyler 12 01 2013 5 5 Notes 1.
John Nelson retired as a Director immediately following the end of the Annual General Meeting on 9 May 2013.
Gwyn Burr was appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee with effect from 14 February 2014.
The Chairman of the Committee reports on the Committees activities to the Board at the meeting immediately following the Committee meeting.
ADVISORS The following advisors provided services to the Committee during the year: FIT Remuneration Consultants LLP FIT which is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group, the professional association for remuneration consultants, and complies with its code of conduct were appointed by the Committee as advisors on 17 August 2011.
Since then, they have provided advice on reward structures and levels and aspects of the Companys future remuneration policy.
FITs terms of engagement are available on request to shareholders and on the Companys website.
These terms specify that, in order to avoid any conflict of interest, FIT will only provide advice expressly authorised by or on behalf of the Committee.
Where instructions are taken on behalf of the Committee from employees of the Company, FIT will ensure that the Committee is kept informed of the broad scope of such matters.
The fees paid to FIT during 2013 were 98,852 excluding VAT 2012: 62,625 excluding VAT.
FIT did not provide any other services to the Company during 2013, and the Committee was therefore satisfied that all advice was objective and independent.
Herbert Smith Freehills LLP HSF provided legal advice to the Company throughout the year which was available to be considered by the Committee.
In particular during 2013, HSF provided advice on aspects of the Companys future remuneration policy and Jean-Philippe Moutons service agreement.
The Chief Executive and Group HR Director attend all meetings of the Committee by invitation, except when their own remuneration is being discussed.
The Company Secretary is the Secretary to the Committee.
The Chief Executive, Group HR Director and the Company Secretary provided advice to the Committee on matters relating to remuneration policy and also Company practices.
2013 AGM: STATEMENT OF VOTING At the Companys Annual General Meeting held on 9 May 2013, votes cast by proxy at the meeting in respect of the Directors Remuneration Report were as follows: Votes For Votes Against Total votes cast Votes withheld 1 % of issued 1 Resolution No.
of shares % of shares voted No.
of shares % of shares voted share capital No.
Issued share capital as at 9 May 2013 was 712,855,554 ordinary shares.
Represents less than 1% of the issued share capital.
By order of the Board Sarah Booth General Counsel and Company Secretary 14 February 2014 www.
