DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS REPORTING GOING CONCERN This Annual Report aims to tell a cohesive story, with the narrative The current economic conditions have created a number of section giving a consistent presentation and a fair, balanced and uncertainties as set out on pages 55 to 59.
The Groups business understandable assessment of the Companys performance, business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, model and strategy.
A description of the Companys business model performance and position are set out on pages 32 to 43.
The financial and strategy is set out in the Chief Executives Report on pages 6 and 7. position of the Group, its liquidity position and borrowing facilities are The Going Concern Statement is presented below, and the Directors described on pages 49 and 50 and in notes 18 to 20 to the accounts.
and Auditors responsibility statements are on pages 106 to 109.
The Directors have reviewed the current and projected financial The Directors Report and other sections of this Annual Report contain position of the Group, making reasonable assumptions about future forward-looking statements.
The extent to which the Companys trading performance.
As part of the review, the Directors considered shareholders or anyone may rely on these forward-looking statements the Groups cash balances, its debt maturity profile, including undrawn facilities, and the long-term nature of tenant leases.
After making is set out in the glossary on page 165. enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the This Directors Report encompasses the Strategic Report on pages Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in 1 to 59 and the Governance Report on pages 60 to 103. operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the DIVIDENDS financial statements.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 10.8 pence per share which, together with the interim dividend paid on 3 October 2013, will PROVISIONS ON CHANGE OF CONTROL make a total dividend for the year of 19.1 pence 2012: 17.7 pence.
Five of the six outstanding bonds issued by the Company contain It is intended that the final dividend will be paid on 25 April 2014 to covenants specifying that, if the Companys credit rating is shareholders on the register at the close of business on 14 March 2014. downgraded to below investment grade due to a change of control, and the rating remains below investment grade for a period of six It is intended that 3.6 pence per share will be paid as a Property months thereafter, the bondholders may require repayment at par.
Income Distribution, net of withholding tax where appropriate, and the remainder of 7.2 pence per share paid as a normal dividend.
In addition, under the Companys credit facilities, the lending banks may require repayment of outstanding amounts within 30 days of any Details of the Companys dividends can be found on the Companys change of control.
EMPLOYEES FIXED ASSETS AND CAPITALISED INTEREST It is the Groups policy to give full consideration to suitable applications Changes in tangible fixed assets and capitalised interest during the for employment from disabled persons.
Disabled employees are year are set out in notes 12 and 13 to the accounts on pages 133 to eligible to participate in all career development opportunities available 135, whilst details of Hammersons property portfolio are provided on to employees.
Opportunities also exist for employees of the Group pages 158 to 163. who become disabled to continue in their employment or to be SHARE CAPITAL retrained for other positions in the Group.
Changes to the Companys share capital during the year are set out in The Company places considerable importance on good internal note 24 to the accounts on pages 149 to 151. communications with its employees and invests time in consulting on a wide range of matters which affect them as employees including: On 31 December 2013 there were 712,876,870 ordinary shares of reward practices, work life balance initiatives, corporate responsibility 25 pence in issue each with one vote.
There are no shares held in activities and approaches to internal communications.
The total number of voting rights in Hammerson plc at predominantly takes the form of facilitated discussion groups and 31 December 2013 was therefore 712,876,870. employee involvement on relevant committees.
The Company also There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the provides very regular internal updates on business news and transfer of shares except UK REIT restrictions.
No person has any special performance through formal and informal meetings, intranet rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares announcements and special employee briefings and question and are fully paid.
answer sessions on the half-year and annual results.
PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES The Company was granted authority at the Annual General Meeting AGM in 2013 to purchase up to 10% of its issued ordinary share capital.
That authority will expire at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM at which a resolution will be proposed for its renewal.
104 104 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 PENSION SCHEME DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS LIABILITY INSURANCE The Companys defined benefit pension scheme was closed to new The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance, entrants on 31 December 2002 following which a Group personal which is reviewed annually.
The Companys directors and officers are pension plan was established for new employees.
adequately insured in line with the guidelines produced by the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
The defined benefit pension scheme, The Hammerson Group Management Limited Pension and Life Assurance Scheme Scheme, FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS is administered by two corporate trustees, one of which is an Details of the financial instruments used by the Group and the independent trustee.
The other company, Hammerson Pension Company are set out in note 21 to the accounts on pages 143 to 149.
Scheme Trustees Limited HPST is a subsidiary of the Company.
The chairman of HPST, David Edmonds, will be stepping down on EXTERNAL AUDITOR 27 April 2014 and will be succeeded by John Hirst.
The Schemes funds Deloitte LLP Deloitte is willing to be re-appointed as the external are invested and managed independently of the Company.
Their re-appointment has been considered and recommended by the Audit Committee to the Board and a SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS resolution concerning Deloittes re-appointment will be proposed At 31 December 2013 the following interests in voting rights over the at the AGM.
issued share capital of the Company had been notified: DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO THE At 31 December Ordinary shares 2013 percentage of EXTERNAL AUDITOR of 25p each total voting rights Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of the APG Algemene Pensioen Groep N. V. 68,227,094 9.57% Directors Report has confirmed that: BlackRock Inc. 50,223,602 7.05% So far as she or he is aware, there is no relevant audit information Norges Bank Investment of which the Companys external auditor is unaware: and Management 28,351,479 3.98% She or he has taken all the steps that she or he ought to have taken Legal & General Investment as a Director in order to make herself or himself aware of any Management Ltd 25,717,804 3.61% relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys external auditor is aware of that information.
On 16 January 2014 Norges Bank Investment Management disclosed a decrease in shareholding to 2.62% 18,703,515 shares.
No other This confirmation has been given and should be interpreted in changes to the above have been disclosed to the Company in accordance with the provisions of section 418 2 of the accordance with Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules Companies Act 2006. between 31 December 2013 and 14 February 2014.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING DIRECTORS The Annual General Meeting will be held on 23 April 2014 at The biographical details of the Directors are shown on pages 10 Grosvenor Street, London, W1K 4BJ at 11.00 am.
David Tyler was appointed as a Non-Executive Director Meeting and the explanatory notes will be available separately on the on 12 January 2013 and became Chairman on 9 May 2013 following Companys website and paper copies will be posted to shareholders John Nelsons retirement.
John Hirst will be retiring as a Non-Executive who have elected to receive the documents in that format.
Director following the AGM on 23 April 2014.
GREENHOUSE GAS GHG EMISSIONS REPORTING In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the In accordance with Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium-sized Directors other than John Hirst will retire and offer themselves for Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
information regarding the Companys greenhouse gas emissions can David Atkins, Peter Cole, Timon Drakesmith and Jean-Philippe Mouton be found on pages 28 and 29. have service agreements with the Company.
By Order of the Board The appointments of the Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, are governed by letters of appointment.
Details of the service agreements and letters of appointment are set out in the Sarah Booth General Counsel and Company Secretary Directors Remuneration Report on pages 81, 82 and 86.
Details of the 14 February 2014 Directors interests in the share capital of the Company are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 98.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Details of the remuneration of each of the Directors are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 72 to 99. www.
