FINANCIAL AND PROPERTY RETURNS FINANCIAL AND PROPERTY RETURNS We aim to generate a return on equity which is greater than our cost of equity, with the objective of providing good shareholder returns.
To achieve this, we set hurdle rates for investment, based on a minimum five-year internal rate of return and adjusted according to the risk associated with each project.
The table overleaf compares the financial returns of 2013 with For the year ended 31 December 2013, Hammersons return benchmark indices.
The IPD data shown for the UK portfolio on shareholders equity was 8.8%.
The income element of the are based on the quarterly All Retail Universe.
There is no return on shareholders equity tends to be relatively low given benchmark for total portfolio returns which is comparable the quality of the property portfolio, as described above.
The with Hammersons geographical portfolio allocation.
capital element of the return on equity in 2013 reflected the IPD data relating to the returns of the French property sector increase in the portfolio value during the year.
in 2013 will be available only after this Annual Report has Hammersons total shareholder return for 2013 been published.
underperformed the FTSE EPRA NAREIT UK index, An analysis of capital and total returns by business segment is principally reflecting the strong share price performance provided in the Property portfolio information on page 51. of companies in the index with an exposure to the London property sector, which performed well in 2013.
Over the last The IPD Universe includes returns for all types of retail property five years, Hammersons average annual total shareholder in the UK.
Hammersons UK capital return was lower than the return has been 11.4% compared with 12.3% for the IPD Universe capital return principally reflecting a strong EPRA NAREIT UK index.
performance by retail shop units in and around London which pushed up the index.
Prime shopping centres provide low EPRA FINANCIAL REPORTING BEST PRACTICE initial yields, reflecting their high quality.
Consequently, the RECOMMENDATIONS income returns for our portfolio are lower than the index.
EPRA European Public Real Estate Association has established The Group capital and total returns, including the Groups best practice recommendations for the calculation and share of the return from the Value Retail portfolio, presentation of certain performance measures for the listed outperformed the index.
Definitions and references to where the measures can be found in this Annual Report are shown in the table overleaf.
EPRA BEST PRACTICE RECOMMENDATIONS BPR ON SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING Absolute measures for energy and water usage, greenhouse gas emissions and waste, together with intensity measures for energy and water usage and greenhouse gas emissions, as defined by EPRA, are set out in the full Global Reporting Initiative GRI and EPRA BPR compliance pack which can be found online at www.
44 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 RETURNS DATA FOR 2013 Return % Benchmark % UK portfolio capital return 1.7 UK IPD All Retail Universe capital 2.4 UK portfolio income return 5.5 UK IPD All Retail Universe income 5.8 UK portfolio total return 7.2 UK IPD All Retail Universe total 8.3 Group capital return 3.1 n a Group income return 5.3 n a Group total return 8.5 n a Return on shareholders equity 8.8 Estimated cost of equity 8.0 Total shareholder return over one year 6.7 FTSE EPRA NAREIT UK index over one year 23.8 Total shareholder return over three years p. a.
10.4 FTSE EPRA NAREIT UK index over three years p. a.
14.0 Total shareholder return over five years p. a.
11.4 FTSE EPRA NAREIT UK index over five years p. a.
12.3 Portfolio returns include developments, continuing and discontinued operations.
Group returns include those of the Groups share of the Value Retail portfolio.
EPRA PERFORMANCE MEASURES Performance measure 2013 Performance Definition Page Purpose EPRA Earnings 23.1p per share Recurring earnings from core 132 A key measure of a companys underlying operational activities operating results from its property rental business and an indication of the extent to which current dividend payments are supported by earnings EPRA NAV 5.73 per share Net Asset Value NAV adjusted to include 132 Adjusts IFRS NAV to provide stakeholders with properties and other investment interests relevant information on the fair value of the at fair value and to exclude certain items assets and liabilities of a real estate investment not expected to crystallise in a long-term company with a long-term investment strategy investment property business model EPRA NNNAV 5.41 per share EPRA NAV adjusted to include the fair 132 Adjusts EPRA NAV to provide stakeholders triple net values of financial instruments, debt and with relevant information on the current fair deferred taxes value of the assets and liabilities of a real estate company EPRA Net Initial 5.5% Annualised rental income based on cash 43 Comparable measure for portfolio valuations Yield NIY rents passing at the balance sheet date, less non-recoverable property operating expenses, divided by the market value of the property, including estimated purchasers costs EPRA topped-up 5.6% EPRA NIY adjusted for the expiry of 43 Comparable measure for portfolio valuations NIY rent-free periods Vacancy 97.7% Estimated market rental value ERV of 39 A measure of investment property space that vacant space divided by the ERV of the is vacant, based on ERV whole portfolio occupancy is the inverse of vacancy www.
