GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE This section of the Governance Report details the Companys compliance with the Principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code Code which is available at www.
This section should be read in conjunction with the Governance Report as a whole as set out on pages 60 to 99.
Hammerson is fully committed to operating in accordance with the requirements of the Code and has complied in full with the Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2013.
LEADERSHIP The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive are A.
1 The Role of the Board separate.
They are clearly defined and documented and approved by The Board is collectively responsible to the Companys shareholders for the Board.
The Chairman, David Tyler, is responsible for the operation the long-term success of the Group and the delivery of the long-term of the Board.
The Chief Executive, David Atkins, is responsible for strategic and operational objectives of the Group.
The Board sets the leading and managing the business within the authorities delegated strategic direction, governance and values of the Group and has by the Board.
ultimate responsibility for the management, direction and performance of the Group.
3 The Chairman The Chairman sets the Boards agenda and ensures that important T he Board operates through a sound risk management and internal control system, details of which can be found on matters and in particular strategic issues, receive adequate time and pages 55 to 59 and 70 to 71. attention at meetings.
The annual Board Strategy Day is dedicated to considering the future direction of the Company at the start of the The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its business planning process.
decision which can be accessed at www.
F urther details of the 2013 Board Strategy Day can be found on page 65.
The Board has regular scheduled meetings throughout the year and met nine times in 2013.
Additional telephone meetings are held as At the time he succeeded John Nelson as Chairman at the conclusion required.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to communicate of the 2013 AGM, David Tyler was considered independent.
In directly with Executive Directors and senior management between accordance with the Code, the continuing test of independence for formal Board meetings.
All Directors are expected to attend all the Chairman is not appropriate.
meetings of the Board, and of those Committees on which they serve and the Annual General Meeting AGM, and to devote sufficient time A.
4 Non-Executive Directors to the Companys affairs to enable them to fulfil their duties as Anthony Watson is the Senior Independent Director.
He is available to Directors.
Details of Directors attendance at each of the Board and address shareholders concerns on governance and, if necessary, other Committee meetings during 2013 are set out in the table below.
issues that have not been resolved through the normal channels of communication with the Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS ATTENDANCE Officer, or in cases when such communications would be Board Audit Remuneration Nomination inappropriate.
The Senior Independent Director can also deputise for 1 John Nelson 3 3 1 1 the Chairman in his absence, act as a sounding board for the Chairman 2 David Tyler 9 9 5 5 2 2 and be available to advise and counsel all Board colleagues.
David Atkins 9 9 The Senior Independent Director chairs an annual meeting of Peter Cole 9 9 Executive and Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present Timon Drakesmith 9 9 to appraise the Chairmans performance and to address any other Jean-Philippe Mouton 9 9 matters which the Directors might wish to raise.
The outcome of Gwyn Burr 9 9 4 4 these discussions is conveyed by the Senior Independent Director Terry Duddy 9 9 5 5 2 2 to the Chairman.
3 Jacques Espinasse 8 9 3 4 The Chairman meets with the Non-Executive Directors as necessary, Judy Gibbons 9 9 4 4 5 5 but at least twice each year without the Executive Directors present.
John Hirst 9 9 4 4 During the year there were no unresolved concerns about the running 4 Anthony Watson 8 9 4 4 5 5 2 2 of the Company.
John Nelson retired as a Director and Chairman of the Company, Chairman of the Nomination Committee and Member of the Remuneration Committee on 9 May 2013.
David Tyler was appointed as a Non-Executive Director and a member of the Remuneration Committee on 12 January 2013.
On 9 May 2013 he became Chairman of the Company and Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Jacques Espinasse was unable to attend the Board meeting held on 25 July 2013 as he was attending the Board and Audit Committee meetings of SES in Luxembourg.
Anthony Watson was unable to attend the Board meeting held on 28 March 2013 due to family commitments.
EFFECTIVENESS All Directors appointed to the Board receive an induction programme B.
1 The Composition of the Board which takes into account their qualifications and experience.
All During the year the Board reviewed the overall balance of skills, Directors are kept informed of changes in relevant legislation and experience, independence and knowledge of the Board and regulations and changing financial and commercial risks, with the Committee members.
assistance of the Companys legal advisors and external auditor, where The Board is satisfied that the Non-Executive Directors, each of appropriate.
Executive Directors are subject to the Companys annual whom is independent from management and has no material performance development review process through which their or other connection with the Company, are able to exercise performance against pre-determined objectives is reviewed and their independent judgement.
personal and professional development needs are considered.
The Board undertakes an annual review of the independence of its D etails of the induction programmes for David Tyler, and Non-Executive Directors in accordance with the criteria set out within Jean-Philippe Mouton can be found on page 65. the Code.
Non-Executive Directors training and personal development The Nomination Committee considered the fact that at the 2013 requirements are reviewed and agreed as part of the annual appraisal AGM, John Hirst had served on the Board for more than nine years.
of their performance, conducted by the Chairman.
Non-Executive In accordance with the Code the Board determined that John Hirst Directors are encouraged to attend seminars and undertake external continued to be independent in judgement, notwithstanding his training at the Companys expense in areas considered appropriate for length of service.
It is planned that John Hirst will retire from the Board their professional development including on issues relevant to the following the 2014 AGM.
Board and Committees to which they belong.
There are currently seven Non-Executive Directors including the B.
5 Information and Support Chairman and four Executive Directors on the Board.
The Directors have access to independent professional advice at the B.
2 Appointments to the Board Companys expense and to the advice and services of the Company The Nomination Committee, chaired by the Chairman, leads the Secretary who advises the Board on corporate governance matters process for Board appointments and makes recommendations to and ensures that Board procedures are followed and that the the Board.
The Committees terms of reference can be found at Company and the Board operate within applicable legislation.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for facilitating Directors induction and assisting with identifying and enabling appropriate Jean-Philippe Mouton was appointed as an Executive Director on training and for Board performance evaluation.
David Tyler was appointed to the Board on The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter 12 January 2013.
He became Chairman of the Board on John Nelsons requiring approval of the Board.
The process for the appointment of Jean-Philippe Mouton and David Tyler was overseen by the B.
Details of the recruitment process for In 2013 an external performance evaluation of the Board and its David Tyler were fully disclosed in last years Annual Report.
Committees was facilitated by IDDAS, which had no other connection Further details of the work of the Nomination Committee can with the Company.
The evaluation considered the balance of skills of be found on page 67. the Board, diversity, independence, knowledge of the Company and the Boards effectiveness.
Disclosures on diversity can be found on pages 25 and 67.
Further details of the evaluation are provided on page 66.
3 Commitment The Board is satisfied that each of the Non-Executive Directors is able The Chairman carries out a formal annual performance evaluation to devote sufficient time to the Companys business.
Non-Executive individually with each Non-Executive Director to review whether the Directors are advised on appointment of the time required to fulfil Non-Executive Director continues to contribute effectively and the role and asked to confirm that they can make the required demonstrates commitment to the role.
Their commitment to their role is reviewed annually The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director as part of their annual appraisal.
Letters of appointment for the are responsible for the annual performance evaluation of the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the AGM.
The Chairmans evaluation was carried out in January 2014 Positions held by Non-Executive Directors are set out on and the Board was updated subsequently.
The Directors concluded that following the Board effectiveness evaluation in 2013 the Board and its Committees operate effectively Executive Directors are encouraged to take non-executive positions and that each Director continues to contribute effectively and in other companies and organisations.
The appointment to such demonstrates commitment to the role.
positions is subject to the approval of the Board which considers, in particular, the time commitment required.
7 Election and Re-Election The Audit Committee Chairman regularly reports to the Board details of the work carried out by the Audit Committee in accordance with its All Directors are subject to election at the first AGM following their terms of reference.
It is planned that John Hirst will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM in April 2014.
With that exception, all The Audit Committee comprises five independent Non-Executive Directors are submitting themselves for re-election at the 2014 AGM Directors.
During 2013 the Chairman of the Board agreed a trial period and are subject to annual re-election.
The Board unanimously for a revised Board and Committee meeting structure, as described on recommends their re-election.
As a result, the Audit Committee now has three scheduled meetings per year, organised around the Companys reporting Full biographical details for all Directors are on pages 62 and 63. schedule.
During 2013 the Audit Committee met four times.
C. ACCOUNTABILITY John Hirst, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, as a Chartered Accountant, has been determined by the Board to have recent and C. 1 Financial and Business Reporting relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
With effect from The Board considers that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, the conclusion of the 2014 AGM John Hirst will be retiring as Chairman balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary of the Audit Committee and will be succeeded by Jacques Espinasse.
for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial model and strategy.
Officer and other members of the senior finance management team A statement of the Directors responsibilities regarding the financial together with senior representatives of Deloitte are invited to attend all statements is set out on page 106.
A statement on the status of the or part of meetings as appropriate.
In order to fulfil its duties as defined Company as a going concern is set out on page 104. in its terms of reference, the Audit Committee receives presentations An explanation of the Groups strategy and business model together and reviews reports from the Groups senior management, consulting with relevant risks and performance metrics, is set out on pages 8 to 23. as necessary with Deloitte.
C. 2 Risk Management and Internal Control The Audit Committee meets with Deloitte and with the internal The Board has established processes for maintaining sound risk auditor which undertakes the majority of the Companys internal management and internal control which allow it to assess the audit reviews, in the absence of management at least once each year.
effectiveness of the systems in place within the Group.
During the year the appointment of the internal auditor was re-tendered and Ernst and Young LLP was appointed in place of BDO Further details are on pages 55 and 70 to 71.
LLP on 6 August 2013, as described more fully on page 70.
It must be recognised that the Groups internal controls provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material DTZ, the external valuer DTZ and Deloitte have full access to each misstatement or loss.
other and the Chairman of the Committee meets with DTZ and Deloitte as part of the half-year and year end valuations to ensure that C. 3 Audit Committee and Auditors they are each satisfied that there has been a full and open exchange of D etails of the composition of the Audit Committee are set information and views.
The Audit Committee has regard to the recommendations of the The experience and background of members are on Auditing Practices Board on effective communication between audit pages 62 and 63. committees and external auditors and has concluded that the The Audit Committee assists the Board to fulfil its responsibility in relationship with Deloitte meets these recommendations.
relation to: ensuring that management has systems and procedures in Details of how the Audit Committee has discharged its responsibilities place to ensure the integrity of financial information: maintaining an during the year are provided in the Audit Committee Report on page 68. appropriate relationship with the Groups external auditor Deloitte LLP Deloitte : reviewing the effectiveness, objectivity and independence of Deloitte including the scope of work and the fees paid to Deloitte: and reviewing the Companys internal audit arrangements.
Further details are provided in the terms of reference for the Audit Committee which are available at www.
102 102 Hammerson plc Annual Report 2013 E. 2 Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting D. REMUNERATION The Annual General Meeting will be held on 23 April 2014 and is D. 1 The level and components of Remuneration an opportunity for shareholders to attend and vote on the The principal responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are resolutions proposed.
determining and agreeing with the Board the overall remuneration principles and framework for the remuneration of the Executive The Notice of Annual General Meeting is available at Directors, the Company Secretary and the other members of the www.
com and is despatched to shareholders who Group Executive Committee.
The terms of reference for the have requested a hard copy of the documentation from the Company, Committee are available at www.
together with explanatory notes, at least 20 working days before the AGM.
Separate resolutions are proposed on each substantially Full details of the Committees activities during the year are set out in separate issue, including a resolution to approve the Annual Report.
the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 72 to 99.
All Directors normally attend the AGM as well as the Company D. 2 Procedure Secretary.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination In determining policy on executive remuneration the Remuneration Committees are available to answer questions.
Committee takes into account all factors which it deems necessary The Board welcomes questions from shareholders.
They have an including relevant legal and regulatory requirements, the provisions of opportunity to raise issues formally at the AGM or informally with the Code and associated guidance.
Further details are provided in the Directors before or after the meeting.
terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee which are available at www.
For each resolution, the proxy appointment form provides shareholders with the option to direct their proxy vote either for or Details of the composition of the Remuneration Committee against the resolution or to withhold their vote.
The Company will are on page 99. ensure that the proxy appointment form and any announcement of Details of advisors who provided services to the Remuneration the results of a vote will make it clear that a vote withheld is not a vote Committee during the year are on page 99. in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes for and against the resolution.
All valid proxy appointment During 2013 no individual was present when his or her own forms are properly recorded and counted.
For each resolution, after remuneration was being determined.
the vote has been taken, information on the number of proxy votes for E. RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS and against the resolution and the number of shares in respect of which the vote was withheld, is given at the AGM and is made E. 1 Dialogue with Shareholders available on the Companys website.
The Company actively engages with shareholders.
Throughout the year the Company has undertaken a wide variety of meetings, presentations and road shows.
The Board receives reports of meetings with institutional shareholders together with regular market reports and brokers reports which enable the Directors to understand the views of shareholders.
The Board takes account of corporate governance guidelines of institutional shareholders and their representative bodies such as the Association of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds.
Hammersons website contains information of interest to both institutional and private shareholders.
Further details about relations with shareholders can be found in the Chairmans Statement on page 5, the Chairmans Introduction to the Governance Report on page 61 and in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 86. www.
