PROPERTY PORTFOLIO INFORMATION SECURITY AND QUALITY OF INCOME Our portfolio provides a secure income stream, with a weighted average unexpired lease term of eight years, and opportunities for growth.
The portfolio was 1.8% reversionary at 31 December 2013, with the UK and French portfolios 1.0% and 4.9% reversionary respectively.
Assuming that leases are renewed or re-let and rent reviews are agreed at current ERVs an estimated 12.6 million of additional annual income could be secured from the portfolio by 2016.
LEASE EXPIRIES AND BREAKS The table below shows that leases with current rents passing of 84.6 million will expire, or are subject to tenants break clauses, during the period from 2014 to 2016.
Additional annual rental income of 3.7 million could be secured in respect of expiries, on the assumption that renewals take place at current rental value levels.
This estimate excludes tenant break options, as we think there is a low probability that these will be exercised.
This is not a forecast and takes no account of void periods, lease incentives or potential changes to rental values.
The amount by which rental income, based on rents passing at 31 December 2013, could fall in the event that occupational leases due to expire are not renewed or replaced by new leases.
For the UK, it includes tenants break options.
For France, it is based on the date of lease expiry.
The ERV at 31 December 2013 for leases that expire or break in each year and ignoring the impact of rental growth and any rent-free periods.
Rents passing at 31 December 2013, after deducting head and equity rents, which are subject to review in each year.
Projected rents for space that are subject to review in each year, based on the higher of the current rental income and the ERV as at 31 December 2013 and ignoring the impact of changes in rental values before the review date.
The UK portfolio could provide additional rental income of 3.7 million per annum, assuming that outstanding rent review negotiations are concluded at rental values prevailing at the time of review.
Over the period to 2016, leases with rents passing of 90.9 million are subject to review and if reviewed to current rental values, would generate additional 5.2 million per annum.
This is not a forecast and takes no account of potential changes in rental values before the relevant review dates.
Rents in our French portfolio are subject to annual indexation, which is 0.8% in 2014 for the majority of leases.
TENANT COVENANT STRENGTH At 31 December 2013, our ten most significant retailers, listed in the table below, accounted for 64.4 million, or 20%, of rents passing.
Tenant % of total passing rent B&Q 3.9 Home Retail Group 2.3 H&M 2.2 Arcadia 2.1 DSG Retail 2.0 Next 1.9 Boots 1.7 New Look 1.5 TK Maxx 1.3 SportsDirect 1.2 Total 20.1 We assess the covenant strength of prospective tenants and monitor the credit standing of our key retailers using a credit rating agency.
The agency has a five-point risk indicator scale which runs from one low to five high.
All of the top ten retail tenants were rated at low or lower than average risk at the end of 2013.
For the UK portfolio as a whole, tenants rated within these lowest risk categories represented 83% of the passing rents of the UK retail portfolio and 1.6 was the average score.
In the French portfolio, 80% of tenants scored lower risk and the average score was also 1.6.
At 31 December 2013, 49 UK retail units were let to tenants in administration, of which 27 continued to trade.
In our French portfolio, all of the 21 units let to tenants in administration continued to trade.
For the portfolio as a whole income equating to 1.2% of the Groups total passing rents was derived from tenants in administration.
The equivalent figure for tenants in administration and no longer trading, however, was just 0.5%.
COLLECTION RATES Our rent collection rates demonstrate the underlying strength of the Groups income stream.
In the UK and France 99% and 87% of the respective rents were collected within 14 days of the December 2013 due date.
Annual cash rents receivable, net of head and equity rents and the cost of vacancy, as a percentage of gross property value, as provided by the Groups external valuers.
Rents receivable following the expiry of rent-free periods are not included.
Rent reviews are assumed to have been settled at the contractual review date at ERV.
The capitalisation rate applied to future cash flows to calculate the gross property value.
The cash flows reflect the timing of future rents resulting from lettings, lease renewals and rent reviews based on current ERVs and assuming rents are received quarterly in advance.
The property true equivalent yields are determined by the Groups external valuers.
Nominal equivalent yields, which are similar to the true equivalent yields but assume rents are received annually in arrears, are included within the unobservable inputs to the portfolio valuations as defined by IFRS 13.
Represents the returns for the Groups share of the Value Retail portfolio.
Further analysis of development properties by segment is provided in note 3B on page 123.
The weighted average remaining rent-free period is 0.7 years.
The ERV of the area in a property, or portfolio, excluding developments, which is currently available for letting, expressed as a percentage of the ERV of that property or portfolio.
Average rents passing at 31 December 2013 before deducting head and equity rents and excluding rents passing from anchor units and car parks.
The annual rental income receivable from an investment property at 31 December 2013, after any rent-free periods and after deducting head and equity rents.
The estimated market rental value of the total lettable space in a property at 31 December 2013, after deducting head and equity rents, calculated by the Groups valuers.
ERVs in the above table are included within the unobservable inputs to the portfolio valuations as defined by IFRS 13.
The percentage by which the ERV exceeds, or falls short of, rents passing together with the estimated rental value of vacant space, all at 31 December 2013.
