23 The second half of 2013 saw the that in Germany the gulf between Outlook investment and funding markets current light industrial rents and that During the last few years we which would be necessary to justify have focused on buying well and development is even larger than consistently growing our earnings poor liquidity.
This is particularly true and dividends.
Throughout that in the UK with growing signs that occupational strength will feed the investment market in Germany through into increasing rents at some believed that there would come a will follow a similar path in time.
Investment demand for light time in the cycle where our approach industrial property in Germany has would produce value growth to not yet shown the dramatic pick up enhance those income returns.
we have seen in the UK but there are 2013 has been a year in which we Having focused on buying properties signs that it is on a similar trajectory have seen the Hansteen business with vacancies the combination of albeit 6 to 12 months behind.
We have our successful asset management and the improving markets means of investor activity and new bank of properties purchased at a low that despite showing value growth lending in the light industrial sector in 2013 the yield of our portfolio was after several years of almost total and management as well as the higher in December 2013 than it was investor inactivity.
It remains to be intensive management approach that seen whether this improvement in we employ through a well establish although we have materially sentiment will be sustained.
To some regional network of asset managers.
extent this will depend on whether Both of these factors are key to the the occupational market also starts to business model and have enabled us the potential to add both income materially improve.
Whilst there are to sustainably increase rental yield very early indications that this may be and grow values.
We have also been able to realise some of this added market backdrop and expect 2014 to have yet to see a sustained increase value in 2013 with opportunistic sales be a very active and successful one in occupational demand in the across all of our regions.
Morgan Jones Ian Watson Richard Lowes Joint Chief Executive Joint Chief Executive Finance Director 10 March 2014 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013
