100 Governance Directors report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their Annual Report and the audited financial statements of the Group and Company for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Pages 1 to 102 inclusive of this Annual Report comprise the The Company is not party to any other significant agreements Directors report that has been drawn up and presented in that would take effect, alter or terminate following a change of accordance with English Company Law and the liabilities of control of the Company.
theDirectors in connection with that report will be subject to The Company does not have any agreements with any Executive the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Director or employee that would provide compensation for Use of Financial Instruments loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover except The Financial review on pages 46 to 53, accounting policies that provisions of the Company share schemes may cause on pages 115 to 117 and note 35 on pages 135 to 140 contain options and awards outstanding under such schemes to vest information on the use of financial instruments.
The terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors currently provide that in the event of change of Dividends control, the Directors will be compensated for any additional The Directors declared an interim ordinary dividend of 5.0 time commitment in certain limited circumstances, to be pence 2012 5.0 pence per share on 1 August 2013, which calculated on a per diem basis.
was paid on 19 November 2013, and have recommended a final ordinary dividend of 10.0 pence per share 2012 10.0 pence.
Going concern After making enquiries, the Directors have reasonable Share capital and control of the Company expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate Details of the Companys share capital including changes resources to continue in operational existence for the during the year in the issued share capital and details of the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt the rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares are set going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
No shareholder holds securities carrying special rights with regards to control of the Company.
Shareholders attention is drawn to the going concern disclosure Shares held by the Companys Employee Share Ownership Plan contained in the notes to the accounts on page 114. rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have no special Internal control rights, but voting rights and rights of acceptance of any offer The statement on corporate governance on pages 70 to 81 relating to the shares rest with the Plans Trustee and are not includes the Boards assessment following a review of internal exercisable by the employees.
controls and consideration of the 2005 Financial Reporting There are no restrictions on voting rights or any arrangements Councils internal control guidance for Directors.
by which, with the Companys co-operation, financial rights are Directors held by a person other than the shareholder, or any agreements The Directors of Intu who held office during the year were between shareholders known to the Company which may result as follows: in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
Chairman Under a 375 million Revolving Facility agreement dated Patrick Burgess 25 February 2009 as amended by amendment agreements dated 2 October 2009 and 19 February 2010, and further Deputy Chairman 1 amended and restated on 18 November 2011 between, John Whittaker amongst others, the Company and HSBC Bank PLC as Agent, Executive on a change of control, if directed by a lender, the Agent may by David Fischel notice to the Company cancel the commitment of that lender Matthew Roberts and declare the participation of that lender in all outstanding loans, together with accrued interest and all other amounts Non-Executive accrued and owing to that lender under the finance documents, Adle Anderson appointed 22 February 2013 1 immediately due and payable.
Richard Gordon Andrew Huntley Under the terms and conditions of the 300 million 2.5 per Louise Patten cent Guaranteed Convertible Bonds issued on 4 October 2012 Neil Sachdev by Intu Jersey Limited formerly Capital Shopping Centres Andrew Strang Jersey Limited the Issuer and guaranteed by the Company, on a change of control of the Company bondholders would Retired during the year have a right for a limited period of 60 days to exercise their John Abel effective 8 May 2013 exchange rights at an enhanced exchange price i. e. lower than Rob Rowley effective 18 October 2013 the prevailing exchange price.
In addition, bondholders would 1 John Whittaker and Richard Gordon have appointed Steven Underwood and Raymond Fine respectively as their alternates under the terms of the become entitled for a limited period of 60 days to require the Companys Articles of Association.
Issuer to redeem their bonds at their principal amount, together In accordance with provision B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate with accrued and unpaid interest.
Governance Code, all Directors are subject to re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 101 Governance Pursuant to the Articles of Association of the Company, the Intu encourages the continuous development and training of Company has indemnified the Directors to the full extent its employees and the provision of equal opportunities for the allowed by law.
The Company maintains Directors and training and career development of disabled employees and Officersinsurance which is reviewed annually.
Additional information relating to the Directors can be found Further information relating to employees is given on pages innote 50 on pages 151 and 152 on Directors interests, in the 40 to 45 and in note 10 on page 119.
The Group provides Governance section on pages 65 to 81, and in the Directors retirement benefits for the majority of its employees.
remuneration report on pages 82 to 99.
Details ofthe Group pension arrangements are set out in note48 on page 150.
The powers of the Directors are determined by UK legislation and the Articles of Association of the Company, together with The environment any specific authorities that may be given to the Directors We have developed a Corporate Responsibility CR strategy by shareholders from time to time, such as the power to and details of our policies and the Groups aims alongside the allot shares and the power to make market purchases of the latest full version of our annual CR report are to be found Companys shares which are described in note 37 on page141.
An overview of the Groups CR activity which includes disclosures relating to greenhouse gas Articles of Association emissions is printed on pages 54 to 63, and a summary booklet The rules governing the appointment and replacement is also available for download from the website or on request of Directors are contained in the Companys Articles of from theCompany Secretarys office.
Changes to the Articles of Association must be approved by shareholders in accordance with the legislation The Company recognises the importance of minimising the inforce from time to time.
adverse impact on the environment of its operations and the obligation to carefully manage energy and water consumption Substantial shareholdings and waste recycling.
As at 21 February 2014 Intu had been notified of the following substantial holdings of voting rights over ordinary shares of Intu: The Company strives continuously to improve its environmental performance.
The Environmental Management System and The Peel Group 188,946,817 19.78 per cent associated Environmental Policy and Guide are regularly Coronation Asset Management Pty Limited 137,204,631 reviewed to ensure that the Company maintains its 14.09 per cent commitment to environmental matters.
The family interests of Sir Donald Gordon 92,143,204 Directors disclosure of information to the auditors 9.46per cent So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware and each BlackRock, Inc. 52,301,369 5.37 per cent Director has taken all reasonable steps to make himself or Public Investment Corporation 35,565,906 3.65 per cent herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
Employees Intu actively encourages employee involvement and Auditors consultation and places emphasis on keeping its employees The auditors,  LLP, have indicated informed of the Companys activities and financial performance their willingness to continue in office and a resolution seeking by such means as employee briefings and publication to all staff to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual of relevant information and corporate announcements.
Intu conducted two all employee surveys covering a range of Annual General Meeting topics.
More details are provided in the Our people section on The notice convening the 2014 Annual General Meeting page 44. of the Company will be published separately and will be The annual bonus arrangements help develop employees available on the Companys website and distributed to those interest in the Companys performance: full details of these shareholders who have elected to receive hard copies of arrangements are given in the Directors remuneration report shareholder information.
Note 47 on pages 147 to 150 contains details By order of the Board of conditional awards of shares under the annual bonus scheme and bonus shares currently outstanding.
Intu operates a non-discriminatory employment policy and full and fair consideration is given to applications for employment Susan Marsden from people with disabilities or other protected characteristics Secretary under the Equality Act where they have the appropriate skills and abilities and to the continued employment of staff who 28 February 2014 become disabled.
