66 Governance Board of Directors Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Executive Directors 1 Patrick Burgess MBE 3 David Fischel 1 Chairman Chief Executive Age 69 Age 55 Appointed to the Board: Appointed as a Appointed to the Board: Appointed Finance Non-Executive Director ofthe Group in 2001 Director in 1988, Managing Director in 1992 and andChairman on 1August 2008.
Career: Patrick Burgess qualified as a solicitor in Career: David Fischel qualified as a chartered 1972 and became a partner in Gouldens in 1974, accountant in 1983 at Touche Ross & Co before serving as head ofthe Corporate Department for joining the Group in1985.
14years and as Senior Partner for six, culminating 2 Skills and experience: At Touche Ross, David with the merger of Gouldens with Jones Day worked in the corporate finance department with in 2003, from which he retired in 2007.
He has experience in acquisitions, flotations and capital also been active in a number of charitable and raisings.
During his 28 year career with Intu, David community organisations.
has gained significant executive experience in Skills and experience: At Jones Day, Patrick numerous aspects of the shopping centre industry specialised in mergers and acquisitions and including shopping centre acquisitions and corporate re-structuring.
He has also been closely involved experience incompliance, regulatory and stock with the Groups corporate development including exchange matters.
equity and debt financings and a wide range of other corporate transactions, including the 2010 Other appointments: Non-Executive Director of demerger of Capital & Counties fromIntu.
Other appointments: Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Capital Projects Committee of Equity One, Inc and Prozone Capital Shopping Chairman of the Nomination and Review Committee Centres Limited.
Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee 4 Matthew Roberts 2 John Whittaker Finance Director Deputy Chairman Age 50 Age 71 Appointed to the Board: Appointed as Finance Appointed to the Board: Appointed as Deputy 4 Director on 3 June 2010.
Chairman and a Non-Executive Director on 28 January 2011.
Career: Matthew Roberts was previously the Finance Director of Debenhams plc from 1996 Career: John Whittaker is the Chairman of the Peel to 2003, andChief Financial Officer of Gala, Group which he founded in 1971 and developed subsequently Gala Coral Group Ltd, from 2004 into a leading UK infrastructure, transport and real to 2008. estate enterprise.
Skills and experience: Matthew is a Fellow of the Skills and experience: John is a highly regarded Institute of Chartered Accountants in England real estate investor, and has overseen the growth and Wales, and has gained significant executive of the PeelGroup across many sectors such as level finance experience in his previous positions at land, realestate, ports, airports, renewable energy Debenhams plc, where hemanaged its 1998 IPO and media.
John is an experienced property and ran its international business and property developer and business leader illustrated by projects function, and at Gala where he led a number of such as The Trafford Centre and MediacityUK.
acquisitions and fundraisings including the creation His appointment to the Boardfollowed the of a 3 billion debtpackage following the acquisition acquisition by Intu ofTheTrafford Centre from the ofCoral.
Other appointments: Chairman of the Peel Group.
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination and Review Committee Executive Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee Capital Projects Committee Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 67 Governance Non-Executive Directors 5 Adle Anderson 8 Louise Patten 5 Age 48 Age 60 Appointed to the Board: Appointed as a Appointed to the Board: Appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 22 February 2013.
Career: Adle Anderson commenced hercareer Career: Louise Patten began her career at Citibank, at KPMG where she became apartner and working mainly in retail financial services until she held a number of senior roles, including Chief joined global strategy advisers Bain & Company Financial Officer.
Sheis currently Chairman of the Inc in 1993 where since 1997 she has been a AuditCommittee of Save the Children International Senior Adviser.
and a member of the easyJet plc Audit Committee.
Skills and experience: Louise Patten has extensive 6 Skills and Experience: Adle graduated from board level experience at a number of retail and Kent University with BSc Hons in Mathematics property companies including as Chairman of and Computer Science.
Brixton plc and Interim Chairman of Somerfield She has gainedextensive financial experience plc, and Non-Executive roles at Marks and throughout her career and has significant Audit Spencer plc, where she chaired the Remuneration Committee experience.
Committee, GUS plc, Hilton Group plc and Harveys Furnishingsplc.
Other appointments: Non-Executive Director of easyJet plc: a member of theBoard of Trustees Other appointments: Non-Executive Director of of both Save the Children UK and Save the Control Risks Group.
7 Chairman of the Audit Committee 9 Neil Sachdev Age 55 6 Richard Gordon Appointed to the Board: Appointed as a Age 55 Non-Executive Director in November 2006.
Appointed to the Board: Appointed as a Career: Neil Sachdev joined Tesco PLC in 1978, Non-Executive Director in May 2010. where he was Property Director before joining JSainsbury PLC as Commercial Director in March Career: Richard Gordon previously served as a 2007.
He was subsequently appointed Property Non-Executive Director of Intu Shopping Centres Director of J Sainsbury PLC in June 2010. plc between 1996 and 2006 and was appointed as 8 an alternate Director in respect of Graeme Gordons Skills and experience: Neil Sachdev has an MBA directorship of the Group in 2001. from Stirling University and has gained significant experience in retail, environment and property Skills and experience: He also served on the boards matters throughout his career.
of a number of companies within the Liberty Life group and various companies within the commercial Other appointments: Neil is a member of the and residential real estatesector, mainly in Business Innovation and Skills Board on Green South Africa.
Construction and the Construction Leadership Council.
He was also appointed to the Joint Advisory Board of the Grantham Institute for Climate Change in 2010.
7 Andrew Huntley Age 75 9 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Appointed to the Board: Appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 8 July 2009 and Senior Independent Director with effect from 10 Andrew Strang 1 August 2013.
Age 61 Career: Andrew Huntleys career commenced some Appointed to the Board: Appointed as a 40 years ago with Richard Ellis where he served Non-Executive Director on 8 July 2009. as Chairman from 1993 until 2002.
He was a NonCareer: Andrew Strang started his career with Executive Director of Pillar Property plc from 2000 Richard Ellis 39 years ago.
He served asManaging to 2005 and Chairman of Metric Property Plc from Director of Threadneedle Property Investments 2010 until 2013.
10 Limited for 17 years until January 2008.
He was Skills and experience: Andrew Huntley Chairman of Hermes Real Estate Investment is a Chartered Surveyor and experienced Management from 2009 to 2011.
He was a Director property adviser.
of the British Property Federation from 1994 to 2013, and is a current member of the Norges Bank Other appointments: Non-Executive Director of Investment Management Real Estate Advisory Capital & Counties Properties PLC.
Board and a member of the Investmentand Governance Committees at AEW UK.
Skills and experience: Andrew is aChartered Surveyor and has substantially focused on property investment throughout his career.
Other appointments: Non-Executive Director of Capital & Counties Properties PLC.
Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
