36 Strategic report We measure progress against strategic Business model and strategy objectives using the following financial Key and non-financial performance measures performance indicators 1 2 3 To provide To be the landlord To create long-term compelling that retailers want andsustainable destinations to do business with growth in net forshoppers rental income Footfall Occupancy Like-for-like net rental income 2% 1% 2% 97% 96% 95% 94% 3.6% 2.7% 1.9% 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 IPD 2011 2012 2013 retail Why is this important?
Footfall is an important Intu aims to optimise Measures the organic Combines share price This is a measurement of the Underlying earnings per share Measures the capital return measure of a centres theoccupancy of its properties growthinincome generated movement and dividends to total return movement in the is based on the underlying on the Groups property popularity with customers.
asexcess vacant spacewill from the Groups properties in produce a direct measure of Groups balance sheet value income generatedin the year assets and compares thiswith Retailers use this measure adversely impacton a centres the year.
the movement in shareholder through the change inthe whichgives an indication the IPD index, arecognised as a key part of their decision tradingenvironment.
Groups property valuations ofthe Groups ability to industry benchmark.
making process onwhere to andits capital structure.
Footfall numbers across The passing rent of the Removes from the yearUses the movement in share Uses the movement in Underlying earnings excludes Includes the capital growth Intus centres, including those Groups properties currently on-year movement innet price during the yearplus adjusted net asset value per property and derivative ona like-for-like basis from managed by our partners, are occupied expressed as a rental income the impact of dividends paid intheyear.
share plusthe impact of valuation movements theGroups properties.
captured usinga combination percentage of the passing rent acquisitions, developments dividends paid in the year.
andexceptional income of person or car counting of occupied and the ERV of and disposals.
cameras located at specific unoccupied properties.
entrance and exit points within Uses the Intu share price on 11January 2011 as the opening the centre.
value for the 2011 shareholder return being the day on which How have we performed?
Simon PropertyGroup announced Although footfall fell slightlyin Occupancy is marginally below The reduction in the like-forStrong share price Total return in the year largely Underlying earnings per share The overall quality of the they had no intention to make the year, the Groups centres the 2012 comparable figure like net rental income was due performance by REITs, comprises the dividend fell slightly in the yeardue Groups properties was afirmoffer for the Group.
This is consistent with methodology used continue toout-perform but remains above theIPD to the impact of tenant failures including those with interests paid in the year as despite to the impact oftenant reflected inanother year of in previous years.
the national benchmark benchmark figure.
The small in 2012 and the early part in Central London property, an increase in property administrations morethan strong out-performance of the No peer group comparable data which showed afour per reduction reflects the Groups of2013.
led to a double-digit increase valuations, the Groups net offsetting additional rent IPDbenchmark.
is provided due to the lack of cent reduction in2013, as robust asset management in the UK REITs index whereas asset value per share was from newlettings and lower available data on a comparable measured byExperian.
approach, including holding the Groups share price impacted by exceptional costs underlying finance costs.
units vacant on a shortdeclined slightly intheyear.
largely incurred as part of the Earnings in the year covered term basis to attract the significant debt refinancing the total proposed dividend for righttenants.
See Corporate responsibility KPIs On page 54 to 63 Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 37 Strategic report Our strategic objectives relate Business model and strategy directly tothestages of our business model, whichcanbe seenon page 14.
Current year Historic comparative 4 Benchmark comparative To generate superior shareholder returns through dividend growth and capital appreciation Shareholder return Total financial return Income performance Prime property assets 14% 17% 7% 19% 16.5p 16.1p 15.0p 1.0% 0.6% 1.8% 0.8% 4% 4% 1% FTSE REIT 2011 2012 2013 Index IPD monthly index retail 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Why is this important?
entrance and exit points within the centre.
Although footfall fell slightlyin Occupancy is marginally below The reduction in the like-forStrong share price Total return in the year largely Underlying earnings per share The overall quality of the the year, the Groups centres the 2012 comparable figure like net rental income was due performance by REITs, comprises the dividend fell slightly in the yeardue Groups properties was continue toout-perform but remains above theIPD to the impact of tenant failures including those with interests paid in the year as despite to the impact oftenant reflected inanother year of the national benchmark benchmark figure.
The small in 2012 and the early part in Central London property, an increase in property administrations morethan strong out-performance of the which showed afour per reduction reflects the Groups of2013.
cent reduction in2013, as robust asset management in the UK REITs index whereas asset value per share was from newlettings and lower measured byExperian.
Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
