56 Strategic report Corporate responsibility Better together Highlights Support provided to UK communities Waste diverted from landfill 1.95m 96% 2012: 1.92m 2012: 97% Almost 2,500 people directly reached Reduction in CO emissions since our 2 by our community projects 2011 base year 2,500 18% Bringing people and communities together and helping them flourish delivers shared benefits With two thirds of the UK We know, however, that our longterm success is linked not justto population within easy reach of one of our centres, we touch the lives the vitality and well-being of the communities on ourdoorstep, of people right across the country.
Forthem we are not just shopping but also to what happens in the destinations, but places to gowith wider world.
Thepeople who family andfriends to enjoy life come to our centres expect us meeting, eating, drinking, relaxing, to carefully manage our impact being entertained, sharing secrets, on the environment.
So, we are swapping gossip and having committed tomeasuring how a laugh.
were doing and taking the right steps to dothings better.
Thisnot So yes, we help build social only saves us money, butprotects togetherness, giving people ourreputation.
a stronger sense of place and belonging.
We also make an important contribution tothe economic life within andbeyond these communities, providing jobs for local people and community programmes for the young and disadvantaged.
Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information e c n a n r 57 Strategic report Corporate responsibility Our approach CR governance At Intu we believe that corporate The Intu Board takes responsibility responsibility must be driven by the for determining policy and strategic strategic aims of the company and direction on CR topics.
The strategic subject to the same types of governance direction of our CR programme is led controls as other areas of the business.
by the CR Board Committee while the CR Management Committee takes Our Corporate Responsibility CR responsibility for progress against our approach is based on three key operational objectives.
Both Committees pillars: communities and economic met three times in 2013. contribution, environmental efficiency and relationships with our stakeholders.
co. uk cr2013 This strategic approach to CR allows us to target stakeholder concerns and issues that are most material to our business.
Relationships Communities Providing and economic the perfect shopping contribution experience Establishing Generating enduring value for relationships shareholders with retailers Delivering long-term growth Environmental efficiency Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
co. uk e v o g R C 58 Strategic report Corporate responsibility Better together continued External recognition Understanding our stakeholders views What drives our CR activities?
Benchmarking against our peers In the autumn of 2013 we conducted a Securing our licence to operate: through indices such as the Dow stakeholder review to better understand Our centres cannot be developed or Jones Sustainability Indices and CDP the corporate responsibility issues that marketed without engagement with ensures that we remain focused on best our stakeholders, both internal and local stakeholders.
Our CR initiatives practice and continuous improvement.
external, believe are material to our work to bring partnerships together, We monitor the actions of our UK business.
As a result of this work our including our employees, and foster REIT competitors and work with them stakeholder views have been more relationships which contribute to on important industry issues through formally considered in our approach achievement of our longer-term membership of organisations such to corporate responsibility reporting.
as the British Council of Shopping Further details can be found in the 2013 Protects and enhances our reputation: Centres BCSC.
Many retailers already have their own CR programmes.
Many of those Improvements and targets who use our shopping centres expect We work together with our stakeholders us to operate with a sustainable to improve all areas of our CR mindset.
By demonstrating a strong performance and set relevant goals and commitment to all of our stakeholders targets in order to allow us to critically we can deepen retailer, shopper and monitor progress.
For example, our community relationships.
centres continue to roll-out leading technology solutions and supporting Helps to manage risk: By working to energy management plans to optimise identify compliance and reputational efficient energy use and explore new risks ahead of time our CR programme ways to bear down on our energy works to ensure our current business demands, costs and our corporate model and operations are managing carbon footprint.
the issues now that could harm our business in the future.
Contributing to cost management and protecting shareholder value: Our approach to environmental and facilities management underpins our broader desire to operate in an environmentally responsible manner.
It also contributes substantial cost savings.
co. uk Strategic report Governance Accounts Other information 59 Strategic report Corporate responsibility Communities and economic contribution In support of young people and Why it matters acknowledging the high percentage of Our shopping centres are integral to the entrants to retail careers aged under communities they serve providing places 25, we continue to fund projects which for people to come together to meet, support retail education under the eat, drink and socialise.
They support banner of our Retail Academy.
In 2013 charities and community organisations that included Retail Gold a threethat address fundamental issues in way partnership between intu, our modern society which are important to retailers and local Education Business the long-term success of our business.
Partnerships to provide retail placements Our joint community projects focus on undertaken as a key part of their youth, education and the prevention of Engaging students school college course learning.
incommunity issues supported West College Scotland What were doing to provide a retail training course at The Youth Philanthropy Initiative YPI Working together in long-term Kirklandneuk Community Centre.
project works to engage young people community partnerships is a key feature with local charities in their communities.
During 2013, In recognition of our community In 2013 intu supported YPI across three we continued to work with 12 community efforts, we are currently one of only of our shopping centres: intu Bromley, partners delivering 22projects at our 40 UK companies holding the BitC intu Uxbridge and intu Watford, funding centres.
These projects have directly CommunityMark.
Our community the inclusion of over 600 students at reached almost 2,500 participants.
activities during 2013 were supported three schools.
Students were challenged by total donations of 1,951,000 Since 2011 we have commissioned to work in teams to select a local cash equivalent, including facilitated Nathaniel Lichfield & Partners to analyse charity to advocate for with their efforts donations, supporting a variety of the beneficial economic contribution of culminating in a final presentation charities that represent Young People our shopping centres.
We believe that competition: with the winning team & Education, Arts & Culture, Health, recognising these impacts and outputs receiving 3,000 for their chosen charity.
Economic Development, Environment will enable us to: better understand, Students learnt skills including research, and Emergency Relief.
and respond to, our community communication and how to deliver footprint, help to underpin our planning What we plan to do presentations.
Our centre Marketing applications and allow us to demonstrate increase employee volunteering Managers shared their expertise on to investors the strength of our position.
across our business how to effectively deliver presentations.
According to the report in 2013 Intu Following the YPI course, feedback shows further our use of the London and its retailers directly employed over that students continue to engage with Benchmarking Group framework 82,000 people and indirectly supported charitable causes.
and introduce this approach to our over 23,000 jobs.
Find out more: community partners intugroup.
co. uk cr2013 2013 was the fourth year of the expand our retail education Chairmans CR Prize, open to all programmes under the banner of directly managed centres to showcase 2013 Community donations intus Retail Academy the community projects they have undertaken alongside our corporate projects.
Winners receive a financial reward to present to their nominated charity or community group.
intu Bromley won First Prize in 2013 for their work with Bromley Mencap.
Cash 18% Gifts in kind 47% Time 4% Facilitated donations 31% Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
