68 Governance Executive management Executive Committee Martin Ellis Trevor Pereira Construction Director Digital and Commercial Director Appointed as a Director of Intu Shopping Joined the Group in 2007 as Commercial Director, Centres plc on 1 October 2005.
Initially joined Intu Shopping Centres plc.
Hewas appointed the Group in 1990and was appointed in 2008 Group Commercial Director in October 2011 and as ManagingDirector, Liberty International Digital and Commercial Director in November 2013.
Previously worked for airport group BAA plc for Following the demerger of the Capital & Counties 21years, latterly as Retailand Commercial Director business in May 2010, hereverted to being Intus for Heathrow Airport.
Construction Director responsible fordevelopment and construction projects.
Mike Butterworth Peter Weir Chief Operating Officer Group Financial Controller Hugh Ford Appointed as Chief Operating Officer on 3October Joined the Group in October 2008 as Group 2011.
A Fellow of the Royal Institution of Chartered General Corporate Counsel Financial Controller.
Previously worked in a number Surveyors, Mikejoined the Manchester Ship Canal Appointed General Corporate Counsel tothe of finance roles in both listed and privately owned Company, now part of the Peel Group, in 1981, and Group in 2003.
Previously he was General Manager companies, lastly before joining the Group as became Property Director of Peel Holdings in 2002.
Legal at Virgin Atlantic Airways, and before that Finance Director-Europe atFidelity International.
He has extensive experience in the shopping centre a commercial lawyer with British Airways Plc.
industry having served as Managing Director of The He qualified as a solicitor in 1992 with Freshfields.
Trafford Centre Limited from 1996, responsible for the opening of the centre in 1998, until 2011 when The Trafford Centre was acquired byIntu.
Susan Marsden Group Company Secretary Joined the Group as Company Secretaryin2000.
Fellow of the Instituteof CharteredSecretaries and Administrators.
Commenced her career at the London Stock Exchange, and has been Company Secretary of two FTSE real-estate sector companies prior to joining the Group.
Executive management Biographies of the senior management team are available on our website at: intugroup.
co. uk who-we-are our-people executive-management A dditional members of the Executive Committee are the Chief Executive Chairman of the Committee and the Finance Director, whose biographies are set out on page 66.
Intu Properties plc Annual Report 2013 intugroup.
