Our Strategy and Key Performance Indicators Delivering on our seven strategic priorities enables us to generate sustainable top and bottom line growth, relative to the markets in which we operate, while consistently generating good free cash flow and creating shareholder value.
Our strategic priorities focus on 1.
Innovation with insight Focus on components Leverage our technology Focus on M&A and subsystems Improve understanding of our Remain focused on the Identify adjacent markets Use mergers and acquisitions markets and customers future second and third tiers of where our existing technology to shift the emphasis of the needs, aligning PV investments global defence security and know-how can be portfolio ahead of market with these priorities.
markets, and commercial leveraged to meet the needs movements to remain exposed aerospace, marine and of new customers.
Why this is important: Why this is important: Why this is important: Why this is important: Our differentiated Our innovative technology Accessing adjacent Utilising our strong free technology and knowand know-how are focused on commercial markets allows cash flow and the Groups how are a key competitive tier two subsystems and tier us to leverage our existing balance sheet, we acquire advantage in our markets.
three components segments technology and know-how, businesses that are Having a thorough of our markets, where we thereby increasing revenue complementary to, and understanding of market have a competitive edge.
This reinforce, our differentiated opportunities and our This enables us to provide also brings more balance to technology and know-how.
customers future needs comprehensive solutions for our portfolio and enables us We achieve this through a optimises our ability our customers complex to provide sustainable growth rigorous and disciplined to closely align our technology problems.
technology investments Our strategic objective is to customer requirements.
to use M&A to bring more balance to the portfolio.
Group PV investment Group organic revenue growth During the year, we invested over 150m in acquisitions, Target: 6% Target: mid-single digit organic revenue growth from 2015 primarily Axell for up to 85m, including contingent 6.2% 4 % consideration, and the 2012: 5.3% 2012: 1 % 74m acquisition of the outstanding 50% stake in FBH, the helicopter joint venture.
These acquisitions bring differentiated and complementary technology and know-how in growing and attractive markets.
See page 9 for more information.
See page 23 for more information.
See page 11 for more information.
12 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report 5.
Operational excellence Programme execution Invest in skills Key Performance and capabilities Indicators Drive a culture of continuous Improve programme Ensure the right capabilities Cobhams progress is improvement from an execution across customer are in place in changing monitored with a score card integrated, streamlined and PV funded projects markets by increasing of financial and non-financial business through Excellence to achieve sector leading investment to build essential metrics.
customer delivery and skills and capabilities.
are considered the operational performance.
most important: Why this is important: Why this is important: Why this is important: Underlying EPS growth Alongside financial benefits, Programme management The delivery of our strategy Target: high single digit EiD has delivered a number is a core competency focus depends on the right people, of significant operating and and enables us to meet skills and capabilities being in customer benefits, including customer expectations place.
We have continued to 4 % improved productivity, and deliver growth.
increase our investment in 2012: 3% shortened manufacturing learning and development to See page 24 for more information lead times and improved levels build the essential skills and of quality.
It has resulted in a capabilities from which to simpler, more scalable business drive future growth, by Operating and a sharper focus on the attracting, training and cash conversion customer, with enhanced retaining the best talent.
Target: 80% internal communication and collaboration.
85% 2012: 104% See page 24 for more information Operational excellence We have undertaken Voluntary staff turnover is one of a number of tools considerable work to Target: 10% with which we drive, improve enhance functional Return on invested capital and monitor our health & excellence in project and Target: 10% safety performance.
programme management 6.9% across the diverse range of 2012: 8.7% Staff safety major accident customer and internally 15.3% incident rate funded activities, together 2012: 18.1% with an increased focus on Target: zero lifecycle management.
326 2012: 666 Per 100,000 employees Key performance indicator used by management.
Used as a measure for determining executive remuneration.
See pages 9 and 34 for more information.
See page 8 for more information.
See pages 8 and 30 for more information.
For definitions, see page 140. www.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 13
