Our Markets The Group operates in three end markets: US defence security, non-US defence security and commercial, which comprises specialist aerospace, marine and land markets.
The Group operates in three market segments Commercial US defence security 35% 37% 2012: 31% 2012: 42% Non-US defence security 28% 2012: 27% Competitive position within our markets During the year, the Group has continued number of ballistic missile defence A400M and Brazilian KC-390 aerial refuelling to make progress in bringing more balance programmes.
It is also well positioned to tankers, the Eurofighter Typhoon and the to the revenue derived from its end markets, benefit from upgrade programmes where Swedish Gripen fighter aircraft.
with the proportion generated from it partners with a number of different system commercial markets increasing to 35% 2012: integrators to supply key components and The Group has strong technology and know-how 31%.
This has increased due to a combination subsystems, including on a variety of high positions in a number of aerospace and aviation of organic growth and acquisitions.
These priority next generation radar and electronic markets, including large transport, regional and acquisitions have brought complementary warfare programmes.
business jets, helicopters and smaller aircraft.
It technology and capability to the Group in has technology positions with manufacturers predominantly commercial markets.
Cobhams technology and know-how are such as Boeing, Airbus, Airbus Helicopters and also highly relevant to non-US defence Bombardier, as well as airline customers.
The Group has market leading positions and security markets, where there are a portfolio of attractive technologies which opportunities to benefit from significant In addition to aerospace, it also has positions in can be leveraged across defence security platform programme export orders won by the SATCOM market, where it is a leader in the and commercial customers.
larger defence companies and also from marine market, and in a number of commercial selling products and services direct to end land markets.
Within the US defence security market, the customers.
The Group has strong positions Group is well positioned on high priority new on a number of defence security platforms Achieving further balance across the portfolio platforms, including the KC-46 aerial refuelling with good export potential in markets remains a strategic objective for the Group.
tanker, the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, and on a outside of the US, including the European 10 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report US defence security market Non-US defence security markets Commercial markets Conditions in the US defence security Demand conditions in defence security Cobhams differentiated technology and market in 2013 were challenging, as markets outside of the US have remained know-how are also used in attractive expected, and are likely to remain so for the subdued in Europe but there are sizeable commercial markets, where it has strong foreseeable future.
The Bipartisan Budget and growing opportunities elsewhere in and growing positions.
The Groups primary Act of 2013 has brought increased certainty the world.
The Group believes that overall commercial markets are those in specialist to the level of US Federal spending in 2014 prospects in these markets remain good, aviation in Australia, the marine SATCOM and 2015 and partial relief from the full with growth being driven by regional market, land markets globally and a range impact of budget cuts mandated under procurement priorities and a variety of of other aerospace markets including large the Budget Control Act of 2011. security concerns including border security, transport aircraft, regional and business jets, piracy, drug trafficking and terrorism.
helicopters and smaller aircraft, as well as However, ongoing pressure is still expected land markets globally.
on the US Department of Defense Overall, the Group anticipates that investment accounts, as the bulk of the demand in accessible non-US defence Growth in Cobhams Aviation Services relief funding is likely to be used to reduce security markets is likely to be aligned business in Australia is linked to the long the backlog in training, maintenance and with the ongoing shift in spending away term growth in demand for natural the readiness of the armed forces, rather from the flat or lower growth budgets resources.
The Group has made good than for investment in capabilities.
The in Europe, to increasing budgets in the progress during the year in this market, Group also remains cautious on mediumMiddle East, Asia and other faster growth winning some significant long term term prospects in this market as, based on economies.
The Group remains well orders in Australia.
previous down-cycles, the investment positioned to capitalise on this trend.
accounts may continue to drift lower, Demand in other commercial markets before reaching their cyclical trough.
Cobhams Aviation Services business has also increased strongly, driven by has significantly enhanced its existing factors including aircraft production rates, Notwithstanding these market challenges, capabilities during the year through the a desire for increased bandwidth on air Cobham continues to believe that its acquisition of FB Heliservices FBH, which and marine platforms, and demand for differentiated technology and know-how, has added rotary to its existing fixed wing smaller and lighter products which drive with its focus on improving communications, capability in markets including the Middle operational efficiency and fuel savings.
enhancing mobility and keeping people East and the Caribbean.
Going forward, The Group also benefits from an safe in harsh environments, remain aligned this market is expected to continue to increasing desire for communication with the customers priorities.
benefit from a trend towards increased in locations that lack effective terrestrial outsourcing.
communications and from increasingly stringent safety requirements.
US defence security market Non-US defence security markets Commercial markets Aligned to the customers priorities Sizeable and growing opportunities Leverage technology and know-how into across the globe attractive markets CAS 9% CAS 11% CDS 1% CAS 22% CDS 16% CMS 8% CMS 2% CMS 10% CAvS 10% CAvS 11% Total 37% Total 28% Total 35% www.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 11
