S Nicholls Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer, Executive Chief Financial Officer, Executive Director BEng, CEng, FIMechE, FIEE Director BSc Hons, ACA Age 66 Age 56 Age 49 Appointed: Director February 2010, Appointed: June 2012 Appointed: May 2013 Chairman May 2010 Skills and experience: Bob was with BAE Systems Skills and experience: Simon was CFO of Senior plc, Skills and experience: Johns executive career was for 13 years from 1999, serving as a member of the the FTSE 250 international manufacturing group built in engineering companies within the Verity Executive Committee of BAE Systems plc as Executive providing engineered products for aerospace, defence Group.
John has previously served as Non-executive Vice President for the global operations of the Product and commercial industrial applications, a position he Director of Northern Rock Asset Management Sectors business for BAE Systems, Inc. including its held from 2008.
Previously, Simon was CFO of Hanson between 2007 and 2010 and Chairman of Marconi Electronic Systems, Land & Armaments and Platform North America and prior to that he was Financial plc, later renamed Telent.
He was President of Perkins Solutions sectors.
He has also held a number of other Controller for Hanson plc for three years.
Simon spent Engines in the mid-1980s, and he went on to be senior operational and financial roles with BAE Systems.
nine years with Price Waterhouse, now PwC, in the UK President of Kelsey-Hayes, the automotive Prior to this, Bob spent 18 years with General Electric and Canada, and four years working in senior financial components manufacturer.
He was subsequently where he held numerous financial leadership positions, positions.
Simon served as a Non-executive Director Chief Executive of Eastern Electricity, the largest culminating in his role as CFO of the military engines of AIM listed Hamworthy plc from September 2011 regional electricity company in the UK at the time.
operation of the GE Aircraft Engines Group.
Previously, until its takeover in February 2012.
Simon is a Chartered Following its acquisition by Hanson, he was appointed Bob has served on the Board of Trustees for the US Accountant, holding a Bachelor of Science degree in Executive Chairman of Hanson.
John retired from his National Defense Industrial Association and the Board Mathematics, Operational Research, Statistics and role as Non-executive Chairman of National Express of Visitors for the Clark School of Engineering at the Economics from the University of Warwick.
External appointments: Non-executive Chairman External appointments: None.
Committee membership: Executive of NATS, the National Air Traffic Services.
Committee membership: Executive Directors Committee.
Committee membership: Chairman of the Directors Committee.
M Ronald Senior Independent Non-executive Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Director CMG, FCA, FCCA, MCSI CBE, MBChB, FRCP, Fmed Sci CBE, BA, BScEE, MScEE Age 60 Age 66 Age 72 Appointed: December 2010 Appointed: November 2005 Appointed: January 2007 Skills and experience: Michael worked for KPMG Skills and experience: John qualified in medicine in Skills and experience: Mark was, until his retirement from 1973 until 2009 when he retired.
Between 2005 1971 and obtained a Membership now Fellowship of at the end of 2006, Chief Operating Officer of BAE and 2009, he was International Chief Executive Officer, the Royal College of Physicians in 1974.
He joined ICI Systems plc and Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, KPMG, Chairman, KPMG International Executive Team, now AstraZeneca in 1975 and in December 2004 was Inc. its wholly-owned US subsidiary.
Previously, he was and Chairman, KPMG Iberoamerica Board.
He was appointed to the main Board as Executive Director Vice-President, Programme Management with Litton formerly the Prime Ministers Envoy for Reconstruction responsible for development.
He retired as a Director Industries and Chief Operating Officer of AEL Industries.
He is a former President of the Mark was a Non-executive Director of ATK Inc.
External appointments: Non-executive Director Association of the British Pharmaceutical Industry, a External appointments: Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Wolseley plc former Non-executive Director of Amersham plc and of Beechcraft Holdings LLC.
and Aeroflex Holdings, and Senior Independent Non-executive Director and a former member of the supervisory Board of the UK Inc. senior adviser of Veritas Capital LLC.
and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Intertek Group Medicines Control Agency.
Economic Development Adviser to the External appointments: Non-executive Director Committee membership: Member of the Government of Afghanistan.
Committee membership: Chairman of the Committee membership: Chairman of the Audit Committee and member of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee.
36 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Governance Independent Directors continued 7.
D Jonathan Flint Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Independent Non-executive Director Age 69 MA, MBA CBE, MBA, BSc, FREng, FInstP Age 50 Age 53 Appointed: December 2008 Appointed: July 2011 Appointed: May 2013 Skills and experience: Mike served in the US Marine Skills and experience: Alison is currently engaged Skills and experience: Jonathan is currently Chief Corps for almost 39 years ending his career in 2007 with a mix of not for profit and non-executive activities.
Executive of Oxford Instruments plc, a leading provider as Commandant of the Marine Corps and a member She was formerly Global Director Corporate of high technology tools and systems for research and of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
His numerous military Development & Strategy for National Grid plc.
industry, a position he has held since 2005.
Prior to this, assignments included Commanding General, 1st Marine Previously, she was Group Strategic Development he was the UK Managing Director of Vislink plc and has Expeditionary Force, Deputy Director of Operations Director for BAE Systems plc responsible for corporate also held management positions with BAE Systems and at the US European Command and Executive Assistant strategy, mergers and acquisitions and strategic GEC Marconi Avionics.
A physics graduate from Imperial to the Director of Central Intelligence.
He also served business development across the UK and US.
She College London, Jonathan was made a CBE in 2012. in a number of diplomatic missions including the has held three previous Non-executive Directorships: External appointments: Chief Executive of Oxford presidential diplomatic mission to Somalia.
BTG plc from 2004 to 2008, THUS plc from 2007 Instruments plc.
Jonathan was appointed as a External appointments: President and CEO of the to 2008 and GCHQ from 2009 to 2011.
Non-executive Director of Andor Technology plc, Admiral Nimitz Foundation in Fredericksburg, Texas, US, External appointments: Chairman of Aerospace, in January 2014.
Co-Chairman of the National Security Advisory Council Aviation and Defence Knowledge Transfer Network.
Committee membership: Member of the Audit for the Center of US Global Engagement and US Global Appointed Non-executive Director and Senior and Nomination Committees.
Leadership Campaign, Non-executive Director of SGI Corp.
Independent Director of e2v technologies plc, Kaseman LLC.
DynCorp International Inc. and Freedom 17 July 2013.
Appointed Non-executive Director of Group Inc. and Outside Director on the Government Costain plc, 1 February 2014 and will become Chair Security Committee of the Special Security Agreement of their Remuneration Committee from 1 April 2014. of TE SubCom, a TE Connectivity Limited company.
Committee membership: Member of the Committee membership: Member of the Audit Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Board meeting attendance for 2013 STRUCTURE OF THE REPORT The section that follows on corporate Number of meetings attended held governance is intended to give shareholders J Devaney 9 9 a clear and comprehensive picture of the R Murphy 9 9 Groups governance arrangements and how 1 S Nicholls 5 5 they operated during the year.
Page 39 sets 2 W Tucker 4 4 out details of the areas of the Boards focus 3 M Beresford 4 4 during the year, while descriptions of how M Hagee 9 9 the Group complied with each Principle and J Patterson 9 9 Provision of the UK Corporate Governance M Ronald 9 9 Code are set out on pages 68 and 69.
4 M Wareing 8 9 A Wood 9 9 5 D Flint 5 5 1 S Nicholls appointed on 1 May 2013.
2 W Tucker retired from the Board on 1 May 2013.
3 M Beresford retired from the Board on 25 April 2013.
4 M Wareing had been hospitalised before the February meeting, which he could not attend.
5 D Flint appointed on 1 May 2013. www.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 37
