Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited Group Subject to applicable statutes, and to the rights conferred on the and Parent Company Financial Statements of Cobham plc holders of any other shares, shares may be issued with such rights for the year ended 31 December 2013.
The Company is and restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution decide or registered in England and Wales under company number if there is no such resolution or so far as the resolution does not make 30470.
The Companys registered office is Brook Road, specific provision as the Board may decide.
Holders of Ordinary Shares Wimborne, Dorset, BH21 2BJ, UK.
are entitled to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint one or more proxies and, if they are corporations, corporate Dividends representatives and to exercise voting rights.
Holders of Ordinary An interim dividend of 2.64 pence per Ordinary Share of 2.50 pence Shares may receive a dividend and, on a liquidation, may share in each in the capital of the Company Ordinary Shares 2012: 2.40 the assets of the Company.
Holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled pence was paid in November 2013.
The Directors are recommending to receive the Companys Annual Report and Accounts.
Subject to a final dividend of 7.04 pence per Ordinary Share 2012: 6.40 pence meeting certain thresholds, holders of Ordinary Shares may requisition payable on 30 May 2014 to ordinary shareholders on the register as a general meeting of the Company or the proposal of a resolution at 2 May 2014, making a total ordinary dividend for the year of 9.68 at an AGM.
The shareholders of the 6% second cumulative Preference Shares Details of the total dividend paid out is covered in note 8. are entitled to receive a fixed cumulative preference dividend at the rate of 6% per annum in priority to the payment of dividends Directors indemnity arrangements on the Ordinary Shares.
In addition, on a return of assets on the The Directors have the benefit of a directors and officers liability liquidation or otherwise of the Company, the assets available for insurance policy and the Company has entered into qualifying third distribution are to be applied first in repaying to the holders of the party indemnity arrangements with them, as permitted by the 6% second cumulative Preference Shares the amounts paid up on Companies Act 2006.
The policy was in force at the year-end and their shares.
continues in force at the date of this report.
The Directors are permitted to take independent legal advice at the Companys Voting rights and restrictions on transfer of shares expense within set limits in furtherance of their duties.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Ordinary Shares and 6% second cumulative Preference Shares of 1 each in the capital Directors interests of the Company are set out in the Articles.
None of the Directors is or was materially interested in any significant contract during or at the end of the financial year, particulars of On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every which are required to be disclosed by the Listing Rules of the UK holder of shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote Listing Authority.
has one vote and on a poll every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote for every 1 in nominal value Details of Directors share interests and of their rights to subscribe of the shares of which he or she is the holder.
None of the Ordinary for shares are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on Shares carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
There are no restrictions on transfers of shares other than: Share capital The Company has one class of Ordinary Shares which carry no right Certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed to fixed income, representing 99.9% of the total issued share capital.
by laws or regulations: Pursuant to the Companys Code for Securities Transactions In addition, 19,700 non-redeemable 6% second cumulative Preference including the requirement on the Directors and designated Shares have been issued which represent 0.1% of total issued share capital.
employees to obtain approval to deal in the Companys shares: and Where a person with an interest in the Companys shares has The Directors have been authorised to allot and issue Ordinary been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Shares.
These powers are exercised under authority of resolutions Company with information concerning interests in those shares.
passed at the Companys AGM.
No Ordinary Shares were issued during the current or prior year.
The Company is not aware of any arrangements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer At the AGM held on 25 April 2013, the Company was authorised of securities or voting rights.
to purchase up to 107,857,590 Ordinary Shares.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
A special resolution will be put to shareholders at the AGM to renew the authority to make market purchases of the Companys shares up to a maximum of 10% of the share capital of the Company.
64 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Corporate Governance Significant arrangements change of control Major interests in shares Individual operating companies in the Group have contractual As at 31 December 2013, the Company had been notified of the arrangements with third parties in support of the Groups business following interests in the Ordinary Shares: activities which may take effect, alter or terminate upon a change Number of shares at the % at date of of control of the Group following a takeover bid.
Such contractual date of notification notification arrangements include supply of equipment, goods and services Prudential plc group 54,277,614 5.03 to third parties, such as research, design and production.
Such of companies contracts and arrangements may be deemed to be essential to one Sprucegrove Investment 54,070,021 Below 5 or more of the operating companies but there are no contracts or Management arrangements considered to be essential to the operation of the Invesco Limited 53,893,724 4.99 BlackRock, Inc. 52,888,997 Below 5 business of the Group as a whole, apart from the following: Schroders plc 56,388,880 5.228 The Company has entered into a number of credit agreements with banks, and has issued senior notes under private placements.
Since the year-end and up to 5 March 2014, being a date not more The total amount owing under such agreements at the year-end than a month prior to the date of the AGM Notice, the Company had date is shown in note 19 to the Group Financial Statements.
All received no notices of interests in the Ordinary Shares in accordance agreements contain clauses such that, in the event of a change with DTR 5. of control, the Company can offer to or must repay all such borrowings together with accrued interest, fees and other Financial instruments sums owing as required by the individual agreements.
Notes 16, 23 and 25 to the Group Financial Statements and note 12 to Under the Sentinel contract, entered into in March 2006, the the Parent Company Financial Statements contain disclosures relating Company must seek approval for any material change in the to the use of financial instruments.
The Group uses derivative shareholding of the Company.
There is an ancillary aircraft lease financial instruments in its management of financial risks and does agreement under which a change of control may result in the not trade in financial instruments or use complex financial termination of the lease if such event is likely to have a material instruments.
adverse effect on the Companys ability to perform its obligations under the lease.
People Under the FSTA shareholders agreement entered into in June 2008, Information concerning diversity in the workforce and the employment a change of control of the Company may result in a required sale of disabled persons is shown in the CR&S Report on pages 32 to 35. of the Companys shares in FSTA to the other shareholders.
Research and development Further information relating to change of control appears within the The Group continues to invest in the important area of research and remuneration policy table in the Directors Remuneration Report on development: further details can be found on page 23.
During the pages 50 and 51. year, the Group expended 88.0m 2012: 75.4m on non-customer funded research and development.
Employee share schemes rights of control If required to do so by the Company, the trustee of the Cobham Events after the balance sheet date Share Incentive Plan the Plan will, on receipt of notice from the Note 33 to the Group Financial Statements contains information Company of any offer, compromise arrangement or scheme which in respect of post balance sheet events.
affects shares held in the Plan, invite participants to direct the trustee on the exercise of any voting rights attaching to the shares Political donations and expenditure held by the trustee on their behalf and or direct how the trustee No contributions were made to political organisations during the shall act in relation to those shares.
The trustee will not vote in respect of any shares held in the Plan in respect of which it has received no directions nor will the trustee vote in respect of any shares which are unallocated under the Plan.
The trustees of the Employee Benefit Trust which, as at 31 December 2013, hold 9,728,809 Ordinary Shares to be used for settlement of option and share awards under the Companys long term incentive schemes and all employee share option schemes waive all rights to vote in respect of any shares they hold within the Trust.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 65 Directors Report continued Greenhouse gas emissions Methodology and data verification The majority of Cobhams total greenhouse gas emissions 85% come Cobham collects data annually on greenhouse gas emissions from from its aviation activity figure 1, mostly being from the Aviation its wholly-owned operational subsidiaries.
Cobham uses the World Services business.
Growth in this business yields an increase in Business Council for Sustainable Development WBCSD & World Cobhams absolute emissions figure 1 and emissions intensity figure 2.
Resources Institute WRI Greenhouse Gas GHG Protocol method to report its greenhouse gas emissions and defines its emissions Figure 1 Aviation and non-aviation emissions boundary as those under its direct operational control.
tCO e for Scopes 1, 2 & 3 2 Reported data excludes joint ventures not under Cobhams Scope 1 operational control, sites with less than five people, sites leased to tenants, vacant properties being disposed of, and any business units 400,000 that have been closed or divested during the course of the year for which there is less than six months of reported data.
A further seven 300,000 locations were omitted by our business units from reporting in error, although our assessment is that these are not material.
200,000 100% of Cobhams wholly-owned operations have been reviewed internally 100,000 to identify omissions and significant variations from the prior year.
Data assurance Scope 3 Scope 2 We engaged KPMG LLP to undertake a limited assurance engagement, Aviation Non-aviation reporting to Cobham plc, using the assurance standards ISAE 3000 and ISAE 3410 over the data that has been highlighted in this report with.
Aviation Non-aviation Total Their full statement is available at www.
com tCO e % tCO e % tCO e and they have provided an unqualified opinion on the data.
The level of 2 2 2 Scope 1 77,066 84 14,277 16 91,343 assurance provided for a limited assurance engagement is substantially Scope 2 N A 48,276 100 48,276 lower than a reasonable assurance engagement.
In order to reach Scope 3 384,860 95 21,640 5 406,500 their opinion they performed a range of procedures which included Total 461,926 85 84,193 15 546,119 interviews with management, examination of reporting systems, four site visits to our operations in the UK, Australia and US as well as specific Figure 2 Aviation and non-aviation emissions data testing at these sites and Head Office.
A summary of the work they tCO e m for Scopes 1, 2 & 3 performed is included within their assurance opinion.
2 Limited external assurance was provided on the Groups Scope 1 and Scope 3 Scope 2 GHG data for 2013.
Non financial performance information, greenhouse gas quantification in particular, is subject to more inherent Scope 2 limitations than financial information.
It is important to read the selected CR&S information contained within the CR&S report in the Scope 1 context of the full limited assurance statement and the reporting guidelines set out in the footnotes to the data tables on Energy & 0 50 100 150 200 250 Climate at www.
Aviation Non-aviation Further detail on Cobhams CR&S approach, objectives and performance is available on pages 32 to 35. tCO e m Year Aviation Non-aviation % Total change 2 2012 49 5 Annual General Meeting Scope 1 5 2013 43 8 The Companys AGM will be held at 12 noon on Thursday, 24 April 2012 N A 30 2014 at the offices of UBS Investment Bank, 1 Finsbury Avenue, Scope 2 10 2013 N A 27 London EC2M 2PP.
2012 206 8 Scope 3 7 2013 216 12 The Company arranges for the Notice of AGM and related papers to be sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Definitions: Scope 1 comprises direct emissions from owned plant and equipment including aviation fuel, natural gas, heating oil, non-automotive diesel, fugitive emissions, solvent emissions and By order of the Board automotive fuel.
Scope 2 comprises indirect emissions from purchased renewable and non-renewable electricity.
Scope 3 comprises indirect emissions from non-owned plant and equipment including aviation fuel and business travel train, air and car.
L Colloff Company Secretary 5 March 2014 66 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
