What we Do Our technology and know-how Investment in differentiated and specialist technologies contributes to our market leading positions and strong trading margins.
based business model enables The combination of our margins and our relatively low capital us to consistently deliver requirements enables us to generate consistently good levels of cash.
strong trading margins, Trading margin Free cash flow long term growth and after restructuring consistently high operating cash flow conversion.
7% 155m 2012: 19.0% 2012: 241m Leading positions Investment in high in our markets value-add technology and know-how 2 1 Understanding of and response to customer needs 4 3 Leverage of existing technology, Programme management products and services and operational excellence into new markets 4 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report 1 2 3 4 Leading positions Investment Leverage of existing Programme in our markets in high value-add technology, products management technology and and services into and operational know-how new markets excellence Cobham operates in specialist Private Venture PV or company Cobham leverages its technology Programme management is technology markets at the tier funded research and development into new or adjacent commercial a core competency focus for two subsystems and tier three R&D investment in the year end markets, where there is strong Cobham, which enables it to components segments, supplying increased to 6.2% 2012: 5.3% customer demand.
This is helping meet customer expectations and to a blue chip customer base.
This is consistent it to bring more balance to its deliver growth.
Considerable work market leading positions enable with the previously announced portfolio and will enable it to grow has been undertaken to enhance Cobham to optimise its return on plans to increase technology revenue through business cycles.
functional excellence in project investment, so it can continue to investment, closely aligning and programme management invest in technology and in skills this to growth markets.
During the year, Cobham across the Groups diverse range and capabilities as well as pay an has made progress towards of activities.
Total R&D investment, including this objective by growing its customer funded projects, was up commercial revenue organically The transformational Excellence Tier 1 by 19% to 186m 2012: 156m and through acquisitions.
in Delivery EiD programme has System of Systems primarily due to the ongoing continued to deliver further Platforms significant funded development improvements to operational Revenue from Tier 2 Platform Systems & activity on aerial refuelling performance and customer delivery Signal Processing commercial markets programmes, which is expected in Cobhams principal locations.
Tier 3 Circuits 35% Improvement in direct Components PV investment 2012: 31% labour productivity since 2010 Cobham in action 88m The new Solo7 ultra-miniature 2012: 75m high quality wireless video 40% Cobham in action encoder is based on defence Cobham has built on its strong security technology and is now Total R&D investment Cobham in action position in the commercial slip being sold into target broadcast EiD is reducing Cobhams physical ring market for wind turbines markets.
The product has already footprint and thereby reducing its by commencing additional 186m been used at the 2014 Sochi CO emissions.
Cobham continues 2 operations at its Prescott, Arizona Winter Olympics.
2012: 156m to target reduced impacts on the manufacturing facility.
This facility is environment from its products, starting to supply US customers with See page 6 for more information.
Cobham in action facilities and supply chain.
products made in-country, which is Cobhams products are often leading to further market penetration smaller, lighter and use less power CO emissions 2 of the wind turbine market.
This means that cost savings See page 10 for more information.
and operational benefits are 86.6MWh m turnover generated for customers, together 2012: 87.2MWh m turnover with a reduced impact on the environment through reduced See pages 9 and 35 fuel and energy consumption.
See page 9 for more information.
Investing in skills and expertise The delivery of Cobhams strategy depends on the right skills and capabilities being in place in the business.
Cobham has increased its investment significantly 366 employees 1,473 hours in learning and development to further build the essential skills and capabilities that are critical to the delivery of future growth.
Employee training completed in the first three months on the new online Learning and Development Centre.
See page 8 for more information.
com Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 5
