ESSENTIAL READ OUR YEAR OF pROGRESS Q2 123 VICTORIA STREET COMpLETED stunning views over London and August saw practical completion three distinct entrances.
Outside, at 123 Victoria Street, SW1 one we have added decked, green and of the Land Securities buildings pebbled terraces.
On completion, redefining Victoria as a place to the building was 53% let.
Office work, live and enjoy.
Offering occupiers include Jimmy Choo, 2 office and retail space, the which has taken 4,450m.
Q1 building features a triple height atrium, efficient floorplates, A NEW CHIEF ExECUTIVE 25 years of property experience Robert Noel took over from to the job and has an outstanding Francis Salway as Chief Executive track record in the London in April 2012.
On assuming had been Managing Director of his new role, Robert thanked the London Portfolio for two Francis for his support and years, and previously Property commented: Land Securities Director at Great Portland has a clear strategy and is a very Estates plc.
He brings more than well positioned business.
Practical completion achieved at 123 Victoria Street, SW1 2 REVIVING OxFORD STREET additional 8,440m of retail space In September Primark opened a along with 18 apartments.
This new flagship store at our Oriana, section of Oxford Street W1, scheme, which we jointly own is developing into one of the with Frogmore.
Located at the liveliest parts of central London.
east end of Londons Oxford It is being given a further boost 2 Street, the store covers 13,650m with the 1 billion redevelopment of prime retail space.
The joint of Tottenham Court Road venture also submitted a station, with the Crossrail station planning application for an due to open in 2018.
Robert Noel Land Securities Chief Executive bETTER bY DESIGN rather than individual business In June we published our Annual units.
The new structure Report 2012, which included removed discretionary elements, proposed changes to the aligned rewards more closely structure of Directors with total shareholder return, remuneration.
The revised made them longer term in nature approach reflected the reduction and reduced the overall in the number of Executive quantum.
Shareholders were Directors from four to three very supportive of the changes following the departure of and a resolution to adopt the Francis Salway.
It was also new structure was passed at the designed to better align Companys AGM in July, with remuneration to the 98.3% support.
performance of the Group, Primark opens its new flagship store at Oriana, W1 16 Land Securities Annual Report 2013 ESSENTIAL READ DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE fINANCIAL STATEmENTS INVESTOR RESOuRCE ESSENTIAL READ Q4 20 FENCHURCH STREET LETS a year to go until completion, this In February we announced that iconic building has six tenants 20 Fenchurch Street, EC3 our signed up and is attracting very 2 64,120m tower development in strong interest from others.
the City was more than half full Occupiers are drawn to its in terms of pre-lettings.
We are modern, efficient space in a working with our joint venture prime location.
See page 20 Q3 partner, Canary Wharf Group, for more.
to deliver the scheme and with JOHN LEWIS channel shopping, including With autumn came the opening click and collect.
Together with of the first John Lewis flexible our Princesshay development, format department shop, in the shop gives people plenty of Exeter city centre.
The shop reasons to visit Exeter.
It also trades over five floors and provides more reasons for us, 2 occupies 10,080m.
The flexible Exeter City Council and our format enables John Lewis to offer partners, The Crown Estate, to its full range through a smaller keep investing in the citys retail footprint by supporting omniand leisure offer.
20 Fenchurch Street, EC3, taking shape NEW RETAIL SCHEMES OpEN one million shopper visits to our 2 Spring saw the completion of 75,900m Trinity Leeds centre two new Land Securities retail in the first ten days of trading.
schemes, with Trinity Leeds The retail element at 185-221 and 185-221 Buchanan Street, Buchanan Street was fully let Glasgow, both opening their on opening.
We received John Lewis flexible format shop, Exeter ACqUISITIONS in Manchester, attracting around Building on our acquisition eight million visitors a year.
earlier in the year of The X-Leisure owns 16 leisure assets Cornerhouse, a leisure asset across the UK, from Brighton in Nottingham, we went on to Marina to Xscape in Milton buy central Manchesters The Keynes.
These investments Printworks and a majority reflect our view that leisure is interest in leisure operator an increasingly attractive sector, 185-221 Buchanan Street, Glasgow, opens for business X-Leisure completed in with long lease lengths and January.
The former is the excellent opportunities to dominant leisure destination enhance income.
