In order to satisfy report oF the directors themselves that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence additional disclosures for the foreseeable future, the Directors have reviewed assumptions about future trading performance, valuation projections and debt requirements contained within the Groups current five year plan and reported against them, internally, on a monthly basis.
This, together with available market information and the Directors knowledge and experience Share capital Directors indemnities and insurance of the Groups property portfolio and markets, At the Companys last Annual General Meeting On 5 May 2006, the Company agreed to has given them sufficient confidence to AGM, held on 19 July 2012, shareholders indemnify each Director against any liability continue to adopt the going concern basis in authorised the Company to make market incurred in relation to acts or omissions preparing the accounts.
After making purchases of ordinary shares representing up arising in the course of their office.
The enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable to 10% of its issued share capital at that time and indemnity applies only to the extent expectation that the Company has adequate to allot shares within certain limits approved by permitted by law.
A copy of the deed of resources to continue in operational existence shareholders.
These authorities expire at the indemnity is available for inspection at the for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they 2013 AGM and a renewal will be sought.
Companys registered office and at the AGM.
continue to adopt the going concern basis in The Company has ensured that appropriate During the year the Company purchased preparing the accounts.
insurance cover is available in respect of 4,599,131 of its ordinary shares.
The number potential legal action against its Directors.
of shares purchased is equivalent to the number Voting rights of shares that were issued in connection with the Each ordinary share of the Company carries Auditors and disclosure of information scrip dividend scheme at a time when the share one vote.
Further information on the voting to auditors price was at a material discount to adjusted net and other rights of shareholders are set out in So far as the Directors are aware, there is no asset value.
The purpose of the purchase was to the Companys Articles of Association and in relevant audit information that has not been minimise dilution associated with the issue of the explanatory notes that accompany the brought to the attention of the Companys shares under the scrip dividend scheme.
Notice of the AGM which are available on the auditors.
Each Director has taken all reasonable Following this and other purchases in earlier Companys website at www.
steps to make himself or herself aware of any periods, the Company currently holds relevant audit information and to establish that 10,495,131 ordinary shares in treasury.
Directors powers such information was provided to the auditors.
As set out in the Companys Articles of As at 31 March 2013 there were 1,031,237 shares Following the tender of the audit during the Association, the business of the Company is held in the Employee Benefit Trust EBT for year, a resolution to appoint Ernst & Young LLP managed by the Board who may exercise all the purposes of satisfying awards made under as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the powers of the Company.
the Companys employee share plans.
For more details on the audit has waived its entitlement to a dividend.
tender please see page 68 and 69.
Appointment and removal of Directors New shares were allotted during the year only The Board may appoint a Director, either to Provisions on change of control in relation to certain employee share awards fill a vacancy or as an addition to the existing There are a number of agreements which take and the Companys scrip dividend facility.
This Director must retire at the next effect, alter or terminate upon a change of Resolutions to renew these authorities will be AGM of the Company and put themselves control of the Company.
None of these are proposed at the 2013 AGM.
The Company has forward for re-appointment by the shareholders.
The Companys share no restrictions on the transfer of its shares.
schemes contain provisions which take effect in In addition to any power of removal conferred the event of a change of control, but do not entitle by the Companies Act, the Company may by Substantial shareholders participants to a greater interest in the shares of special resolution remove any Director before At 7 May 2013 the interests in issued share the Company than created by the initial grant or the expiration of his period of office and may, capital which had been notified to the award under the relevant scheme.
subject to the Articles, by ordinary resolution Company under the Disclosure and appoint another person who is willing to act Transparency Rules DTR 5 of the UK Payment policy as a Director in his place.
Listing Authority are shown below.
The Groups policy is to pay invoices in Shareholders owning over 3% of the accordance with their terms.
The Company Annual General Meeting Companys shares: has no trade creditors as at 31 March 2013.
Accompanying this report is the Notice of The Groups creditor payment days at the AGM which sets out the resolutions for Number of % 31 March 2013 represented 28 days of Shareholder shares holding the meeting, together with an explanation purchases 2012: 27 days.
Norges Bank 42,042,530 5.37 Charitable donations By order of the Board APG Algemene During the year 0.5m was donated to Pensioen Groep 30,953,837 3.95 charitable causes.
For more information, Adrian fide Souza please see the Corporate Responsibility Peel Holdings Plc 28,135,823 3.59 Group General Counsel and Company Secretary section on page 48.
Legal & General Investment Financial reporting and the going concern Management 24,128,855 3.08 basis for accounting The Board seeks to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups 92 Land Securities Annual Report 2013 eSSenTIaL reaD DIrecTorS rePorT governance fInancIaL STaTemenTS InveSTor reSource fInancIaL STaTemenTS essential read financial statements ifc More information print and online 12 Land Securities in brief 13 Our portfolio in detail 14 Our performance at a glance 15 Strategy and key performance indicators 16 Our year of progress 18 Our top properties Income Earnings per share, Group revenue, directors report costs and other important financial 22 Chairmans message information.
24 Chief Executives statement 26 Financial review p 96 32 Our principal risks and how we manage them 36 Retail Portfolio review of the year 42 London Portfolio review of the year Balance sheets 48 Corporate Responsibility Report The Groups balance sheet at 31 March 2013. p 97 Governance 58 Board of Directors 60 Corporate Governance Report Notes 64 Nominations Committee Report 68 Audit Committee Report Accounting policies, segmental 74 D irectors Remuneration Report information and other helpful 92 Report of the Directors guidance.
p 101 financial statements 94 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 95 Independent auditors Report 96 Income statement 96 Statement of comprehensive income 97 Balance sheets 98 Statement of changes in equity 100 Statements of cash flows 101 Notes to the financial statements investor resource 148 Business analysis 152 Combined portfolio analysis 154 Lease lengths 155 Development pipeline financial summary 156 Five year summary 158 Retail asset disclosures 160 London asset disclosures 162 Investor information 164 Glossary ibc Forward-looking statements Contact details Land Securities Annual Report 2013 93
