BOARD Of DIRECTORS the position of Head of Retail Portfolio Board oF directors Management.
Prior to joining the Group, Richard worked in retail development for AMEC Developments and prior to that, ARC Properties.
He is primarily responsible for the Retail Portfolio, leading the Retail Executive Committee and working with the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer on Group matters.
Richard also has executive responsibility for Health and Safety across the Group.
He is a martin greenslade 48 Non-executive Director of Barratt Chief financial Officer Developments PLC.
Appointment to the Board: Skills, competencies and experience: Martin joined the Group as Chief Richard brings more than 25 years Financial Officer in September 2005. experience of the retail property Career: industry to his role and is a regular A chartered accountant, having author and panellist on industry trained with Coopers & Lybrand, matters.
He has led the Retail business Martin was previously Group Finance through many recent major changes Director of Alvis plc.
He has also and challenges in the industry.
He is worked in corporate finance, having a former President of the British alison carnwath 60 roBert noel 49 served as a member of the executive Council of Shopping Centres BCSC, Chairman of the Board Chief Executive committee of Nordeas investment the main industry body for retail banking division and Managing Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: property owners.
Director of its UK business.
Martin Alison was appointed to the Board Robert was appointed to the Board in Board Committees: is a Trustee of International Justice in September 2004 and became January 2010 as Managing Director, Richard sits on the Investment Mission UK.
London Portfolio and became Chief Committee and the Asset and Liability Executive on 1 April 2012.
Skills, competencies and experience: Career: Committee.
He is also a member of the Martin brings significant listed Alison worked in investment banking Career: Senior Management Board.
company financial and reporting and corporate finance for 20 years, A chartered surveyor and graduate expertise from the property, before pursuing a portfolio career.
of the University of Reading, Robert engineering and financial sectors in During her banking career, Alison was previously Property Director at the UK and overseas.
He is responsible became the first female Director of Great Portland Estates plc between for the finance, tax, treasury, J. Henry Schroder Wagg & Co. Alison August 2002 and September 2009. insurance, IS and accounting teams in also held the positions of a Senior Prior to that, he was a Director at Land Securities and provides strategic Partner of Phoenix Securities and property services group Nelson and operational financial expertise Managing Director, New York at Bakewell.
Robert is a Trustee of the to the Group including in relation to Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.
corporate financing and investment Subsequently she served as a NonFormer positions include being a arrangements.
executive Director of Friends Provident Director of the New West End plc, Gallaher Group plc, Glas Cymru Company, the central London Board Committees: Cyfyngedig Welsh Water, Barclays plc Business Improvement District and Martin sits on the Investment and Man Group plc.
Alison is currently Chairman of the Westminster david rough 62 Committee, the Asset and Liability a Non-executive Director at Zurich Property Association.
Non-executive Director Committee and the Finance Insurance Group Ltd, Paccar Inc, a Appointment to the Board: Committee.
He attends the Audit Skills, competencies and experience: Fortune 500 company and The British David joined the Board as a NonCommittee meetings at the invitation Robert has over 25 years experience Library Trust.
executive Director in April 2002 and of the Chairman of the Committee.
in a number of sectors within the was Senior Independent Director from He is also a member of the Senior Skills, competencies and experience: property market.
He has extensive November 2003 to March 2012 and Management Board.
Alison has some 30 years international knowledge of the London commercial was Chairman of the Remuneration finance and investment banking property market in particular and Committee until 30 September 2012. experience.
Having held Board of strategic development.
He has positions in an executive and Nonsignificant executive leadership Career: executive capacity in a variety of experience in different property David was Group Director industries and sectors in the UK and sectors and has substantial listed Investments of Legal and General overseas, she brings substantial company experience at Board level.
Group PLC until December 2001, and financial knowledge, strategic and during that time also served as the Board Committees: leadership experience.
Chairman of the Association of British Robert chairs the Senior Management Insurers Investment Committee.
Board Committees: Board and the Asset and Liability David is a Non-executive Director of She is Chairman of the Nominations and Investment Committee and is a Brown, Shipley & Co. Ltd, the private Committee and a member of the member of the Finance Committee.
bank, and was previously a NonRemuneration Committee.
He attends the Audit, Remuneration executive Director of the London and Nominations Committees at the richard akers 51 Metal Exchange and Senior invitation of the Chairmen of those Executive Director Independent Director and Deputy Committees.
Appointment to the Board: Chairman of Xstrata Group PLC.
Richard joined the Board in May Skills, competencies and experience: 2005, following his appointment as David has many years experience Managing Director, Retail Portfolio both as an executive in the financial in July 2004. investment industry and subsequently Career: as a Non-executive Director in the A chartered surveyor, Richard joined investment, property, finance and the Group in 1995 and previously held extractive industries.
He has 58 Land Securities Annual Report 2013 ESSENTIAL READ DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE fINANCIAL STATEmENTS INVESTOR RESOuRCE BOARD Of DIRECTORS significant experience of strategic He has previously served as Managing decision making including major Director of Haslemere NV, Chairman international corporate actions.
of Jones Lang Wooton Fund Although he has served on the Board management, President of the British for over nine years, he brings his Property Federation and Chairman of independent thought and challenge the Bank of England Property Forum.
to Board and Committee meetings, Skills, competencies and experience: particularly in relation to finance A property investment specialist, Chris and investor matters.
has many years experience in the Board Committees: commercial property industry in the David is a member of the Audit UK and abroad.
He has substantial kevin oByrne 48 simon palley 55 knowledge of property finance and Committee and Finance Committee.
Senior Independent Director Non-executive Director investment in particular and of the wider property market.
Appointment to the Board: Appointed to the Board: Kevin was appointed to the Board Simon was appointed to the Board Board Committees: as a Non-executive Director in April as a Non-executive Director in Member of the Nominations Committee 2008 and was appointed Senior August 2010. and Remuneration Committee.
Career: Career: A senior figure within the private Kevin is a chartered accountant who equity industry, Simon is Chairman trained with Arthur Andersen.
He has of the private equity firm Centerbridge held several senior finance positions Partners Europe and a Trustee of the and had been the Group Finance University of Pennsylvania and The Director of Kingfisher plc since 2008 Tate Foundation.
sir stuart rose 64 until his appointment in a key Simon has had a successful and broad Non-executive Director international leadership role as CEO ranging career in investment banking, B&Q and Koctas brands, responsible Appointment to the Board: consulting and private equity.
He for group businesses in the UK, China, Sir Stuart joined the Board as a started his career at Chase Manhattan Turkey and Germany.
His previous Non-executive Director in May 2003. before moving to Bain & Company.
roles included Group Finance Director He left there in 1988 to join Bankers Career: stacey rauch 55 of Dixons Retail Plc, and European Trust as a Vice President, then in 1990 His extensive retail experience Non-executive Director Finance Director for The Quaker joined BC Partners, a private equity includes the positions of Chief Oats Company.
Appointment: firm where he stayed for 17 years, Executive and then Chairman of Stacey joined the Board as a NonSkills, competencies and experience: rising to Managing Partner.
Simon is Marks and Spencer Group plc from executive Director on 1 January 2012.
Kevin brings extensive knowledge and an MBA graduate of The Wharton 2004 until 2010, Chief Executive of experience of strategic development Career: School, Pennsylvania.
Arcadia Group from 2000 until and the management of multiStacey is a Director Emeritus of December 2002 and Chief Executive Skills, competencies and experience: jurisdictional retailing for a FTSE 100 McKinsey & Company where she served of Booker PLC from 1998 until 2000.
Simon brings considerable strategic company.
He also brings significant clients in the US and internationally for He is Chairman of Ocado plc and Blue management and business oversight recent and relevant financial skills and 24 years.
Whilst there she co-founded Inc.
He is a Non-executive Director of experience.
He has particular expertise, financial governance and the New Jersey office and was the first Woolworths Holdings South Africa, expertise in international finance and executive leadership.
woman to be appointed as an industry and sits on the advisory board of investment, investor issues and the practice leader.
She was a leader in the Bridgepoint Capital.
He was Board Committees: shareowner governance of companies.
firms Retail and Consumer Goods Chairman of Business in the Kevin is Chair of the Audit Committee Practices, served as the head of the Community from 2008 to 2010.
Board Committees: and is a member of the Nominations North American Retail and Apparel Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Skills, competencies and experience: Practice and acted as the Global Retail Committee from 1 October 2012.
Sir Stuart commenced his career in Practice Convener.
She retired from the retail industry in 1972 and has a McKinsey & Company in September wealth of international management 2010 and is currently a Non-executive experience in the sector, having led Director of Ann Inc, a listed American some of the biggest UK retailers.
womens speciality apparel retailer and Although Sir Stuart has been on the the Tops Holding Corporation, the Board of the Company for over nine parent company of Tops Markets LLC, years, he remains independent in a US grocery retailer.
She is also a thought and action providing insight Non-executive Director of the Fiesta and challenge particularly on retail, Restaurant Group which is listed on consumer, corporate responsibility NASDAQ.
He was knighted Skills, competencies and experience: in 2008 for services to the retail chris Bartram 64 A retail specialist with many years industry and corporate social Non-executive Director experience of the sector in the US and responsibility.
internationally, her career with Appointment: McKinsey saw her consult to a wide Chris was appointed to the Board range of retailers, apparel wholesalers as a Non-executive Director in and consumer goods manufacturers.
She brings extensive international Career: retail, and consumer goods industry Chris is Chairman of Orchard Street experience.
She also brings current Investment Management LLP, a leisure and grocery sector strategic specialist UK commercial property business knowledge to the Board.
He is a chartered Board Committees: surveyor, a Non-executive Director of Member of the Audit Committee.
The Crown Estate and a Wilkins Fellow of Downing College, Cambridge.
