Performance review Governance Financial statements Overview Overview Our core strengths Rebalance towards retail and retailer distribution Our portfolio is broadly split between distribution, office and residential with retail making up an increasingly larger proportion and developments generally comprising about 10% of the mix.
We aim a rebalance with an increased focus on retail and retailer distribution, whilst remaining opportunistic.
A disciplined approach of focusing on assets that are well let with high occupier contentment Portfolio value: 1,217 million We are extending our breadth of experience and deep occupier relationships into retailer-led distribution, which is benefiting from strong occupier interest as retailers multi-channel strategies continue to evolve.
Annual report and accounts 2013 LondonMetric Property Plc 17 Overview Our core strengths Crystallising our residential investments We have commenced a divestment programme of our wholly-owned residential investments, in London comprising our income-producing portfolio at Battersea, Stockwell and Highbury and recent acquisition atClerkenwell Quarter, Islington.
Weexpect to monetise our holdings over the nextyear.
Buying wholesale andsellingretail Wholly-owned London residential portfolio value 182 million We have agreed the sale of 116 units for59.6 million 18 LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Performance review Governance Financial statements Overview Bridges Wharf Clerkenwell Quarter Battersea Islington Clapham Road North Stand at Highbury Stockwell Islington Annual report and accounts 2013 LondonMetric Property Plc 19 Before... and after... 20 LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Performance review Governance Financial statements Overview Overview Our core strengths Creating occupier appeal Longwell Green, Bristol was acquired within ourMIPP joint venture and provided an exciting partnership opportunity with the existing tenant, Carpetright, to refurbish and extend its unit and create a new DFS store.
We agreed new 15 and 20-year leases, respectively.
The new design facilitated the construction of two pod units lettoCosta and Subway, which in turn has increased footfall.
Partnering with our customers means we can enter a deal that is profitable to both parties and maximises the value ofthescheme Developed by Metric Property Opened for trade March 2013 Longwell Green Retail Park Location: Bristol Annual report and accounts 2013 LondonMetric Property Plc 21
