Charles Cayzer Executive Chairman Finance Director Senior Independent Director, Chairman of Nomination Patrick has been involved in the UK property Martin joined London & Stamford as Finance market since 1970.
He was a co-founder and Director in September 2008 until its merger Committee CEO of Arlington, formed in 1976: of Pillar, with Metric in January 2013, when he became Charles joined the board of London & formed in 1991: and of London & Stamford, Finance Director of LondonMetric.
He has considerable formed in 2005, leading all three of the 2005 and 2008, Martin was a Director of experience of merchant banking, companies to successful otations on the FTSE Kandahar Real Estate.
From 2002 to 2005 commercial banking and corporate and main market.
Upon completion of London & Martin worked for Pillar, latterly asFinance project finance from his career at Baring Stamfords merger with Metric in January 2013, Director.
Martin is a qualied chartered Brothers, Cayzer Irvine and Cayzer Limited he was appointed Executive Chairman.
accountant having trained andqualied and was appointed a Director of Caledonia Patrick also served as an Executive Director of withDeloitte.
Charles is also Chairman The British Land Company plc between 2005 of The Cayzer Trust Company Ltd and to 2006, following its acquisition of Pillar.
TheSloane Club, and a Non-Executive Director of Eredene Capital and Quintain Estates & Development Plc.
James Dean Chief Executive Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Andrew was a co-founder and CEO of Metric Mark joined the board of London & from its inception in March 2010 untilitsmerger Stamfordin July 2010.
He currently holds a James was appointed to the board of with London & Stamford in January 2013.
On range of real estate focused non-executive London& Stamford in July 2010.
He is a completion of the merger, Andrew became directorships and advisory roles following chartered surveyor and has worked for Chief Executive of LondonMetric.
Andrew hisretirement in June 2010 as the chief Savillsplc since 1973, serving as a main Board waspreviously Executive Director and head investment officer for real estate for the Director from 1988 to 1999.
He is Chairman of ofretail at British Land.
Andrew joined British AbuDhabi Investment Council.
A chartered Pearlcrown Ltd, London & Lincoln Properties Ltd Land in2005 following the acquisition of surveyor and banker during his career, and Patrick Dean Ltd and also a NonPillarandserved on the main board with Markstarted working at London-based Executive Director ofBranston Holdings Ltd. responsibilities for shopping centres, retail Cluttons in 1967 and has worked at a varietyof parkinvestment and assetmanagement.
leading institutions including the United Bank Andrew is a Non-Executive Director of of Kuwait, AXA Investment Managers, and TheUnite GroupPlc.
AIGGlobal Real Estate Investment Europe.
Mark is stepping down from the Board attheAGM.
40 LondonMetric Property Plc Annual report and accounts 2013 Performance review Governance Financial statements Overview 7.
Philip Watson Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director, Chairman Non-Executive Director of the Audit Committee Andrew joined the board of Metric as Philip joined the board of Metric at the Chairman at the companys inception in companys inception in March 2010.
He is Humphrey was Finance Director of Arlington March 2010.
He is aformer Chairman of CBRE group chief investment officer of Mirabaud from 1982 to 1992, he then became a Director and a former Non-Executive Director of Pillar.
Philip joined Hill Samuel of Pillar from its formation and Finance Director He is currently a Non-Executive Director of in1971 and then Robert Fleming in 1972, where from 1993 to 2004, resigning from the board in Capital Shopping Centres plc and Capital & he worked as an investment analyst and fund 2005 upon its sale to The British Land Company Counties plc, a Non-Executive Director of manager.
He left Robert Fleming in 1982 to plc.
He was a Non-Executive Director of Miller Group, and a Non-Executive Director found TWH Management Limited, in which London & Stamford Property Limited from ofAIM-listed Real Office Group plc.
Andrew heand his partners sold acontrolling interest incorporation until April 2009 and was isone of the UKs most experienced property to Mirabaud Pereire Holdings Limited in 1991. appointed to the Board of London& Stamford advisers, serving as Chairman and as a Property Plc in July 2010.
He was appointed Director on avariety of boards including asa Non-Executive Director of Hansteen NewSadlers Well Development and Beckwith Holdings Plc inOctober2010.
He is a qualied Property FundManagement.
stepping down from the Board atthe AGM.
Andrew Varley Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Alec joined the board of Metric at the Andrew joined the board of Metric at the companys inception in March 2010.
He has companys inception in March 2010.
He is been a member of the supervisory board of Group Property Director and an Executive Unibail-Rodamco SE, one of Europes largest Director of NEXT Plc, with the responsibility for property companies, since 2008 and is property, franchise, corporate responsibility currently a member of its Audit Committee.
and code of practice related issues.
Alec held positions as an equity investment Andrewjoined NEXT in 1985 and was analyst specialising in property companies appointed to itsboard in 1990.
The majority of his career as experience includes 12 years in retail and an investment analyst was spent at Dresdner commercial property.
From 1999 to2007, Kleinwort Benson and Merrill Lynch, where his Andrew was a non-executive member of the teams were voted number one for property in British Heart Foundations shops committee.
Europe by the Institutional Investor European Property Research Survey for 12 out of 13 years 1 Member of the Nomination Committee from 1995 to 2007.
2 Member of the Audit Committee 3 Member of the Remuneration Committee Annual report and accounts 2013 LondonMetric Property Plc 41
