Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Strategic report 43 Foreign currency risk Financial position The Groups policy is to match as far as possible its principal projected The ratio of net debt to market capitalisation of 15,334 million as at cash flows by currency to actual or effective borrowings in the same 30 September 2013 was 8% 2012: 8%.
As currency cash flows are generated, they are used to At the end of the year, net debt was 1,193 million 2012: 973 million.
service and repay debt in the same currency.
Where necessary, to implement this policy, forward currency contracts and cross currency Liquidity risk swaps are taken out which, when applied to the actual currency The Group finances its borrowings from a number of sources including liabilities, convert these to the required currency.
the bank, the public and the private placement markets.
The Group The borrowings in each currency can give rise to foreign exchange has developed long term relationships with a number of financial differences on translation into Sterling.
Where the borrowings are either counterparties with the balance sheet strength and credit quality less than, or equate to, the net investment in overseas operations, these to provide credit facilities as required.
The Group seeks to avoid exchange rate movements are treated as movements on reserves and a concentration of debt maturities in any one period to spread its recorded in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income refinancing risk.
The maturity profile of the Groups principal borrowings rather than in the income statement.
at 30 September 2013 shows that the average period to maturity is 5.5 years.
Non-Sterling earnings streams are translated at the average rate of exchange for the year.
Fluctuations in exchange rates have given and Financing maturity profile of principal borrowings will continue to give rise to translation differences.
The Group is only as at 30 September 2013 m partially protected from the impact of such differences through the 2014 matching of cash flows to currency borrowings.
2015 Interest rate risk 2016 As set out above, the Group has effective borrowings in a number of 2017 currencies and its policy is to ensure that, in the short term, it is not 2018 materially exposed to fluctuations in interest rates in its principal 2019 currencies.
The Group implements this policy either by borrowing fixed 2020 rate debt or by using interest rate swaps so that the interest rates on at least 80% of the Groups projected debt are fixed for one year, reducing 2021 to 60% fixed for the second year and 40% fixed for the third year.
2022 2023 Group tax policy 2024 As a Group, we are committed to creating long term shareholder value through the responsible, sustainable and efficient delivery of our key 2025 business objectives.
This will enable us to grow the business and make 0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 significant investments into the Group and its operations.
Bonds Bonds Private Placement US$ Private Placement Bank We therefore adopt an approach to tax that supports this strategy 1 Based on borrowings and facilities in place as at 30 September 2013, maturing in the financial year ending 30 September.
and also balances the various interests of our stakeholders including 2 The average life of the Group's principal borrowings as at 30 September 2013 Shareholders, governments, employees and the communities in which is 5.5 years 2012: 6.1 years.
Our aim is to pursue a principled and sustainable tax strategy that has strong commercial merit and is aligned with our The Groups undrawn committed bank facilities at 30 September 2013 business strategy.
We believe this will enhance shareholder value were 700 million 2012: 700 million.
Financial management In doing so, we act in compliance with the relevant local and international laws and disclosure requirements, and we conduct an The Group continues to manage its interest rate and foreign currency open and transparent relationship with the relevant tax authorities exposure in accordance with the policies set out below.
The Groups that fully complies with the Groups Code of Business Conduct and financial instruments comprise cash, borrowings, receivables and Code of Ethics.
payables that are used to finance the Groups operations.
The Group also uses derivatives, principally interest rate swaps, forward currency In an increasingly complex international environment, a degree of tax contracts and cross currency swaps, to manage interest rate and risk and uncertainty is however inevitable.
We manage and control currency risks arising from the Groups operations.
The Group does these risks in a proactive manner and in doing so exercise our not trade in financial instruments.
The Groups treasury policies are judgement and seek appropriate advice from reputable professional designed to mitigate the impact of fluctuations in interest rates and firms.
Tax risks are assessed as part of the Groups formal governance exchange rates and to manage the Groups financial risks.
The Board process and are reviewed by the Board and the Audit Committee on approves any changes to the policies.
