8 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Strategic report Our Board 1 2 3 4 5 1 Sir Roy Gardner 2 Richard Cousins 3 Dominic Blakemore Chairman Age 68 Group Chief Executive Age 54 Group Finance Director Age 44 Appointment Joined as Non-Executive Director Appointment Appointed Group Chief Executive Appointment Joined the Board in February 2012 in October 2005.
Appointed Chairman in July 2006. in May 2006. and was appointed as Group Finance Director in April 2012.
Committee membership Nomination Chairman, Committee membership Corporate Responsibility, Corporate Responsibility.
Executive Board, General Business and Nomination.
Committee membership Corporate Responsibility, Disclosure, Executive Board and Skills and previous experience Sir Roy was Skills and previous experience Richard spent General Business.
formerly Chief Executive of Centrica plc, Chairman six years as Chief Executive Officer of BPB plc, of Plymouth Argyle Football Club, Manchester United having previously held a number of positions with Skills and previous experience Former Chief plc and Connaught plc and a Director of British Gas that company.
His earlier career was with Cadbury Financial Officer of Iglo Foods Group Limited, which plc, GEC-Marconi Ltd, GEC plc and Laporte plc.
Schweppes plc and BTR plc.
He is also a former Dominic joined from Cadbury Plc, where he was He was also Chairman of the British Olympics Non-Executive Director of P & O plc and HBOS plc.
European Finance & Strategy Director, having Appeal Committee for the Beijing Games 2008. previously held senior finance roles as Corporate Current external appointments Non-Executive Finance Director and Group Financial Controller.
Current external appointments Senior Advisor Director of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc and Member Prior to joining Cadbury Plc, Dominic was a Director to Credit Suisse, Non-Executive Director of Willis of the Advisory Board of Lancaster University at  LLP.
Group Holdings plc, Chairman of Mainstream Business School.
Renewable Power Limited, Chairman of the Advisory Current external appointments Non-Executive Board of the Energy Futures Lab of Imperial College Director of Shire plc effective 1 January 2014.
4 Gary Green London, President of Carers UK, Chairman of the Group Chief Operating Officer, Apprenticeship Ambassadors Network and 5 Andrew Martin Chairman of EnServe Group Limited.
Director of North America Age 56 Group Chief Operating Officer, Mastpoint Ltd, R. A. G. Associates Limited, Ayot Nominees Limited, Companion of the Institute of Europe & Japan Age 53 Appointment Appointed to the Board in April 2007.
Management and Advisor to Antin Infrastructure Gary became Group Chief Operating Officer, Partners.
Fellow of the Royal Aeronautical Society North America in April 2012.
Appointment Appointed as Group Finance Director and Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts.
in March 2004 and became Group Chief Operating Committee membership Executive Board and Officer, Europe & Japan in April 2012.
Committee membership Executive Board and Skills and previous experience Gary is a General Business.
Chartered Accountant and in 2001 received an honorary doctorate from Johnson & Wales University Skills and previous experience Associate of the in the USA.
Gary joined the Group in 1986 in a Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and senior finance role in the UK and became a UK Wales and an Associate of the Chartered Institute of Director in 1992.
He relocated to the USA in 1994 Taxation.
Andrew was formerly Finance Director of as Chief Finance Officer of the Groups North First Choice Holidays PLC.
He also previously held American business and in 1999 became Chief senior financial positions with Forte Plc and Granada Executive Officer.
Group PLC and was a partner with Arthur Andersen.
Current external appointments Non-Executive Director of easyJet plc.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Strategic report 9 6 7 8 9 10 6 John Bason 7 Susan Murray 8 Don Robert Non-Executive Director Age 56 Non-Executive Director Age 56 Non-Executive Director Age 54 Appointment Appointed to the Board in June 2011.
Appointment Appointed to the Board in Appointment Appointed to the Board in May 2009.
Committee membership Audit Chairman, Committee membership Audit, Corporate Corporate Responsibility, Nomination and Committee membership Corporate Responsibility Responsibility, Nomination and Remuneration.
Chairman, Audit, Nomination and Remuneration.
Skills and previous experience Don was Skills and previous experience Member of Skills and previous experience Susan is formerly Chairman of the Consumer Data Industry the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
John was a former Non-Executive Director of Aberdeen Asset Association and previously held positions with previously Finance Director of Bunzl plc.
Management PLC, SSL International PLC and Wm First American Corporation, Credco, Inc. and Morrison Supermarkets PLC, and former Chief US Bancorp.
Current external appointments Finance Director Executive of Littlewoods Stores Limited.
She is also of Associated British Foods plc, Trustee of Voluntary Current external appointments Chief Executive former Worldwide President and Chief Executive of Service Overseas and Deputy Chairman of the Officer of Experian plc.
He is also a Trustee of the The Pierre Smirnoff Company, part of Diageo plc, charity FareShare.
and a former Council Member of the Advertising Standards Authority.
9 Sir Ian Robinson Current external appointments Non-Executive Senior Independent Non-Executive Chairman of Farrow & Ball and a Non-Executive Director Age 71 Director of Pernod Ricard S. A.
Enterprise Inns Plc and Imperial Tobacco PLC.
Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts.
Appointment Appointed to the Board in December 2006.
10 Mark White Committee membership Remuneration Chairman, Audit, Corporate Responsibility General Counsel and Company Secretary and Nomination.
Age 53 Skills and previous experience Sir Ian is a former Chairman of Ladbrokes plc, Hilton Group plc and Appointment Joined the Group as General Amey plc, and a former Chief Executive of Scottish Counsel and Company Secretary in June 2007.
He is a former Non-Executive Director of Committee membership Corporate Responsibility ASDA plc, RMC plc, Scottish & Newcastle plc and and Executive Board.
Secretary to Audit, General Siemens Holdings plc.
Mark Current external appointments Member is also a Trustee of the Compass Pension Plan and of the Takeover Panel and Fellow of the Royal the Compass Retirement Income Savings Plan.
Skills and previous experience Mark is a Solicitor.
He was previously Group Company Secretary and General Counsel of Wolseley plc and Company Secretary of Enterprise Oil plc and Rotork plc.
Current external appointments Member of the Upper Tribunal, Tax and Chancery Chamber.
