46 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance Governance and Directors Report The Board meets regularly during the year as well as on an ad hoc Corporate Governance Report basis, as required by business need.
The Board met eight times during The Directors present their Annual Report and the audited the year and Director attendance for each meeting is shown in the consolidated accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries for the table on page 47.
Each Director also attends the AGM to answer year ended 30 September 2013.
This Corporate Governance Report Shareholder questions.
and other statutory disclosures set out on pages 46 to 54 make up the Directors Report.
Responsibilities The Board manages the business of the Company and may, subject UK Corporate Governance Code compliance to the Articles of Association and applicable legislation, borrow money, guarantee, indemnify, mortgage or charge the business, property and Responsibility for good governance lies with the Board.
The Board is assets present and future and issue debentures and other securities accountable to Shareholders and is committed to the highest standards and give security, whether outright or as a collateral security, for any of corporate governance as set out in the UK Corporate Governance debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
The Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision, Council website at www.
This Corporate Governance Report, although its primary role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership and together with the Directors Remuneration Report set out on pages 55 to review the overall strategic development of the Group as a whole.
to 70, describes how the Board has applied the main principles of good In addition, the Board sets the Groups values and standards and governance set out in the Code during the year under review.
ensures that it acts ethically and that its obligations to its Shareholders Compliance statement are understood and met.
The Board may delegate any of its powers to any committee consisting of one or more Directors.
It is the Boards view that for the year ended 30 September 2013 the Company has been fully compliant with all of the principles set out in The Board has delegated day to day operational decisions to the the Code.
The Companys Auditor, Deloitte LLP, is required to review Executive Board referred to on page 48. whether the above statement reflects the Companys compliance with The Board has established a procedure for Directors, if deemed the provisions of the Code specified for its review by the Listing Rules necessary, to take independent professional advice at the Companys of the UK Listing Authority and to report if it does not reflect such expense in the furtherance of their duties.
Every Director also has compliance.
No such report has been made.
access to the General Counsel and Company Secretary, who is charged with ensuring that Board procedures are followed and How we govern the Company that good corporate governance and compliance are implemented Our governance structure comprises the functions shown below, throughout the Group.
Together with the Group Chief Executive and supported by the Groups standards, policies and controls, which the General Counsel and Company Secretary, the Chairman ensures are described over the following pages in more detail.
that the Board is kept properly informed and is consulted on all issues reserved to it.
Board papers and other information are distributed at ChAIRMAN times to allow Directors to be properly briefed in advance of meetings.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Directors have been granted an indemnity issued by the Company to the extent permitted by law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their BOARD office.
The indemnity would not provide any coverage where a Director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Company has also arranged appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action CORPORATE AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATION against its Directors and Officers.
RESPONSIBILITy COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate and clearly defined with the division of responsibilities set out in writing GENERAL and agreed by the Board.
DISCLOSURE BUSINESS COMMITTEE ExECUTIvE COMMITTEE Director effectiveness and training BOARD In accordance with best practice, the Chairman addresses the developmental needs of the Board as a whole, with a view to further developing its effectiveness as a team, and ensures that each Director The Board refreshes and updates his or her individual skills, knowledge Composition and expertise.
As at 30 September 2013, and as at the date of this Report, the Board of Directors was made up of nine members, comprising the Chairman, Meetings between the Non-Executive Directors, both with and without four Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
James the presence of the Group Chief Executive, are scheduled in the Crosby stepped down as a Non-Executive Director on 9 April 2013.
Board meetings are also held at Group On 20 June 2013 it was announced that, following Sir Roy Gardners business locations to help all Board members to gain a deeper retirement after the Annual General Meeting AGM on 6 February understanding of the business.
This also provides senior managers 2014, Paul Walsh will join the Board as a Non-Executive Director on from across the Group with the opportunity to present to the Board 1 January 2014 and succeed Sir Roy as Chairman at the conclusion as well as to meet the Directors on more informal occasions.
Succession planning is a matter for the whole Board, rather than for a All of the Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be committee.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that one third independent of management and free of any relationship which could of the Directors retire by rotation each year and that each Director will materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
seek re-election at the AGM every three years.
however, in accordance The Board considers that each of the Non-Executive Directors brings with the Code, all Directors submit themselves for annual re-election by their own senior level of experience, gained in each of their own fields, Shareholders.
New Directors may be appointed by the Board, but are mainly in international operations.
subject to election by Shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment as is the case with Paul Walsh who will seek election at the Biographical details of the Directors currently in office are shown AGM on 6 February 2014.
The Articles of Association limit the number on pages 8 and 9.
The Companys policy relating to the terms of Directors to not less than two and not more than 20 save where of appointment and the remuneration of both Executive and NonShareholders decide otherwise.
Non-Executive Directors are normally Executive Directors is detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report appointed for an initial term of three years which is reviewed and may be which is on pages 55 to 70.
Corporate governance Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance 47 extended for a further three years.
It is Board policy that Non-Executive having conducted its evaluation, it is the view of the Board that each Director appointments should last for no more than nine years.
of the Non-Executive Directors brings considerable management expertise and an independent perspective to the Boards deliberations A formal, comprehensive and tailored induction is given to all Nonand they are considered to be independent of management and free Executive Directors following their appointment, including visits to key from any relationship or circumstance that could affect, or appear to locations within the Group and meetings with members of the Executive affect, the exercise of their independent judgement.
Overall the Board Board and other key senior executives.
The induction also covers a considered the performance of each Director to be effective and review of the Groups governance policies, structures and business, concluded that both the Board and its committees continue to provide including details of the risks and operating issues facing the Group.
effective leadership and exert the required levels of governance and Sir Ian Robinson is the Companys Senior Independent Director having control.
The Board will continue to review its procedures, succeeded James Crosby in this role from 10 April 2013. his role effectiveness and development in the year ahead.
includes providing a sounding board for the Chairman and acting as Conflicts of interest an intermediary for the Non-Executive Directors, where necessary.
As part of their ongoing development, the Executive Directors may The Board believes that Sir Ian continues to have the appropriate seek one external non-executive role on a non-competitor board, for experience, knowledge and independence to continue in this role.
which they may retain the remuneration in respect of the appointment.
The Chairman ensures that the Board maintains an appropriate dialogue In order to avoid any conflict of interest, all appointments are subject to with Shareholders.
Although the Non-Executive Directors are not formally the Boards approval and the Board monitors the extent of Directors required to meet the Shareholders of the Company, their attendance other interests to ensure that its effectiveness is not compromised.
at presentations of the interim and annual results is encouraged.
Each Director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 CA 2006 Board effectiveness to avoid a situation in which he or she has or can have a direct or A performance evaluation of the Board and of its committees is carried indirect interest that conflicts or possibly may conflict with the interests out annually to ensure that they continue to be effective and that each of the Company.
This duty is in addition to the obligation that he or of the Directors demonstrates commitment to his or her respective role she owes to the Company to disclose to the Board any transaction or and has sufficient time to meet his or her commitment to the Company.
arrangement under consideration by the Company.
The Companys Articles of Association authorise the Directors to approve such This year, in compliance with the Code, the performance evaluation situations and to include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest was conducted by external facilitators Alison Crowther-Smith to be dealt with.
The Board follows an established procedure when and David Mensley of EquityCommunications Limited.
Neither deciding whether to authorise an actual or potential conflict of interest.
Ms Crowther-Smith nor Mr Mensley has any connection to the Only independent Directors i. e. those who have no interest in the Company and they are completely independent.
matter under consideration will be able to take the relevant decision, The performance evaluation process was undertaken in the late and in taking the decision the Directors must act in good faith and spring of 2013. having agreed an itinerary of matters for discussion, in a way they consider will be most likely to promote the Companys EquityCommunications Limited undertook a series of one-on-one success.
Furthermore, the Directors may, if appropriate, impose limits interviews with the Chairman, each member of the Board and the or conditions when granting authorisation.
General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Each interview lasted at Any authorities are reviewed at least every 15 months.
The Board least an hour and covered an agenda which included questions about considered and authorised each Directors reported actual and Board administration, strategy and operations, Board composition, potential conflicts of interest at its July 2013 Board meeting.
succession planning and the Board committee structure.
Interviewees were also encouraged to raise any other matters they felt relevant to Committees of the Board a Board evaluation process.
A report on the outcome of the evaluation The Board has established a number of committees to assist in exercise was prepared by EquityCommunications Limited and was the discharge of its duties and the formal Terms of Reference for the principal committees, approved by the Board and complying presented to the Board at its July 2013 meeting.
with the Code, are available from the General Counsel and Company In particular, EquityCommunications Limited commented on the Secretary and can also be found on the Companys website at efficacy of Board administration, some changes to the focus on Group www.
Their Terms of Reference are reviewed strategy, the recruitment of a further Non-Executive Director and the annually and updated where necessary.
Membership and details visibility afforded by having all Non-Executive Directors serve on all of the principal committees are shown on pages 48 and 49.
The report was positive about the performance The General Counsel and Company Secretary acts as Secretary of both the Board and its main committees, highlighting strengths such to all Board committees.
as controls, governance, a focus on strategy and risk identification and mitigation.
As a result of the recommendations made in the report, the Meetings attendance Board has agreed to enhance its approach to strategy planning and to The following table shows the attendance of Directors at meetings continue to focus on succession planning, both at Board level and in of the Board, Audit, Corporate Responsibility CR, Nomination and key businesses in the Group.
Remuneration Committees during the year ended 30 September 2013: Audit CR Nomination Remuneration Name Board Committee Committee Committee Committee John Bason 8 of 8 3 of 3 3 of 3 2 of 2 4 of 4 Dominic Blakemore 8 of 8 3 of 3 Richard Cousins 8 of 8 3 of 3 2 of 2 1 James Crosby 4 of 4 1 of 1 1 of 1 1 of 1 1 of 1 Sir Roy Gardner 8 of 8 2 of 3 2 of 2 Gary Green 8 of 8 Andrew Martin 8 of 8 Susan Murray 8 of 8 3 of 3 3 of 3 2 of 2 4 of 4 Don Robert 8 of 8 3 of 3 3 of 3 2 of 2 4 of 4 Sir Ian Robinson 8 of 8 3 of 3 3 of 3 2 of 2 4 of 4 1 James Crosby stepped down from the Board on 9 April 2013.
