Corporate governance Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance 57 Remuneration policy below the median for each element of remuneration at par target Remuneration policy and components performance levels.
The Committee also considers general pay The Committee reviews the Companys remuneration philosophy and and employment conditions of all employees within the Group structure each year to ensure that the remuneration framework remains and is sensitive to these, to prevailing market and economic effective in supporting the Companys strategic objectives, is in line conditions and to governance trends when assessing the level of with best practice and fairly rewards individuals for the contribution salaries and remuneration packages of Executive Directors and that they make to the business, having regard to the size and other members of the Executive Board.
No consultation in respect complexity of the Groups operations and the need to motivate and of remuneration took place with employees during the year, as the attract employees of the highest calibre.
Shareholders are regularly Group has employees in around 50 different jurisdictions rendering consulted on the Remuneration Policy and in respect of prospective such a consultation impracticable.
however, there were no increases changes.
Extensive engagement was carried out during the financial to base salary for the Executive Directors and other members of the year ended 30 September 2013 in relation to the amendment Executive Board save for a promotional increase for one member of the LTIP performance targets.
The views of the Groups top of the Executive Board during the year ended 30 September 2013.
20 Shareholders were sought together with those of the Association of British Insurers ABI, Institutional Shareholder Services and the The total remuneration package links corporate and individual performance with an appropriate balance between short and long National Association of Pension Funds.
The collective views of these bodies were taken into account, specifically in respect of the weightings term elements, and fixed and variable components.
The Policy is designed to incentivise Executives to meet the Companys key of each of the targets, as part of the Committees determination of the revised performance targets, which were approved at the AGM held objectives, such that a significant portion of total remuneration is performance related, based on a mixture of internal targets linked on 7 February 2013. to the Companys key business drivers which can be measured, The policy on remuneration of Directors the Policy is set out on pages understood and accepted by both Executives and Shareholders 57 to 64.
A separate Resolution will be put to Shareholders at the AGM and appropriate external comparator groups.
to approve the Policy which, if approved, will take effect from the date The Committee considers that the targets set for the different of the AGM on 6 February 2014 and will apply until Shareholders next consider and vote on the Policy.
components of performance related remuneration are both appropriate and sufficiently demanding in the context of the The Committee intends that the base salary and total remuneration of business environment and the challenges with which the Group Executive Directors should be in line with the market.
Remuneration is is faced as well as complying with the provisions of the Code.
benchmarked against rewards available for equivalent roles in a suitable comparator group with the aim of paying neither significantly above nor Component parts of the remuneration package The key components of Executive Directors remuneration for the period from 6 February 2014 to 30 September 2014 and beyond the Policy Period, as well as for the year ended 30 September 2013, are summarised below: Component Reason Mechanics Base Salary The provision of a Base salaries are reviewed annually, appropriately benchmarked and reflect the role, job size and competitive core responsibility as well as the performance and effectiveness of the individual.
package of base The Group Chief Executives base salary is reviewed annually by the Committee with any salary and other increase taking effect on 1 July of each year.
Other Executive Directors base salaries are subject benefits enables the to an annual review with any increases taking effect on 1 January of each year.
Company to attract Pay awards for Senior Executives take account of prevailing market and economic conditions, and retain skilled, governance trends and the approach to employee pay throughout the organisation.
For example, high calibre in the year ended 30 September 2013, there were limited or no increases in the average UK-wide executives to pay review, outside of those set by collective bargaining arrangements, and none of the deliver its strategy.
Executive Directors received an increase in base salary.
The annual review of base pay reflecting such benchmarks and roles will determine the maximum amount that would be paid in base pay during the Policy Period.
Any significant increase, such as where an Executive Director is relatively new in a role, there are changes in responsibilities or significant variances to the market exist, will be appropriately explained.
The annual base salaries of the Executive Directors for the year ended 30 September 2013 were: Director Base Salary Effective Date Increase Dominic Blakemore 480,000 1 January 2013 Nil Richard Cousins 965,500 1 July 2013 Nil Gary Green US$1,170,080 1 January 2013 Nil Andrew Martin 650,000 1 January 2013 Nil Benefits Benefits are offered These comprise healthcare insurance for Executive Directors and their dependents, limited to Executive Directors financial advice, life assurance and car benefit.
The cost of the benefits provided changes in as part of a competitive accordance with market conditions and will, therefore, determine the maximum amount that remuneration package.
would be paid in the form of benefits during the Policy Period.
