Corporate governance Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance 49 the clarity of disclosures and compliance with financial reporting Audit Committee standards and relevant financial and governance reporting Objectives requirements The Audit Committees key objectives are the provision of effective discussing the critical accounting policies and use of governance over the appropriateness of the Groups financial reporting, assumptions and estimates, as noted in section B of the including the adequacy of related disclosures, the performance of both accounting policies on page 81, and concluding that the the internal and external audit function, and the management of the estimates, judgements and assumptions used were reasonable Groups systems of internal control, business risks and related based on the information available and had been used compliance activities.
The Audit Committees Terms of Reference appropriately in applying the Companys accounting policies can be found at www.
the material areas in which significant judgements have been Composition applied The Audit Committee comprises all of the Non-Executive Directors in the consideration of any goodwill impairment assessments office at the date of this Report.
Members of the Audit Committee are and how these were addressed.
The judgement largely relates appointed by the Board following recommendations by the Nomination to the assumptions underlying the calculation of the value in use Committee and the Audit Committees membership is reviewed by the of the cash generating units CGUs being tested for impairment, Nomination Committee and as part of the annual Board performance primarily the achievement of the three year business plan for the evaluation.
James Crosby was a member of the Audit Committee until CGUs and the macroeconomic assumptions such as discount 9 April 2013. rates underpinning the valuation process.
The Committee receives reports from management outlining the basis for the Each member of the Audit Committee brings relevant senior level assumptions used.
Business plans are approved by the Board.
The expertise and experience of the members In addition, the external Auditor provides detailed written of the Audit Committee are summarised on pages 8 and 9.
The Board reporting to the Audit Committee in this area.
During the year considers that each member of the Audit Committee is independent the Committee reviewed the impairment assessment of the within the definition set out in the Code.
The Audit Committees UK business carried out by management and concluded that Chairman, John Bason, is considered by the Board to have significant, an impairment charge of 377 million should be booked recent and relevant financial experience as Finance Director of the level of provisioning for contingent and other liabilities Associated British Foods plc.
including tax where management, accounting and legal All members of the Audit Committee receive an appropriate induction, judgements are important.
The Committee discusses with which includes an overview of the business, its financial dynamics and management the key judgements made, including relevant legal risks.
Audit Committee members are expected to have an understanding advice.
The external Auditor also reports on all material provisions of the principles of, and recent developments in, financial reporting, to the Committee including the applicable accounting standards and statements of the Groups internal audit function and approval of the internal audit recommended practice, key aspects of the Companys policies, plan and risk controls financing, internal control mechanisms, and matters that require the the scope and effectiveness of the external audit process and use of judgement in the presentation of accounts and key figures as timing of any audit tender well as the role of internal and external auditors.
Members of the Audit the retendering process for the external Auditor referred to on page 50 Committee undertake ongoing training as required.
the objectivity, terms and fees of the external Auditor the policy on non-audit services provided by the external Auditor Audit Committee meetings litigation and contingent liabilities The Audit Committee meets regularly throughout the year and its the operation of the Groups Speak Up whistleblowing policy agenda is linked to events in the Companys financial calendar.
Each tax matters, including provisioning for potential current tax liabilities member of the Audit Committee may require reports on matters of and the level of deferred tax asset recognition as well as interest in addition to the regular items.
The Audit Committee met three compliance with statutory tax reporting obligations times during the year and Members attendance at the meetings is set out in the table on page 47.
External audit The Audit Committee invites Sir Roy Gardner Chairman, Richard The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, Cousins Group Chief Executive, Dominic Blakemore Group Finance implementation and monitoring of the Companys policy on external Director, Sarah Sergeant head of Financial Reporting and Control audit.
The Audit Committee reserves oversight responsibility for and Trevor Gelnar Director of Group Internal Audit, together with senior monitoring the Auditors independence, objectivity and compliance representatives of the external Auditor, to attend each meeting although, with ethical, professional and regulatory requirements.
The Audit from time to time, it reserves time for discussions without invitees being Committee recommends the appointment, reappointment and present.
Other senior management are invited to present such reports removal of the Companys external Auditor, and considers the risks as are required for the Audit Committee to discharge its duties.
associated with its withdrawal from the market in its risk evaluation and planning.
The Audit Committee also reviews the terms, areas The Chairman of the Audit Committee attends the AGM to respond to of responsibility and scope of the audit as set out in the external any Shareholder questions that might be raised on its activities.
The Auditors engagement letter: the overall work plan for the forthcoming remuneration of the members of the Audit Committee and the policy year, together with the associated fee proposal and cost effectiveness with regard to the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors are set of the audit: any major issues which arise during the course of the out on pages 64 and 69. audit and their resolution: key accounting and audit judgements: the Activities during the year level of errors identified during the audit: the recommendations made During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed and evaluated: to management by the Auditor and managements response: and the Auditors overall performance.
The Audit Committee also ensures that the appropriateness of the interim and annual financial statements key partners within the external Auditor are rotated from time to time in including the announcements thereof to the London Stock accordance with applicable UK rules.
The Audit Committee monitors Exchange with both management and the external Auditor, including the extent of non-audit work which the external Auditor can perform, at the Boards request, whether the Annual Report and Accounts, to ensure that the provision of those non-audit services that can be taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and undertaken by the external Auditor falls within the agreed policy and provides the information necessary for Shareholders to assess does not impair their objectivity or independence.
In this respect the the Companys performance, business model and strategy Audit Committee has agreed that, unless there is no other competent
