4 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Strategic report O ur sectors Our sectorised approach is a key differentiator.
In recognition that each sector has specific requirements, we assign specialists to drive tailor made solutions and operating efficiency.
For consumers, this means quicker access to sector focused best Business Education practices and market & Industry We provide a choice of quality, nutritious From kindergarten to college, we provide leading innovations and well balanced food for employees fun, nutritious dining solutions that help during their working day.
In addition, where support academic achievement at that are delivered clients seek broader service offerings, the the highest levels.
Our simple set of Compass Service Framework enables us commitments Eat, Learn, Live helps by our teams, from to deliver a range of support services to the us to educate young people about how highest standard, at the best value, on an to have a happy, safe and healthy lifestyle award winning international scale.
while contributing to a sustainable world.
chefs to service practice experts.
Major sector brands Major sector brands 41 % 16% Group revenue Group revenue 2012: 42% 2012: 16% Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Strategic report 5 O ur sectors Healthcare Sports Defence, Offshore & Seniors & Leisure & Remote We are specialists in helping hospitals in Operating at some of the worlds most Through our established health and the public and private sectors on their prestigious sporting and leisure venues, safety culture, we are a market leader journey of managing efficiency and exhibition centres, visitor attractions and in providing food and support services enhancing quality across a range of major events, we have an enviable to major companies in the oil and gas services.
With a significant presence in reputation for providing outstanding and mining and construction industries, the growing senior living market, we also hospitality and true service excellence.
operating in some of the most demanding provide services to residential homes and environments in the world.
For our defence home meal delivery services.
sector clients, we are a partner who meets the challenges of running efficient operations outside areas of conflict.
Major sector brands Major sector brands Major sector brands 20 % 10% 13% Group revenue Group revenue Group revenue 2012: 19% 2012: 10% 2012: 13%
