10 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Strategic report Market perspective Our view The growth potential in the outsourced food and support services markets is a key driver.
Our global reach, local and sector knowledge and world class service capability allow us to help clients achieve greater efficiency whilst ensuring the highest quality of service.
Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Strategic report 11 Our view 400bn 50% Combined size of addressable food and Proportion of food service market support services markets currently outsourced Outsourcing penetration rates for addressable food and support services markets Food service Support services 1 Outsourced 1 Outsourced 2 Self operated 2 Self operated 1 2 1 2 Compass provides outsourced food and support services.
The In the Fast Growing & Emerging region, the strong economic growth estimated size of the food service market is around 200 billion and and the resultant emergence of a new middle class offer exciting currently less than 50% is outsourced.
The support services market is opportunities for Compass to grow as both local and international much larger and equally under penetrated.
Both are highly fragmented organisations look to established partners to meet their food and markets offering significant growth opportunities.
For example, support service needs.
We estimate that the total food service market international companies like us are believed to comprise less than in this region is just under 60 billion and less than 30% is outsourced.
20% of the total food service market and much less in the support An exciting opportunity, but one we will approach in a measured way.
We are therefore investing in management and processes to support sustainable and disciplined growth.
As an international business with high standards of health and safety and service excellence, we are winning more and more business with We see opportunities for growth across all the sectors in which we organisations that are choosing to take advantage of the quality and operate, most significantly in Healthcare & Seniors and Education, cost benefits we can bring to them, whilst allowing them to fully focus which have a combined global market value of about 95 billion.
on running their own operations.
The majority of our new business is The relatively low outsourced penetration rates in these sectors are derived from first time outsourcing and small, regional players, with only particularly attractive and we believe that, as economic conditions a small proportion coming from other large competitors.
With over 80% continue to put pressure on the public and private sectors, the benefits of the food service market either self operated or outsourced to these of outsourcing will become ever more apparent.
Our largest sector, small, regional service providers, this is an attractive feature of our Business & Industry, is the most outsourced but continues to grow business and the potential for growth is significant.
and provides excellent potential globally.
Numbers relating to market size and penetration rates are based on management estimates and a range of external data.
