14 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Strategic report Our strategy Our formula for delivery Disciplined growth Operating efficiencies Sustainable shareholder value Our core focus is on delivering sustainable shareholder value Focus Growing from the provision of food service on food support and to the growing outsourced market.
In addition to this, we continue to multi services build a strong capability in support Food is our core business and from where Support and multi services where we and multi services.
Our principal we derive three quarters of our annual provide food and a range of support aim is to grow organically and with revenue.
From kindergarten to university, services are also an important part of discipline.
We supplement this at your workplace, helping you celebrate our business.
Our strategy differs by special occasions and sporting triumphs country and by sector where attitudes growth with small infill acquisitions as well as looking after you when youre ill, to support services vary significantly.
We where they deliver new expertise Compass is there to provide high quality, are therefore increasing our capabilities or help to build scale in our nutritious and well balanced meals to in an incremental and low risk way on a meet your needs.
Our teams of award country by country basis.
winning chefs, nutritional and health of multi services is most developed in and safety experts allow our clients to the Defence, Offshore & Remote sector focus on their own business needs by where we have provided these services outsourcing this responsibility to us, for nearly 20 years.
We also see exciting and our size and experience allow us opportunities in Healthcare & Seniors, to help them save money.
The structural Business & Industry and Education.
opportunity in the outsourced market Our focus is on soft support services is a key growth driver see page 10. such as cleaning, reception and some building maintenance.
MAP 1: Client sales and marketing MAP 2: Consumer sales and marketing How we We are investing more and more in our sales teams, driving innovation and quality through We continuously strive for innovation in our consumer offers and invest in training to drive service excellence.
A significant contributor process and training.
Even in countries where we have faced economic challenges, such to like for like volume, a key constituent of organic growth, is the number of people at a clients site.
This reflects macro economic drive organic as in Europe, we have achieved strong new business growth.
Our Strategic Alliance Group, conditions and, in particular, employment levels.
Whilst we have no influence on the macro economy, we work hard to attract and which focuses on retaining existing clients, is being rolled out across the Group and is gaining satisfy our customer base with strong consumer propositions, intelligent marketing, retail skills and attractive pricing.
MAP 1 is fundamental to our business and we have an exciting pipeline of opportunities ahead.
MAP 3: Cost of food MAP 4: In unit costs MAP 5: Above unit overheads How we Food makes up around one third of our costs.
In addition to the benefits of our purchasing In unit costs are made up predominantly of labour.
We focus on Having reduced costs considerably when MAP was first scale, we are able to manage the cost of food by careful menu management and through getting the right people in the right place at the right time.
By using introduced by creating a simpler organisational model with fewer deliver rationalising the number of products we buy and the suppliers we buy from.
This has helped labour scheduling techniques and improving productivity, we are layers of management and less bureaucracy, we now strive to us to mitigate some food price inflation.
able to deliver the right level of service in the most efficient way.
leverage those gains by maintaining costs at a constant level whilst efficiencies still growing revenue.
1 % performance Organic revenue growth Underlying operating margin indicators 2012: 5.4% 2012: 6.9%
