C o m p e t i t e i v t P e a r a v e d p v o a h a n n t r t w n a e o g I r e g e u n e 12 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Strategic report Business model Our formula for growth Everyone in Compass is committed to consistently delivering superior service in the most efficient way, for the shared benefit of our customers, shareholders and employees.
Our people v e r c i n a O e g p r e d S O r i a o t v i u n o g r r e c f P fi e c i e n c i e s Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Strategic report 13 Our formula for growth 4.3% 7.1% 12.7% Organic revenue growth Underlying operating margin Dividend per share growth 2012: 5.4% 2012: 6.9% 2012: 10.4% Our virtuous circle Organic revenue growth Operating efficiencies Our core focus is on organic growth.
We have a strong sales As we grow, we can take advantage of our scale in processes such culture across the Group and we work hard to satisfy and retain as procurement and in operational synergies.
The relentless focus on our customers.
Our geographic spread and the dynamic markets efficiencies that our Management and Performance MAP framework we operate in mean there are plenty of opportunities to continue drives enables us to deliver margin improvement as well as to reinvest in to grow organically.
our business and in the exciting opportunities across our three regions.
Find out more on page 16 Find out more on page 19 Competitive advantage Our people This, in turn, improves competitiveness, helping us to achieve our Our people are at the heart of delivering excellent service to our goal of being the lowest cost, most efficient provider of quality food customers and achieving our objectives.
We want the best people, and support services: which brings us back to the beginning of the who share our values, to join Compass, develop themselves and their circle, helping us to drive further organic growth see our KPIs on careers with us and contribute to and share in our success.
Find out more on page 26 Find out more on page 29 See Our CR commitments and progress on pages 22 to 25 How we deliver Innovate Source Innovation is integral to our business.
We are constantly striving We source from a range of local, national and international growers to improve what we do, from more efficient and sustainable ways and distributors.
The people we buy from undergo a robust quality of sourcing to maintaining and enhancing best practice standards.
assurance process to ensure that the ingredients we use are of the This gives our clients and consumers greater choice and the highest highest quality.
We can trace our products through each stage of the level of service.
supply chain, giving us detailed information on their provenance.
Prepare Provide Health and safety is our number one operational priority and we are Millions of people around the world rely on us every day to provide their committed to the highest standards of food hygiene and safe working breakfasts, lunches and dinners, as well as keeping their environments practices.
When food arrives at one of our more than 50,000 locations, clean and secure.
Our delivery model in both food and support services it is prepared by our highly trained and qualified employees.
is based on self performance, meaning that wherever possible, it is our people looking after our clients people.
