Corporate governance Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance 57 Remuneration policy below the median for each element of remuneration at par target Remuneration policy and components performance levels.
The Committee also considers general pay The Committee reviews the Companys remuneration philosophy and and employment conditions of all employees within the Group structure each year to ensure that the remuneration framework remains and is sensitive to these, to prevailing market and economic effective in supporting the Companys strategic objectives, is in line conditions and to governance trends when assessing the level of with best practice and fairly rewards individuals for the contribution salaries and remuneration packages of Executive Directors and that they make to the business, having regard to the size and other members of the Executive Board.
No consultation in respect complexity of the Groups operations and the need to motivate and of remuneration took place with employees during the year, as the attract employees of the highest calibre.
Shareholders are regularly Group has employees in around 50 different jurisdictions rendering consulted on the Remuneration Policy and in respect of prospective such a consultation impracticable.
however, there were no increases changes.
Extensive engagement was carried out during the financial to base salary for the Executive Directors and other members of the year ended 30 September 2013 in relation to the amendment Executive Board save for a promotional increase for one member of the LTIP performance targets.
The views of the Groups top of the Executive Board during the year ended 30 September 2013.
20 Shareholders were sought together with those of the Association of British Insurers ABI, Institutional Shareholder Services and the The total remuneration package links corporate and individual performance with an appropriate balance between short and long National Association of Pension Funds.
The collective views of these bodies were taken into account, specifically in respect of the weightings term elements, and fixed and variable components.
The Policy is designed to incentivise Executives to meet the Companys key of each of the targets, as part of the Committees determination of the revised performance targets, which were approved at the AGM held objectives, such that a significant portion of total remuneration is performance related, based on a mixture of internal targets linked on 7 February 2013. to the Companys key business drivers which can be measured, The policy on remuneration of Directors the Policy is set out on pages understood and accepted by both Executives and Shareholders 57 to 64.
A separate Resolution will be put to Shareholders at the AGM and appropriate external comparator groups.
to approve the Policy which, if approved, will take effect from the date The Committee considers that the targets set for the different of the AGM on 6 February 2014 and will apply until Shareholders next consider and vote on the Policy.
components of performance related remuneration are both appropriate and sufficiently demanding in the context of the The Committee intends that the base salary and total remuneration of business environment and the challenges with which the Group Executive Directors should be in line with the market.
Remuneration is is faced as well as complying with the provisions of the Code.
benchmarked against rewards available for equivalent roles in a suitable comparator group with the aim of paying neither significantly above nor Component parts of the remuneration package The key components of Executive Directors remuneration for the period from 6 February 2014 to 30 September 2014 and beyond the Policy Period, as well as for the year ended 30 September 2013, are summarised below: Component Reason Mechanics Base Salary The provision of a Base salaries are reviewed annually, appropriately benchmarked and reflect the role, job size and competitive core responsibility as well as the performance and effectiveness of the individual.
package of base The Group Chief Executives base salary is reviewed annually by the Committee with any salary and other increase taking effect on 1 July of each year.
Other Executive Directors base salaries are subject benefits enables the to an annual review with any increases taking effect on 1 January of each year.
Company to attract Pay awards for Senior Executives take account of prevailing market and economic conditions, and retain skilled, governance trends and the approach to employee pay throughout the organisation.
For example, high calibre in the year ended 30 September 2013, there were limited or no increases in the average UK-wide executives to pay review, outside of those set by collective bargaining arrangements, and none of the deliver its strategy.
Executive Directors received an increase in base salary.
The annual review of base pay reflecting such benchmarks and roles will determine the maximum amount that would be paid in base pay during the Policy Period.
Any significant increase, such as where an Executive Director is relatively new in a role, there are changes in responsibilities or significant variances to the market exist, will be appropriately explained.
The annual base salaries of the Executive Directors for the year ended 30 September 2013 were: Director Base Salary Effective Date Increase Dominic Blakemore 480,000 1 January 2013 Nil Richard Cousins 965,500 1 July 2013 Nil Gary Green US$1,170,080 1 January 2013 Nil Andrew Martin 650,000 1 January 2013 Nil Benefits Benefits are offered These comprise healthcare insurance for Executive Directors and their dependents, limited to Executive Directors financial advice, life assurance and car benefit.
The cost of the benefits provided changes in as part of a competitive accordance with market conditions and will, therefore, determine the maximum amount that remuneration package.
would be paid in the form of benefits during the Policy Period.
58 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance Directors Remuneration Report Component Reason Mechanics Annual The annual bonus The target or par award for the Policy Period is intended to remain the same as for the year ended Bonus rewards superior 30 September 2013, being 75% of base salary, with a further maximum of 75% of base salary performance.
It is available for enhanced performance.
earned by the As was the case for the year ended 30 September 2013, the Committee agreed that, for the year achievement of one ending 30 September 2014 and beyond, the bonus measures be comprised of: Underlying Profit year performance Before Interest and Tax PBIT : Organic Revenue Growth ORG : Adjusted Free Cash Flow Adjusted targets set by the FCF or 12 Month Average Working Capital Balance MAWC : and health, Safety and Environment Committee at the Improvement hSE.
start of each financial The 15% Personal Target element of the bonus, which applied for the year ended 30 September year and is delivered 2012, was replaced by the hSE target for the year ended 30 September 2013, which represented in cash.
5% of the total bonus opportunity.
The remaining 95% of the total bonus opportunity for the The annual bonus is year ended 30 September 2013 related to financial performance.
The hSE target is set as an the primary form of improvement percentage over a one year period, equally weighted across lost time injury rates short term cash and food safety incident rates.
Each target must be achieved in full to receive that element of bonus.
based incentive hSE for the Companys North American business is measured through PBIT.
This structure, and which is intended to specifically the measure and targets relating to PBIT, is used for the wider Leadership Team across be part of the Policy the Group.
for the Policy Period, The bonus measures and percentages applying to each financial measure vary, depending upon a as was the case for Directors area of responsibility, and are shown in the table below.
The PBIT and ORG targets are the year ended 30 subject to adjustments for acquisitions and disposals, and bonus measures dependent on Adjusted September 2013.
FCF are subject to the caveat that Adjusted FCF should not be affected by Board approved capital expenditure or other special or irregular timing differences.
A supplementary financial underpin also applies such that the amount payable pursuant to the achievement of the non-PBIT measures may not exceed the on-target payment unless the threshold Group PBIT measure has been achieved.
PBIT and ORG are two of our Key Performance Indicators and have a direct impact on Shareholder value.
The use of Adjusted FCF and MAWC more closely aligns remuneration metrics with the Groups trading results and Adjusted FCF is a key measure of performance in reported results, including the ability to pay dividends.
In setting the actual level of targets each year, the Committee has regard to investors expectations, budgets and longer term business plans.
In the case of intended fraud or misconduct by a participant which contributes to an error in financial information, the Company will be entitled to claw back the value of any amount paid under the annual bonus.
The Committee is satisfied that the performance targets continue to be sufficiently stretching and promote the Companys business strategy and Shareholder value.
Details of the specific targets applying to each element of the bonus for the year ended 30 September 2013 and achieved performance are shown in the Annual Remuneration Report on page 66 and form part of the Policy.
The Committee has set the targets for the annual bonus plan for the year ended 30 September 2014 but has chosen not to disclose the details in this Report as it is the opinion of the Committee that it may be seriously prejudicial to the interests of the Company to do so, and our major competitors do not disclose their targets or projected forecasts.
however, the specific targets and the extent to which the targets have been met will be disclosed in next years Report.
The annual bonus elements for Executive Directors for the year ending 30 September 2014 are: Dominic Richard Gary Andrew Measure Blakemore Cousins Green Martin 1 1 2 2 PBIT 55% 55% 60% 55% Adjusted FCF 15% 15% 3 3 MAWC 15% 15% 4 4 5 5 ORG 25% 25% 25% 25% hSE 5% 5% 5% Total 100% 100% 100% 100% 1 PBIT on a Group-wide basis.
2 P BIT split between Group PBIT and PBIT for region of responsibility Mr Green: 5% Group 55% Regional: Mr Martin: 5% Group 50% Regional.
3 MAWC for region of responsibility.
5 ORG for region of responsibility.
Corporate governance Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance 59 Component Reason Mechanics Long Term The LTIP aligns Under the LTIP, Executive Directors and Senior Executives may receive a conditional Award of Incentive the interests of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company which may vest after a single three year performance Plan LTIP Executive Directors period, based on the achievement of stretching performance conditions.
and Shareholders Awards of up to 200% of base salary are made by reference to the share price at the date of Award.
through building Awards may be settled in shares or cash, if required for example, because of securities laws, a long term subject to the discretion of the Committee, determined at any time up to their release.
At the AGM on 7 February 2013, following extensive consultation, Shareholders approved the amendment to the LTIP performance targets set out in last years Report and Awards made The generation of since that date under the LTIP have been based on Adjusted FCF, improvement in Return on cash is fundamental Capital Employed ROCE and Total Shareholder Return TSR, each measure applying to one to the ongoing third of an Award.
success of the Group and the use of Adjusted FCF is measured over a single three year performance period commencing on 1 October Adjusted FCF as an in the first year of the performance period and includes capital expenditure, net interest and tax LTIP performance spend but excludes discontinued activities, acquisition spend, disposal proceeds, dividends and measure directly unusual or irregular timing differences.
ROCE improvement aims to measure the underlying aligns to this.
In economic performance of the Company and is measured over the same three year performance parallel, ROCE period.
ROCE is calculated using the underlying operating profit, net of tax at the underlying rate supports the strategic for the year, and after profit relating to non-controlling interests.
The capital employed figure focus on growth and excludes the post-employment benefit asset liability, net of deferred tax, impaired goodwill, margins through amortised intangibles arising on acquisitions and the net assets relating to non-controlling interests.
ensuring that cash The precise Adjusted FCF and ROCE improvement targets for each Award are linked to the is reinvested to Groups wider business targets and are set by the Committee at the time of award based on Group generate appropriate projections and market expectations.
Details of the targets for the years ended 30 September 2013 returns.
The third and ending 30 September 2014 are shown on page 67 and a similar approach is intended to be performance taken in respect of subsequent years and will be reported in next years Annual Report.
measure of TSR provides direct vesting under that element of each Award based on Adjusted FCF and ROCE will be on a alignment between straight-line basis on achievement of threshold and maximum performance, with 50% vesting the interests of on achievement of on-target performance.
If performance does not reach the threshold level, Executive Directors vesting for that element of an Award will be nil.
TSR is measured over the same period relative to the companies comprising the TSR comparator The LTIP is the group at the start of the period the constituent members of the FTSE 100, excluding financial primary form of equity services participants.
TSR is the aggregate of share price growth and dividends paid assuming based incentive reinvestment of those dividends in the Companys shares during the three year performance period which is intended to and an averaging period of three months is used.
be part of the Policy The element of an Award based on TSR will vest in full for top quartile performance achievement for the Policy Period, and 25% of that element of the Award will vest if performance is at the median.
Awards will vest on as was the case for a straight-line basis between median and top quartile performance achievement.
No shares will be the year ended released for this element of an Award if the Companys TSR performance is below the median.
For Awards made prior to 7 February 2013, 50% of any Award was based on Adjusted FCF over the three year performance period and 50% on the Companys TSR over the same period relative to the companies comprising the TSR comparator group at the start of the period.
60 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance Directors Remuneration Report Component Reason Mechanics Long Term Calculations of the achievement of the targets are independently performed and are approved Incentive by the Committee.
At the end of the performance period, in order to ensure continued alignment Plan LTIP between Executive Directors and Shareholders interests, in determining final vesting under the continued LTIP, the Committee reviews the underlying financial performance of the Group and retains its discretion to adjust vesting if it considers that performance is unsatisfactory.
If a participant retires during the period up to vesting, any unvested LTIP Award will continue until the normal vesting date and will be satisfied, subject to achievement of the performance conditions.
If a participant ceases to be an employee for any other reason other than death, unvested Awards will normally lapse unless the Committee determines otherwise in its absolute discretion, in which case it can permit Awards to continue and be satisfied, subject to the achievement of the performance conditions.
In both these circumstances, any shares vesting will be prorated based on the period of service unless otherwise determined by the Committee.
The Committees policy with regard to the exercise of discretion is set out on pages 63 and 64.
In the event of a change of control, any unvested Awards will vest immediately, subject to satisfaction of performance conditions and reduction on a time apportioned basis.
Similar treatment applies in the event of the death of a participant.
In the case of intended fraud or misconduct by a participant which contributes to an error in financial information that materially affects the Companys share value, the Company will be entitled to claw back the value of any shares released or the payment of cash equivalents under the LTIP.
Benefits under the LTIP are not pensionable.
Details of all extant LTIPs held by Executive Directors are shown on page 68 of the Report.
Pension Rewards sustained Incoming Executive Directors are invited to participate in the Companys money purchase pension or Cash contribution and arrangement or to take a fixed salary supplement calculated as a percentage of base salary, which Allowance encourages retention.
is excluded from any bonus calculation, in lieu of pension entitlement.
The Groups policy is not to offer defined benefit arrangements to new employees at any level save where required by applicable legislation.
At 30 September 2013 there were no Executive Directors actively participating in any Compass Group defined benefit pension arrangements and none of the Executive Directors was accruing additional entitlement to benefit under any arrangements that existed prior to their appointment as Executive Directors.
Dominic Blakemore, Richard Cousins and Gary Green each receive a salary supplement equal to 35% of their base salaries in lieu of pension.
As reported in 2006, Andrew Martin has, since 6 April 2006, received a salary supplement equal to 35% of his base salary and has waived all rights to his final salary pension, money purchase pension and unfunded unapproved pension relating to his employment prior to that date.
The Executive Directors Remuneration Policy differs from that of other members of the Executive Board solely in respect of quantum of the various components and remuneration.
Members of the wider management team receive each of the components of remuneration awarded to the Executive Directors save that the equity element is awarded pursuant to a share option scheme in the year ended 30 September 2013 rather than under the LTIP, although the LTIP is intended to be used for Awards made to the management team for the year ending 30 September 2014 and beyond.
The wider employee population of the Group will receive remuneration that is considered to be appropriate in relation to their geographic location, level of responsibility and performance.
