Corporate governance Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2013 Corporate governance 63 Approach to recruitment remuneration Provision Detailed terms The Committee will apply the same remuneration policy during the Termination Payment in lieu of notice equal to: Policy Period as that which applies to existing Executive Directors Payment 12 months base salary when considering the recruitment of a new Executive Director in Pension supplement respect of all elements of remuneration, that is: salary, benefits, pension 10% of base salary in respect and short term and long term incentives.
Whilst it is envisaged that the of benefits maximum level of variable remuneration which may be granted would be within plan rules and identical to the maximum opportunity for All of the above would be paid in monthly existing Executive Directors of 150% and 200% of base salary in instalments, subject to an obligation on respect of the bonus and LTIP opportunity per annum respectively, in the part of the Director to mitigate his loss unusual circumstances, an arrangement may be established specifically such that payments will either reduce, or to facilitate recruitment of a particular individual, albeit that any such cease completely, in the event that the arrangement would be made within the context of minimising the cost Director gains new employment to the Company.
The policy for the recruitment of Executive Directors remuneration during the Policy Period includes the opportunity to provide a level Restrictive During employment and for 12 months of compensation for forfeiture of bonus entitlements and or unvested Covenants after leaving long term incentive awards from an existing employer, if any, and the additional provision of benefits in kind, pensions and other allowances, The historic policy on the payment of bonus on termination, which such as relocation, education and tax equalisation, as may be required was in place prior to June 2008, was the provision of a payment, in order to achieve a successful recruitment.
at par or target, of bonus in respect of the notice period, where the The policy on the recruitment of new Non-Executive Directors during Company exercised its right to make a payment in lieu of notice.
the Policy Period would be to apply the same remuneration elements Messrs Cousins, Green and Martins service contracts are based as for the existing Non-Executive Directors.
It is not intended that on this historic policy.
After careful consideration, the Committee variable pay, day rates or benefits in kind be offered, although in concluded that it would not be in Shareholders interests to migrate exceptional circumstances such remuneration may be required such contracts onto the policy in place since June 2008.
Dominic in currently unforeseen circumstances.
Blakemores service contract fully complies with the policy in effect from June 2008.
All Executive Directors service contracts impose a The Committee will include in future Annual Reports details of the clear obligation to mitigate such payment should departing Executive implementation of the Policy as utilised during the Policy Period in Directors take on new employment or receive alternative respect of any such recruitment to the Board.
Executive Directors service agreements The Committee believes the obligation to mitigate adequately addresses the issue.
It is the Companys policy that Executive Directors have rolling service contracts.
All of the Executive Directors service contracts were entered into The current Executive Directors service contracts contain the key terms before 27 June 2012 and have not been modified or renewed on or after that date.
As such, remuneration payments or payments for loss shown in the table below: of office that are required to be made under them are not required to Service contract key terms by provision be but are consistent with the Policy.
Provision Detailed terms Details of the rights of leavers under the LTIP are shown on page 60.
Whilst unvested Awards will normally lapse, the Committee may in its Remuneration Base salary, pension and benefits absolute discretion allow for Awards to continue until the normal Company car or cash allowance vesting date and be satisfied, subject to achievement of the attendant Private health insurance for Director and performance conditions.
In such circumstances, Awards vesting will dependents normally be prorated on a time apportioned basis, unless the Life assurance Committee determines otherwise.
Financial planning advice 25 days paid annual leave Participation in annual bonus plan, subject to plan rules Participation in LTIP, subject to plan rules Change of Control No special contractual provisions apply in the event of a change of control Notice Period 12 months notice from the Company 6 months notice from the Director 12 months from Richard Cousins
