Our strategy Delivering against the plan 2012, we have nonetheless been pleased with our performance.
2. and the first half of 2013, we curtailed our To lead with and grow our To improve our Services business marketing activities and restricted Services business productivity and enhance our bidding efforts to those opportunities which we perceived to have an attractive our competitiveness risk profile.
However, following the success we have seen with new contracts onboarded in 2013 by our German business in accordance with our Group Operating Model, we have now started to increase our efforts to win new business again.
The Services offering of our French business is not as mature as that in the UK or Germany, but in 2013 we have How we managed to secure the largest Services deliver value for contract ever entered into by the Group, for a customer with its head office located our stakeholders in France.
The bidding process for this contract was carried out in accordance with our Group governance procedures, and we will use our Group subsidiaries and our global partners to deliver the relevant Services to the customer.
We have continued to invest in the footprint and capability offered by our Services business, opening new Services Desks in Hungary and Malaysia, and increasing our capacity in Berlin, Milton 3.
To retain and maximise the To innovate our Services Our remote management capability of our relationship with our customers offerings to build future customers assets has been enhanced with over the long term growth opportunities increased capacity and advanced tooling.
What we intend to do in 2014 We believe that we are seeing the early signs of recovery within the macroeconomies of our two principal operating countries, the UK and Germany.
Whilst it 1 remains to be seen whether this can be sustained, with our Group Operating Model To lead with and grow our now firmly embedded within both Services business businesses, we are in a position to capitalise on any IT Services investment growth within our target markets.
In France, What we achieved in 2013 the most important task is on-boarding In 2013, we saw a 6.3 per cent Services the large contract won in 2013, not least revenue growth across the Group on an because it provides us with a referencing as reported basis, and 3.7 per cent opportunity, which will be key to the Services revenue growth in constant generation of new customers as we currency.
Our two lead indicators in this transition our French business to be more area are our Contractual Services base Services-focused in the medium term.
growth and our project pipeline.
In respect Whilst this will be no easy task given the of the former, the UK business continues current market positioning of our French to grow well in excess of overall market subsidiary, it is a task that Group Executive growth, in part due to our ability to win Management is wholly committed to second generation or third generation completing.
As part of this transition, we outsourcing contracts.
Whilst the rate of are planning to offer another major Service Contractual Services growth in 2013 has Desk location this year to enhance our not matched the levels seen in 2011 and IT Services French language capability.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and 06 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Strategic priorities Business model Group Operating Model Risk KPIs 2 3 4 To improve our Services To retain and maximise the To innovate our Services productivity and enhance relationship with our customers offerings to build future our competitiveness over the long term growth opportunities What we achieved in 2013 What we achieved in 2013 What we achieved in 2013 As a result of our three-year UK Computacenter remains focused on large In 2013, we carried out a comprehensive industrialisation programme, we were able and medium-sized enterprise and corporate review of our strategy.
This included a to bring and develop our productivity model customers headquartered in Western Europe, review of our current Services offerings and measures across our scale-shared supporting their needs in their local markets, and how our capabilities will need to Services engines.
This resulted not only in and globally, where appropriate.
The key to develop in order to meet the future needs a constant and hugely successful Service our development as a business is being of our customers.
This also included delivery into our customers, but also a able to attract these customers through our analysis of how these will be impacted series of competitive price points which best-in-class Services capabilities, and then by new technologies and in particular underpinned our Services renewals and delivering a portfolio of Services and Solutions developments in social media, mobility, wins during the year.
We recognise that whilst it is vital to analytics and cloud.
We believe that these generate new Services business, it is just as areas, amongst others, present incremental We believe that 2013 has seen a significant important to us to ensure that we maintain growth opportunities for Computacenter.
improvement in our processes for bidding our existing relationships to reduce our Our customers, the IT departments of and on-boarding our Services business average cost expended to generate Services enterprise and corporate organisations within our German subsidiary, following the engagements, which is lower when through across Western Europe, are under implementation of our Group Operating repeat business.
Nowhere has our increasing pressure from their IT user Model early in the year.
We have been commitment to deliver on the promises communities to enhance and consumerise pleased with the results we have seen that we make to our customers been more their experience, and we will continue to so far in respect of those contracts evident than in 2013 within our German develop our offerings to ensure that we on-boarded in Germany in accordance Managed Services business.
On our three remain relevant to, and can respond with the model during the year.
onerous contracts we have prioritised our appropriately to, the needs of these relationship with the customer and the delivery departments that arise as a result.
of customer satisfaction, both of which are key What we intend to do in 2014 to the sustainability of our business model, The same measures and models that What we intend to do in 2014 over the short-term profitability of the business.
have been used successfully within our UK Broadly speaking, our priorities during business will be applied within our German Our achievement of this objective, or otherwise, 2014 will be three-fold.
Firstly, to enhance and French operating subsidiaries.
This will can be measured in a number of different our Service desk experience, enabling our be facilitated by the continuing refinement ways.
However, the simple metric that the customers to self-serve and automate their of the use of our Group Operating Model Group uses is the number of customers where request and support environment.
We will in Germany and the introduction of the the Group generates more than 1 million also attempt to enable and enhance the model to our French business early in of contribution from across our portfolio.
mobile experience of IT users within 2014.
The presence and input of our The retention by our UK business of its our customers.
Finally, we will extend senior management team, along with number one ranking within KPMGs UK our offerings into additional Western the implementation of our revised bidding Outsourcing Service Provider Performance European countries.
process, should drive and increase our win and Satisfaction Survey was an important ratios in each country, whilst ensuring that achievement within the context of this strategic we are fully capable of delivering the Service objective.
The uncompromising approach of that we agree to provide to our customers.
our UK business to the achievement of customer satisfaction was also evidenced by its joint top ranking within a study, carried out by the Whitelane Research Group, measuring the performance of 24 outsourcing providers in the UK and 700 UK IT outsourcing contracts worth 15 billion in total.
What we intend to do in 2014 Whilst it is always our ambition to retain our clients over the long term, we recognise that the spending patterns of our customers can go up and down on projects that they deploy within their organisations.
Our target in 2014 is to increase the number of customers that are found within our target markets where contribution is greater than 1 million, by adding both new clients, as well as increasing the range of Services and Solutions that we sell to our existing customers.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and 07 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Financial statements Governance Strategic report
