Directors report Computacenter plc is incorporated as a public limited company and is registered in England with the registered number 3110569.
Computacenter plcs registered office address is Hatfield Avenue, Hatfield, Hertfordshire, AL10 9TW.
The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements of Computacenter plc and its subsidiary companies the Group for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Strategic Report The Companies Act 2006 requires the Group to prepare a Strategic report, which commences at the start of this Annual Report and Accounts up to page 37.
The Strategic report includes information about the Groups operations and business model, financial performance throughout the year and likely developments, key performance indicators, principal risks and information regarding the Groups sustainable development plan.
Computacenter plc mandatory greenhouse gas emissions reporting Computacenter plc mandatory How this was calculated Our action to reduce carbon greenhouse gas GHG emissions in the UK emissions reporting We have used the main requirements of the GHG Protocol Corporate Installation of 4 Voltage Optimisation Global GHG emissions data for period: Accounting and Reporting Standard Units saving 7-10 per cent of electricity 1 January to 31 December 2013 revised edition.
Emissions 28,239 metric tonnes Emission factors used are from the UK 4.5m of renewable electricity has been of CO e 2 Governments Conversion Factors purchased for the UK sufficient for two Scope 1: supplied by the Department of years usage over the period 2013-2014.
Environment, Food and Rural Affairs.
Combustion of fuel and operation: Installation of eight new efficient gas 3,290 tonnes This activity has been conducted as heating systems across the UK.
part of our UK Environment Scope 2: Management System registered to ISO 250,000 of investment in new 14001:2004 EMS 71255. technology helping to reduce emissions Electricity, heat, steam and cooling produced by our datacenters.
purchased for own use: 24,949 tonnes Group properties included in this report The volume of electricity required for are all current locations in the UK, our datacenters is 45 per cent of the Total footprint: 28,239 tonnes Germany, France, Belgium, Spain, total required for the UK.
They host South Africa, Luxembourg, Switzerland, customers Information Technology Companys chosen intensity Malaysia and Hungary.
in the form of servers, thus reducing measurement: their carbon footprint.
However, this We have reported on all of the emission increases the level of emissions that Total footprint equals 9.19 tonnes of sources required under the Companies Computacenter produces.
emissions per m value of Group Act 2006 Strategic Report and revenue Directors Reports Regulations 2013.
Investment was made in the replacement of nine new gas boiler Total footprint equals 2.22 tonnes of Limitations to data collection systems, located at Hatfield and emissions per Group employee the London office, in order to Less than 5 per cent of emissions were increase efficiency.
estimated or based on an average usage per square foot.
Scope 1 2 3 This data is available for the UK, and is reported annually in our Carbon Discloser Project reports.
Energy Efficiency Scheme CRC The UK continues to fully comply with this scheme, and is registered as a participant in it.
ISO 14001:2004 The EMS of the UK has been registered to this standard since 2002.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and 46 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Corporate governance in the Notice of AGM, as is the brief Curriculum Vitae of each Under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2, the Company is Director, which collectively illustrate the skills and experience required to include a Corporate Governance report within the that the Directors bring to the Board.
At the 2014 AGM, Directors report.
Information on our corporate governance Ms Stachelhaus will offer herself for election to the Board for practices can be found in the Corporate Governance report the first time following her appointment in July 2013. on pages 40 to 45, and the reports of the Audit, Remuneration The Companys Articles of Association provide for a Board of and Nomination Committees on pages 51 to 70, which are Directors consisting of not fewer than three, but not more than incorporated into the Directors report by reference.
20 Directors, who manage the business and affairs of the Management Report Company.
The Directors may appoint additional or replacement This Directors report, together with the other reports, forms Directors, who shall serve until the following AGM of the the Management Report for the purposes of Disclosure and Company, at which point they will be required to stand for Transparency Rule 4.1.
A Director may be removed from office at a general meeting of the Company, by the passing of Results and dividends an Ordinary Resolution provided special notice has been given The Groups activities resulted in a profit before tax of in accordance with the UK Companies Act 2006.
The Group profit for the year, attributable to shareholders, amounted to 33.2 million Members have previously approved a resolution to give the 2012: 49.1 million.
The Directors recommend a final Directors authority to allot shares, and a renewal of this authority dividend of 12.3 pence per share totalling 16.7 million is proposed at the 2014 AGM.
This authority allows the 2012: 15.8 million.
Dividends are recognised in the accounts Directors to allot shares up to the maximum amount stated in in the year in which they are paid, or in the case of a final the Notice of AGM approximately one-third of the issued share dividend, when approved by the shareholders.
As such, the capital and this authority would generally expire at the following amount recognised in the 2013 accounts, as described in note AGM.
In addition, the Company may not allot shares for cash 12, is made up of last years final dividend 10.5 pence per unless pursuant to an employee share scheme without first share and the interim dividend 5.2 pence per share.
making an offer to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
This is known as rights of pre-emption.
A The final ordinary dividend for 2013, if approved at the resolution to allow a limited waiver of these rights was passed forthcoming AGM, will be paid on Friday 20 June 2014.
The by the members at last years AGM.
It is proposed at the dividend record date is set on Friday 23 May 2014 and the forthcoming AGM that a similar waiver should be granted, shares will be marked ex-dividend on Wednesday 21 May which will represent approximately five per cent of the issued 2014.
The Company paid an interim dividend of 7.0 million share capital.
Full details of the proposed waiver are in the in October 2013.
The current waiver expires at the conclusion Articles of Association of the 2014 AGM.
The Companys Articles of Association set out the Directors indemnities procedures for governing the Company.
A copy of the Articles The Company has executed deeds of indemnity with each of Association, which were amended once during the year of the Directors.
These deeds contain qualifying third party in order to facilitate the return of approximately 75 million indemnity provisions, indemnify the Directors to the extent to shareholders, is available on the Companys website permitted by law and remain in force at the date of this report.
The indemnities are uncapped and cover all costs, charges, Directors and Directors authority losses and liabilities the Directors may incur to third parties, The Directors who served throughout the year ended 31 in the course of acting as Directors of the Company or its December 2013 were Tony Conophy, Philip Hulme, Greg Lock, subsidiaries.
Brian McBride, Mike Norris, John Ormerod and Peter Ogden.
Directors conflicts of interests Additionally, Regine Stachelhaus was appointed to the Board The Board has put in place a process whereby the Directors as a Non-Executive Director in July 2013, and Ian Lewis stepped are required to notify the Company Secretary of any situations down from his position as a Non-Executive Director in September appointments, holdings or otherwise, or any changes to such, 2013.
Biographical details of each director, as at the date of this which may give rise to an actual or potential conflict of interest report, are given on pages 38 and 39.
The Companys Articles of with the Company.
These notifications are then reviewed by the Association require at each AGM that those Directors who were Board and recorded in a register maintained by the Company appointed since the last AGM retire, as well as one-third of the Secretary and, if appropriate, are considered further by the Directors who have been the longest serving.
The Board has Directors who are not conflicted in the matter, to if deemed decided, in accordance with the Code, that all Directors, with the appropriate authorise the situation.
The register of notifications exception of Regine Stachelhaus, will retire at each forthcoming and authorisations is reviewed by the Board twice a year.
AGM and offer themselves for re-election.
The Nomination Where the Board has approved an actual or potential conflict, it Committee has considered the re-election of each Director and has imposed the condition that the conflicted Director abstains recommends their re-election.
Further details on the Committees from participating in any discussion or decision affected by the recommendations for the re-election of the Directors are set out conflicted matter.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and 47 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Financial statements Governance Strategic report Directors Report continued Directors interests in shares The interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Company at the beginning and end of the year are set out below: As at 1 January 2013 or - after taking account of Return As at 31 December 2013 date of appointment of Value share consolidation Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of ordinary shares ordinary shares ordinary shares ordinary shares ordinary shares ordinary shares Beneficial Non-Beneficial Beneficial Non-Beneficial Beneficial Non-Beneficial Executive Directors Mike Norris 1,288,939 1,385,658 46,497 Tony Conophy 2,025,177 2,194,659 55,538 Non-Executive Directors Greg Lock 400,000 25,885 430,000 50,984 13,000 -20,000 Philip Hulme 13,846,593 9,891,526 17,051,770 9,073,921 -1,600,000 1,600,000 Brian McBride Peter Ogden 31,802,071 881,249 35,335,636 979,166 John Ormerod 22,500 25,000 Regine Stachelhaus Between 31 December 2013 and 10 March 2014, there have been no changes to the interests detailed above.
Save as disclosed in this report and the Remuneration Committee report, no Director has any interest beneficial or non-beneficial in any share or loan capital of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Major interests in shares As at 12 February 2014, the Company was aware of the following major interests in its shares: % of issued share Name of Major Shareholder capital held Peter Ogden 22.88 Philip Hulme 9.96 Standard Life Investments Ltd 6.72 Schroder Investment Management Ltd 5.54 Investec Asset Management Ltd 5.40 The Hadley Trust of which Philip Hulme, Non-Executive Director of the Company, is a trustee 4.64 Artemis Investment Management Ltd 4.37 Capital structure As at 28 February 2014, there were 138,965,137 fully paid ordinary shares in issue, all of which have full voting rights and there were no restrictions on the transfer of these shares.
Additionally, there were 153,931,830 deferred shares in issue.
Pursuant to the Companys share schemes, there are two employee trusts which, as at the year-end, held a total of 3,107,098 ordinary shares of 6 pence each, representing approximately 2.2 per cent of the issued share capital.
During the year, the trusts purchased a total of 338,000 shares in order to ensure that the maturities occurring pursuant to these share option schemes could be satisfied.
In the event that shares are held by these trusts before being transferred to employee participants pursuant to the schemes then, in line with good practice, the Trustees do not exercise the voting rights attaching to such shares.
In the event that another entity or individual takes control of the Company, the employee share schemes operated by the Company have change of control provisions contained within them that would be triggered.
Participants may, in certain circumstances, be allowed to exchange their options for options of an equivalent value over shares in the acquiring company.
Alternatively, the options may vest early, in which case, early vesting under the executive schemes will generally be on a time-apportioned basis and under the Sharesave scheme, employees will only be able to exercise their options to the extent that their accumulated savings allow at that time.
The Company was granted authority at the 2013 AGM, to make market purchases of up to 15,393,182 ordinary shares of 6 pence each.
This authority will expire at the 2014 AGM, where approval from shareholders will be sought to renew the authority.
During the period no shares were purchased for cancellation.
Significant agreements and relationships Details regarding the status of the various borrowing facilities used by the Group are provided in the Finance Directors review on pages 28 to 33.
These agreements each include a change of control provision, which may result in the facility being withdrawn or amended upon a change of control of the Group.
It is also not extraordinary within our business sector for our longer term Services contracts to contain change of control clauses that allow a counterparty to terminate the relevant contract in the event of a change of control of the Company.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and 48 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Financial instruments which take account of the Groups overall commitment The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies are and also address local regulatory requirements.
discussed in the Finance Directors review on pages 28 to 33.
Gender split across the Group Employee share schemes Male Female The Company operates executive share option schemes Percentage of persons who are and a performance-related option scheme for the benefit of senior managers of the Group 84.9% 15.1% employees.
During the year, no options were granted under Percentage of employees in the Group 78.4% 21.6% the executive share option schemes.
Employee involvement and development At the year-end, the options remaining outstanding under these The Group is committed to involving all employees in significant schemes were in respect of a total of 592,000 ordinary shares business issues, especially matters which affect their work and of 6 pence each 2012: 1,033,000 shares.
During the year working environment.
A variety of methods are used to engage options over 441,000 shares were exercised and options over with employees, including team briefings, intranet, email and nil shares lapsed.
The Company also operates a Performance in-house publications.
The Group will use one or more of Share Plan PSP to incentivise employees.
During the these channels to brief employees on the Groups performance year, 1,049,579 ordinary shares of 6 pence each were and the financial and economic factors affecting the Groups conditionally awarded 2012: 1,179,689 shares.
In particular, the Group operates a Save As awards over 3,066,742 shares remained outstanding under this You Earn SAYE share scheme, which is open to eligible scheme 2012: 3,207,545 shares.
During the year, awards over employees, where employees are encouraged to save a fixed 571,821 shares were transferred to participants and awards over monthly sum for a period of either three or five years.
In addition, the Company operates maturity of the scheme at the end of the relevant saving period, a Sharesave scheme for the benefit of employees.
At the participants can purchase shares in the Company at a price year-end, 3,292,614 options granted under the Sharesave set at the commencement of the saving period.
The primary scheme remained outstanding 2012: 2,971,058. method used to engage and consult with employees is through Corporate Sustainable Development team briefings, where managers are tasked with ensuring that The Board recognises that acting in a socially responsible information sharing, discussion and feedback happen on a way benefits the community, our customers, shareholders, regular basis.
the environment and employees alike.
Further information can The development of employee skills and careers, as well as the be found in the report on pages 34 to 37 and covers matters communication of Company goals, are driven by our e-FACE regarding health and safety, the environment, equal opportunities, tool.
Annual assessments via our e-FACE tool are a formal employee involvement, employee development and charitable requirement of all managers.
During the year, the Group did not make any political donations to any political party or organisation and it did not incur Employee consultative forums exist in each country to consult any political expenditure within the meaning of Sections 362 to staff on major issues affecting employment and matters of policy, 379 of the Companies Act 2006. and to enable management to seek the views and opinions of employees on a wide range of business matters.
Should there Equal opportunities be cross-jurisdictional issues to discuss, a facility exists to The Group acknowledges the importance of equality and engage a European forum made up of representatives from each diversity and is committed to equal opportunities throughout the country forum.
The Group regularly reviews the performance of workplace.
The Groups policies for recruitment, training, career its employees through a formal review process, in order to development and promotion of employees, are based purely identify areas for development.
Managers are responsible for on the suitability of the employee and give those who may be setting and reviewing personal objectives, aligned to corporate disabled equal treatment to their able bodied colleagues.
The Board closely oversees and monitors an employee becomes disabled, subsequent to joining the management skills and the development of talent to meet the Group, all efforts are made to enable that employee to continue current and future needs of the Group.
The Board directly in their current job.
However if, due to the specific circumstances, monitors and reviews closely, succession and plans for it is not possible for an employee to continue in their current job, developing identified key senior managers.
they will be given suitable training for alternative employment within the Group or elsewhere.
Business ethics An ethics policy is operated by the Group, which commits The Group monitors and regularly reviews its policies Computacenter employees to the highest standards of ethical and practices to ensure that it meets current legislative behaviour in respect of customers, suppliers, colleagues and requirements, as well as its own internal standards.
The Group other stakeholders in the business.
The policy includes a is committed to making full use of the talents and resources requirement for all employees to report abuses or nonof all its employees and to provide a healthy environment conformance with the policy Whistle blowing and sets that encourages productive and mutually respectful working out the procedures to be followed.
The Group has additionally relationships within the organisation.
Policies dealing with adopted a Code of Ethics specifically aimed at the prevention equal opportunities are in place in all parts of the Group, of bribery.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and 49 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Financial statements Governance Strategic report Directors Report continued Going concern Auditor Computacenters business activities, business model, its Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in strategic goals and its performance are set out within the office as auditor and a resolution approving the reappointment Strategic report on pages 2 to 37.
The financial position of the of Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditor will be Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
are set out within the Finance Directors review on pages 28 Pages 1 to 71, inclusive, of this Annual Report comprise the to 33.
In addition, notes 26 and 27 to the financial statements Directors report that has been drawn up and presented in include Computacenters objectives, policies and processes for accordance with English company law, and the liabilities of the managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, Directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the details of its financial instruments and its exposures to credit limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Computacenters balance sheet strength, its long-term contracts with customers and suppliers, as well as the different geographies within which it operates, provide the Directors with confidence that Computacenter is well placed to manage its business risks even during a prolonged period of economic uncertainty.
Mike Norris The Directors have, after due consideration and investigation, a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources Chief Executive to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
Tony Conophy Finance Director 10 March 2014 Computacenter plc Annual Report and 50 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013
