Board of Directors Greg Lock Mike Norris Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive and Chairman of the Committee Nomination Committee Membership: Committee None Membership: Board Member N, R Attendance: Board Member 9 9 Attendance: 9 9 Greg is the Chairman of Kofax plc and a Non-Executive Mike Norris graduated with a degree in Computer Science and Director of United Business Media.
He has more than 38 years Mathematics from East Anglia University in 1983.
He joined experience in the software and computer services industry, Computacenter in 1984 as a salesman in the City office.
In including four years as Chairman of SurfControl plc and from 1986, he was Computacenters top account manager.
Following 1998 to 2000, as General Manager of IBMs Global Industrial appointments as Regional Manager for London Operations in sector.
Greg also served as a member of IBMs Worldwide 1988 and General Manager of the Systems Division in 1992 Management Council and as a governor of the IBM Academy with full sales and marketing responsibilities, he became Chief of Technology.
Executive in December 1994, with responsibility for all day-to-day activities and reporting channels across Computacenter.
Mike also led the Company through flotation on the London Stock Exchange in 1998.
Mike was awarded an Honorary Doctorate of Science from Hertfordshire University in 2010.
Tony Conophy Peter Ogden Finance Director Non-Executive Director Committee Committee Membership: Membership: None None Board Member Board Member Attendance: Attendance: 9 9 7 9 Tony has been a member of the Institute of Chartered Peter founded Computacenter with Philip Hulme in 1981 and Management Accountants since 1982.
He qualified with was Chairman of the Company until 1998, when he became a Semperit Ireland Ltd and then worked for five years at Non-Executive Director.
He is Chairman of Dealogic Holdings Cape Industries plc.
He joined Computacenter in 1987 as plc and prior to founding Computacenter, he was a Managing Financial Controller, rising in 1991 to General Manager of Director of Morgan Stanley and Co. Age 66.
In 1996, he was appointed Finance and Commercial Director of Computacenter UK Limited with responsibility for all financial, purchasing and vendor relations activities.
In March 1998 he was appointed Group Finance Director.
Key: A Audit Committee N Nomination Committee R Remuneration Committee Computacenter plc Annual Report and 38 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Philip Hulme John Ormerod Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director and Audit Committee Committee Chairman Membership: None Committee Membership: Board Member A, N, R Attendance: 8 9 Board Member Attendance: 9 9 Philip founded Computacenter with Peter Ogden in 1981 and John is a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit worked for the Company on a full-time basis until stepping Committee of Gemalto NV, a Non-Executive Director and down as Executive Chairman in 2001.
He is a Director of Chairman of the Audit Committee of ITV plc and Chairman of Dealogic Holdings plc and was previously a Vice President Tribal Group plc.
John is a chartered accountant and has held and Director of the Boston Consulting Group.
Age 65. senior positions with Arthur Andersen and with Deloitte.
His former non-executive board appointments include Transport for London and Misys plc.
Brian McBride Regine Stachelhaus Non-Executive Director, Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director and Chairman Committee of the Remuneration Membership: Committee A, R Committee Board Member Membership: A, N, R Attendance: 3 4 Board Member Attendance: 9 9 Brian is the Chairman of ASOS plc and Non-Executive Director Regine Stachelhaus has been a Member of the Board of on the Board of the BBC.
He is a member of the Advisory Management at E. ON, based in Germany, where she had Board of Huawei UK, as well as a member of the UK a broad range of operational responsibilities including for Governments Digital Advisory Board, established in April 2012 Legal & Compliance, Group Procurement, Group Human to help steer the digital delivery of Government services to Resources and IT.
Brian is also a member of the Court From 2009 2010, Regine was Executive Secretary for the Governing Body of the University of Glasgow, Senior German Committee of UNICEF.
From 1984 2008, she worked Adviser at Scottish Equity Partners and a Non-Executive for Hewlett Packard in Germany across a wide number of Director of AO World plc.
management roles, including Head of Legal and Sales Director of Brian is the former Managing Director of Amazon.
He its Consumer Business Organisation.
From 2000 2008, Regine began his career with Xerox and subsequently worked in senior was a Geschftsfhrer of Hewlett Packard GmbH, Hewlett roles at IBM, Crosfield Electronics Ltd, Madge Networks, Dell Packards German subsidiary.
She originally qualified as a lawyer Computers and as Managing Director of T-Mobile UK.
Age 58. specialising in employment law and software licensing.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and 39 Enabling IT Users Accounts 2013 Financial statements Governance Strategic report
