76 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT REMUNERATION POLICY The key aim of the Remuneration Policy is to align the interests of Executive Directors with those of the shareholders by supporting the delivery of strategy.
The structure of the remuneration framework is designed to reect the strategic direction of the business and to align it with the Companys KPIs.
In setting the Remuneration Policy, the Committee takes into consideration, amongst other matters, investor guidelines and the maximum amount of remuneration the Executive Directors could receive should all targets be met.
The Executive Directors remuneration is set within a remuneration framework which applies to all employees across the Group.
Each of the key elements of the remuneration package isdesigned to drive the creation of long-term shareholder value, without encouraging Executive Directors to take inappropriate risk.
Each year, with the support of external advisors, the Committee undertakes a review of the remuneration of the Executive Directors.
It has oversight of the remuneration of the Senior Leadership Team, who are the senior managers immediately below Board level.
It considers the responsibilities, experience and performance of the Executive Directors and pay across the Group.
Subject to approval by shareholders at the 2014 AGM, this policy will be effective from 30 April 2014.
CHART 1: REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE: EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ELEMENT STRATEGIC PURPOSE OPERATION MAXIMUM POTENTIAL VALUE PERFORMANCE METRICS Salary To attract and motivate The Committee reviews Executive The maximum annual salary Not applicable.
high calibre leaders in a Directors base salaries each year in increase will not normally exceed competitive market and the context of total remuneration, the average increase which applies to recognise their skills, taking into account the Directors across the wider workforce.
experience and contribution to responsibilities, experience and However, larger increases may be Group performance.
performance, pay across the Group awarded in certain circumstances and market competitiveness.
including, but not limited to: t an increase in scope or responsibilities of the role: t salary progression for a newly appointed Director: and t where the Directors salary has fallen signicantly below the market positioning.
Pension To provide a market competitive Retirement benets are available The Chief Executive receives a cash None.
to all UK employees and allowance of 30% of salary in lieu employees in certain Continental of pension.
European jurisdictions dependent The Finance Director receives a on local market practice and cash allowance of 20% of salary in geographical differences.
The Chief Investment officer and the Chief Operating officer are both members of the dened benefit section of the SEGRO Pension Scheme.
Bonus To focus on the delivery of Bonuses are awarded annually The maximum Bonus opportunity The Bonus Scheme is based on annual goals, to strive for and paid for performance over the for the Chief Executive is 150% three, equally weighted elements superior performance and to financial year.
of salary and for other Executive which the Committee may review achieve specic targets which Directors is 120% of salary.
from time-to-time, to ensure The Bonus is reviewed each financial support strategy, in particular that they continue to reect the year to ensure performance measures for income generation, Companys strategic priorities: and targets are appropriate and total property returns and support the business strategy.
t EPRA PBT against budget recurring profit.
which supports the objective Payment is based on the achievement of delivering a sustainable, of performance targets.
progressive dividend: The Committee retains discretion to reduce the amount of the Bonus t relative TPR against an IPD award in the light of underlying Benchmark which is the best and performance during the year.
most important internal driver of TSR: and t like-for-like rent roll growth which focusses on driving the future rental income and EPRA PBT of the business.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | www.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FURTHER INFORMATION 77 ELEMENT STRATEGIC PURPOSE OPERATION MAXIMUM POTENTIAL VALUE PERFORMANCE METRICS Deferred To encourage retention of 50% of any Bonus awarded in the year For Executive Directors, 50% of for Vesting of shares is dependent on Share senior managers and provide is deferred into shares in the DSBP for the Bonus earned in respect of the continued employment or good Bonus Plan a long-term link between the three years before vesting.
The rules of the DSBP Bonus and share price growth DSBP contain claw-back provisions The award does not carry any so as to encourage long-term in the event of misstatement entitlement to dividends, however decision making.
the Committee may, at the time of the release of the shares, pay a cash sum equivalent to the value of the dividends that would have been paid over the three-year holding period.
Long Term To reward the execution of For LTIP awards granted after 2011 The normal LTIP grant for LTIP awards made after 2011 are Incentive strategy and drive long-term dividends will accrue on the LTIP Executive Directors is 200% of subject to stretching TSR and Plan LTIP returns for shareholders.
shares which are released on vesting salary in performance shares.
TPR performance conditions, The awards are designed to and will be paid in cash or shares.
which are equally weighted align the most senior managers and measured over a four-year The Committee has discretion to adjust goals with the creation performance period.
awards downwards at vesting if it is of sustainable growth in not satisfied that the outcome is a fair shareholder value.
The awards reection of underlying performance, will also increase retention of or in the event of excessive risk-taking these senior managers.
Sharesave To provide a market competitive Sharesave is a HMRC approved Employees may save up to None.
remuneration package and to scheme open to all UK employees.
the HMRC limit across all encourage employee share Savings can be made over a threeSharesave grants.
year period to purchase shares in the Company at a price which is set at the beginning of the saving period.
This price is usually set at a 20% discount to the market price.
Share To provide a market competitive SIP is a HMRC approved scheme open The maximum award is subject to Award is based on achievement of Incentive remuneration package and to to all UK employees, subject to service.
prior year profit before tax against Plan SIP encourage employee share Eligible employees are awarded shares budget and is subject to a threeand Global ownership across the Group.
annually up to the HMRC limits.
Share GSIP is designed on a similar basis to Incentive SIP, but is not HMRC approved and is Plan GSIP operated for non-UK employees.
Other To provide a market competitive Other benets currently include: None.
t car allowance: t life assurance: t disability insurance: t private medical insurance: and t health screening.
The Committee retains the discretion to offer additional benets as appropriate, for example, assistance with relocation.
ADDITIONAL NOTES Remuneration Policy: the policy for the Executive Directors is designed with regard to the policy for employees across the Group.
All employees are eligible for an annual Bonus on the same performance measures which are consistent with those of the Executive Directors save that those below Board level have a fourth target based on their individual performance score.
The maximum Bonus opportunity is xed according to seniority banding across the Company.
The LTIP performance conditions are the same for all participants and the size of awards are determined by seniority.
Subject to consultation with major shareholders, the Committee retains the ability to adjust and or to set different LTIP and Bonus performance measures if events occur such as a change in strategy, a material acquisition and or divestment of a Group business, or change in prevailing market conditions which cause the Committee to determine that the measures are no longer appropriate and that amendment is required so thatthey achieve their original purpose.
Payments from existing awards: Executive Directors are eligible to receive payment from any award made prior to the approval and implementation of the Remuneration Policy.
78 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT CHART 2: REMUNERATION POLICY TABLE: CHAIRMAN AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ELEMENT STRATEGIC PURPOSE OPERATION MAXIMUM POTENTIAL VALUE PERFORMANCE METRICS Fees To attract high-calibre NonFees are reviewed on an annual basis Any increases in the fees of the Executive Directors and provide taking into account relevant market Chairman or the Non-Executive market appropriate fees.
Additional fees are payable to Directors will be based upon reect the time commitments of the changes in roles and responsibilities Senior Independent Director and also and market data.
the Chairmen of the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
The fee paid to the Chairman is set by the Committee while the fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors are set by the Board.
No Director is involved in setting their own remuneration.
Non-Executive Directors do not participate in any performance related remuneration and they do not receive any benets.
POLICY ON SERVICE CONTRACTS Executive Directors The contracts are on a 12-month rolling basis and do not contain liquidated damages clauses.
Non-Executive Directors The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment which set out their duties and anticipated time commitment to the Company.
They are required to disclose to the Board any changes to their other significant commitments.
The Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years.
The appointments may be extended for further three-year periods on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee and subject to the Boards agreement.
The Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment contain a three-month noticeperiod and the Chairmans contains a six-month notice period.
Further details are set out in Chart 3.
CHART 3: DATES OF APPOINTMENT AND CONTRACTURAL NOTICE PERIOD NAME DATE OF APPOINTMENT NOTICE PERIOD Nigel Rich 1 July 2006 6 months 1 David Sleath 1 January 2006 12 months by the Company 6 months by the Director Andy Gulliford 1 May 2013 12 months by the Company 6 months by the Director Justin Read 30 August 2011 12 months by the Company 6 months by the Director Phil Redding 1 May 2013 12 months by the Company 6 months by the Director Christopher Fisher 1 October 2012 3 months Margaret Ford 1 January 2013 3 months Mark Robertshaw 1 June 2010 3 months Doug Webb 1 May 2010 3 months Thom Wernink 23 May 2005 3 months 1 Appointed as Chief Executive on 28 April 2011.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FURTHER INFORMATION 79 POLICY ON RECRUITMENT In determining appropriate remuneration for a new Executive Director, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of both the Company and its shareholders.
The Committee may make an award in respect of a new appointment to buy out incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so, the Committee will take account of relevant factors, including any performance conditions attached to these awards, the likelihood of those conditions being met, and the proportion of the vesting period remaining, and will seek to do no more than match the fair value of awards foregone.
In limited circumstances where employees are awarded benets for which Executive Directors are not eligible, such as share retention awards, the Committee would consider honouring existing awards should these employees be appointed to the Board.
CHART 4: RECRUITMENT POLICY COMPONENT APPROACH MAXIMUM OPPORTUNITY Base salary The base salaries of new appointees will be determined taking into account the experience and skills of the individual, pay across the Group, relevant market dataand their previous salary Bonus The structure set out in the Remuneration Policy table will apply to new appointee with 150% for the Chief Executive and 120% of salary for the relevant maximum being pro-rated for their first year of employment ExecutiveDirectors DSBP The structure set out in the Remuneration Policy table will apply to new appointees 50% of the bonus awarded will be deferred LTIP New appointees will be eligible for awards under the LTIP on the same terms 200% of salary 300% in exceptional circumstances asthe other Executive Directors Pension New appointees will be offered membership of the SEGRO plc Group PersonalPension Plan or a cash alternative unless already a member of the SEGRO Pension Scheme POLICY ON TERMINATION PAYMENTS The Company retains the right to terminate the service contract of any Executive Director subject to contractually agreed payments in lieu of notice which are limited to annual salary plus any specified benets.
Payments are normally phased over the 12-month notice period, based ontheprinciple of a Directors duty to seek alternative employment and thereby mitigate their loss.
The Committee reserves the right to make additional exit payments where such payments are made in good faith, for example: in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation : or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising in connection with the termination of a Directors ofce or employment.
In determining compensation, the Committee will take into account the circumstances of the departure, best practice and the provisions of the Code, and will take legal advice on the Companys liability topay compensation.
Under the rules of the LTIP and the DSBP, the Committee has discretion to declare a Director leaving the Company to be a good leaver as dened under the respective rules of the schemes.
In respect of LTIP, this would normally allow the Directors, who the Committee determines tobe good leavers, to receive their shares at the date of vesting subject to the achievement of performance conditions, with any vesting pro-rated in accordance with length of service during the period of grant.
In respect of DSBP, this would normally allow the Directors, who the Committee determines to be good leavers, to receive their shares, in full, at the end of the holding period.
Where a Director may be entitled to pursue a claim against the Company in respect of their statutory employment rights or any other claim arising from the employment or its termination, the Company will be entitled to negotiate settlement terms financial or otherwise with the Director that the Committee considers to be reasonable in all the circumstances and in the best interests of the Company and to enter into a Settlement Agreement with the Director to effect both the terms agreed under the Service Agreement and any additional statutory or other claims, including bonus and or share awards, in line with the policies described above.
In the event of a change of control of the Company, the Employee benefit Trust, in consultation with the Company, has the discretion to determinewhether, and the extent to which, awards vest.
Financial performance and institutional guidelines would be taken into account inexercising this discretion.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to any compensation on termination of their appointment.
POLICY ON EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS With the support of the Chairman and Chief Executive, the Executive Directors may normally be permitted to take one non-executive directorship outside the Group, as these roles can broaden the experience brought to the Board.
Such appointments require Board approval and the time commitment the appointment will require is taken into consideration.
Executive Directors may retain fees for external appointments.
80 GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT PERFORMANCE SCENARIOS Chart 5 below sets out an indication of the level of remuneration that would be received by each Executive Director in accordance with theincentive opportunities outlined in the Remuneration Policy for 2014 on the basis of the latest salary information.
CHART 5: INDICATION OF POTENTIAL REMUNERATION IN THE FIRST YEAR OF POLICY APPLICATION DAVID SLEATH Maximum 2,748,278 28% 31% 41% On Target 1,473,653 52% 29% 19% Minimum 765,528 100% ANDY GULLIFORD Maximum 1,645,568 28% 27% 45% On Target 866,888 53% 26% 21% Minimum 459,008 100% JUSTIN READ Maximum 1,650,774 28% 27% 45% On Target 872,094 53% 26% 21% Minimum 464,214 100% PHIL REDDING Maximum 1,623,565 27% 27% 46% On Target 844,885 52% 26% 22% Minimum 437,005 100% 0 500,000 1,000,000 1,500,000 2,000,000 2,500,000 3,000,000 Fixed Short Term Long Term The minimum remuneration payable comprises salary as at 1 April 2014, benets and Company pension contributions or cash in lieu of pension contributions as applicable.
The maximum payable assumes full pay-out under the Bonus and full vesting of the LTIP.
On target remuneration assumes a pay-out of 50 per cent of the maximum Bonus and a 25 per cent vesting of the LTIP.
The value of the LTIP vesting is based on an award of 200 per cent of salary.
Share price movement has not been taken into account.
CONSIDERATION OF CONDITIONS ELSEWHERE IN THE GROUP The Remuneration Policy for the Executive Directors is designed with regard to the policy for employees across the Group as a whole.
The Committee has oversight of the remuneration of the Senior Leadership Team.
The Committee is kept updated through the year on general employment conditions and it approves the budget for annual salary increases.
The Company did not consult with employees in formulating Executive Remuneration Policy.
CONSIDERATION OF SHAREHOLDER VIEWS The Committee remains committed to open dialogue with shareholders on remuneration.
When determining remuneration, the Committee takes into account the guidelines of investor bodies and shareholder views.
In 2011, it consulted with shareholders on changes to the remuneration structure and, in early 2013, it consulted on an amendment to the Bonus rules.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee is available for meetings with shareholders should they have any concerns about remuneration matters which they wish to discuss.
The Committee reviews feedback from all shareholders, especially around the time of the AGM.
The votes for the Remuneration Report at the 2013 AGM are provided on page 91.
com OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FURTHER INFORMATION 81 After the 2013 AGM, the Committee reviewed feedback from shareholders in the context of changes made to Directors Remuneration Policy during 2012 13 and against the general pattern of voting during the 2013 AGM season on Executive Directors pay.
Key themes of the feedback on Directors remuneration were: t although there was a range of comments on the proposed changes to the remuneration structure, there was overall support from shareholders: and t there was particular support for the increase in the Bonus deferral, which reduced the cash payable to the Directors and increased the proportion of remuneration based on longer-term shareholding.
The Committee reected on the feedback and each shareholder who had written to the Chairman with comments received a reply.
