OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FURTHER INFORMATION 73 EXTERNAL AUDITOR In 2013, fees for audit and related assurance The Committee is satisfied that Deloitte REMUNERATION AND services, excluding joint ventures, amounted continues to provide appropriate INDEPENDENCE to 646,000 and the non-audit fees levels of scepticism and challenge and amounted to 628,000.
Annually, the Committee considers the non-audit fees were attributable to work remuneration and independence of the undertaken by Deloitte for vendor due EXTERNAL AUDITOR TENDER external auditor.
The Committee recommends diligence corporate finance work in respect ANDRE-ELECTION the remuneration of the external auditor to of the set-up of the SELP joint venture, the Board and keeps under review the ratio Deloitte LLP was appointed as the external leveraging its deep knowledge of the Groups of audit to non-audit fees to ensure that the auditor following a tender in 2007, and the European business.
344,250 of the nonindependence and objectivity of the external most recent lead audit partner rotation took audit fees were earned by Deloitte Real Estate, auditor are safeguarded.
The Committees place in advance of the 2012 year-end audit.
249,500 of which was an introduction policy for the use of the external auditor for There are no contractual obligations that fee in respect of the acquisition of an asset non-audit services recognises that there are restrict the Committees choice of external in Barking, with the remainder largely certain circumstances where, due to Deloittes auditor or which put in place a minimum comprising planning advice in advance of real expertise and knowledge of the Company period for the tenure of the external auditor.
Further details of or sector in which it operates, itwill often Under the Code and the Financial Reporting these fees, and fees in respect of the audit of be in the best position to perform nonCouncils transitional arrangements for certain of the Groups joint ventures for which audit services.
Under the policy, the use of audit tenders, the Company is required to Deloitte is the auditor, are provided in note the external auditor for non-audit services re-tender, at the latest, in advance of the 6 to the financial statements.
The three-year is subject to pre-clearance by the Chief 2022 year-end audit, with the potential of the average of the non-audit fees as a percentage Executive officer, Group Finance Director, the mandatory rotation of the auditors under EU of the audit fees to the year ended 2013, is Committee Chair or the Committee, should legislation in 2026.
It is the current intention 57 per cent.
Chart 2 below sets out the ratio the proposed fee exceed specified thresholds.
of the Committee to re-tender well within the of audit to non-audit fees for each of the past Financial Reporting Councils timeframe.
During the year, Deloitte Real Estate advised three years.
the Company on various property related Having satisfied itself as to the effectiveness It is anticipated that in 2014, the ratio of nonmatters.
The Policy for the Approval of Nonand independence of Deloitte LLP, the audit to audit fees will fall from that of 2013.
Audit Fees sets out, amongst other matters, Committee has recommended to the Board Given the one-off nature of the 2013 due when Deloitte Real Estate may be used.
that Deloitte LLP be proposed for re-election diligence and acquisition related non-audit The Committee monitors the use of Deloitte at the 2014 AGM.
fees, the Committee does not consider that Real Estate and adherence to the Policy, which they adversely impact on the independence is available to view at www.
of Deloitte as an auditor.
Deloitte has provided written conrmation of its independence to the Committee.
CHART 2: THREE-YEAR AUDIT AND NON-AUDIT FEES 2013 2012 2011 Audit fees including related assurance services m 0.65 0.68 0.8 Non-audit fees m 0.63 0.2 0.4 Ratio of non-audit fees to audit fees per cent 97 29 50 The above table excludes fees paid to Deloitte in respect of joint ventures.
If these were included, the 2013 ratio of non-audit to audit fees would have been 82 per cent.
