40 STRATEGIC REPORT CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SEGRO 2020 SEGRO 2020 commits us to reusing or recycling 80 per cent of our construction and demolition waste and In 2013, we introduced our new sustainability strategy, 60 per cent of our excavation waste.
This strategy is aimed at realigning our reported gures for diverting excavation, construction and sustainability goals for the Group in response to changing demolition waste from landll.
These gures show that customer demand and increasing legislation across the UK we reused or recycled 68 per cent of construction waste and Continental Europe.
Our SEGRO 2020 targets focus across development projects, we reused or recycled 60 on building design, refurbishments, energy and water per cent of demolition waste and we reused or recycled efficiency and obtaining building certications that support 33 per cent of excavation waste.
This information will our sustainable approach.
inform our waste management programme throughout 2014, and will enable us to target effectively the areas that 2013 was the first year of reporting against these new require themost attention.
The move to our new strategy has required us to undertake a number of projects which allow us to report SEGRO 2020 also introduced two goals relating to and improve our performance against our long-term building certications which set minimum Energy goals.
We have improved the way in which we collect Performance Certicates EPC and Building Research sustainability data as well as our metering coverage, and Establishment Environmental Assessment Methodology have developed Sustainability Toolkits for developments BREEAM standards, or country equivalents, for our and refurbishments.
We believe that this was our new developments and major refurbishment projects.
transitional year, setting the foundations for us to embed These were put in place to ensure the development and sustainability throughout all the relevant parts of our refurbishment pipeline would provide our portfolio with business, and we are confident we are now in a position to efficient, high quality buildings in view of increasing energy continue to make progress from 2014 onwards.
efficiency legislation and greater demands from customers for sustainable buildings.
Our gures for these goals show Overall as a Company, we have been continuing with that we have made a good start and, as we move into our work to reshape our portfolio.
This investment and our first full year of using Sustainability Toolkits on every divestment activity affects our sustainability performance project, we expect 2014 to yield an improvement on our in a number of ways as there is movement in the number 2013 gures.
of buildings, oor area, metering arrangements, and also the technical specications of buildings within the portfolio, SEGRO 2020 is our long-term vision of what which inevitably has an effect on our sustainability KPIs.
sustainability means for SEGRO, and with our commitment to embed the strategy throughout our business we have The progress we have made in 2013 against our SEGRO set a good foundation in 2013 for improvement year on 2020 performance is shown in the table opposite and a year, to 2020, and we are pleased with the results shown more detailed review of our performance is available to in this report.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | www.
