74 GOVERNANCE AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT INTERNAL AUDIT TENDER FOR THE ROLE OF INTERNAL AUDITOR As in previous years, assurance of the risk management process, testing of internal Following a competitive tender process, controls and setting the internal audit KPMG was appointed as internal auditor programme continued to be key priorities in 2008.
The Committee decided that it for the Committee.
The internal audit would be appropriate to re-tender this role programme, which is developed by reference in 2013, asKPMG would have held it for five to the Group Risk Register and key business years by that point.
A selection panel which processes, provides the Committee with a included the Chairman of the Committee further means of monitoring processes and and the Group Finance Director was put in actions to manage and mitigate those risks place, selection criteria were established and identied as posing the greatest threat to anumber of rms were invited to tender.
As the external auditor, Deloitte did not participate.
Following the tender process, During the year, internal audits were carried the Committee recommended to the out in respect of business continuity and Board that KPMG should be re-appointed disaster recovery, leasing processes, VAT as internal auditor.
KPMG has therefore compliance, accounts payable, accounts been re-appointed for athree-year period receivable and cash collection, sales and of engagement, although the Company is invoicing compliance, management of the notbound to this term.
Groups captive insurance company, and property data collection.
The outcome of these audits was that these areas were appropriately controlled.
A number of enhancements were identied which were entered into the schedule which lists all outstanding control points see Internal Control Framework above.
The Committee believes that the value of internal audit is enhanced by having a third party perform this function, as this supports the independent challenge of management and gives greater access to expertise than an internal function could provide.
KPMG has performed this role throughout the year.
Once each internal audit is complete, KPMG issues a questionnaire to the process owner and other relevant employees to ensure that real-time feedback is collected on the quality and effectiveness of its audit.
The results of this feedback are provided to the Committee along with detailed findings and recommendations of the audits themselves.
In 2014, the Committee will continue to follow a risk-based approach to internal audit.
Items scheduled for future internal audit reviews include: general IT controls: fraud vulnerability: joint venture governance: taxation: property valuations: insurance: a review of processes in smaller non-core countries: and sustainability.
SEGRO Annual Report and Accounts 2013 | www.
