Our portfolio 20 Our wholly owned portfolio comprises over 560 buildings, all of which contain a mix of uses.
Shops, restaurants, cafs and bars are on the lower floors, and offices or residential are above.
SHOPS RESTAURANTS, CAFS AND LEISURE Wholly Wholly oWned longmaRtin oWned longmaRtin Number 330 23 Number 234 8 Area sq.
ft. 525,000 43,000 Weighted average unexpired lease length years 5 5 Weighted average unexpired lease length years 12 13 We have 89 large shops rent greater Restaurants, cafs, bars, pubs and clubs % OF CURRENT INCOME % OF CURRENT INCOME than 100,000 p. a. in the wholly owned are a growing part of our business, now portfolio which generate 64% of current representing 33% of current income.
Fashion accounts for nearly 80% wide variety of dining and leisure choices of the income from these larger shops, is a feature of the West End and forms an 37% with the majority of the remainder coming integral part of the mix in our villages, from lifestyle retailers, for example complementing our shops and drawing health and beauty.
As with our shops, we seek out 33% provide 36% of current income and are an and encourage new food and beverage important element of the character and concepts, both from the UK and abroad, retail mix in our villages.
These shops are to add to the appeal of our villages.
predominantly let to fashion and lifestyle brands.
The Longmartin joint Currently there is unprecedented demand from interesting and venture has 23 shops, principally occupied by fashion retailers.
well-funded food and beverage operators, which is continuing to drive Demand for our shops has remained strong throughout the year.
The wide strong rental growth.
Furthermore, planning policies in the West End range of unit sizes and rental tones in our portfolio attracts a broad range restrict the creation of new restaurant space, to preserve a balance of tenants from those opening UK flagships or first stores through to with other commercial uses.
small independents from both the UK and overseas.
We are keen to As with shops, space is provided in shell form.
Fit out is at the tenants seek out new retail concepts, which contribute to each villages unique cost and is usually substantial, sometimes costing the equivalent of character.
We meet potential new occupiers at fashion and lifestyle 3-5 years rent.
As a consequence, restaurant businesses prefer longer trade shows in the UK and abroad, as well as maintaining a regular leases over which to spread this up-front investment.
dialogue with existing tenants who are seeking to expand their operations.
Typical lease terms: We work with retailers to trial and promote their new ideas with short Historic leases: 25 years, 5 yearly upward-only rent reviews and flexible leases, bringing a steady flow of interesting new concepts andsecurity of tenure on expiry and brands to our villages.
This approach is particularly suitable for our smaller shops.
Successful new ideas lead to operators taking longer Newer leases: 15 years, 5 yearly upward-only rent reviews.
Where actual trading experience shows that a new concept is Nosecurity of tenure on expiry neither meeting our, nor the retailers, expectations we are able to The substantial investment by the tenant, combined with restrictive react quickly.
planning and licensing policies, make our leases valuable assets both The cycles of fashion are becoming shorter and without innovation for us, as landlord, and for our tenants.
Often new operators seek out brands can soon become less interesting to consumers.
Our flexible opportunities to open in our locations by taking an assignment of a leases allow us continually to refresh our tenant line-ups, ensuring lease from an existing tenant, sometimes paying a considerable premium our villages maintain their appeal to todays fashion-conscious to acquire this interest.
Our leases give us considerable control over shoppers.
this process, enabling us to select the most appropriate operators, as well as accelerating asset management opportunities, including Our shops are typically let on the following basis: re-gearing lease terms and releasing surplus space for other uses and 3-5 year term for smaller shops schemes.
As a result of this competition for leases, it is often difficult 5-10 year term for larger shops for us to secure vacant possession of our restaurants.
However, when we do, there is considerable demand from experienced and new Space provided in shell form: fit out is at the tenants cost, operators seeking to launch innovative concepts.
withnofinancial contribution from us Short rent free period to help cover the tenants fitting out period We invest considerable resources and energy in promoting our villages to potential occupiers and consumers, and sourcing new brands and concepts.
We stay in regular contact with tenants and find that, not only do they value our philosophy and the way we manage the villages, but also are a great source of new ideas from their experiences elsewhere.
Shaftesbury annual report 2013 strategic report Our portfolio continued 21 OFFICES RESIDENTIAL Wholly Wholly oWned longmaRtin oWned longmaRtin Area sq.
ft. 278,000 55,000 Weighted average unexpired lease length years 6 Number 470 75 4 Offices bring an important working Our apartments bring a residential % OF CURRENT INCOME % OF CURRENT INCOME population who shop, dine and socialise community, which adds another in our villages.
Most of our office tenants important strand of life and activity to our 13% are fashion retailers or businesses in the villages.
This has been a growing part of media, creative and IT industries.
Demand our business over recent years in all 17% remains strong with only 3,000 sq.
ft. of villages, particularly as a result of space available at year end, and we are conversions from space no longer viable seeing steady rental growth.
Our apartments, which lengths are typically five years.
cater for the mid-market, produce a growing and reliable income stream, with high Most of our offices are relatively small.
occupancy levels and low obsolescence We have four office buildings each with risk.
Tenancies are typically for three years with annual rent reviews atotal area of between 10,000 and 20,000 sq.
ft. three of which are in and rolling two-month break options after the first six months.
Otherwise the average office is just 1,300 sq.
ft. and our Whilst we have benefitted from the uplift in capital values over recent average rent is around 40 per sq.
ft. years, the key drivers of long-term value in our buildings continue to We have continued converting smaller offices which cannot be adapted be the commercial uses on the lower floors.
We let our apartments, to meet the requirements of todays occupiers, often back to their original rather than sell them, to ensure we retain control over the whole building residential use, where we see more consistent cash flows, lower vacancy in order not to compromise the management flexibility needed to levels and significantly reduced obsolescence costs.
Where we secure realise the long-term potential in those valuable lower floors.
residential planning consents, we often retain the flexibility to return the space back to office use.
Wholly oWned poRtfolio longmaRtin joint VentuRe % of % of aRea cuRRent aRea cuRRent numbeR Sq.
Shaftesbury annual report 2013 strategic report 22 Shaftesbury annual report 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT 23 Shaftesbury annual report 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT % 2 3 E M O % C 3 N 3 I E T U N L E A Y R V B R R A I U T T N A C E E F R E E Y A Y R R B C B T T S S 24 Our portfolio continued Carnaby Carnaby covers 4.1 acres across twelve streets to the east of Regent Street and south of Oxford Street.
It is an iconic destination for visitors and is internationally renowned for youth fashion, particularly new concepts and brands.
There are 48 larger shops income in excess of100,000 p. a. in Carnaby, accounting for 85% of the villages retail income.
Demand remains strong, particularly from overseas retailers and those wishing to launch flagship stores.
The 71 smaller, often independently-run shops, add to the eclectic mix which enhances Carnabys appeal as a unique shopping destination.
The rental value of the completed scheme is currently estimated at It has been a particularly busy year for lettings in Carnaby as we continue to introduce new retailers and brands to ensure that Carnaby maintains 2.0 million, an increase of around 1.6 million compared with its unique appeal to todays fashion-conscious shoppers.
The estimated total cost is 13.5 million and year, we have introduced thirteen new retailers for UK flagships, new completion is scheduled by the end of 2014. concepts or their first store in the UK.
The total rental value of these The growing variety of interesting restaurants, cafs and bars, which lettings was 2.8 million.
we have introduced in the side streets and in Kingly Court, are adding Our redevelopment project on the north side of Fouberts Place, which to Carnabys reputation as a food destination.
Our 41 restaurants, bars has increased the retail floor space by 5,000 sq.
ft. was completed in and cafs attract customers from within Carnaby, and also from late spring.
We have let the two largest units, representing approximately Regent Street, Oxford Street and other busy areas nearby, where the 80% of the ERV of this scheme, at new rental tones for Fouberts Place, dining offer is more limited.
and are now marketing the remaining unit to complementary retailers.
We have made good progress with repositioning Kingly Court as a food While on site with this scheme, we took the opportunity to refurbish and beverage destination and have commenced further improvements nine flats on the upper floors and these subsequently let swiftly at to the courtyard.
We have already converted nearly 6,000 sq.
ft. of retail higher rents.
space to restaurant use, and have recently secured vacant possession The scheme to redevelop buildings fronting the south side of Fouberts of a 2,000 sq.
ft. restaurant with frontages to both Kingly Street and Place and Kingly Street is progressing well, with demolition and enabling Kingly Court.
We are continuing to identify units which are potentially works recently completed.
This scheme will increase lettable space suitable for the introduction of new food-related concepts.
ft. of retail space, Approximately 59% of our offices, by area, are in Carnaby.
ft. of offices and twelve apartments.
mainly occupied by retailers, and businesses in the media, creative and IT sectors.
Office buildings with space greater than 10,000 sq.
ft. make up 29% of the total office area and there are 136 other office tenants occupying an average of 1,200 sq.
Office rents in Carnaby range from 45 per sq.
PERCENTAGE OF OUR PORTFOLIO We expect to complete the refurbishment of an office building totalling 18,500 sq.
ft. in Ganton Street by the end of 2013.
ft. of this space in the New Year and the remaining space will be marketed shortly.
ft. of office space was vacant or being refurbished in Carnaby at 30 September 2013.
In the New Year, Kingly Street will be pedestrianised fully between 11am and 7 am, consistent with the rest of Carnaby, and the pedestrian zone will be extended to the junction with Great Marlborough Street.
This will usefully increase the availability of external seating on this increasingly busy thoroughfare.
SHOPS RESTAURANTS, CAFS AND LEISURE OFFICES RESIDENTIAL E E T T T T O O L L R R A A H H C C O O C C H H O O O O V V S S E E N N T T G G A A R R D D E E N N Shaftesbury annual report 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT N N W W O O T T A A N N I I H H C C Our portfolio continued 25 VALUATION ACqUISITIONS CAPITAL CAPITAL VALUE ExPENDITURE RETURN 684.5m Nil 9.3m 10.6% SHOPS OFFICES RESTAURANTS, CAFS RESIDENTIAL ANDLEISURE 119 41 85 182,000 sq.
ft 53% 13% 28% 6% OF CURRENT INCOME OF CURRENT INCOME OF CURRENT INCOME OF CURRENT INCOME Shaftesbury annual report 2013 strategic report Y Y B B A A T T N N E E R R E E A A R R C C T T S S 26 Our portfolio continued Covent Garden Our wholly owned holdings in Covent Garden extend to 4.5 acres.
Together with our 50% interest in the Longmartin joint venture, Covent Garden is our largest investment location.
Covent Garden, with its historic street patterns and architecture, contains Improvements to the public realm continue to play an important role half of the West Ends theatres.
It has a broad range of shops, restaurants, inthe development of our areas.
During the year, a trial road closure bars and cafs, giving it a distinctive and appealing atmosphere.
There atthe Cambridge Circus end of Earlham Street significantly decreased is also a long-established and flourishing residential community.
traffic, creating a more pedestrian-friendly environment and noticeably increasing footfall.
We expect that this will soon become permanent Demand has remained strong across all uses in the year and the level and are working with The London Borough of Camden and The Seven of vacancy has been low.
We have completed lettings, lease renewals and Dials Trust on designs to further improve the public realm.
New street rent reviews with a rental value of 6.5 million in the year, including lighting is currently being installed across Seven Dials.
At year end, available commercial space totalled 10,700 sq.
ft. ERV: 0.8 million, of which 3,200 sq.
ft. ERV: At Cambridge Circus, we are aware that, in anticipation of the greater 0.2 million was under offer.
pedestrian flows expected from the new Tottenham Court Road Crossrail interchange, Westminster City Council is investigating major Our retail strategy for Seven Dials is establishing the area as an improvements to this already congested junction.
international shopping and leisure destination with aspirational and interesting retailers aimed at our target core consumer 25 to 45 year Longmartins portfolio continues to make good progress.
Demand for all olds with high disposable income.
During the year, we secured 13 new uses has remained strong and our share of available vacant space was lettings in Monmouth Street, Earlham Street and Neal Street, to retailers just 0.2 million at 30 September 2013.
We are now seeking planning either opening their first UK or flagship stores in Seven Dials.
consent to make improvements to the courtyard to add to its vibrancy, in conjunction with evolving the tenant mix.
In addition, we continue to We have introduced a number of exciting new restaurants to Seven Dials, work on schemes to improve unmodernised buildings on the periphery improving the areas reputation as a dining destination.
started to refresh the restaurant mix in Neals Yard and are currently working on plans to improve its entrances, making this a unique foodquarter for Seven Dials.
PERCENTAGE OF OUR PORTFOLIO 35% SHOPS RESTAURANTS, CAFS AND LEISURE OFFICES RESIDENTIAL E E T T T T O O B L L R R Y A A C H H U C C R R O O B E H H Y C N O O O F T S S V A I I E N R N C V T O A G L M U A E E R 3 3 D 6 5 E % % N Shaftesbury annual report 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT N N W W O O T T A A N N I I H H C C Our portfolio continued 27 VALUATION AcqUIsITIONs cApITAL cApITAL VALUE ExpENDITURE RETURN 720.4m 19.7m 5.8m 8.8% WHOLLY OWNED SHOPS OFFICES RESTAuRANTS, CAFS RESIDENTIAL ANDLEISuRE 111 87 197 138,000 sq.
ft 35% 34% 13% 18% OF cURRENT INcOME OF cURRENT INcOME OF cURRENT INcOME OF cURRENT INcOME LONGMARTIN JOINT VENTURE SHOPS RESTAuRANTS, CAFS OFFICES RESIDENTIAL ANDLEISuRE 23 8 75 69,000 sq.
ft 41% 17% 25% 17% OF cURRENT INcOME OF cURRENT INcOME OF cURRENT INcOME OF cURRENT INcOME Includes the Groups 50% share of the Longmartin joint venture.
Shaftesbury annual report 2013 strategic report 28 Shaftesbury annual report 2013 strategic report 29 Shaftesbury annual report 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT Y Y B B A A T T N N E E R R E E A A R R C C T T S S 30 Our portfolio continued Chinatown Chinatown, at the heart of the West Ends entertainment district, has the largest concentration of restaurants in the UK.
The prosperity of this thriving destination is underpinned by the large number of visitors it attracts throughout the day, and into the night, seven days a week.
In Chinatowns prosperous environment, our restaurants remain in Recognising strong residential demand in the West End, we have embarked demand.
With growing interest in innovative Far Eastern cuisine, we on a rolling refurbishment programme to upgrade the quality of our are seeking to improve the quality and diversity of restaurants, flats in Chinatown and improve rental and capital values.
We are also encouraging a wide variety of cuisines from around SouthEast Asia.
creating new residential space either by adding additional floors or through conversions.
We continue to find opportunities to unlock and Many of the restaurants in Chinatown are let on historic leases which improve inefficient and under-utilised space on upper floors by introducing provide the tenant with an automatic right to renew at the end of the more valuable alternative uses, both commercial and residential.
Whilst this provides excellent security for us as landlord, space rarely becomes available.
However, during the course of the Working with Westminster City Council on public realm initiatives year we secured possession of four restaurants, totalling 16,500 sq.
ft. remains an important part of our long-term strategy in Chinatown.
and have already introduced new concepts into two of these.
We are During the year, we part-funded Westminster City Council projects currently reconfiguring the other two, in Rupert Street and Wardour which introduced a new traffic management scheme to pedestrianise Street, to produce more efficient restaurant space.
Lisle Street and the Chinatown section of Wardour Street from 12 noon each day and also extended the pedestrian zone south from Gerrard Part of our current strategy is to reposition and improve Rupert Street Street towards Coventry Street.
These projects provide additional and enhance values by refreshing the tenant mix and through long-term capacity for pedestrians in busy streets which act as an important investment in the public realm.
In Rupert Court, which connects gateway from Leicester Square.
Rupert Street to Wardour Street, we are upgrading and extending the restaurants.
Drawing on our experiences elsewhere in our villages, we have further ideas for street improvements, which we are discussing with Westminster City Council.
PERCENTAGE OF OUR PORTFOLIO 22% SHOPS RESTAURANTS, CAFS AND LEISURE OFFICES RESIDENTIAL E E T T T T O O L L R R A A H H C C O O C C H H O O O O V V S S E E N N T T G G A A R R D D E E N N % 2 2 E M O % C 2 N 2 I E T U Shaftesbury annual report 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT N N L E A W R V O R T R I U A A N C F I Y Y H B B C Our portfolio continued 31 VALUATION ACqUISITIONS CAPITAL CAPITAL VALUE ExPENDITURE RETURN 446.0m Nil 2.4m 7.6% SHOPS OFFICES RESTAURANTS, CAFS RESIDENTIAL ANDLEISURE 62 65 91 60,000 sq.
ft 25% 60% 6% 9% OF CURRENT INCOME OF CURRENT INCOME OF CURRENT INCOME OF CURRENT INCOME Shaftesbury annual report 2013 strategic report 32 Shaftesbury annual report 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT 33 Shaftesbury annual report 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT Y Y B B A A T T N N E E R R E E A A R R C C T T S S 34 Our portfolio continued soho Soho is a lively area filled with cafs, bars, clubs, restaurants and quirky shops lining its narrow streets.
Close to many of the West Ends attractions, its history, venues, distinctive atmosphere and nightlife create a popular destination for visitors.
There are many small businesses, typically in the media and creative industries, and it has a long-established residential community.
The majority of our ownerships are currently centred in and around pERcENTAGE OF OUR pORTFOLIO Berwick Street and Brewer Street: routes through Soho which have, for many years, suffered from fragmented ownership and a lack of 7% investment.
Despite the high footfall, rental values are low compared with neighbouring areas.
Many of the properties we have acquired were in poor condition.
This provides us with refurbishment and reconfiguration opportunities and scope to introduce more valuableuses.
Crossrail is proving to be a catalyst for major investment along the eastern end of Oxford Street.
The new western entrance to Tottenham Court Road station, on Dean Street, will bring improvements to the north of Soho, including Berwick Street.
There are a number of privately-funded schemes which will help regenerate the area close toour holdings, including the substantial development of the former Trenchard House site on Broadwick Street, where we have exchanged contracts to forward purchase the retail and restaurant elements on the ground floor and basement approximately 6,500 sq.
ft.. Other schemes include the recently completed major development at the western end ofBrewer Street, various projects along the east end of Oxford Street, and proposed schemes for Walkers Court and KempHouse at the south end of Berwick Street.
With this investment and regeneration, Soho is currently going through a renaissance, experiencing increased footfall and demand particularly from restaurateurs attracted by Sohos exciting food scene and vibrant nightlife.
We are also seeing greater interest from retailers who are attracted not only by Sohos distinctive edginess but also its seven-day sHOps trading patterns and competitive rents.
REsTAURANTs, cAFs AND LEIsURE OFFIcEs REsIDENTIAL VALUATION AcqUIsITIONs cApITAL cApITAL VALUE ExpENDITURE RETURN 146.8m 8.3m 3.1m 14.1% SHOPS RESTAuRANTS, CAFS OFFICES RESIDENTIAL ANDLEISuRE 34 26 58 38,000 sq.
ft 28% 37% 16% 19% OF cURRENT INcOME OF cURRENT INcOME OF cURRENT INcOME OF cURRENT INcOME E E T T T T O O L L R R A A H H C C O C C H O O % O % V V S 7 7 E E N N E E T T U M G G L O A A A C R R V N D D R I E E I A T N N F N Y E B R R U C Y B shaftesbury annual report 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT N N W W O O T T A A N N I I H H C C Y B A T N E R E A R C T S 35 E T T O L R A H C O C H O % O % V S 7 7 E N E E T U M G L O A A C R V N D R I E I A T N F N Y E B R R U C Y B shaftesbury annual report 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT N W O T A N I H C 36 Shaftesbury annual report 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT Y Y B B A A T N N E R R E A A R C C T S our portfolio continued 37 charlotte street Charlotte Street is a busy and vibrant location, north of Oxford Street and close to Tottenham Court Road, which is a renowned restaurant destination.
Its large office population, dominated by creative, media and tech businesses, and a large student population, add to the cosmopolitan feel of the area.
When it opens in 2018, we expect Crossrail will substantially increase PercentAge oF our PortFolio the public transport capacity and footfall in the vicinity of Charlotte Street.
The new West End gateway station at Tottenham Court Road 3% isstimulating significant development, which will attract new businesses and increase the residential population in the area.
Important development projects close to Charlotte Street include Fitzroy Place, on Goodge Street, which includes 220,000 sq.
ft. of commercial space and over 230 residential apartments, with completion anticipated by summer 2014.
In addition, the redevelopment of the Royal Mail site on Rathbone Place is expected to start early next year, delivering offices totalling 217,000 sq.
ft. of retail space and 162 apartments.
Although this is the smallest of our villages, we remain committed tofurther investment in this vibrant district.
shoPs restAurAnts, cAFs AnD leisure oFFices resiDentiAl vAluAtion AcQuisitions cAPitAl cAPitAl vAlue exPenDiture return 54.9m Nil 0.2m 9.1% SHOPS OFFICES RESTAURANTS, CAFS RESIDENTIAL ANDLEISURE 4 15 39 8,000 sq.
ft 8% 55% 9% 28% oF current incoMe oF current incoMe oF current incoMe oF current incoMe E T % % T 3 3 O L R E E A U M H L O C A C V N O O R I I C C H H A T O O O O F N V V S S Y E E E B R N N T T R U G G C A A R R Y D D B E E N N shaftesbury annual report 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT N N W W O O T T A A N N I I H H C C
