Business model 10 Investing in the heart of Londons West End to deliver long-term growth in income and value.
OUR StRatEgy Our management team has a long history of working in the West End.
In our experience, as a result of its large numbers of visitors, workers We invest in real estate in Londons West End, a location which has and residents, consumer spending is resilient.
This, coupled with demonstrated great resilience over many years.
We concentrate on constrained supply of commercial space and a tight planning environment, central locations close to a renowned concentration of world-class underpins the rental growth prospects and capital values of our portfolio.
attractions, along with unmatched shopping and leisure choices.
Historically, during downturns in the economy or the property market, Together, these features attract huge numbers of domestic and overseas tenant demand and rental levels, particularly for non-office uses, have visitors, as well as national and international businesses and been much less affected, and capital values have been more stable agrowing residential community.
Our strategy is to: Londons working population, residents and visitors have access to its Produce sustainable growth in our revenue through long-term extensive public transport network.
An estimated 210 million passengers investment in, and management of, our property holdings: pass through the six underground stations closest to our villages every year.
However, with the expected population growth and increase in Deliver this growing income stream to shareholders through visitors, there is now considerable investment in the existing public dividends: and transport network to improve capacity, reliability and passenger comfort.
Increase the value of our portfolio and of shareholders investment Crossrail, a 15 billion construction project to create a new east-west inour business through a combination of rising income and a rail route through the centre of London, opening in 2018, will transform concentration on uses which have low levels of obsolescence.
rail journeys, increasing passenger capacity by 10% and relieving tHE WESt ENDS pROSpERIty, REpUtatION aND gROWtH pressure on the existing transport network.
Our portfolio is all situated London has more international visitors than any city in the western world.
within 800 metres of the planned entrances to the new Tottenham Its population currently stands at 8.3 million and is forecast to grow by Court Road and Bond Street stations.
Consequently, we are extremely 20% to 10 million by 2030.
Furthermore, there are over 20 million people well-placed to benefit from the expected increased footfall that in southern England, living within easy access for commuting or Crossrail will bring.
Crossrail is a major catalyst for regeneration around its stations and It has a long and special history as well as an unrivalled variety of heritage adjacent streets, and will be an important driver of economic growth.
For generations, these unique features have attracted Along the eastern end of Oxford Street there are already a number of commerce and visitors from all parts of the world, bringing prosperity to major development schemes planned or under way.
This international appeal gives it a broad economic base which will add to the availability of good quality office accommodation to cater isnot reliant on the fortunes of the UK economy alone.
for the growing number of national and international businesses seeking a base in the West End.
Those offices add to the very important Spread over just a few square miles, the West End is a world-class retail local working population of often younger, affluent people who are and visitor destination, attracting 200 million domestic and overseas potential customers for our shops, restaurants, cafs and bars.
It has an unrivalled choice of shops, restaurants and bars, 38 renowned theatres, 30 museums and galleries and a lively night-time Transport for London, Westminster City Council and Camden Council economy.
It is a key business centre, with a working population of around recognise the need for the public realm to be upgraded in order to 600,000 in the City of Westminster, making it an area with one of the cope with the increased footfall anticipated in the years ahead.
We highest business concentrations in the country.
It is also home to vibrant expect to see a number of public realm projects over the coming years and well-established residential communities.
Around 240,000 people to help ease pedestrian congestion and provide stronger connections live in the City of Westminster, of which it is estimated nearly 40,000 between retail, cultural and recreational areas.
live in the core areas most associated with the West End.
LONDON AND THE WEST END LoNDoN THE WEST END Fifth largest city in the world by GDP Estimated 200 million visits annually Largest city in Europe in terms of population and GDP Favourite destination for Londoners and 20 million people in southern England who are easily able to visit for the day One of the largest financial centres in the world World-class visitor attractions palaces, parks and historical sites Generates 30% of United Kingdom GDP Unrivalled cultural facilities 38 theatres, cinemas, world-class Current population of 8.3 million and growing museums and galleries A multicultural city 300 languages spoken Choice of shops and restaurants unmatched by any other city in the Circa 55% of population under 35 world Attracts more international visitors than any other city in the A large local working population a location particularly favoured by western world media, IT and creative businesses An extensive and growing public transport network Shaftesbury annual report 2013 strategic report Business model continued 11 business business strategy model cLUStERS OF OWNERSHIpS cREatINg INVESt IN REaL EStatE IN LONDONS WESt END pROSpERIty HOLIStIc MaNagEMENt StRatEgy Maximise retail and leisure uses on lower floors FOR Manage long-term mix of uses cOMMERcIaL Encourage new operators and formats tENaNtS Clustering similar uses, concepts and brands WORkINg WItH tENaNtS cREatE SUStaINabLE IMpROVINg tHE pUbLIc REaLM REVENUE gROWtH REFURbISH aND REcONFIgURE bUILDINgS Improve accommodation Minimise obsolescence ENgagINg WItH StakEHOLDERS aNDtHE LOcaL cOMMUNIty DELIVER gROWINg INcOME tO SHaREHOLDERS tHROUgH DIVIDENDS RENtaL gROWtH pERFORMaNcE Increase current DRIVERS LONg-tERM gROWtH INcREaSE VaLUE OF rental income IN capItaL VaLUES tHE pORtFOLIO aND ERV growth OF SHaREHOLDERS Low vacancy levels INVEStMENt IN tHE bUSINESS LEttINgS ERV kpIs capItaL VaLUE REtURN aSSESSED by VaLUERS tOtaL pROpERty REtURN MINIMISE VacaNt tOtaL SHaREHOLDER pERIODS REtURN Shaftesbury annual report 2013 strategic report 12 Business model continued VILLagES IN tHE WESt ENDS IcONIc aREaS Working with tenants We work closely with our retail, restaurant and leisure tenants to We own 13 acres of freeholds, comprising 1.6 million sq.
ft. of promote their businesses and our areas to visitors, shoppers and commercial and residential accommodation, mostly clustered in diners to bring footfall and spending.
The prosperity of those villages in iconic areas at the heart of the West End.
Our ownerships businesses is critical to our success.
are close to the West Ends principal attractions and reflect the importance of the visitor-based economy.
35% of our portfolio by value Although the West End is a destination of world renown, we recognise is in Covent Garden in the districts of Seven Dials, Coliseum, the Opera that awareness of our special locations should never be taken for granted.
Quarter and St Martins Courtyard, 33% is in Carnaby and 22% is in In order to market our areas we use a wide range of channels to ensure Chinatown.
Soho now represents 7% of our portfolio and 3% is in and they are widely promoted as unique destinations within the West End, around Charlotte Street.
which offer an unmatched choice of interesting, innovative and ever-changing shopping, dining and leisure choices.
There are over 560 buildings in our wholly owned portfolio, virtually all of which contain a mix of uses.
Typically, lower floors contain our most Working closely with experienced external marketing specialists, valuable uses of retail, restaurants, bars and leisure which together ourpromotional initiatives include: provide 70% of current rental income.
Upper floors are either offices, Widely publicised consumer-focused events throughout the year residential or a combination of both.
inCarnaby and Covent Garden such as shopping and music events.
The areas in which we invest are long-established, with street patterns In particular, we put considerable effort into dressing our areas in generally laid out between 1680 and 1720.
They are mostly designated the busy Christmas trading season: as conservation areas and over 20% of our buildings are listed as being Continuous engagement with domestic and international press and of special architectural interest.
other media to raise public awareness: pROSpERIty FOR tENaNtS aND SUStaINabLE RENtaL gROWtH An active social media programme including dedicated websites for The key driver to long-term value creation is sustainable rental growth Carnaby, Seven Dials, Chinatown and Berwick Street, which provide and we achieve this by establishing and fostering areas in which our single reference points for each areas particular choices, as well as commercial tenants are able to flourish and which provide desirable utilising Facebook, Twitter and other channels to engage with an places to live.
We believe our tenants value our efforts to promote our areas and support creating clusters of ownerships their businesses and are happy to work with us to ensure the success of Using our detailed knowledge, gained over many years of investing in our initiatives.
For us, our promotional activities are also an important way the West End, we target well-located areas and streets which have suffered to advertise the merits of our areas to a wide audience of potential tenants from fragmented ownership, lack of investment and the absence of who appreciate the benefits of locations which are supported by our acohesive strategy for uses and tenant mix, but where the footfall long-term holistic management philosophy and strategies.
potential is good and rents are initially low.
Improving the public realm By establishing clusters of ownerships, we can initiate long-term We work closely with local authorities and community stakeholders to investment and management strategies for the areas to address these improve the public realm.
We promote and contribute to the costs of problems and generate sustainable growth in rents and long-term up-grading streets in and around our villages, giving priority to improvement in values.
pedestrians and improving street lighting, public safety and security.
In Our villages accommodate a variety of uses, appealing to a broad our experience, investing in public streets and spaces creates safe and range of occupiers.
We bring cohesion and consistency to streets and welcoming areas, which is an important catalyst for increasing footfall entire areas.
Reflecting the importance of shopping and leisure in the and bringing greater prosperity to our villages.
West End, we choose areas and buildings which have, or have the potential for, a predominance of these uses.
Traditionally, in the areas REFURbISH aND REcONFIgURE bUILDINgS in which we invest, occupier demand for these uses has exceeded Improving accommodation for modern occupiers availability, providing a firm foundation for rental growth.
We estimate the average age of our buildings is over 150 years.
The majority are in designated conservation areas and many are listed.
Holistic management strategy As long-term investors, we take an holistic approach to the management Wherever possible, we extend the useful lives of our buildings through of our holdings.
In our experience, fostering and advancing the unique restoration and refurbishment to improve their efficiency and to meet character of our villages enhances their appeal to consumers and the requirements of modern commercial and residential occupiers.
We develop our villages through a combination of: Wehave considerable experience of improving buildings to meet modern standards of efficiency and find that older buildings are very Maximising retail and leisure uses within the lower floors of individual flexible when it comes to reorganising occupational uses.
buildings to create more efficient and accessible trading space: Sustainability is integrated across our business.
We aim to minimise Managing the long-term tenant mix strategy for the dominant retail the environmental impact of our operations where possible within the and leisure aspects of the area, creating distinctive destinations to confines of planning regulations and legislation which affect listed bring greater footfall and prosperity: buildings and conservation areas.
Encouraging new retail and leisure concepts to ensure our areas respond to ever-changing tastes and expectations: Low obsolescence We generally provide space for our principal retail and leisure uses in Clustering similar or complementary retailers, concepts and brands: shell form so the costs of obsolescence we bear are minimal.
However, Managing planning uses to maximise rental and capital values.
smaller offices, particularly on upper floors, tend to suffer from obsolescence, as well as cyclical demand and, therefore, we seek to introduce alternative uses, where possible.
Shaftesbury annual report 2013 strategic report Business model continued 13 ENgagINg WItH StakEHOLDERS aND tHE LOcaLcOMMUNIty total Shareholder Return TSR over the year was 14.1%, compared with a return of 24.7% Our office is close to all our investments and we visit our villages every delivered by the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index.
This allows us to have a regular dialogue with our tenants, whilst market re-rating, particularly over the past six months, of shares continually adding to our knowledge and understanding of the dynamics which have a higher risk profile than ours and especially of those of our areas.
In March 2014 we shall relocate our own office to Carnaby.
which have a relatively large proportion of their portfolio focused on As a key stakeholder in our locations in the West End, we value the central London office development.
diverse views of our tenants, community groups and other stakeholders Our TSR over the last five and ten years was 104.7% and 317.6% which give us important insights into the challenges faced by the West respectively.
This compares with the benchmark index which returned End and help us to adapt our plans and co-ordinate with others.
11.5% and 76.4% over the same periods.
We also work closely with the local authorities in our locations to The long-term outperformance continues to reflect our consistent assist with the challenges of managing areas which attract huge management strategies, which have a record of delivering sustainable numbers of visitors throughout the day and late into the night, every growth in income and increases in capital values.
day of the week, whilst balancing the needs of local businesses and residents.
Our leases are structured so that we can ensure that our tenants operations do not detract from the reputation of the West End.
% 1 YEAR 5 YEARS 10 YEARS kEy pERFORMaNcE INDIcatORS kpIs Shaftesbury 14.1 104.7 317.6 The key drivers of performance are rental growth, both current and FTSE 350 Real Estate potential, high occupancy levels, and low obsolescence.
These underpin Index 24.7 11.5 76.4 long-term growth in capital values.
Relative performance -10.6 93.2 241.2 The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the business are set outon pages 48 to 49.
The charts on page 6 show our performance against our chosen benchmarks: the IPD UK Monthly Indices and the FTSE 350 Real Estate Index.
performance vs. IpD There is no published property performance index which is comparable specifically to a portfolio of mixed-use buildings such as ours.
Therefore, we have, as in previous years, used the IPD UK Monthly Index, which tracks all main commercial property categories across the UK, as ourbenchmark.
We have continued to outperform the benchmark this year, recording atotal return of 13.4% compared with 6.5% reported by the IPD UK Monthly Index.
This included a strong capital value outperformance with our portfolio growing in value by 9.5% during the year, whereas the IPD benchmark reported a decline in capital values of 0.4%.
ERV growth and vacancy Lettings, rent reviews and lease renewals totalling 18.7 million were concluded, during the year, at an average 4.5% above September 2012ERVs.
The amount of vacant space across the portfolio has remained low throughout the year.
EPRA vacancy at 30 September 2013 was 2.3% oftotal ERV, below our long-term average of around 3%.
Overall, lettings have been concluded, on average, 33% quicker than we had targeted.
Our commercial space generally has let more quickly than expected, reflecting strong demand throughout the year.
Whilst residential demand has been good, the quieter summer letting period coincided with a number of apartments becoming available after conversion or refurbishment.
However, as expected, demand picked up after the summer and our residential vacancy returned to normal levels.
Shaftesbury annual report 2013 strategic report 14 Shaftesbury annual report 2013 strategic report 15 Shaftesbury annual report 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT
