Summary report by the valuer 84 To the Directors of Shaftesbury PLC In accordance with your instructions, we have undertaken a valuation In accordance with the provisions of Guidance Note 3 of the Red Book, of the various commercial and residential freehold and long leasehold in undertaking our valuations, we have lotted together certain individual property interests as at 30 September 2013 the date of valuation held properties to form a separate property a Property or Properties in by Shaftesbury Carnaby Limited, Shaftesbury Covent Garden Limited, the manner we consider to be most likely to be adopted in the case of Shaftesbury Chinatown Limited, Shaftesbury Charlotte Street Limited an actual sale.
We consider that lotting the properties together on the and Shaftesbury Soho Limited, which are subsidiary companies basis reflected in our valuations would allow a purchaser to capitalise collectively referred to as the Subsidiary Companies of Shaftesbury on the estate management advantages and opportunities available PLC the Company, as referred to in our Valuation Reports dated from such comprehensive ownership.
Our Reports were prepared for A high proportion of the total value of the Subsidiary Companies accounts purposes.
properties and Properties is accounted for by properties and Properties All properties have been subject to external inspections between situated in adjacent and or adjoining locations in four specific areas of August and November 2013 and a number were subject to internal the West End of London: Carnaby Street and its environs, Chinatown inspections.
and the adjoining area immediately west of Wardour Street south of its junction with Shaftesbury Avenue, and the areas around Seven Dials in The valuations have been prepared in accordance with the appropriate the western part of Covent Garden and a block of properties to the sections of the Valuation Standards VS and United Kingdom Valuation eastof the Central Covent Garden Piazza with its main frontage to Standards UKVS contained within the RICS Valuation Professional Wellington Street.
These areas are all dominated by retail and restaurant Standards 2012 the Red Book.
We confirm that we have sufficient uses.
In our opinion, at the date of valuation, this particular unusual current knowledge of the relevant markets, and the skills and confluence of ownership and use characteristics may cause some understanding to undertake these valuations competently.
We also prospective purchasers to regard parts of the portfolio when combined confirm that where more than one valuer has contributed to the as having a greater value than the aggregate of the individual values of valuations the requirements of VS 1.6.
4 of the Red Book have been the combined properties and Properties which make up those parts.
Finally, we confirm that we have undertaken the valuations acting as External Valuers, qualified for the purpose of the valuation.
As required by the provisions of the Red Book, in undertaking our valuations, we have valued each property or Property separately, rather In accordance with VS 1.9 and UKVS 4.3, we are required to make than valuing the portfolio as a whole or in combinations of parts.
The certain disclosures in connection with this valuation instruction and total valuation figure below is the aggregated value of the separate our relationship with the Company and the Subsidiary Companies.
properties or Properties within the various categories of tenure Charles Smith is the signatory of our Reports.
This is the first time that referred to below.
he has been signatory of valuation reports addressed to the Subsidiary Companies.
DTZ Debenham Tie Leung has been carrying out this All valuations were on the basis of Fair Value.
We have assessed Fair valuation instruction for the Company, and now the Subsidiary Companies, Value in accordance with VS 3.5 item 2 of the Red Book.
Our opinion of for a continuous period since 1996.
As well as preparing our Reports, the Fair Value of each of the properties or Properties has been primarily we also undertake valuations of certain of the properties referred to in derived using comparable recent market transactions on arms our Reports for other purposes, such as secured lending and for lengthterms.
There are no current fee-earning We have not made any allowance for vendors sale costs nor for any tax instructions between DTZ Debenham Tie Leung and the Company or liabilities which may arise upon the disposal of any of the properties or the Subsidiary Companies other than valuation instructions.
We have made deductions to reflect purchasers normal in addition to valuation instructions, there are other previous fee-earning acquisition costs.
relationships between DTZ Debenham Tie Leung and certain of the A full explanation of the Assumptions made in our valuations and Subsidiary Companies or the Company itself.
These relate to our previous details of the sources of information are contained within our Reports.
appointment as property and asset managers in respect of the properties known as Wellington House 6-9 Upper St Martins Lane, 6-8 Shelton We have measured certain of the properties, or parts of properties, Street & 7-13 Mercer Street, 10 11, 12, 13 14, 16-19 & 20 Upper St either on site or by scaling from floor plans.
The Company, its managing Martins Lane, 124, 125 126, 127 130 inc 1-3 Slingsby Place, 132 135, agents or professional advisers have provided us with the floor areas 136 137, 138 Beckett House, 140-142 & 143 Long Acre, 1, 3-5 &15 17 of the remaining properties or parts of properties.
Mercer Street, London WC2 all of which are owned by Longmartin We have read the majority of the leases and related documents provided Properties Limited, a joint venture company owned in equal shares by to us in respect of the commercial properties.
Where we have not read the Company and the Mercers Company : to our previous involvement leases, we have relied on tenancy information provided by the Company, in advising the Company and Longmartin Properties Limited in respect its managing agents or professional advisers.
of landlord and tenant and other matters: to our previous involvement in advising the Company or some of the Subsidiary Companies in Certain properties were subject to works of repair or refurbishment at connection with the acquisition or disposal of certain properties and to 30 September 2013, or were subject to outstanding retentions and fees our previous involvement on behalf of the Company, or certain of the in respect of projects already completed at that date.
In these instances, Subsidiary Companies, in acting as letting agents in respect of certain the Company advised us of the amount of the outstanding costs.
The of the office accommodation.
costs will be borne by the Company as they are not recoverable from tenants.
We have reflected these costs in our valuations.
The total DTZ Debenham Tie Leung was a wholly owned subsidiary of DTZ amount of such costs is 16,962,000 and details of the individual sums Holdings plc the Group until 5 December 2011, when all the trading are included in our Reports.
subsidiaries of the Group were sold to UGL Limited UGL.
In UGLs financial year ending 30 June 2013, the proportion of total fees payable by the Company to the total fee income of UGL was less than 5%.
Shaftesbury annual report 2013 GOVERNANCE Summary report by the valuer continued 85 As referred to above, we have lotted together certain individual properties The contents of our Reports are confidential to Shaftesbury PLC, to form a number of separate Properties.
In the case of three Properties Shaftesbury Covent Garden Limited, Shaftesbury Carnaby Limited, which comprise a number of individual properties, the majority of such Shaftesbury Chinatown Limited, Shaftesbury Charlotte Street Limited properties are held freehold but certain of them are held on long leases.
and Shaftesbury Soho Limited, for the specific purpose to which they In order to divide our valuation of these Properties between the categories refer and are for their use only.
Consequently, and in accordance with of freehold and long leasehold, we have undertaken notional current practice, no responsibility is accepted to any other party in apportionments of value between the freehold elements and the long respect of the whole or any part of the contents of our Reports or this leasehold elements which together comprise the relevant Properties.
Before our Reports or this summary report, or any The amounts arising from these notional apportionments of value have part thereof, are reproduced or referred to, in any document, circular been included in the figures representing the freehold and long leasehold or statement, and before their contents, or any part thereof, are categories below.
The amounts arising from the notional apportionments disclosed orally or otherwise to a third party, the valuers written do not themselves represent the Fair Value of the two elements.
approval as to the form and context of such publication or disclosure must first be obtained.
For the avoidance of doubt such, approval is The Subsidiary Companies own a number of properties on a freehold required whether or not DTZ Debenham Tie Leung is referred to by basis where they also hold long leasehold interests within the freehold name and whether or not the contents of our Reports or this summary and have not merged the interests.
For the purposes of the freehold report are combined with others.
long leasehold split below, we have included such properties within the freehold category.
Having regard to the foregoing, we are of the opinion that the aggregates charles Smith MRIcS of the Fair Values, as at 30 September 2013, of the freehold and long International Director leasehold property interests owned by the Company and the Subsidiary RICS Registered Valuer Companies, subject to the Assumptions and comments in our Reports For and on behalf of DTZ Debenham Tie Leung Limited dated 25 November 2013, were as follows:- 125 Old Broad Street London EC2N 1AR Freehold 1,793,310,000 properties One billion, seven hundred and ninety-three million, three hundred and ten thousand pounds Long leasehold 115,595,000 properties One hundred and fifteen million, five hundred and ninety-five thousand pounds Total 1,908,905,000 one billion, nine hundred and eight million, nine hundred and five thousand pounds A long lease is one with an unexpired term in excess of 50 years.
