STRATEGic PRiORiTiES PERFORMANcE PRiORiTiES iN 2012 13 iN 2012 13 OWNiNG THE RiGHT Owning properties that are tailored refurbishments at canalot Studios and complete three further F ailure to meet customer PROPERTiES THAT ARE to our customers needs Whitechapel completed.
refurbishment schemes with a space and service TAiLORED TO OUR cUSTOMERS complete refurbishment of Six refurbishment schemes commenced fourth due to complete in 2014. expectations.
NEEDS AND iNTENSiVELy canalot Studios.
ft. of which commence three refurbishment External macroeconomic MANAGiNG THESE PROPERTiES commence a further six chester house Phase 2 and Leyton schemes.
factors influence the demand TO DRiVE OccUPANcy refurbishment schemes.
Progress further schemes through for our accommodation.
Like-for-like occupancy up from 87.7% design phase.
Focus on driving pricing as Like-for-like rent roll growth of 9%.
MAXiMiSiNG THE VALUE Repositioning and redevelopment taylor Wimpey appointed as developer Obtain planning consent for Tower adverse planning decisions.
OF OUR LONDON bASED appoint developers for the mixed for Grand union.
Peabody appointed bridge, Poplar and Faircharm.
construction cost and PROPERTy PORTFOLiO AND use redevelopment schemes at Bow.
Make planning applications for programme over runs.
iTS WiDER OPPORTUNiTiES at Grand union in Kensington Planning and applications made at three further schemes.
Do wnturn in the London FOR REPOSiTiONiNG AND and Bow.
tower Bridge and Faircharm comprising Appoint fide velopment partners property market.
Progress planning consent for 948 apartments and 112,000 sq.
ft. of for Tower bridge and Faircharm.
mixed use schemes at a further commercial space.
Successful repositioning at canalot Drive value from continued Studios and Parkhall driving occupancy and rent roll growth.
underlying property valuation up 8% in the year.
UNDERSTANDiNG OUR Enhancing our brand responding three new club Workspace continue the roll out and evolution F ailure to meet customer cUSTOMERS AND ENHANciNG to customers needs co-working lounges opened.
of the club Workspace brand.
OUR bRAND by RESPONDiNG roll out the club Workspace club Workspace revenue growth broaden the range of services the performance of our TO THEiR NEEDS.
format at four additional centres.
offered under our digital platform.
continue the roll out of our Digital roll out of digital platform providing P osition Workspace as the Programme meeting the needs of a high quality business grade service preferred choice for fast our digital business customers.
with the same flexibility of our growing businesses.
Develop inspiresme as a valued lease terms.
platform for advice and support to new and growing businesses.
WORkiNG SUSTAiNAbLy AS Sustainable working inspiresme week placed 20 young To develop cSR a policy for F ailure to meet regulatory PART OF EVERyDAy bUSiNESS continue support of charities people in work experience.
engaging with and encouraging environmental requirements.
FOR US, OUR cUSTOMERS AND which promote entrepreneurship.
urban 20 cricket giving experience school leavers and graduates into introduction of new OUR PARTNERS.
Working with customers to lower at the Kia Oval cricket Ground for 200 entrepreneurship.
requirements causing additional our carbon footprint.
Demonstrate tangible savings in costs or inhibiting lettings.
Ensure that our development refurbishment schemes achieving carbon emissions.
activities conform with the highest very good BrEEam Building research Develop charity strategy.
environmental and sustainability Establishment Environmental regulations and best practice.
continued liaison with customers in helping to reduce our carbon emissions.
08 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Review of operations 01-26 Governance 27-61 Financial statements 62-95 Shareholder information 96-100 PRiORiTiES kEy FOR 2013 14 RiSkS OWNiNG THE RiGHT Owning properties that are tailored refurbishments at canalot Studios and complete three further Failure to meet customer PROPERTiES THAT ARE to our customers needs Whitechapel completed.
iPD Performance OF OUR LONDON bASED appoint developers for the mixed for Grand union.
2013 iTS WiDER OPPORTUNiTiES at Grand union in Kensington Planning and applications made at three further schemes.
Downturn in the London 13.8% FOR REPOSiTiONiNG AND and Bow.
tower Bridge and Faircharm comprising Appoint development partners property market.
3.2% mixed use schemes at a further commercial space.
underlying property valuation up 8% 2012 in the year.
13.4% 6.3% UNDERSTANDiNG OUR Enhancing our brand responding three new club Workspace continue the roll out and evolution Failure to meet customer cUSTOMERS AND ENHANciNG to customers needs co-working lounges opened.
OUR bRAND by RESPONDiNG roll out the club Workspace club Workspace revenue growth broaden the range of services the performance of our 2011 TO THEiR NEEDS.
continue the roll out of our Digital roll out of digital platform providing Position Workspace as the 11.7% Programme meeting the needs of a high quality business grade service preferred choice for fast our digital business customers.
11.2% Develop inspiresme as a valued lease terms.
Workspace Group PLC IPD Universe quarterly WORkiNG SUSTAiNAbLy AS Sustainable working inspiresme week placed 20 young To develop cSR a policy for Failure to meet regulatory PART OF EVERyDAy bUSiNESS continue support of charities people in work experience.
RELATED iNFORMATiON PRiNciPAL bUSiNESS RiSkS P. 22 Workspace Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 09
