Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance Directors Report The Directors submit their report and the audited accounts of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2013.
Principal activities, business review and future developments The Groups activities during the year were focused on the food sector.
A review of the business and future development of the Group and a discussion of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the Group is presented in the Chairmans Statement, Review of Activities and the Group Operating and Financial Review on pages 2 to 16.
Results and dividends 2013 2012 000 000 Profit before tax 47,439 48,351 Taxation 11,198 10,871 Profit for the year 36,241 37,480 Interim dividend per share paid on 25 January 2013 9.4p 9.0p Final dividend per share proposed 20.6p 19.5p Total dividend 14.5m 13.7m Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid in cash or scrip form on 6 September 2013 to members on the register at the close of business on 5 July 2013.
The shares will go ex-dividend on 3 July 2013.
Events after the balance sheet Financial instruments Directors and their interests date The Groups risk management objectives Details of the Directors beneficial interests and policy are discussed in the Group in the ordinary shares of the Company and On 29 April 2013, the Group acquired 100 Operating and Financial Review on pages 8 in share options over the ordinary share per cent of the issued share capital of East to 16. capital of the Company are included in the Anglian Pigs Limited now renamed Wayland Remuneration Committee Report on pages Farms Limited for a net cash consideration 42 and 43. of 10.7 million.
The principal activities of East Anglian Pigs Limited are pig breeding, In accordance with the recommendations rearing and finishing.
The acquisition gives of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all the Group greater control over its supply Directors, apart from Patrick Farnsworth, chain.
Further details are provided in note will stand for re-election at the forthcoming 30.
Major Shareholders The Company has been informed of the following significant holdings of voting rights in the ordinary shares of the Company: At 31 March 2013 Number of shares % of issued share capital Invesco Perpetual 14,172,969 29.21 Legal & General Investment Management 2,388,220 4.92 Aberforth Partners 2,079,164 4.28 Jupiter Asset Management 1,794,035 3.70 Ruffer 1,752,272 3.61 There have been no notifications of any significant changes to these shareholdings as at 20 May 2013.
Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2013 | 25 sell treasury shares for cash in connection colour, ethnic or natural origin, nationality, Share capital structure with a rights issue.
This is in addition sex, religion, marital or disabled status.
to the authority to allot shares and the Full consideration is given to applications The Company has one class of shares, disapplication of pre-emption rights for employment by and the continuing being ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
contained in the authorities mentioned employment, training and career The allotted and fully paid up share capital above.
The nominal value of ordinary development of disabled people.
There are no special shares which the Directors may allot in rights pertaining to any of the shares in the period up to the next Annual General issue.
Payment policy Meeting, to be held on 29 July 2013, is limited to 1,601,457 which represented The Directors of Cranswick plc have received The Group does not have a formal policy approximately 33 per cent of the Companys limited authority to disapply Shareholders that it follows with regard to payments to issued ordinary share capital excluding pre-emption rights in certain circumstances, suppliers.
Payment terms are agreed with treasury shares as at 31 May 2012.
The to authorise the Company to buy back a each supplier and every endeavour is made Directors do not have any present intention proportion of the Companys share capital to adhere to the agreed terms.
The average of exercising this authority and power.
This and to allow the Directors to allot shares.
credit terms for the Group, based on the authority will expire at the end of the Annual Further resolutions will be placed before the year-end trade creditors figure and a 365 General Meeting to be held on 29 July 2013.
Annual General Meeting to be held on 29 day year, are 39 days.
The average credit July 2013 to renew these powers.
taken by our customers on a similar basis is To buy own shares 29 days.
At the last Annual General Meeting the This authority allows the Company to buy Directors received authority from the Essential Contracts its own shares in the market, as permitted Shareholders to: under the Articles of Association of the It is imperative that Cranswick is able to Company, up to a limit of 10 per cent of the source its high quality raw materials at the Allot Shares Companys issued share capital.
The price most competitive prices and to this end the to be paid for any share must not be less Company has numerous contracts in place This gives Directors the authority to allot than 10 pence, being the nominal value of for these supplies.
While these contracts authorised but unissued shares and a share, and must not exceed 105 per cent are collectively essential to the business, no maintains the flexibility in respect of the of the average middle market quotations single contract or supplier is critical to the Companys financing arrangements.
The for the ordinary shares of the Company as Companys business.
nominal value of ordinary shares which the derived from the London Stock Exchange Directors may allot in the period up to the Daily Official List for the 5 business days The Company also has strong relationships next Annual General Meeting, to be held on immediately preceding the day on which with certain major retailers to supply them 29 July 2013, is limited to 1,601,457 which the ordinary shares are purchased.
represented approximately 33 per cent of Directors have no immediate plans to the issued share capital excluding treasury exercise the powers of the Company to Charitable Donations shares as at 31 May 2012.
The Directors do purchase its own shares and undertake that not have any present intention of exercising the authority would only be exercised if the As part of the Groups commitment to this authority other than in connection with Directors were satisfied that a purchase the communities in which it operates, the issue of ordinary shares in respect of would result in an increase in expected contributions totalling 40,000 were made the scrip dividend offer and the Companys earnings per share and was in the best during the year to local charities and share option plans.
This authority will expire interests of the Company at the time.
at the end of the Annual General Meeting to authority will expire at the end of the Annual be held on 29 July 2013.
General Meeting to be held on 29 July 2013.
Auditors The Directors would consider holding any of Disapplication of rights of its own shares that it purchases pursuant to A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP this authority as treasury shares.
pre-emption as independent external auditors will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The Company did not repurchase any This disapplies rights of pre-emption on the shares during the year and at the year end allotment of shares by the Company and the Group held no treasury shares.
Directors statement as to the sale by the Company of treasury shares.
The authority will allow the Directors to allot disclosure of information to The Company is not aware of any equity securities for cash pursuant to the auditors agreements between Shareholders that authority to allot shares mentioned above, may result in restrictions on the transfer of and to sell treasury shares for cash, on a The Directors who were members of the securities and for voting rights.
pro rata basis to existing Shareholders but Board at the time of approving the Directors subject to any exclusion or arrangements Report are listed on page 24.
Having made There are no restrictions on the transfer as the Directors consider necessary enquiries of fellow Directors and of the of ordinary shares in the Company other or expedient in relation to fractional Companys auditors, each of these Directors than where certain restrictions may entitlements, any legal, regulatory or confirm that: apply from time to time, on the Board of practical problems or costs under the laws Directors and other senior executive staff, or regulations of any overseas territory or to the best of each Directors which is imposed by laws and regulations the requirements of any regulatory body or knowledge and belief, there is no relating to insider trading laws and market stock exchange and otherwise on a pro rata information relevant to the preparation requirements relating to close periods.
basis up to an aggregate nominal amount of their report of which the Companys of 240,219, representing 5 per cent of the auditors are unaware: and Companys issued share capital as 31 May Employment policies 2012.
This authority will expire at the end of each Director has taken all the steps a the Annual General Meeting to be held on The Groups policy on employee involvement Director might reasonably be expected 29 July 2013. is to adopt an open management style, to have taken to be aware of relevant thereby encouraging informal consultation audit information and to establish that at all levels about aspects of the Groups Allot shares and disapply prethe Companys auditors are aware of operations.
Employees participate directly in that information.
emption rights in connection with a the success of the business by participation rights issue in the SAYE share option schemes.
This authorises the Directors to allot Employment policies are designed to relevant securities and empowers the provide equal opportunities irrespective of Directors to allot equity securities and to 26 | Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2013 Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance In the event that the Court sanctions a this Report and Accounts, and covers the Change of control scheme of arrangement under Part 26 of Directors authority to allot shares, the the Companies Act 2006 in connection with partial disapplication of pre-emption rights There are no agreements that the Company a scheme for the Companys reconstruction and the authority for the Company to buy its considers significant and to which the or amalgamation with another company, own shares.
Company is party that would take effect, award holders under the LTIP may exercise alter or terminate upon change of control of their awards during the six month period the Company following a takeover bid other Directors Responsibility commencing on the date upon which the than the following: Statement scheme of arrangement is sanctioned by the Court.
The LTIP also contains provisions The Company is party to a number of Each of the Directors listed on page 24 enabling award holders to exercise their banking agreements which upon a change confirms that to the best of their knowledge: awards if a person becomes entitled to of control of the Company are terminable by issue a compulsory acquisition notice under the bank upon the provision of 10 working the Financial Statements, prepared in the provisions relating to the compulsory days notice, and there are no agreements accordance with IFRS as adopted by the acquisition of a company set out in the between the Company and its Directors European Union, give a true and fair Companies Act 2006.
The period allowed for or employees providing for compensation review of the assets, liabilities, financial exercise in these circumstances is any time for loss of office or employment whether position and results of Cranswick up to the seventh day before the final day through resignation, purported redundancy and its subsidiaries included in the upon which that person remains entitled to or otherwise that occurs because of a consolidation taken as a whole: and serve such a notice.
takeover bid other than as stated in the Remuneration Committee Report relating to the Directors Report and the Business In each case, the proportion of the awards Martin Davey and Bernard Hoggarth.
Review include a fair review of the which are capable of exercise depends development and performance of on the extent to which the performance Long Term Incentive Plan the business and the position of targets as adjusted or amended have been Cranswick and its subsidiaries included satisfied.
In the event of a general offer being made to in the consolidation taken as a whole, acquire part or all of the issued share capital together with a description of the Articles of Association of the Company as a result of which the principal risks and uncertainties that offeror may acquire control of the Company, they face.
The Companys Articles of Association may award holders under the Cranswick plc only be amended by a special resolution at a Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP will have an By order of the Board general meeting of the Shareholders.
opportunity to exercise their awards either: Annual General Meeting and 1. immediately before the time at which the change of control of the Special Business to be transacted Company occurs or any condition at the Annual General Meeting subject to which the offer is made has been satisfied Take-over Date The notice convening the Annual General but conditional on the Take-over Malcolm Windeatt Meeting can be found in the separate Notice Date occurring, if the Remuneration Company Secretary of Annual General Meeting accompanying Committee issues a written notice in this Report and Accounts.
advance of the Take-over Date to award 20 May 2013 holders: or Details of the Special Business to be transacted at the Annual General Meeting 2. at any time within six months following Company number: 1074383 are contained in the separate letter from the Take-over Date, in any other case.
the Chairman which also accompanies Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2013 | 27
