Review of Activities Adam Couch - Chief Executive In my first annual report as Chief Executive it is pleasing to report significant growth across the business, driven by Cranswicks continued focus on premium quality food products, supplied from efficient, modern, well invested facilities.
Reported sales increased by 7 per cent with sales, excluding the contribution from Kingston Foods, increasing by 5 per cent.
This was particularly pleasing given the previous year benefited from the inclusion of an extra week.
The business has faced a number of challenges over the last twelve months, and none more so than the continuing inflationary pressures on pig producers driven by high feed prices.
These pressures led to record pig prices, with the price peaking in December 2012 at 161 pence per kilogramme.
These record input costs were met with positive action by the Group, its producers and retail customers.
This action should lead to longer term, more strategic pricing arrangements which will allow the industry to better manage volatile cereal and soya costs, the major constituents of animal feed, that have been experienced in the last two years.
The business has managed the upward of the financial year, with new business period.
Logistically this can be extremely pressure on pig prices, partly through the from two of the Groups key retail challenging, but the Company continues support of the Groups customers, but also customers added, which could only be to successfully meet its customers through the operational efficiencies which accommodated by the addition of a new demanding expectations.
The Hull facility, have developed following the significant retail packing facility.
An existing food grade which now has weekly capacity in excess investment in the business infrastructure facility, situated in Hull, East Yorkshire, in of 700 tonnes and is capable of producing over the past 5 years.
This expenditure, proximity to the Groups largest fresh pork 11 million sausages each week, still very totalling 125 million, has been made on processing plant, was acquired in January much embodies the Groups premium improving and expanding the primary and commissioned only one month later.
Producing high quality products processing, sausage, cooked meats and The Hull fresh pork site now has capacity to such a scale is achieved through an bacon facilities and most recently in to process 30,000 pigs each week and unstinting focus on quality and continual developing a new pastry production unit on this facility is supported by the Groups reference back to the artisan origins of a green field site at Malton, North Yorkshire, second fresh pork site in Norfolk which these premium product ranges.
This which was commissioned in May this is capable of processing 18,000 pigs each methodology, so successful in growing the year.
This investment has delivered first week.
Both are of significant importance premium gourmet sausage business, has class operations with sufficient headroom to the local farming communities in each been used to great effect in developing to meet the demands of the Groups region as the majority of pigs processed a range of premium beef burgers.
These customers at peak times whilst improving are sourced from within a 50 mile radius of products incorporate whole cuts of prime operating efficiencies and maintaining the respective sites.
The Hull and Norfolk traceable British beef with a homemade the quality standards expected by the operations have both benefited from appearance and texture using only the Companys stakeholders.
The issues faced gaining direct export approval to China finest ingredients.
Sales of beef burgers by the wider meat industry, which broke in and more recently to Australia.
Export grew strongly in the year and contributed January 2013, are a timely reminder of how sales, which have increased by 9 per cent in to the increase in overall sales in this fragile the supply chain in the food sector volume terms over the last twelve months, category.
Cranswick is immensely now account for 5 per cent of the Groups proud of the work done in conjunction revenues.
Sixteen 25 tonne containers Sales of premium hand-cured, air-dried with its suppliers and customers in this are shipped to the Far East each week and bacon were ahead by 13 per cent.
The area which place the business in a strong shipment of premium cuts to Australia is unique nature of this process has gained position to further develop supplier and imminent.
wide acclaim and features in all but one of customer relationships.
Integrated, tighter the major retailers top tier offerings.
New and more transparent supply chains are Sausage sales increased by 10 per cent.
products have also been developed in the expected to be a feature going forward and This was a pleasing performance given the gammon category which offers consumers Cranswick has taken positive action in this inclement summer weather experienced further premium cuts which were area through the acquisition of East Anglian in 2012.
Further investment in the previously unavailable.
The bacon facility, Pigs Limited EAP.
Groups gourmet sausage facility in Hull at Sherburn-in-Elmet, near Leeds, has seen ensured that excellent service levels were further investment this year through the Fresh pork had a strong year with sales achieved in the peak production periods, latest laser slicing technology to further growing by 5 per cent.
This growth was particularly in the lead up to Christmas, improve efficiencies, increase throughput particularly marked in the last quarter which is Cranswicks busiest trading speeds and provide additional capacity to accommodate peak production periods.
Cooked meat sales continue to perform Revenue growth by category strongly with sales ahead of the previous year by 11 per cent.
Growth was supported by significant business wins during the final Fresh pork 5% Cooked meats 11% quarter.
This additional business will have greater impact in the forthcoming year.
The hand-cured, air-dried premium ham Sausage 10% Continental products 7% range, developed last year for one of the Groups key retail customers, in conjunction with the Hull fresh pork and Sherburn Bacon 13% Sandwiches 7% sites, has continued to gain market share.
This range sets a new standard in terms 4 | Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2013 Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Shareholder Information Business Review Governance of visual appearance and taste utilising the year by supplying meal solutions to key and this is a common theme throughout premium RSPCA Freedom Foods accredited sporting events over the summer period, all the Groups operations.
There was further investment including the Olympic opening and closing express my thanks for their dedication, help in production capacity during the year, ceremonies.
In addition, a number of and support in the last twelve months.
with the addition of a 2,000 square metre operational changes have been made which extension to the Sutton Fields facility in will further improve the site performance Porks value proposition remains strong, Hull, which increased capacity by 50 per by driving efficiencies through cost particularly compared to both beef cent and was commissioned in advance of reduction and range simplification.
This together with its health the peak Christmas trading period.
Growth attributes and versatility allied to the was further supported by the acquisition The gourmet pastry facility was completed Groups knowledge and understanding of of Kingston Foods earlier in the financial in May this year and will offer an extended both its customers and the UK consumer, year.
Adjusting for the contribution to sales range of premium pastry products to leave Cranswick well positioned to continue from Kingston Foods in the period since complement the all butter pastry sausage its growth strategy.
acquisition, underlying sales increased by 6 roll and the Yorkish Pasty ranges which per cent.
established Cranswick in this market.
The new state of the art facility extends to 5,000 Sales of continental products, which were 7 square metres and employs technology per cent lower than the previous year, held unrivalled in the sector.
New products up extremely well considering the loss of will include quiches and hot pies, with business with a major retail customer over one of the Groups major high street retail the last two years.
New products have been customers as the anchor customer.
Pastry introduced including a range of olives under sales grew strongly during the year.
With Adam Couch the Bodega brand and new listings of filled the new Malton facility now commissioned Chief Executive fresh pasta with one of the Groups major and new customers and products being 20 May 2013 retail customers.
New customers have also added, the business is well positioned to been added with sales to one of the retail continue its positive development.
Alongside these developments, sales of Cranswicks growth has been driven core products, including corned beef, have through a pursuit of excellence in quality remained extremely resilient.
food products allied to an unstinting focus on driving operational efficiencies Sandwich sales increased by 7 per cent throughout the Groups operations.
against the backdrop of a competitive Aligned to this, a more vertically integrated market.
New sandwich platter business approach is now being developed, given the secured with one of the major multiples UK consumers concern with food safety, will drive top line growth in the coming provenance and traceability.
This approach year and this follows a move into the was evidenced by the Companys recently convenience retail sector during the last 12 announced acquisition of EAP.
Sales were also boosted during The successful development of the business has only been possible through the skill and determination of Cranswicks colleagues Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2013 | 5
