Our Strategy Our overarching strategic goal is to be a global team serving our customers with superior and differentiated technologies.
To guide the direction of our strategy, we have established a set of principles and objectives.
Strategic Principles Key Strategic Objectives To consolidate our global leadership as the number one supplier of Our strategic objectives build on how we create value and represent speciality ingredients from natural and sustainable sources to our specific points of focus within each of our business model areas.
broader context involves many more goals and initiatives, again in each of the business model areas, all of which will help to make us a partner of To target niche markets that are growing rapidly and where customers choice for our customers.
To help us measure our progress against the value our innovation.
strategic objectives outlined here, we have established clear targets and To supply customers both large and small and continue to expand our Key Performance Indicators KPIs, which you will find detailed on page 22. direct selling model globally.
To work as one global team to deliver outstanding results.
Employees Infrastructure Key strategic objective: Key strategic objective: Recruit, motivate and retain high-calibre Expansion into emerging markets employees Emerging markets present us with a huge Our employees are central to our success.
We are opportunity for growth.
We need to align ourselves a knowledge business so finding the right people closely with customers in these markets to is not easy.
When we do recruit new talent we become their partner of choice, which means for need to keep it within our Group by: each such market: Being seen as an employer of choice: Increasing our manufacturing footprint: and Providing a balanced rewards package and career development Scaling up our resources.
opportunities: and To read more about our emerging market opportunities and our wider Creating a strong culture of effective performance management.
focus on ensuring that we have the right processes in the right places, please turn to page 10.
To read more about our People strategy, please turn to page 32.
Regulatory Sustainability Key strategic objective: Key strategic objective: Develop and improve the effectiveness of our Minimise our environmental impact SHEQ Safety, Health, Environmental and The ever-increasing demand for more sustainable Quality systems products and manufacturing processes fits We have a dedicated SHEQ committee that meets perfectly with the natural chemistry that spans every quarter to: every facet of our business.
We are continually seeking to make our products and processes Review our SHEQ risks: more sustainable through: Report on how SHEQ is being controlled and managed: and Sourcing renewable raw materials: Monitor defined and agreed KPIs.
Driving down energy and water use throughout all our manufacturing This is all part of our wider risk management framework.
and business operations: For more details please turn to page 24.
Reducing waste to landfill: and Increasing our use of renewable energy.
Our broader sustainability strategy also encompasses our long-term business sustainability and social responsibility.
To read more about our sustainability performance, please turn to page 28.
See SR 16 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Chairmans Statement Chief Executives Statement Who We Are & What We Do How We Operate Where We Operate Our Market Place Our Business Model Our Strategy Our Executive Team How We Performed Our Risks Our Sustainability Agenda Customer Intimacy Stakeholder Value Key strategic objective: Key strategic objective: Increase barriers to entry Increase shareholder value We become our customers partner of choice by: At Croda, we aim to create value for shareholders through improved returns and capital growth.
Understanding their needs and innovating to These objectives will be achieved by remaining satisfy those needs: true to our strategic principles and objectives, Becoming an essential part of their team: and including: Differentiating ourselves from the competition Successful new product development: through our excellence, knowledge, quality, service, Ever-closer customer alignment: loyalty, and trust.
An increasing focus on emerging markets: and All of these ways of creating value increase the barriers for competitors to enter our markets.
Customer Intimacy also means moving geographically closer to our The way we increase customer and consumer value is through our customers.
To read more, please turn to page 8.
Innovation and Customer Intimacy objectives.
Innovation Investment Key strategic objective: Our entire strategy is underpinned by constant, targeted investment.
To continue to succeed, to Increase new product innovation fight decline in our existing markets and to achieve We are targeting our fastest growth from focused penetration in emerging markets, we will target new product launches into new niches: all driven 70% of our spend at: by the powerful mega trends shaping our markets Increasing capacity in our major product groups: see page 13.
Our strategy is to: Capturing new technology, including investing in Ensure that we have the technical resources in biotechnology at our UK Ditton site and acquiring IRB in 2012. place, in terms of talented chemists, biochemists Biotechnology is a potentially disruptive process technology that can be and engineers: used as a route to more sustainable existing products and complex Accelerate the capture of new technologies through external materials that cannot be produced using classical chemical processes: acquisitions: and Escalate our major internal innovation projects: and Reducing energy, including investment into solar power, reducing water Maximise the potential of new patents across our international selling use and the amount of waste sent to landfill.
We will be looking to significantly increase our levels of capital expenditure To read more about how Croda delivers innovation, please turn to page 8. per year into technology investments, including mergers and acquisitions, and investments into emerging markets, as prioritised by our strategy.
Growth Stakeholder Feedback To provide our shareholders, customers and Key strategic objective: consumers with the sustainable value they seek Maintain an efficient balance sheet and expect, we need to understand their needs in and ensure profitability great detail.
Feedback is an essential part of this We aim to achieve this through: and we are continually gathering information from ensuring that the new business we bring in all our stakeholders to input into every area of our generates growth: business model.
focusing on higher returns for greater profitability: putting all forms of funding to the most effective use: and making sure we have ready access to cost-effective, flexible funding.
