STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Our Board Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Other Disclosures Other Committees The management of the business is delegated by the Board to the Group Group SHEQ Steering Committee Chief Executive.
He utilises a number of Committees to assist him in this The Committee meets quarterly to monitor progress against the Group task.
With effect from July 2013, several changes were made to the SHEQ objectives and targets, review safety performance and audits, and Executive-level Committees.
The Finance Committee was disbanded, with determine the requirement for new or revised SHEQ policies, procedures its responsibilities being transferred to the Executive Committee.
It was also and objectives.
considered appropriate that the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Routine Business Committee Director join the Group SHEQ Steering Committee and the Group Chief The Committee comprises the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Executive join the Risk Management Committee.
The role of each of the Director, with the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary and Executive-level Committees is set out below together with a table showing Group Financial Controller acting as alternates.
The Committee may make the membership of each Committee during 2013. decisions with one Executive Director and the alternate for the other Group Executive Committee Executive Director being present.
It attends to business of a routine nature The Committee meets monthly and is responsible for developing and and to the administration of matters, the principles of which have been implementing strategy, operational plans, policies, procedures and agreed previously by the Board or the Group Executive Committee.
budgets, monitoring operating and financial performance, assessing and controlling risk and prioritising and allocating resources.
The Committee also reviews the monthly operating results, identifies operational and risk issues, and examines capital expenditure proposals.
Risk Management Committee The Committees role is to evaluate, propose policies and monitor processes to control the business, operational and compliance risks faced by the Group.
It normally meets four times a year.
Group Executive Risk Management Group SHEQ Steering Committee membership Committee Committee Committee 1 Steve Foots Group Chief Executive Stuart Arnott President Global Operations David Barraclough President Asia Pacific Sandra Breene President Consumer Care Europe Tom Brophy Group General Counsel and Company Secretary 2 Sean Christie Group Finance Director Nick Challoner President Latin America Kevin Gallagher President North America Maarten Heybroek President Performance Technologies & Industrial Chemicals Europe Keith Layden Chief Technology Officer Graham Myers Group Financial Controller 1 2 Chairman Member Joined the Risk Management and Group SHEQ Steering Committees in July 2013 Joined the Group SHEQ Steering Committee in July 2013 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 51
