STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Our Board Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Other Disclosures Recruitment and Promotion Policy For Executive Director recruitment and or promotion situations, the Committee will follow the guidelines outlined below: Remuneration Element Policy Base Salary Base salary levels will be set in accordance with the Groups remuneration policy, taking into account the experience and calibre of the individual e. g. typically around market rates prevalent in companies of comparable size and complexity.
Salary levels may be set below this level e. g. if the individual was promoted to the Board.
Where it is appropriate to offer a below market rate of pay initially, a series of increases to the desired salary positioning may be given over the proceeding few years subject to individual performance.
Above market salaries may also be offered if the experience and calibre of the candidate is considered to justify such an approach being taken by the Committee.
Benefits Benefits in accordance with the current policy.
In addition, where necessary, the Committee may approve the payment of relocation expenses to facilitate recruitment.
Pension A Company pension contribution or cash supplement in accordance with the current policy.
Annual Bonus The annual bonus would operate in accordance with the current policy in terms of the maximum opportunity and performance targets, albeit pro-rated for the period of employment.
Any increases in ongoing annual bonus opportunity above the normal policy limit will be contingent on the Company receiving shareholder approval for an amendment to its approved policy.
Long-Term Incentives Share awards will be granted in accordance with the current policy.
An award may be made shortly after an appointment subject to the Company not being in a prohibited period.
For an internal hire, existing awards would continue over their original vesting period and remain subject to their terms as at the date of grant.
The maximum on-going annual award level is as per the current policy.
Buy-Out Awards In the case of an external hire and in exceptional circumstances, if it is necessary to buy-out incentive pay or benefit arrangements which would be forfeited on leaving the previous employer, this would be provided for taking into account the form cash or shares, timing and expected value i. e. likelihood of meeting any existing performance criteria of the remuneration being forfeited.
Replacement share awards, if used, will be granted using the Companys existing share plans within the limits detailed in the current policy table to the extent possible, although awards may also be granted outside of these schemes if necessary and as permitted under the Listing Rules.
Directors service contracts and payments for loss of office insurance and life assurance.
Annual bonuses and long-term incentives Executive Directors service contracts are terminable by the Company on are non-contractual and are dealt with in accordance with the rules of the up to one years notice and by the Director on at least six months notice.
In respect of termination, the Committees policy is to deal with each case on The Committees policy is also for contracts to contain provisions which its merits, in accordance with the law and any further policy adopted by the enable it to terminate contracts at any time with immediate effect.
The Committee at the time.
In the event of early termination, other than for Executive Director would be entitled to receive compensation equivalent to cause, the relevant Directors then current salary and contractual benefits up to twelve months salary plus the value of their pension benefits would be taken into account in calculating any liability of the Company.
For currently valued at 20% of basic salary and the value of other benefits, clarification, the Companys policy is that no entitlement to unearned bonus payable in equal monthly instalments over the full notice period or, if less, will be taken into account when determining payments on early termination.
the remainder of any notice period not yet completed.
Such payments The principal contractual benefits provided in addition to salary are the would discontinue or reduce to the extent that alternative employment is provision of a car or car allowance, private fuel, pension, medical obtained.
