Our Sustainability Agenda Sustainability is not just one part of our business, it is integral to everything we do.
From the raw materials we source and the way we use them, to the ingredients we create and the people who produce them, we adopt a truly holistic approach.
As we move closer to our customers across the world, expanding within Our Responsibility existing and emerging markets, we must continue to manage our business across the triple bottom line, as a product or service can only be In 2011, we established our Materiality Matrix, mapping the most significant considered truly sustainable when the demands of economy, environment sustainability issues to our business success against their importance to and society are met.
We will do this by continuing to: our stakeholders.
This evolved in 2012, and in 2013 we held a Strategy Review to progress a longer-term sustainability programme aligned with invest in truly global and profitable innovation that drives long-term our business strategy.
growth and business sustainability: innovate our products and technology platforms, and responsibly The Review used the Business in the Community BITC Forces for Change manage our raw materials and supply chains, so that we continue to FFC framework to identify global drivers that could affect our business and minimise our environmental impact: sustainability strategy.
Preparation was completed across our business with input on the potential opportunities and risks that the global drivers set consistent safety and environmental impact standards across our present to our future business success provided by our Executive global operations, in order to provide a safe and healthy working Committee, senior Leadership Development Group, regional middle environment: management networks, and current and past Graduate Trainees.
value a diverse and inclusive workforce and provide tailored development opportunities to enable all employees to reach their full Our Global Drivers of Change and Opportunity potential: These are the global drivers that our Strategy Review established as the most important to our business and that have an input into and impact ensure fair and equitable employment conditions, providing a upon our whole value chain.
They are a challenge to our business, but also stimulating working environment based on respect and partnership: an incredible opportunity for future growth.
be sensitive towards the communities in which we operate and proactively involve ourselves in local initiatives, with a focus on Mass population growth, ageing and polarisation community education projects relating to the nature of our business: Shifts in global economy go beyond compliance, where relevant, to work with legislative and Changing climate industry bodies, as we strive for demanding standards that reduce Scarcity of natural resources environmental and social impacts and improve quality: and Changing expectations and behaviours use all relevant media available to develop open and transparent Challenging legal and regulatory environments.
communication pathways with key stakeholders to help address our Material Areas.
Our 10 Material Areas Reaching across all aspects of our business, these 10 Material Areas address the global drivers that are most significant to our future Corporate business success.
They are an evolution of our 2012 Material Issues, Process Safety & Knowledge now at the core of our longer-term sustainability activity, against which Stewardship we report our performance.
Health, Safety & Diversity Environmental Product Design Wellbeing & Inclusion Impact Product Community Policy & Talent Acquisition Stewardship Education Regulation & Management & Involvement 28 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013
