k c a b d e s e e e F y r o e l p d l m o E h e k a t S Our Business Model Our changing marketplace offers opportunities for growth and success.
By harnessing and maximising the potential of these opportunities, we create value for our business and shareholders.
How we Create Value What is a business model?
For us, it is how we structure our business to The customer is at the heart of this model.
We respond to our customers deliver our strategy.
It shows how, through constant investment in our unmet needs by building intimate relationships with them.
This enables us people, manufacturing sites, processes and technology platforms, we can to develop innovative ingredients that create value for our customers and achieve greater growth and success.
Regulatory The external influences that are crucial to our business operations.
Employees Talented individuals working as one team across the globe.
Innovation Infrastructure The right processes and premises in the right places.
Customer Stakeholder Growth Intimacy Value Stakeholder Feedback The process of understanding shareholder, customer and Sustainability consumer needs is a crucial and ongoing part of our business model.
P22 Innovation Customer Intimacy Sustainability Key Performance Indicators Capturing leading-edge Moving ever closer to our Sourcing renewable raw P24 Our Risks technologies, knowledge and customers, in terms of location, materials, developing responsible expertise, and building rich knowledge and understanding, manufacturing processes, looking patent portfolios.
to better identify and respond to after our people and the their needs.
communities in which we operate.
14 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 S t a k e h o l d e r I n F f e r e a s d t b r u a c c t k u r e Investment y r o t a l u g e R STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Chairmans Statement Chief Executives Statement Who We Are & What We Do How We Operate Where We Operate Our Market Place Our Business Model Our Strategy Our Executive Team How We Performed Our Risks Our Sustainability Agenda Investment Growth Stakeholder Value Centred on niche market focus, Constant investment and We strive to deliver greater value to our shareholders, with a commitment to specialisation of Performance innovation, supported by the right financial growth and high returns.
Technologies, new technology people, using the right processes We deliver value to our customers and their consumers through highcapture, expansion in high-growth and the right materials in the right quality ingredients based on market-leading innovation.
markets and development of places, allows us to achieve our people.
We create sustainable value by minimising our environmental impact, investing in our people and communities, and through our renewable ingredients.
How we Protect Value Having created value, it is crucial that we identify and effectively manage We then put in place measures and controls to effectively manage risk the risks that could have an adverse affect on our business model and and protect the value we create.
prevent us from achieving our strategic objectives see pages 16 and 17.
Our risk management framework, including the key risks we have At the heart of this lies our ability to operate sustainably, safely and legally: identified in 2013, are managed in line with our business model and are if we cannot do this we risk not having a business at all.
We identify and discussed on pages 24 to 27. regularly review the key specific risks to our business: those which pose the biggest threat to us.
Increasing Barriers to Entry We protect value by increasing barriers to entry, making it harder for other companies to compete and succeed in our markets.
We achieve this through: Intellectual Property Market Diversity We seek to protect our inventions by the filing of patents covering the No single major competitor services the same breadth of markets that major relevant geographical regions of the world.
This gives us an edge as we can adapt our diverse technologies focus on protecting the applications of our new products so that our and products for a wider range of different niches to maximise their customers are required to purchase from us in order to apply the value.
Sustainability Quality Around 70% of our raw materials come from natural sources, We are helping to shape the regulations that govern quality in our allowing us to capitalise more on the growing desire for natural markets, regulations that can serve as a barrier for those seeking to based ingredients.
We have the ability to comply with and exceed standards, as well as providing the proof of our excellence.
Customer Intimacy Flexible Manufacturing We have our own dedicated, science-focused sales force who As we sell small, but valuable, quantities of products, we do not always understand our customers and are able to develop strong, close have to invest a lot of capital to create value.
We are able to run our relationships with them.
Through our 35 sales offices, virtually all manufacturing sites at lower occupancy levels than for a typical Group turnover is managed directly by our own people.
chemical company thus ensuring that we can be more responsive to our customers needs.
See SR Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 15
