STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Our Board Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Other Disclosures Policy Report This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out the remuneration policy for the Group and has been prepared in accordance with The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Act.
The policy has been developed taking into account the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 the Code and the views of our major shareholders and describes the policy to be applied in relation to the current financial year and future financial years.
The Policy Report will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM and, subject to it receiving majority shareholder support, will be effective immediately from the date of approval for the purposes of complying with the Act i. e. the Effective Date will be the AGM date.
In practice, however, the Committee intends to apply the policy detailed in the Policy Report from the beginning of 2014 and throughout the three-year period that commences from the Effective Date.
Overview of the Remuneration Policy The key objectives of Crodas executive remuneration policy are: To set remuneration structures that are simple and easily communicated to employees and stakeholders: To support a high performance culture through setting stretching performance targets that are linked to the Key Performance Indicators KPIs of the Group which are structured so that they do not encourage undue financial or operational risk-taking or give rise to environmental, social or governance risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour: To ensure a balance between fixed and performance related remuneration with substantial weighting in the overall package on variable pay related to objective measurement of the financial performance of the Group: To give full consideration to the relevant principles on directors remuneration set out in the Code: and To ensure that individual rewards and incentives are comparable with those provided by similar companies having regard to the Groups turnover, business sector and market worth and the need for skills to manage international businesses.
Following a review of remuneration against the above principles during In light of the revisions to the long-term incentive structure, tougher the year, a number of changes were made to the remuneration policy EPS performance targets will apply than those operated for awards to align current practices with the Groups reward objectives.
Relative Total Shareholder Return TSR summary of the changes is set out below with full details following in performance targets will continue to determine vesting of part of the table: future awards.
In relation to both the EPS and TSR targets, a lower proportion of the 1.
A higher annual bonus opportunity for the Group Chief Executive total award will vest in future years for threshold performance 25% 125% of salary from 100% of salary has been introduced.
No as opposed to 30% than has been the case historically.
In addition, a change to the bonus opportunity for other Executive Directors has general financial underpin has been introduced that will enable the taken place.
Committee to reduce the EPS and or TSR vesting result in the event 2.
The approach to deferral of part of annual bonus has been revised that the Committee does not consider this to be reflective of the from bonus earned above 50% of salary, to 33% of any annual underlying financial performance of the Group over the performance bonus earned.
This reduces the amount of cash received by period.
executives at lower levels of performance vis--vis our previous 4.
Future awards granted under the new PSP will be subject to a deferral structure.
minimum holding period on vested shares.
Simplification of the current long-term incentive arrangements, but minimum holding period of one-year applying to long-term incentive with no increase to overall potential quantum.
Our revised policy will awards granted in 2014 and a two-year holding period applying to result in only a single Performance Share Plan PSP operating awards granted thereafter, ensuring the incentive drives truly long subject to shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM as opposed to our term thinking and behaviour amongst our senior executives.
historic approach of operating a LTIP and a BCIP.
Higher share ownership guidelines will operate at 200% of salary for Historically awards of up to 300% of salary were permitted under the the Group Chief Executive and 150% of salary for other Executive 2005 LTIP and 2005 BCIP, although in practice awards were restricted Directors up from the current 100% of salary.
The new PSP will permit awards of up The current revisions are considered appropriate to better support to 200% of salary in normal circumstances 300% in exceptional the Groups current strategy and phase of development and take circumstances such as to compensate in a recruitment situation for due account of recent developments with investors best practice awards forfeited on joining the Company.
