Other Disclosures Pages 34 to 77 inclusive together with the sections of the Annual Report incorporated by reference constitute a Directors Report that has been drawn up and presented in accordance with applicable English company law and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report are subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by that law.
Going concern qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions as defined by section The financial statements which appear on pages 82 to 128 have been 235 of the Companies Act 2006 to a paid director of the corporate trustee prepared on a going concern basis as, after making appropriate enquiries, of the Groups UK pension scheme.
including a review of forecasts, budgets and banking facilities, the Directors Share capital have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have At the date of this report, 139,949,969 ordinary shares of 10 pence each adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the have been issued and are fully paid up and quoted on the London Stock foreseeable future.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary Research and Development shares are set out in the Articles, copies of which can be obtained from Research and development activities are undertaken with the prospect of Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company Secretary.
There gaining new scientific or technical knowledge and understanding.
are no restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares or on the transfer of securities in the Company.
No person holds Profit and dividends securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of The results for the year are set out on pages 82 and 83.
The Directors are the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between recommending a final dividend of 35.5p per share 2012: 32.75p.
If holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of approved by shareholders, total dividends for the year will amount to 64.5p securities or on voting rights.
Details of dividends are shown in note 9 on page 98 and details of the Companys Dividend Reinvestment Plan can Further information which fulfils the requirements of Section 992 of the be found on page 130.
Companies Act 2006 and which should be treated as forming part of this report by reference are included in the following sections of the annual Directors report: The Companys Articles of Association the Articles give the Directors power to appoint and replace Directors.
Under the terms of reference of Details of the structure of the Companys share capital and the rights the Nomination Committee, any appointment must be recommended by attached to the Companys shares are set out on pages 113 and 119. the Nomination Committee for approval by the Board of Directors.
The Details of employee share schemes are set out on pages 113 to 118. present Directors of the Company are shown on pages 34 and 35.
In Power to issue or buy back shares accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code each Director will be At the 2013 AGM, authority was given to the Directors to allot unissued standing for re-election, or election at the AGM.
Details of the Directors shares in the Company up to a maximum amount equivalent to service contracts are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages approximately one third of the issued share capital excluding shares held 59 and 60. in treasury for general purposes, plus up to a further one third of the Apart from the share option schemes, long term incentive schemes and Companys issued share capital excluding shares held in treasury, but service contracts, no Director had any beneficial interest in any contract to only in the case of a rights issue.
No such shares have been issued.
which the Company or a subsidiary was a party during the year.
A further special resolution passed at that meeting granted authority to the A statement indicating the beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the Directors to allot equity securities in the Company for cash, without regard Directors in the share capital of the Company, including share options, is to the pre-emption provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Both these shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 71. authorities expire on the date of the 2014 AGM to be held on 24 April 2014 and so the Directors propose to renew them for a further year.
The Directors are responsible for managing the business of the Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the provisions At last years AGM the members renewed the Companys authority to of relevant statutes, the Companys Memorandum and Articles and any purchase up to 10% of its ordinary shares.
No purchases were made directions given by special resolution.
As a result the Company will be seeking to renew its authority to purchase its own shares at the 2014 AGM.
Shares will only be Directors indemnities purchased if the Board believes that such purchases will improve earnings The Company maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance which per share and be in the best interests of the shareholders generally.
gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its Directors.
The Company has also granted indemnities to each of its Directors and the Company Secretary which represent qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, in relation to certain losses and liabilities which the Directors or Company Secretary may incur to third parties in the course of acting as Directors or Company Secretary or employees of the Company or of any associated company.
In addition such indemnities have been granted to other officers The Directors are 8.4 of the Company who are Directors of subsidiary companies within the recommending a Group.
The Company has also granted an indemnity representing full year dividend of 2012: 59.5p.
64.5p 74 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Our Board Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Other Disclosures It is the Companys intention that any shares purchased will be held as a continued desire of employees to be involved in the Company.
At the date of this report the Company holds 4,168,181 was honoured for best overall performance in fostering employee share shares in treasury.
ownership at the 2012 ifs ProShare awards.
Articles of Association Employees are kept informed of matters of concern to them in a variety of Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles, the Companys ways, including the Crodaway the Company magazine, quarterly Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the Companys updates, Croda Connect the Company intranet, team briefings, webinars shareholders.
and Croda Now email messages.
These communications help achieve a common awareness among employees of the financial and economic Significant contracts and change of control factors affecting the performance of Croda and of changes happening The Group has borrowing facilities which may require the immediate within the business.
Croda is also committed to providing employees with repayment of all outstanding loans together with accrued interest in the opportunities to share their views and provide feedback on issues that are event of a change of control.
The rules of the Companys employee share important to them.
All regions have undertaken an employee survey since plans set out the consequences of a change in control of the Company on 2010.
The largest of these targeting our European employees was participants rights under the plans.
Generally such rights will vest and completed during 2011. become exercisable on a change of control subject to the satisfaction of Sustainability performance conditions.
None of the Executive Directors service contracts contain provisions which are affected by a change of control and there are Sustainability is not just one part of our business, it is integral to everything no other agreements to which the Company is a party which take effect, we do.
You can see just how firmly sustainability is embedded within Croda alter or terminate in the event of a change of control of the Company which from our business model set out on pages 14 and 15.
It reaches across the are considered to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the way we structure our business and develop our strategy: how we interact Group.
with all our stakeholders, including employees, local communities, customers and investors: how we deal with the challenges of policy and The Company does not have any contractual or other arrangements which regulation.
Details of our activities are set out on pages 28 to 33 of this are essential to the business of the Group.
report and more detailed information is available in our separate Sustainability Report, which can be downloaded at www.
Employees Diversity We are committed to the principle of equal opportunity in This holistic approach is supported by our Global CSR Steering Committee employment and to ensuring that no applicant or employee receives less and at all levels of our Company, with ultimate responsibility resting with favourable treatment on the grounds of gender, marital status, race, ethnic our Board of Directors and Executive Committee, and implementation origin, religion, disability, sexuality, age, or is disadvantaged by conditions discussed at all regional and business board meetings.
However, or requirements which cannot be shown to be justified.
Group HR Policies responsibility for shaping and delivering our sustainability strategy does not are clearly communicated to all our employees and are available through just lie with our leaders: it stretches right across our business structure.
Sustainability truly is down to each and every Croda employee, and this is reflected in our internal Our Responsibility brand.
Recruitment & progression It is established policy throughout Croda that decisions on recruitment, career development, promotion and other employment related issues are made solely on the grounds of individual ability, achievement, expertise and conduct.
Croda gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons.
Should an employee become disabled during their It is only through the continuous employment with Croda, they are fully supported by its occupational health provision.
Efforts are made to continue their employment with reasonable development of our employees that we will adjustments being made to the workplace and role where feasible.
be able to meet the future demands of our Retraining is provided if necessary.
customers in relation to enhanced creativity, Development & learning Croda recognises that the key to future success lies in the skills and abilities of its dedicated global workforce.
It is only through the continuous development of our employees that we will be able to meet the future demands of our customers in relation to enhanced creativity, innovation and customer service.
During 2013 our employees had an average of 34 hours of training.
Involvement Croda is committed to ensuring that employees share in the success of the Group.
Owning shares in the Company is an important way of strengthening involvement in the development of the business and bringing together employee and shareholders interests.
In 2013 65% of all employees participated in one of our all-employee share plans, indicating Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 75 Other Disclosures Community education and involvement to continue in office and, on the recommendation of the Audit Committee, a We have a strong focus on supporting the communities in which we resolution regarding their reappointment and remuneration will be operate, with a primary focus on encouraging young people to work within submitted to the AGM.
This is because we believe that our social licence Directors responsibilities to operate is based on the relationships we have with communities local to The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the our premises.
These relationships also have an impact on the people who Directors Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements in accordance work for and with us, and on their families and wider communities.
Our with applicable law and regulations.
community education programme aims to raise the profile of science, technology, engineering and maths STEM, by providing relevant, targeted Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for support to schools, colleges and universities in our local communities.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group doing so, we can improve the learning and career prospects of local financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting populations, enhance our reputation, and develop the vital employee skills Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the Company that we depend on for future growth.
financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Community involvement activities demonstrate that we are investing in Accounting Practice.
Under company law the Directors must not approve local communities, turning talk into action, by responding both proactively the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and and reactively to local needs and delivering real benefits.
Through this, we fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the can also enhance the performance and morale of our employees, support profit or loss of the Company and the Group for that period.
the recruitment needs of our business and ensure that we have a positive impact wherever we are in the world.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: Political donations No donations were made for political purposes during the year 2012: Nil.
Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: State whether IFRSs, as adopted by the European Union, and applicable Financial risk management UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material The Groups exposure to and management of capital, liquidity, credit, departures disclosed and explained in the Group and Company financial interest rate and foregin currency risks are contained in Note 20 of the statements respectively: and consolidated financial statements on pages 111 and 112.
Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is Capitalised interest inappropriate to assume that the Company will continue in business.
The Groups policy for capitalising borrowing costs directly attributable to the The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that purchase or construction of fixed assets is set out on page 91.
Given the are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose strong cash generation of the Group in recent years, there has been no with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company requirement for specific external funding for capital expenditure, hence the and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Group financial Group does not have capitalised interest of any significance on its balance statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the sheet.
Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Strategic Report Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding The Board has chosen to include the following information in the Strategic the assets of the Group and the Company and hence for taking reasonable Report that would otherwise need to be disclosed in the Directors Report.
steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Information relating to greenhouse gas emissions: The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Particulars on important events affecting the Group since the financial Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the year end: and preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
An indication of likely future developments in the Groups business.
Independent Auditors Each of the Directors, whose details are set out on pages 34 to 35 confirms Our auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness that, to the best of their knowledge: 76 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Our Board Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Other Disclosures The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and The Directors Report and Strategic Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
The Directors consider that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Groups performance, business model and strategy.
Audit information The Directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware and that each Director has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The Directors report is the management report for the purposes of the Financial Services Authority Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 4.1.
The Directors report was approved by the Board on 5 March 2014 and is signed on its behalf by Tom Brophy Group General Counsel and Company Secretary 5 March 2014 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 77
