Remuneration Report An Executive Directors service contract may be terminated without notice for certain events such as gross misconduct.
No payment or compensation beyond sums accrued up to the date of termination will be made if such an event occurs.
Other than in the event of a redundancy, retirement or other good leaver circumstances at the discretion of the Committee, no bonus may be payable unless the individual remains employed and is not under notice at the payment date.
In the event that an individual does cease employment for one of the good leaver reasons detailed, bonuses would become payable pro-rata based on the number of complete calendar months worked in the relevant year.
The policy for a new hire would be based on terms that are consistent with these provisions.
The treatment for share-based incentives previously granted to an Executive Director will be determined based on the relevant plan rules.
The default treatment will be for outstanding awards to lapse on cessation of employment.
In relation to awards granted under the Companys long-term incentive plans, in certain prescribed circumstances, such as injury or disability, redundancy, transfer or sale of the employing company, retirement with the Companys agreement or other circumstances at the discretion of the Committee reflecting the circumstances that prevail at the time good leaver status may be applied.
If treated as a good leaver, awards will be eligible to vest subject to performance conditions, which will be measured over the performance period from grant to the normal vesting date, and which will be reduced pro-rata unless the Committee consider it inappropriate to do so to reflect the proportion of the performance period actually served.
External appointments Executive Directors are permitted to accept external non-executive appointments with the prior approval of the Board.
It is normal practice for Executive Directors to retain fees provided for non-executive appointments.
Non-Executive Directors letters of appointment The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment for an initial fixed term of three years subject to earlier termination by either party on written notice.
In each case, this term can be extended by mutual agreement.
The Non-Executive Directors have no entitlement to contractual termination payments.
The dates of the initial appointments of the Non-Executive Directors are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Non-Executive Directors Fees The policy on Non-Executive Directors fees is: Link to Strategy Operation Maximum Opportunity Fees To provide a The fees for Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman are typically Fees for 2014 are: competitive fee reviewed every two years.
Chairman: 200,000 which will attract Fee levels are set by reference to the expected time commitments and Non-Executive Director base fee: those high calibre responsibility, and are periodically benchmarked against relevant market 52,000 individuals who, comparators as appropriate reflecting the size and nature of the role.
Senior Independent Director: 7,000 through their The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are paid an annual fee which is experience, can Chairman of the Audit Committee: paid monthly in cash and do not participate in any of the Companys incentive further the interests 10,000 arrangements or receive any pension provision.
of the Group Chairman of the Remuneration The Non-Executive Directors receive a basic Board fee, with additional fees through their Committee: 10,000 payable for chairmanship of the Companys key Committees and for stewardship and The above fee levels will be eligible for performing the Senior Independent Director role.
contribution to increases during the three year period strategic All Non-Executive Directors are reimbursed for travel and related business that the Remuneration Policy operates to development.
expenses reasonably incurred in performing their duties.
ensure they continue to appropriately The Committee recommends the remuneration of the Chairman to the Board.
recognise the time commitment of the The Chairmans fee is determined by the Committee during which the role, increases to fee levels for NonChairman has no part in discussions and recommended by them to the Executive Directors in general and fee Board.
The Non-Executive Directors fees are determined by the Chairman and levels in companies of a similar size and the Executive Directors.
Framework used to assess performance and for the recovery of sums paid None.
