Our Sustainability Agenda Talent Acquisition & Management Corporate Knowledge Be an employer of choice Safeguard our knowledge and expertise Our business is only as good as our people.
As a scientific Corporate knowledge is what we know: about everything from knowledge company, we need to find the talent: the people with our technologies and products, to our customers and markets.
In a the right mix of skills in the places where we need them.
We then world where employees are increasingly mobile and the rate of need to attract talented people to work for us, stay with us and innovation is continuing to increase, keeping hold of the critical develop rewarding careers with us.
By offering the right balance of knowledge that helps to generate profit is more important than remuneration, rewards and opportunities, we can capture and keep ever.
It can be in peoples heads, on computers or filed away in a hold of the critical knowledge that we rely on to drive innovation and cupboard.
The challenge for any business is how to identify, hold growth, so that we can continue to build the committed global onto, share and develop that critical knowledge to create workforce that will help us to achieve even greater success.
2013 Performance 2013 Performance All the regions in which we operate now have a dedicated Graduate We employ a wide variety of people who are all experts in their individual Development Programme and during 2013 90% of employees across our job roles, driving the innovation that creates our growth.
Our employee entire workforce received training, totalling 122,212 hours.
Investing in our retention rates are very high and something that we strive for as a means people to build on their knowledge, skills and abilities is important of keeping critical knowledge within our business.
We must recognise, because: however, that some employees will move on in their careers and all will inevitably retire, so this new Material Area addresses how we manage it allows us to develop expertise from within, for example, half our critical knowledge transfer.
Executive Team joined as graduates: The three key elements of our approach are: it provides excellent opportunities for personal and career development: 1.
Knowledge Capture and Bringing in talent, new technologies and knowledge through our it helps to make us an employer of choice.
Our annual turnover from resignations remained low during 2013 at 4%, and 2.
Knowledge Retention with retention firmly in mind, we continue to develop our company share Keeping critical knowledge within the business, by recognising and ownership scheme, Sharesave.
In 2013, non-UK enrolment in Sharesave rewarding the expertise of our employees.
increased from 48% to 60% and in the UK, where we are also able to offer a 3.
Knowledge Transfer Share Incentive Plan, levels increased by 3% to 78%.
This was a global rise in Sharing and re-using knowledge to the best effects across our business, share scheme membership from 55% in 2012 to 65% in 2013. maximising opportunities and avoiding any duplication of effort.
Over 90% of our employees received training, totalling 32,000 customer reports in client relationship hours management system, C2G 122,212 All regions now have a of our marketing, engineering and technical experts Graduate Development communicate on our social Programme 45 media network The Hive 32 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013
