Our Board We rely on our Board to provide us with leadership and inspiration.
They help to develop a clear Group strategy, monitor our operational and financial performance against agreed objectives, and ensure that we have the right controls and systems in place to manage risk.
Martin Flower, Chairman Appointment: Appointed to the Board in May 2005 and became Chairman at the end of September 2005.
Key strengths and experience: Considerable board and international experience and a broad knowledge of strategic management.
Martin formerly held various senior executive positions over 36 years with Coats plc, culminating in a period as Chairman before his retirement in 2004, and he was Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director of Severn Trent Plc until June 2006.
In 2010 he retired as Chairman of Autogrill Holdings UK Plc formerly Alpha Group Plc.
External appointments: Chairman of Low & Bonar PLC and Senior Independent Director of Morgan Advanced Materials plc.
Martin Flower Committee membership: Chairman of the Nomination Committee, member of the Remuneration Committee.
Sean Christie, Group Finance Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director in April 2006.
Key strengths and experience: Extensive experience in financial management and acquisitions and disposals.
Sean previously held a number of senior finance positions with Northern Foods Plc, where he was Group Finance Director from 1996 to 2004.
He was a Non-Executive Director of KCOM Group plc for eight years until 2007 and a Non-Executive Director of Cherry Valley Farms Ltd from 2006 until the company was sold in 2010.
External appointments: Appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Eminate Limited, a developer of intellectual property and a wholly owned subsidiary of The University of Nottingham, in November 2012.
Committee membership: Chairman of the Risk Management Committee, member of the Group Executive and Sean Christie Group SHEQ Steering Committees.
Nigel Turner, Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board in June 2009 and Senior Independent Director since August 2011.
Key strengths and experience: Considerable City experience having spent over 35 years as a corporate financier in the UK and USA.
Most recently Nigel was the Chairman of Numis Securities Ltd and Deputy Chairman of Numis Corporation plc from December 2005 until his retirement in November 2007.
From 2000 until 2005 he was with ABN AMRO with responsibility for the Global Corporate Finance and Global Equities Divisions.
Between 1985 and 2000 he was with Lazard Brothers in London and New York where he was Managing Director and a member of the Supervisory Board of the Lazard Group.
External appointments: Senior Independent Director of Genus plc since 2008.
Nigel Turner Committee membership: Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Helena Ganczakowski, Non-Executive Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board in February 2014.
Key strengths and experience: Wealth of experience in consumer marketing and innovative product development.
Helena worked for Unilever for 23 years and held senior positions in brand management, consumer marketing and strategy development.
Helena has a PhD in Engineering from the University of Cambridge.
External appointments: Helena is a Non-Executive Director of Greggs plc and runs a consulting business working with a range of organisations helping them to develop and implement strategies.
Committee membership: Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Helena Ganczakowski Stanley Musesengwa, Non-Executive Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board in May 2007.
Key strengths and experience: Considerable operational experience in global manufacturing, sales and marketing.
Stanley joined the Tate & Lyle Group in 1979 as a refinery manager and subsequently performed a number of different roles in Africa, before becoming Regional Director, Tate & Lyle Africa in 1995.
In December 1999 he was appointed Group Chief Executive Officer of Tate & Lyle Europe.
He was appointed to the Tate & Lyle Board in April 2003 and took up the position of Chief Operating Officer on 1 May 2003 until his retirement in 2008.
Prior to joining Tate & Lyle, Stanley worked for Nestl.
Committee membership: Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Stanley Musesengwa 34 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013
