Our Sustainability Agenda Product Design Product Stewardship Deliver the most innovative and sustainable Ensure that the ingredients we produce ingredients to our customers contribute positively to the environment and society throughout their lifecycle There is an increasing focus on, and understanding of, the ingredients that go into the goods used across the world, and more Product Stewardship refers to the environmental, health and safety and more consumers want to know that the products they use are impact of the ingredients we sell to our customers throughout their sustainable.
We aim to use renewable, natural raw materials and lifecycles and, therefore, throughout the supply chain.
It affects all scientific innovation to eliminate or minimise impacts on areas of our operations, from sourcing our raw materials in an environmental issues.
This extends to our role in protecting increasingly fragile environment, to environmentally sensitive biodiversity and addressing the effects of climate change.
manufacturing processes, and clear and comprehensive customer information for safe use and disposal.
2013 Performance 2013 Performance During 2013, we made significant progress in leading the way to Product quality is at the heart of responsible product stewardship.
We must Sustainable Palm Oil SPO derivatives, and continued our focus on be able to achieve consistently high standards wherever we manufacture assessing the sustainability profile of our new products against the 12 our ingredients in order to deliver the performance our customers expect, Principles of Green Chemistry and measuring their renewable raw material and to ensure the safety and satisfaction of consumers.
By the end of 2013 we had 500 of our ingredients in our Ingredient Four manufacturing sites are now certified to supply ingredients Sustainability database and had begun collecting the data against the supporting SPO against the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil RSPO 10 metrics that we will measure them on.
We are actively helping to raise global standards through our work with 103 new products were launched in 2013. organisations like the European Commission and the European Federation for Cosmetic Ingredients EFfCI, and the end of 2013 saw us An average new product score of 10 against the 12 Principles of Green have 11 of our manufacturing sites EFfCI certified.
Chemistry in 2013, with 32% scoring 12 out of 12.
We were one of 41 companies recognised on the CDP Climate Disclosure 65.2% of all raw materials used in 2013 were derived from renewable Leadership Index for our leadership in climate change transparency.
Excellent progress has been made in obtaining Authorised Economic Recognising that our ingredients can also have important environmental, Operator AEO standard, with seven operations approved in 2013 and social and economic benefits in application, we are beginning to monitor a our remaining European locations expected to follow in 2014. th 13 Principle: Design products that offer environmental benefits during use.
11 103 manufacturing sites now EFfCI certified new products launched listings in our Ingredient is the average score of our new Sustainability database products against the 12 500 Principles of Green Chemistry 10 out of 12 30 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013
