STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Our Board Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Other Disclosures Accountability Relations with Shareholders The Audit Committee Communication with shareholders The Audit Committee Report, which describes the membership of the Audit The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its Committee, along with its responsibilities, main activities during the year shareholders.
The Chairman, Executive Directors and other senior and priorities for 2014, is set out on pages 45 to 49. management maintain regular contact with existing and potential shareholders to ensure our strategy and trading trends are well understood.
Risk Management and Internal Control Numerous meetings were held with investors during the year in the UK, US, The Board acknowledges its responsibility for ensuring the maintenance of Europe and Asia, including face-to-face meetings, telephone and video a sound system of internal controls and risk management.
In accordance conferences, and hosted site visits in all of these regions.
The Chairman, with the Turnbull guidance 2005 and in order to discharge this Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director ensure that shareholders responsibility, the Directors have utilised an organisational structure with views are communicated to the Board as a whole through the reporting of clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility, and delegated authority.
feedback from shareholder meetings and the provision of brokers reports.
The Board invites the Companys brokers and financial public relations In particular there are clear procedures and defined authorities to act for advisers to attend at least one meeting each year at which the economic the following: and investment environment, Crodas performance, both generally, and in Financial reporting, with clear policies and procedures governing the comparison with its sector peers, and investor reaction are discussed.
financial reporting process and preparation of the financial statements.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director attended the Companys A clear framework of controls that are expected to be in place is results announcements as well as the Investor Day in London in November documented and each reporting location prepares an annual self 2013, which covered a number of strategic topics.
All of these presentations assessment of compliance with these controls.
This is assured via are webcast live so all shareholders have access to them.
The presentations planned internal audit visits, which are approved by the Audit Committee.
are also available to download.
We also answer all investor questions sent Comprehensive monitoring and quantification of business risks, under to our website.
the direction of the Risk Management Committee.
The Groups approach to risk management is discussed in more detail in the Strategic Report on The Company has not complied with the part of Code provision E. 1.1 that pages 24 to 27 and in the Groups separate Sustainability Report.
provides that Non-Executive Directors should be offered the opportunity to attend scheduled meetings with major shareholders and that the Senior Capital investment, with detailed appraisal, risk analysis, authorisation Independent Director should attend sufficient meetings with a range of major and post-investment review procedures.
shareholders to listen to their views in order to help develop a balanced The Board has discharged its responsibility for reviewing the operational understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
The effectiveness of the systems of internal control and risk management Board considers that there is sufficient dialogue with shareholders through throughout the financial year and up to the date of approval of the annual the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and the Chairman, who report using a process which involved: meet with shareholders on a regular basis.
These meetings provide an appropriate mechanism for the views of shareholders to be listened to and Written confirmations from relevant senior executives and divisional the Board is regularly apprised of shareholders views and key issues.
The directors concerning the operation of those elements of the system for Board does not believe that it is necessary for the Senior Independent which they are responsible.
Director or other Non-Executive Directors to attend further meetings with Internal audit work carried out by KPMG LLP who report through the major shareholders.
All the Non-Executive Directors are, however, available Group Risk and Control Manager to the Audit Committee.
to attend such meetings if requested by shareholders and the Senior Reports from the external auditors.
Independent Director would be available to discuss matters relating to the Chairman should the need arise.
Such a system is designed to mitigate rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and provides reasonable but not The Board believes that its practices are consistent with both the relevant absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board also, main principle of the Code concerning dialogue with shareholders, and where appropriate, ensures that necessary actions have been, or are good governance.
being, taken to remedy significant failings or weaknesses identified from During the year we consulted with our major shareholders on the proposed the review of effectiveness of internal controls.
changes to our remuneration policy, details of which are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 53.
See SR Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 43
