STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Our Board Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Other Disclosures Effectiveness The Nomination Committee Key actions for 2014 include: The Nomination Committee Report, which describes the membership of to focus on succession planning of senior executive roles: the Nomination Committee, along with its responsibilities, main activities to receive more analysis on the competitive environment and on during the year and its priorities for 2014, is set out on page 50. customers: Board evaluation to revisit the agreed strategy during 2014, including progress against The Board undertakes a formal review of its performance and that of its milestones: Committees each year.
In 2012 we commissioned an externally facilitated to move the Board agenda programme to a two year cycle: and review in accordance with the Code, conducted by Sheena Crane, an to receive in-depth technology training from the Chief Technology Officer experienced consultant, with no other connection to the Company.
Actions to align with upcoming Board presentations.
and objectives were agreed based on the feedback and the Board has been successful in implementing the action points.
The key actions and Directors induction progress in meeting them are summarised below: On joining Croda, Directors receive a tailored induction programme.
Helena Ganczakowski is in the process of undergoing her induction to Croda following her appointment to the Board on 1 February 2014.
Key Actions in 2013 Progress The purpose of the induction is to provide a new Director with the Update the Board agenda programme to include more time information they will need to become as effective as possible in their role for discussion and monitoring of non-financial risks, health within the shortest practicable time.
It enables the Director to develop an and safety, CSR and sustainability.
understanding of the nature of Croda, our business and the markets in To develop a Board diversity policy and consider diversity in the which we operate, as well as to build a link with our employees and an context of the wider organisation.
understanding of Crodas main relationships.
To explore Non-Executive Director succession planning, The content of the programme is tailored according to the experience and examining the skills and experience that will be of significant wishes of the incoming Director, and is based on their experience as a benefit to Croda in the future.
Director of a listed company and knowledge of the industry sector.
Information is provided in different forms, including reading material via To develop succession planning for the Group Chief Executive.
iPads or hard copy, meetings briefings with employees and fellow The Remuneration Committee to oversee the Executive-led root Directors, making use of advisers to deliver briefings and external training and branch review of remuneration and incentivisation courses and site visits.
Time is also spent with the Chairman and Group Chief Executive as well as the Company Secretary, members of the Group Executive Committee and To be engaged earlier and throughout the year in the strategic planning process and development.
other senior management across the business.
The induction programme is reviewed with the new Director mid-way The Chairman and Group Chief Executive to review the overall timetabling of Board and Committee meetings and agenda through the process and following the programme to seek input on any design to ensure the most efficient use of the Boards time.
The Chairman to create development plans for each Board support Non-Executive Director to ensure they continue to build a deep Each Director has access to the Company Secretary for his advice and understanding of the Groups businesses.
Where necessary, the Directors may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Directors are granted an indemnity from the Company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their positions to During 2013, the Board review was conducted using an online survey, the extent permitted by law.
These indemnities are qualifying third party tailored to Crodas activities and current concerns.
Separate surveys were indemnities as defined in section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 and were also used for the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The in force during the financial year and at the date of approval of the financial surveys facilitated an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board and its statements.
In addition, the Company maintained Directors and Officers Committees and the support and information received from management liability insurance cover throughout the year.
The results were discussed in detail by the Board and areas for improvement were identified and agreed.
Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 41 Corporate Governance Training and briefings are available to all Directors on appointment and Sean Christie is a Non-Executive Director of Eminate.
Details of the subsequently as appropriate, taking into account their existing experience, payments received in respect of this appointment are set out in the qualifications and skills.
In order to build and increase the Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Report on page 73.
Directors familiarity with, and understanding of, the Groups people, During 2013, no Non-Executive Director had served on the Board for more businesses and markets, presentations from senior managers are made than nine years from the date of their first election, with the range between at Board meetings on a regular basis.
The Board receives regular briefings 2 years and 6 years.
The Chairman has been a Director for 8 years, from the Company Secretary on governance, legal and regulatory matters having been appointed to the Board in May 2005. and briefings from the Companys professional advisers.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors can Prior to each meeting, the Company Secretary ensures the meeting papers be viewed on the Companys website www.
They can be and other information are delivered electronically via a secure, iPadinspected during normal business hours at the Companys registered accessible web portal.
This helps to ensure that each Director has the time office by contacting the Company Secretary and will be available for and resources to fulfil their duties.
This year, a new resource centre was inspection at the AGM.
added to the portal providing access to a range of useful information about the Group, including corporate governance materials for example Time commitment minutes of previous meetings, meeting dates, terms of reference, finance Each Director is aware of the need to allocate sufficient time to the and strategy information, Group policies and procedures as well as Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
The Board monitors information on topics such as risk and insurance.
the extent of any interests and potential conflicts of each Director.
In March 2013, Alan Ferguson was appointed to the Board of London Mining Plc, an Non-Executive Directors AIM listed company, as a Non-Executive Director.
Prior to accepting the Croda complies with the Code in having experienced Non-Executive appointment, Mr Ferguson had spoken with the Chairman of the Board Directors who represent a source of strong advice, judgement and about the role and discussed, among other things, his time commitment challenge to the Executive Directors.
At present there are six such Directors, and any potential conflicts.
The Chairman was comfortable that no issues including the Chairman and the Senior Independent Director, Nigel Turner, would arise for Croda from Mr Ferguson accepting the role.
each of whom has significant commercial experience.
Their understanding of the Groups operations is enhanced by regular business presentations External consultants and by site visits.
New Bridge Street, now part of Aon plc, acts as remuneration consultant to the Remuneration Committee.
Whilst the Aon group provides insurance The independence of the Non-Executive Directors is kept under review.
The services to the Group, these services are not provided by New Bridge Chairman was independent on his appointment in 2005 but, as Street.
Chairman, is not classified as independent.
Steve Williams has consultancy roles with Eversheds LLP, which provides some legal services to the Group Zygos acts as a search advisor to the Board and Nomination Committee.
and Spencer Stuart, a search consultancy firm that has previously been Zygos has no other connection with the Group.
The Board does not consider that these roles would affect his judgement in relation to Croda and its business and, therefore, it is the Boards opinion that all the Non-Executive Directors who have served during the year are independent in character and judgement, with no relationships or circumstances that are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
The Board has an established process for declaring and monitoring actual and potential conflicts.
The Articles of Association of the Company allow the non-conflicted members of the Board to authorise a conflict or potential conflict situation.
In addition to the potential conflicts of Steve Williams noted above, Nigel Turner declared a potential conflict in relation to the possible sale of farm produce oilseed rape through agents to Croda.
Helena Ganczakowski also has a Non-Executive Director role on the board of People Against Dirty, a customer of Croda.
Details of the professional commitments of the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors are included in their biographies on pages 34 and 35.
The Board is satisfied that these do not interfere with the performance of their respective duties to the Company.
