STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Our Board Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Other Disclosures Policy Report This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out the remuneration policy for the Group and has been prepared in accordance with The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Act.
The policy has been developed taking into account the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 the Code and the views of our major shareholders and describes the policy to be applied in relation to the current financial year and future financial years.
The Policy Report will be put to a binding shareholder vote at the 2014 AGM and, subject to it receiving majority shareholder support, will be effective immediately from the date of approval for the purposes of complying with the Act i. e. the Effective Date will be the AGM date.
In practice, however, the Committee intends to apply the policy detailed in the Policy Report from the beginning of 2014 and throughout the three-year period that commences from the Effective Date.
Overview of the Remuneration Policy The key objectives of Crodas executive remuneration policy are: To set remuneration structures that are simple and easily communicated to employees and stakeholders: To support a high performance culture through setting stretching performance targets that are linked to the Key Performance Indicators KPIs of the Group which are structured so that they do not encourage undue financial or operational risk-taking or give rise to environmental, social or governance risks by inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour: To ensure a balance between fixed and performance related remuneration with substantial weighting in the overall package on variable pay related to objective measurement of the financial performance of the Group: To give full consideration to the relevant principles on directors remuneration set out in the Code: and To ensure that individual rewards and incentives are comparable with those provided by similar companies having regard to the Groups turnover, business sector and market worth and the need for skills to manage international businesses.
Following a review of remuneration against the above principles during In light of the revisions to the long-term incentive structure, tougher the year, a number of changes were made to the remuneration policy EPS performance targets will apply than those operated for awards to align current practices with the Groups reward objectives.
Relative Total Shareholder Return TSR summary of the changes is set out below with full details following in performance targets will continue to determine vesting of part of the table: future awards.
In relation to both the EPS and TSR targets, a lower proportion of the 1.
A higher annual bonus opportunity for the Group Chief Executive total award will vest in future years for threshold performance 25% 125% of salary from 100% of salary has been introduced.
No as opposed to 30% than has been the case historically.
In addition, a change to the bonus opportunity for other Executive Directors has general financial underpin has been introduced that will enable the taken place.
Committee to reduce the EPS and or TSR vesting result in the event 2.
The approach to deferral of part of annual bonus has been revised that the Committee does not consider this to be reflective of the from bonus earned above 50% of salary, to 33% of any annual underlying financial performance of the Group over the performance bonus earned.
This reduces the amount of cash received by period.
executives at lower levels of performance vis--vis our previous 4.
Future awards granted under the new PSP will be subject to a deferral structure.
minimum holding period on vested shares.
Simplification of the current long-term incentive arrangements, but minimum holding period of one-year applying to long-term incentive with no increase to overall potential quantum.
Our revised policy will awards granted in 2014 and a two-year holding period applying to result in only a single Performance Share Plan PSP operating awards granted thereafter, ensuring the incentive drives truly long subject to shareholder approval at the 2014 AGM as opposed to our term thinking and behaviour amongst our senior executives.
historic approach of operating a LTIP and a BCIP.
Higher share ownership guidelines will operate at 200% of salary for Historically awards of up to 300% of salary were permitted under the the Group Chief Executive and 150% of salary for other Executive 2005 LTIP and 2005 BCIP, although in practice awards were restricted Directors up from the current 100% of salary.
The new PSP will permit awards of up The current revisions are considered appropriate to better support to 200% of salary in normal circumstances 300% in exceptional the Groups current strategy and phase of development and take circumstances such as to compensate in a recruitment situation for due account of recent developments with investors best practice awards forfeited on joining the Company.
Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 53 Remuneration Report The table below sets out the main components of Crodas Remuneration Policy: Link to Strategy Operation Maximum Opportunity Basic Salary To assist in the Reviewed annually with increases effective Salaries for 2014 are as follows: recruitment and from 1 January.
Group Chief Executive: 600,000 retention of high Base salaries will be set by the Committee Group Finance Director: 369,732 calibre executives.
taking into account: Chief Technology Officer: 295,610 The performance and experience of the The above salary levels will be eligible for increases under the Remuneration individual concerned Policy during the three year period from the Effective Date.
Any change in responsibilities During this time, salaries may be increased each year in percentage of salary Rates of pay in international terms.
manufacturing and pan-sector The Committee will be guided by the salary increase budget set in each companies of a comparable size and geography and across the workforce generally.
complexity Increases beyond those linked to the geography of the Executive or the Pay and employment conditions workforce as a whole in percentage of salary terms may be awarded in elsewhere in the Group certain circumstances such as where there is a change in responsibility, Rates of inflation and market wide wage experience or a significant increase in the scale of the role and or size, value increases across international locations or complexity of the Group.
The geographical location of the The Committee retains the flexibility to set the salary of a new hire at a discount Executive.
to the market level initially, and to implement a series of planned increases in subsequent years, in order to bring the salary to the desired positioning, subject to individual performance.
Framework used to assess performance and for the recovery of sums paid The Committee considers individual salaries at the appropriate committee meeting each year taking due account of the factors noted in operation of the salary policy.
Benefits To provide The Group typically provides the following In 2013 the maximum cost of providing benefits based on taxable value of the competitive benefits: benefits was restricted to 7.25% of salary.
benefits to act Cost of benefits is not pre-determined and may vary from year to year based on the Company car or cash allowance as a retention cost to the Group.
Private fuel allowance mechanism and Health and other insured benefits reward service.
Other ancillary benefits, including relocation expenses arrangements as required.
Additional benefits might be provided from time to time e. g. in circumstances where an Executive Director is recruited from overseas.
The Committee will consider whether the payment of any additional benefits is appropriate and in line with market practice when determining whether they are paid.
Framework used to assess performance and for the recovery of sums paid None.
54 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Our Board Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Other Disclosures Link to Strategy Operation Maximum Opportunity Performance Share Plan To incentivise and The Performance Share Plan PSP Normal maximum opportunity of 200% of salary reward the provides for awards of free shares i. e. In exceptional circumstances e. g. recruitment, awards may be granted up to execution of either conditional shares or nil-cost 300% of salary to compensate for value forfeited from a previous employer.
the business options normally made annually which strategy over vest after three years subject to continued the longer term.
service and the achievement of challenging performance conditions.
Rewards sustained growth Shares on an after tax basis are subject in i profit and to a one-year post-vesting holding period ii shareholder for awards granted in 2014 and a value.
two-year post-vesting holding period for awards granted in subsequent years.
The Committee have the discretion at grant of an award to permit awards to benefit from the dividends paid on shares that vest.
Framework used to assess performance and for the recovery of sums paid Granted subject to a blend of challenging financial e. g. EPS and total shareholder return performance targets tested over three years.
25% of awards will vest for threshold performance with full vesting taking place for equaling, or exceeding, the maximum performance targets no awards vest for performance below threshold.
Vesting is also dependent on satisfactory underlying financial performance of the Group over the performance period.
Subject to potential clawback in the event of a material misstatement of results or serious misconduct.
The clawback provisions will operate for a three year period following the date on which the awards vest.
All-Employee Share Plans Encourages Periodic invitations are made to participate The maximum participation level for UK-based employees is as per HMRC long-term in the Groups Sharesave Plan and Share limits see Annual Report on Remuneration for current maximum limits.
Shares acquired through these Provides all arrangements have significant tax employees with benefits in the UK subject to satisfying the opportunity to certain HMRC requirements.
become The plans can only operate on an all shareholders in employee basis.
The plans operate on the Company on similar terms but on a non-tax favoured similar terms.
basis outside the UK as appropriate.
Framework used to assess performance and for the recovery of sums paid There are no post grant performance targets applicable to these awards.
Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 55 Remuneration Report Link to Strategy Operation Maximum Opportunity Pension To provide Pension benefits are typically provided Defined benefit pension with up to 1 60th accrual up to a capped salary of competitive either through i participation in the 150,000 as of April 2014 plus cash allowance of up to 25% of salary above long-term Groups defined benefit pension plan with the cap.
a cash supplement provided above any Or: To act as a pension salary cap or ii a cash Cash allowance of up to 25% of salary.
retention supplement provided in lieu of pension.
mechanism and Only basic salary is pensionable.
Performance Related Bonus To incentivise and Compulsory deferral of one-third of any Group Chief Executive: 125% of salary reward the bonus paid into shares for three years.
Other Executive Directors: 100% of salary.
delivery of the The balance of the bonus is paid in cash.
To contribute to longer-term alignment with shareholders.
Framework used to assess performance and for the recovery of sums paid Details of the performance measures used for the current year and targets set for the year under review and performance against them is provided in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Bonus will be fully or largely based on a challenging range of financial targets set in line with the Groups KPIs for example, income growth targets.
The Committee has the flexibility to include, for a minority of the bonus, targets related to the Groups other KPIs where this is considered appropriate.
For each objective set, bonus starts to accrue once the threshold target is met 0% payable rising on a graduated scale to 100% for out-performance.
The Committee has the flexibility to take health, safety and environmental performance into consideration when determining the actual overall level of individual bonus payments and it may reduce the bonus awards if it considers it appropriate to do so.
Bonuses paid are subject to potential clawback in the event of a material misstatement of results or serious misconduct.
The clawback provisions will operate for a three-year period following the date on which the bonus is paid.
