Our Executive Team Meet the people behind the strategy, share their insights into what the future has in store for our business, and how we are all working together to achieve even greater success.
Our Executive Team have worked together to establish our strategic objectives and have overall responsibility for driving progress against our targets.
Through their leadership and constant focus, we can achieve the sustainable growth that our business is capable of.
Steve Foots, Group Chief Executive North America remains a Our vision statement makes reference fast-growing market with many to all functions being valued equally, exciting business opportunities.
which goes some way to explaining Our ability to provide customer why, at Croda, finance is very much value through innovation and seen as a business partner, rather sustainability is unrivalled.
From the than merely a support function.
latest anti-ageing ingredients, to The robustness of our systems and environmentally friendly materials controls ensure that we are able to that support oil and gas recovery, provide timely and accurate we add value to what our information to the business to both customers do by improving the measure performance and, more performance of their products, importantly, to support the speed of while minimising the potential our decision-making process: a vital impact on the environment.
factor in our continuing success.
Kevin Gallagher, President North America Graham Myers, Group Financial Controller Our aim is to drive profitability Growth in all market sectors in forward through improving our Asia Pacific continues to be mix of products, driving sales of robust despite currency new and protected products into headwinds.
Our recent fast-growing niches, and investing acquisition of Sipo in China in growth outside Europe by and further investment in strengthening local teams and Singapore provides us with a moving production closer to our much stronger platform in customers.
Supported by the niche markets.
This will allow Technology and Investment us to develop our customer Group TIG, we are also base further and drive strong increasingly seeking to make sales growth in this very targeted technology acquisitions.
Maarten Heybroek, President Performance Technologies & Industrial Chemicals Europe David Barraclough, President Asia Pacific 18 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Chairmans Statement Chief Executives Statement Who We Are & What We Do How We Operate Where We Operate Our Market Place Our Business Model Our Strategy Our Executive Team How We Performed Our Risks Our Sustainability Agenda Leveraging the strength of our Latin America represents significant world-class manufacturing facilities is opportunity for growth across all our key to the success of our strategy.
We core market sectors, but it also has expect significant growth in emerging unique requirements in terms of markets and new product launches, product functionality and service.
and continue to invest in new Developing a broader manufacturing processing technologies.
Our global base for key products within the manufacturing footprint and supply region, alongside enhancing local chain must be aligned and ready to provision of applications, R&D, deliver.
Our manufacturing teams customer service and quality, will help around the world will continue to to continually strengthen our customer provide the excellent service that relationships and support mutual sets us apart from our peers.
Stuart Arnott, President Global Operations Nick Challoner, President Latin America Our corporate strategy sets out how Consumer Care Europe comprises we will drive the future growth of our a highly innovative portfolio of business.
We must ensure that we products providing consumerhave good management and facing benefits to our customers.
A governance to support this growth strong pipeline of new projects, as we: expand into emerging the exploitation of new technology markets: seek to capture new from recent acquisitions, such as technologies through targeted Arizona Chemical, our investment mergers and acquisitions: and in Acrylic Polymer manufacturing continue to identify and mitigate the and our increasing presence in major risks to our strategy.
high growth territories all add up to an increasingly positive outlook for 2014 and beyond.
Tom Brophy, Group General Counsel and Company Secretary Sandra Breene, President Consumer Care Europe Innovation is the cornerstone of We have spent a number of years our business.
Continuing to be developing a SAP platform at the recognised by our customers as the core of our global operations.
Now leading innovator in our markets is it is fully operational we have the the exciting challenge that drives us opportunity to extract information forward.
Innovation is not just about on all aspects of our business, developing new products and new particularly sales, margin and cost performance claims, it includes every trends by customer, product, region aspect of the business and any and business unit.
We are element of our operations that developing innovative ways of differentiates us from our competitors.
extracting this data in a readily It is all about our people: their digestible form for all users to motivation, knowledge, engagement understand the key trends and creativity.
Keith Layden, Chief Technology Officer Sean Christie, Group Finance Director Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 19
