Who We Are & What We Do Consumers may not know our name, but the products that millions of people use everyday rely on our ingredients to perform: from hair and beauty to pharmaceuticals, lubricants and more.
We create the innovations that help our customers to build million and billion-pound brands.
Structured to Meet Customer Needs and Harness Market Opportunities Our business is split into three segments aligned to our target markets: Often, the Croda element of a finished product is a small percentage, Consumer Care, Performance Technologies and Industrial Chemicals.
In all but it will be that percentage that makes the difference.
three, our focus is on developing and delivering innovative ingredients, Growth is supported across the three business segments by our business which could be the active ingredients with unique performance claims, or focussed in-house R&D teams and our Technology Investment Group TIG, the element that gives the product the right feel or function.
which exist to identify and integrate new technology.
Consumer Care Performance Technologies This low-volume, high-value business addresses fast-growing, niche The focus is on numerous niche markets where volumes are larger than markets.
It consists of our global business in: Consumer Care but margins are still high.
Key areas and ingredient applications include: Personal Care, including hair care, skin care, sun care and colour cosmetics applications.
Lubricants, for engine oils, fuel additives and hydraulic fluids.
Health Care, including human pharmaceuticals and dermatology, Polymer Additives, for injection moulding, PVC, printing inks and nutrition and animal health.
Crop Care, including additives for herbicides, fungicides and Coatings & Polymers, for adhesives, sealants, plastics, foams and insecticides.
Geo Technologies, for dispersants used in oilfields and emulsifiers used Success is driven by our intellectual property, including patented in mine explosives.
We also differentiate ourselves from the competition Home Care, for laundry and fabric care, polishes and vehicle care.
through our ability to build and maintain exceptional customer relationships, and through our innovative, sustainable processes.
Customers are looking for patented, differentiated technologies from us, because we understand their needs and work hard to satisfy them.
Medium Term Targets Medium Term Targets Sales to grow 5-10% assumes 1-2 times market growth.
Sales to grow 4-8% assumes 1-2 times market growth.
Maintain current Return on Sales.
Return on Sales to increase to 20%.
Revenue 2013 Revenue 2013 593.2m 1.2 387.1m 1.1 1 1 Adjusted Operating Profit 2013 Adjusted Operating Profit 2013 191.3m 3.2 63.0m 5.9 Return on Sales Return on Sales 32.2 0.6 points 16.3 0.8 points 06 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Chairmans Statement Chief Executives Statement Who We Are & What We Do How We Operate Where We Operate Our Market Place Our Business Model Our Strategy Our Executive Team How We Performed Our Risks Our Sustainability Agenda P12 Our Market Place P92 Note 1 - Segmental Analysis Industrial Chemicals Technology Investment Group TIG With lower margins and higher volumes, this segment targets a wide 2013 has seen the first full year of TIG in action.
Led by our Chief Technology range of important industrial markets.
The ingredients we produce are Officer and Board member Keith Layden, TIG has been established to find largely based on renewable raw materials, with the majority coming exciting new ways to deliver the innovation that will drive our growth.
By as a result of manufacturing products for our Consumer Care and understanding customer and market needs, we identify the new Performance Technologies operations.
This supports our sustainability technologies that will fulfil those needs, bringing them into the business credentials through the use of materials that would otherwise need to through internal or external investment, including mergers and be disposed of.
Medium Term Targets Maximise profitability.
Revenue 2013 Arizona Chemical, Speciality Chemicals Business Led by the Technology Investment Group this acquisition, completed in 2013, brought with it a portfolio of patent-protected, class-leading oil gelling polymers.
With sales into existing Croda applications and 96.7m 16.9 the potential for expansion into many more, the acquisition further 1 Adjusted Operating Profit 2013 strengthens Crodas position as a leader in speciality ingredients from renewable resources.
10.3munchanged Return on Sales 10.7 1.8 points 1 Continuing operations before exceptional items, acquisition costs and amortisation write off of intangible assets arising on acquisition Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 07
