Our Market Place The world is changing.
Trends such as a growing, ageing population, shifts in the global economy, the emergence of new markets and climate change present us with many exciting business opportunities.
These trends are what we term global drivers, influencing change Our future innovations, investments and commercial activities must and opportunity.
Stemming from them, we have identified three enable us to maximise value from the opportunities these trends unstoppable mega trends within Crodas space.
create: they will be the catalyst of our sustainable business growth.
Global Drivers Mass Challenging population Scarcity Shifts in Changing Climate legal & growth, of natural global expectations change regulatory ageing & resources economy & behaviours environments polarisation Mega Trends Beauty Health & Ingredient & Ageing Wellbeing Sustainability Growth Opportunities Business Areas Established & Emerging Markets Personal Health Crop Polymer Home Coatings Geo Western North Latin Asia Lubricants EEMEA Care Care Care Additives Care & Polymers Technologies Europe America America Pacific Harnessing Opportunity Through: Differentiated Technologies Meeting Unmet Consumer Needs Sustainable Innovation Developing the intellectual property, Identifying trends and desires to provide the Putting sustainability at the heart of everything innovative processes and close customer innovative, sustainable solutions consumers we do, from our people, manufacturing sites relationships that set us apart from the want, when they want them.
and processes, to the raw materials we use.
12 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Chairmans Statement Chief Executives Statement Who We Are & What We Do How We Operate Where We Operate Our Market Place Our Business Model Our Strategy Our Executive Team How We Performed Our Risks Our Sustainability Agenda Mega Trends Driving Growth Croda is a leader in natural specialities, with around 70% of our raw materials coming from 1.
Beauty & Ageing renewable, natural sources.
This puts us in an excellent position to benefit This powerful mega trend is central to our business.
With numerous niche from the growing trend in natural markets occurring in Personal Care, many new opportunities are being created, particularly around the global driver of an ageing population.
For example: Tailoring anti-ageing and beauty products for different age groups, such as sun protection for teenagers and increasing collagen for middle age and mature years.
Anti-ageing crossover into hair care, restoring youthful shine and condition.
New functional formats offering multiple benefits in one product, such as BB beauty balm and CC colour corrector creams.
Global Drivers of Opportunity The population is growing, ageing and becoming more 2.
Health & Wellbeing polarised, in terms of greater gaps in wealth and health.
We are seeing changes in peoples expectations and behaviours, often We are seeing a shift from treatment to prevention.
Developed markets driven by the internet and social media.
The balance in the world recognise that large state and individual care bills may be reduced economy is shifting and new markets are emerging.
Climate through diet and lifestyle choices, while emerging markets have change and the scarcity of natural resources are increasing the identified that prevention is cheaper than the cure.
Opportunities to focus on sustainable manufacturing.
All of this is a challenge to grow include the following: our business.
It also provides incredible opportunity to reach even greater heights, by aligning our business and innovations Nutritional and functional foods that give added benefits, such as ever more closely with our changing customer base.
omega oils and supplements to help improve joints.
Over-the-counter medicines to prevent or treat minor problems.
Greater focus on the lucrative pet care market, particularly topical Additional Challenges and Opportunities treatments for dogs and cats.
Regulation External regulation, which Croda is actively helping to shape, is growing in all our niche markets.
This is a positive for our business as we have a proven track record in delivering not just product quality but also the proof of performance in the form of 3.
Ingredient Sustainability comprehensive claims substantiation data.
This is an opportunity to strengthen our edge over the competition and increase barriers to others entering our markets.
Population growth and increasing consumption of goods is putting an ever greater strain on natural resources, resulting in increased pressure from Competition consumers and governments for more sustainable products.
This The breadth of our business means that we do not have one big represents a huge opportunity for us to further differentiate our business competitor that spans all of our markets.
Instead we have direct from our competitors through: competitors in each of our niche markets.
Here, we succeed by differentiating our business through our intellectual property, Sustainable manufacturing processes and ingredients produced using ever-closer customer alignment and our sustainability credentials.
renewable raw materials across each of our businesses.
We are thus uniquely positioned to take our products into a variety The efficiencies our ingredients provide, such as our rheology modifers of interesting markets.
that help concentrated laundry washing liquids to work at lower temperatures, reducing energy and resource use.
See SR Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 13
