Remuneration Report Sharesave Details of shares awarded under the UK Sharesave scheme are set out below.
The awards were granted on 19 September 2013 and have an earliest exercise date of 1 November 2016 and an expiry date of 30 April 2017.
To the extent that they vest, they are normally exercisable three to four years from grant.
The performance criteria applying for all these outstanding awards are as follows: 68 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Our Board Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Other Disclosures Awards are subject to an EPS growth target.
30% of shares vest for adjusted EPS growth of CPI 12%, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting for adjusted EPS growth of CPI 24%.
Awards from 2012 are subject to clawback provisions which enable the Committee to recover the value overpaid to an Executive Director under an award in the event of a material misstatement of the Groups financial results or misconduct that leads to such material misstatement.
The clawback provisions will operate for a three-year period following the date on which the awards vest.
To the extent that they vest, they are normally exercisable from three to four years from grant.
The performance criteria applying for all these outstanding awards are as follows: 50% of the shares are subject to an EPS growth target and 50% to a relative TSR target.
TSR for awards made prior to 2013 was measured relative to the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment trusts and from 2013 relative to the constituents of the FTSE 350 Index excluding investment trusts.
Under the EPS element, 30% of shares vest for adjusted EPS growth of CPI 12%, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting for adjusted EPS growth of CPI 24%.
Under the TSR element, 30% of shares vest for median TSR, rising on a straight-line basis to full vesting for upper quartile.
Awards from 2012 are subject to clawback provisions which enable the Committee to recover the value overpaid to an Executive Director under an award in the event of a material misstatement of the Companys financial results or misconduct that leads to such material misstatement.
The clawback provisions will operate for a three-year period following the date on which awards vest.
Awards based on average mid-market price for the first thirty dealing days of the year of grant.
