Our Board We rely on our Board to provide us with leadership and inspiration.
They help to develop a clear Group strategy, monitor our operational and financial performance against agreed objectives, and ensure that we have the right controls and systems in place to manage risk.
Martin Flower, Chairman Appointment: Appointed to the Board in May 2005 and became Chairman at the end of September 2005.
Key strengths and experience: Considerable board and international experience and a broad knowledge of strategic management.
Martin formerly held various senior executive positions over 36 years with Coats plc, culminating in a period as Chairman before his retirement in 2004, and he was Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director of Severn Trent Plc until June 2006.
In 2010 he retired as Chairman of Autogrill Holdings UK Plc formerly Alpha Group Plc.
External appointments: Chairman of Low & Bonar PLC and Senior Independent Director of Morgan Advanced Materials plc.
Martin Flower Committee membership: Chairman of the Nomination Committee, member of the Remuneration Committee.
Sean Christie, Group Finance Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director in April 2006.
Key strengths and experience: Extensive experience in financial management and acquisitions and disposals.
Sean previously held a number of senior finance positions with Northern Foods Plc, where he was Group Finance Director from 1996 to 2004.
He was a Non-Executive Director of KCOM Group plc for eight years until 2007 and a Non-Executive Director of Cherry Valley Farms Ltd from 2006 until the company was sold in 2010.
External appointments: Appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Eminate Limited, a developer of intellectual property and a wholly owned subsidiary of The University of Nottingham, in November 2012.
Committee membership: Chairman of the Risk Management Committee, member of the Group Executive and Sean Christie Group SHEQ Steering Committees.
Nigel Turner, Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board in June 2009 and Senior Independent Director since August 2011.
Key strengths and experience: Considerable City experience having spent over 35 years as a corporate financier in the UK and USA.
Most recently Nigel was the Chairman of Numis Securities Ltd and Deputy Chairman of Numis Corporation plc from December 2005 until his retirement in November 2007.
From 2000 until 2005 he was with ABN AMRO with responsibility for the Global Corporate Finance and Global Equities Divisions.
Between 1985 and 2000 he was with Lazard Brothers in London and New York where he was Managing Director and a member of the Supervisory Board of the Lazard Group.
External appointments: Senior Independent Director of Genus plc since 2008.
Nigel Turner Committee membership: Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Helena Ganczakowski, Non-Executive Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board in February 2014.
Key strengths and experience: Wealth of experience in consumer marketing and innovative product development.
Helena worked for Unilever for 23 years and held senior positions in brand management, consumer marketing and strategy development.
Helena has a PhD in Engineering from the University of Cambridge.
External appointments: Helena is a Non-Executive Director of Greggs plc and runs a consulting business working with a range of organisations helping them to develop and implement strategies.
Committee membership: Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Helena Ganczakowski Stanley Musesengwa, Non-Executive Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board in May 2007.
Key strengths and experience: Considerable operational experience in global manufacturing, sales and marketing.
Stanley joined the Tate & Lyle Group in 1979 as a refinery manager and subsequently performed a number of different roles in Africa, before becoming Regional Director, Tate & Lyle Africa in 1995.
In December 1999 he was appointed Group Chief Executive Officer of Tate & Lyle Europe.
He was appointed to the Tate & Lyle Board in April 2003 and took up the position of Chief Operating Officer on 1 May 2003 until his retirement in 2008.
Prior to joining Tate & Lyle, Stanley worked for Nestl.
Committee membership: Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Stanley Musesengwa 34 Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Our Board Corporate Governance Remuneration Report Other Disclosures Steve Foots, Group Chief Executive Appointment: Appointed to the Board in July 2010 and Group Chief Executive since the beginning of 2012.
Key strengths and experience: Strong business, operational and strategic leadership, wide-ranging sales and marketing experience.
Steve joined Croda as a graduate trainee in 1990 and has held a number of senior management positions in the Group, becoming President of Croda Europe in July 2010.
Prior to this, Steve held a number of Managing Director roles across Crodas European business.
Committee membership: Chairman of the Group Executive Committee, member of the Nomination, Risk Management and Group SHEQ Steering Committees.
Steve Foots Keith Layden, Chief Technology Officer Appointment: Appointed to the Board as Chief Technology Officer in February 2012.
Key strengths and experience: Deep understanding of chemical innovation and broad operational and management experience.
Keith joined Croda in 1984 and is currently responsible for global Research and Development, and the Technology Investment Group.
Previously he held a number of Managing Director roles across Crodas European business.
External appointments: Keith represents Croda as a member of the advisory board for chemistry at the Universities of Nottingham and York, and is a member of the Innovation Strategy Board for Chemistry Innovation.
He is a Representative of the Council of the Learning and Teaching Committee, University of Sheffield, and in 2014 was appointed as a Trustee and member of Council at the Royal Society of Chemistry.
Committee membership: Member of the Group Executive, Risk Management and Group SHEQ Steering Committees.
Keith Layden Alan Ferguson, Non-Executive Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board in July 2011.
Key strengths and experience: Extensive international financial management and board experience.
Alan was Chief Financial Officer and a Director of Lonmin Plc until December 2010.
Prior to that he was Group Finance Director of The BOC Group until 2006.
Before then he spent 22 years in a variety of roles at Inchcape plc, including 6 years as Group Finance Director from 1999.
External appointments: Has been a Non-Executive Director of Johnson Matthey PLC since January 2011 and was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of The Weir Group PLC in December 2011.
In addition Alan was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of London Mining Plc in March 2013.
He chairs the Audit Committees at each of these companies.
Alan Ferguson Committee membership: Chairman of the Audit Committee, member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Steve Williams, Non-Executive Director Appointment: Appointed to the Board in July 2010.
Key strengths and experience: Extensive industry, legal and board experience.
Steve was General Counsel and Chief Legal Officer of Unilever plc and Unilever NV from 1986 until 2010.
From 2004 until 2010 he was Senior Independent Director of Arriva plc.
From 1995 until 2004 he was a Non-Executive Director of Bunzl plc.
External appointments: Since 2008, Steve has been a Non-Executive Director of Whitbread PLC where he is also the Senior Independent Director.
In addition, Steve is a Non-Executive Director of Eversheds LLP, an international law firm, and a senior advisor to Spencer Stuart LLP.
He is Chairman of the fide La Warr Pavilion Charitable Trust and a member of the Board of Leverhulme Trust and Moorfields NHS Trust.
Steve Williams Committee membership: Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Tom Brophy, Group General Counsel & Company Secretary Appointment: Appointed as Secretary to the Board in December 2012.
Key strengths and experience: Tom is a solicitor and has responsibility for legal affairs, corporate governance and insurance.
Prior to joining Croda, Tom spent seven years at Wolseley plc in a number of legal and governance roles, including as Deputy General Counsel and Company Secretary.
Before then he worked as a corporate lawyer at City law firm, Hogan Lovells.
Committee membership: Secretary to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, member of the Group Executive, Risk Management and Group SHEQ Steering Committees.
Tom Brophy Croda Annual Report & Accounts 2013 35
