our performance in platforms We continued our market leadership in the area of Bluetooth stereo audio, within Voice & Music.
In Auto, we are seeing the increasing use of electronics in cars, while Consumer had a challenging year primarily due to weakness in Cameras.
STRATEGIC REPORT PROGRESS IN PLATFORMS DuRING 2013 Looking at our product areas in more AVRCP support to enable users to During 2013, we launched the connections for in-vehicle hands-free detail, we continued our market Play Pause and Forward Rewind CSRC9300, our first 40nm calling and Bluetooth stereo leadership in the area of Bluetooth streaming music from buttons on their combination chip with Wi-Fi, streaming.
stereo audio, within Voice & Music.
Bluetooth connectivity and audio We launched CSR1010 auto, the This market is growing rapidly, as capabilities qualified for the We are making good progress with first autograde qualified single-mode more and more people carry their automotive market.
The solution will our Wi-Fi audio products, VibeHub Bluetooth Smart embedded device music in digital form on their enable car manufacturers to deliver and VibePlayer.
We are engaging with for automotive applications.
It will smartphone, or other mobile digital future connected car applications, a number of leading customers and service existing and upcoming music players, and stream their music such as Miracast over 5GHz, and expect to see products launched in-vehicle wireless applications as to stereo headsets, soundbars or keyless entry using Bluetooth Smart.
using our technology into the market part of a Bluetooth Smart based speaker docks.
An increasing The CSRC9300 also features during the first half of 2014.
At the end-to-end solution and enables proportion of these devices can on-chip audio processing capabilities technology show CES, which was an automotive ecosystem with the connect wirelessly through Bluetooth.
such as wideband speech and our held in Las Vegas during January We had more than 1,800 SIG high-end aptX audio codec, 2014, we introduced our VibeHub Bluetooth special interest group delivering premium platform which will enable consumers stereo end product listings in the year, quality audio to enjoy synchronised multi-room up from 950 in 2012. audio around the home using our Our aptX audio codec technology SyncLock technology.
This - acquired in 2010 - is an important technology enables products to take contributor to our success in this area.
content from any local or cloudAt the end of 2013 we had 236 based source and create a licencees, a strong increase from 120 multi-room audio experience over an in 2012.
It is a good example of an existing home Wi-Fi network.
incremental acquisition which VibeHubs extensible networking complements our platform capabilities enable interoperability with technologies, enabling us to further a wide range of todays popular extend our competitive advantage.
wireless streaming protocols, At the beginning of 2013, we including Apples AirPlay, so that demonstrated our aptX low latency consumers are not limited to buying a codec which makes it possible for specific ecosystem.
Stereo audio is manufacturers to create universal growing rapidly as In Auto, we are seeing the increasing headphones and headsets that can people carry their use of electronics in cars.
While audio be used both for high-fidelity wireless music in digital form.
and navigation systems are now well audio and gaming applications, as established, the use of video and games can be interactively played Wi-Fi is becoming more widespread, and synchronised with high-quality resulting in increasing demand for our audio and visual action using the Automotive Infotainment products and same wireless link.
And later in the platforms, including our nextyear, we saw Monster launching the generation SiRFprimaII and M7 tablet, the first source device with TM SiRFatlasVI 40nm automotive this aptX low latency codec, which infotainment and navigation platforms.
has successfully tackled the issue of We also saw increasing demand from sound-to-video synchronization.
Tier One customers for our During 2013, we introduced the connectivity products, with our BlueCore CSR8605, a single-chip autograde Wi-Fi ramping into volume ROM Bluetooth music streaming production with a number of device, a cost-optimised, highly customers.
At the same time, we configurable solution that delivers a saw increasing competition for quality audio experience to the our platforms in the aftermarket in entry-level market for wireless China.
This market involves the car portable music speakers.
Key features being fitted with an automotive include five-band music equalisation, infotainment system after purchase volume boost and remote control from an auto dealer.
14 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
indb 14 11 03 2014 21:17 CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information CSR1010 auto in keyfobs, remote development of the Internet.
We controls and sensors around the believe that while, in time, there could vehicle, creating multi-chip be direct connectivity from these opportunities for us per vehicle.
devices to the Internet, connectivity can be more quickly enabled via Consumer had a challenging year.
Bluetooth Smart to a mobile We have seen weakness in both device, which in turn connects Cameras and to a lesser extent in to the cloud.
Cameras is under pressure as smartphones and tablets are being In our engagement increasingly used for taking pictures.
As with potential explained on page 10, we took action customers, we are at the end of the year to end our exploring many investment in the COACH programme.
different applications for In our Document Imaging business, We continue to see increasing Bluetooth Smart in our Quatro 4300 system-on-ademand in the area of Bluetooth areas such as health chip was chosen for the new Pringo Smart, which we believe can be & fitness and medical pocket-size printer from HiTi Digital, implemented in a wide variety applications, human Inc.
The Pringo printer is the first of devices.
interface devices HID, such as mobile Wi-Fi enabled dye-sub photo mice, keyboards and remote controls, printer to be introduced into the to help show positioning within Japan and the Nike Fuelband SE.
gaming controllers and indoor market, enabling consumers to We were also chosen by a Tier One buildings.
Looking further forward, location systems.
affordably print high-resolution we believe this infrastructure based company to supply our gaming photographs on the go.
While revenue in 2013 from controller platform for its new model will mesh well with our own Bluetooth Smart has been small During 2013, we launched the Indoor Location technology.
compared to our overall revenue, enhanced performance version of We believe it will encourage the In December 2013, we introduced we continue to see the potential for the Quatro 5300 series, which TM development of indoor maps, plus the CSR1012 as an addition to the strong medium and long-term incorporates an ARM 11 CPU core apps based on indoor location, to Bluetooth Smart product family.
This growth in this market.
with up to 600 MHz processing speed enable people to use their provides a smaller form factor and two Quatro Imaging Digital Signal Google and the Bluetooth SIG smartphones for locating people, package, making it ideal for wearable Processors DSPs, with up to 480 announced in May 2013 that Android or things, when indoors.
devices such as smart watches and MHz processing speed.
This enhanced will include native support for activity monitors.
Our Indoor Location solution utilises performance allows the Quatro family Bluetooth Smart Ready and Bluetooth infrastructure such as Wi-Fi and or At CES in January 2014, we to better bridge the gap between the Smart devices in the next version of its Bluetooth Smart to determine a users demonstrated a range of connected differing features and pricing points of operating system.
This will result in location indoors, in addition to motion jewellery, which was designed in our Quatro 5300 series and the time in the majority of new and pressure sensors to build up a conjunction with boutique jeweller higher-end Quatro 45xx series.
smartphones being able to integrate picture of a persons positioning within Cellini, powered by the CSR1012 seamlessly with Bluetooth Smart While Camera and Gaming have a building or shopping mall.
In addition, Apples been weak, we are beginning to see believe that while there is still work to pendant-style connected necklaces recent iOS 7.0 release supports growth in the area of Bluetooth be done to refine our solution for contain integrated electronics that Bluetooth Smart Ready HID.
We believe that there are commercial use, there is good enable the user to customise the multiple potential use cases for In 2013, our Bluetooth Smart low potential for our technology and we colour and brightness emitted to suit Bluetooth Smart a low power energy connectivity was chosen for are continuing to make good their mood or to coordinate with a connectivity technology in mobile several next-generation wireless progress toward a commercial particular outfit.
The electronics portable devices, which are either game controller and mouse products deployment.
integrated into the jewellery have been handheld or worn by the user.
These in the new GameSmart mobile designed to support a range of Although we see Bluetooth Smart and devices will be able to function using gaming accessory product family of functions and so they can also alert Indoor Location as key areas of our significantly lower power operating, in Mad Catz, a global provider of users to new notifications on their future growth potential, we do not some cases for many years, on a interactive entertainment products.
We smartphones, an application that would expect them to be a significant single battery.
also saw a number of design wins in also be suited to a connected bracelet.
contributor to our sales in 2014. the health & fitness and human It is widely accepted that there is a During 2013, we saw increased interface device markets, including a growing market for a wide range of interest in the market for using remote control for NTT in devices that connect to the cloud Bluetooth Smart as wireless beacons the third-generation in the www.
