Remuneration report continued Recruitment policy The Companys policy when setting remuneration for the appointment of new directors is summarised in the table below.
Remuneration element Recruitment policy Salary Salary will be set at up to the median, in line with the policy for existing directors.
Benefits The standard benefit package for existing directors will apply, subject to any local legal requirements in the country in which the new director is being employed.
As the Company competes internationally for its executive team: it may be necessary for the Committee to provide special benefits or allowances to take account of this, for example, relocation.
Any such benefits or allowances would be disclosed to shareholders retrospectively.
Pension The maximum employer contribution will be set in line with the Companys policy for existing directors, subject to any local legal requirements in the country in which the new director is being employed.
EIP Maximum annual participation will be set in line with the Companys policy for existing directors and will not exceed 250% of salary.
Long-Term Incentive Plan The normal maximum annual share option grant will be 300% of salary p. a. in line with the Companys policy for existing directors: on recruitment this grant may be set at 400% of salary where the Committee feels that the circumstances justify such a grant.
Maximum variable pay In the year of recruitment the maximum variable pay will be 650% of salary 900% including maximum permitted sign incentive opportunity on compensation which will reduce to 500% of salary for subsequent years.
Sign on compensation The Committees policy is not to provide sign on compensation.
However, in exceptional circumstances, the Committee may provide this type of compensation, in which case, the Committee will endeavour to provide the compensation in equity, subject to a holding period during which cessation of employment will generally result in forfeiture and subject to the satisfaction of performance targets.
The maximum value of this one-off compensation will be proportionate to the overall remuneration offered by the Company and in all circumstances is limited to 250% of salary.
Buy Out of incentives A buy out of incentives forfeited on cessation of previous employment may be agreed if the Committee determines forfeited on cessation that the individual circumstances of recruitment justify the provision of a buy out, equal to the fair value of any of employment incentives that will be forfeited, which will be calculated taking into account the following: a the proportion of the performance period completed on the date of the directors cessation of employment: b the performance conditions attached to the vesting of these incentives and the likelihood of them being satisfied: and c any other terms and conditions having a material effect on their value Lapsed Fair Value.
The Committee may grant up to the same fair value as the Lapsed Fair Value, where possible, under the Companys incentive plans.
To the extent that it were not possible or practical to provide the buy out within the terms of the Companys existing incentive plans, a bespoke arrangement would be used.
Where an existing employee is promoted to the Board, the policy set out above would apply from the date of promotion but there would be no retrospective application of the policy in relation to subsisting incentive awards or remuneration arrangements.
Accordingly, prevailing elements of the remuneration package for an existing employee would be honoured and form part of the ongoing remuneration of the person concerned.
These would be disclosed to shareholders in the Remuneration Report for the relevant financial year.
The Companys policy when setting fees for the appointment of new non-executive directors is to apply the policy which applies to current nonexecutive directors.
74 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
