CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information These learning resources are not only used for self-learning but also Inclusion in support of coaching and traditional face-to-face learning, allowing We promote an open and honest working environment where a more blended approach to personal development.
Increasingly, employee views are sought, listened to and acted upon.
employees will be able to manage the planning and delivery of their own development, which we believe provides empowerment and During 2013, we have continued to evolve our employee encourages people to reflect on where they would most benefit communications.
A range of channels provides regular from additional training, within a framework in which their HR communications to CSR employees globally.
With our global Managers and our HR teams are able to provide guidance and e-newsletter, Whats New @ CSR, we continue to provide a weekly offer feedback linked to performance evaluations that are provided update that is distributed internally via e-mail.
This weekly e-newsletter for all employees.
is supplemented with regular posts on CSRs social media channels Twitter, facebook, LinkedIn about staff activities, from fundraising Diversity reports to tradeshow coverage.
Our intranet portal is kept up to date CSR is a multicultural global organisation and we are committed to with new tools and applications.
As a new feature, individual CSR providing equal opportunities for training, career development and locations have access to a dedicated local information area, providing promotion to all employees, regardless of any physical disability, content on local restaurants, social clubs and places of interest.
gender, religion, race or nationality.
Our recruitment, training and development programmes reflect this philosophy.
Within the Recognising and rewarding exceptional performance is key at CSR management team that reports to the CEO, women comprise 11% and managers have a number of tools available to support this.
CSR or 1 out of 9 personnel and at board level 11% or 1 of 9.
In the operates a global recognition programme, whereby managers can Group as a whole, women comprise 19% of our total employees or request a financial reward for individuals making exceptional 400 out of a total of 2,146.
The CSR Group comprises a number of contributions.
Employees also have the opportunity to participate in the subsidiary entities which have boards of directors.
Of these entities Companys share incentive schemes, so that they can participate in the there are 109 individual appointments, of which 103 are men and 6 success they are building.
This includes tax-efficient share purchase or 5% are women.
schemes, allowing staff to save money to purchase shares in CSR at a discount and participate in the success of the business.
The Company Applications for vacancies are considered based on capabilities and also operates bonus plans, which rewards employees as a percentage reflecting the requirements of the role, and resources for of their salary.
Participation in the bonus schemes operated by the development and training are made available to all employees.
Group is open to all employees.
For example, our online lessons have audio tracks and also text captions that follow the sound in order specifically to assist the We have continued our Lunch & Learn programme, which we hard-of-hearing.
The user can choose whatever suits them best.
This enables employees to learn about In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is CSR technologies during their lunch breaks.
Increasingly, we made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues are using the video editing suite, Camtasia, to capture slides and that appropriate training is arranged.
In addition, CSR provides and presenter voice-overs which can be published as videos and various learning opportunities in local languages to accommodate made available via eLearn to those who have not been able to different language skills.
These have proved particularly helpful as part of supporting global interaction, allowing a greater Mutual respect, acknowledging and accepting diversity, and number of people to benefit from the topics which are covered safeguarding the fundamental rights of individuals should be the as well as encouraging discussion and sharing of ideas by foundations not only of a socially responsible company but also of employees in an informal environment.
CSR is committed to these principles and the respect for human rights of all people inside and outside our In 2013, we carried out a complete re-brand of the Companys organisation and this is reflected within our ethics policy which is visual identity, with a new CSR logo, colour palette and tagline promulgated across our Group.
Push every boundary and revised corporate messaging, fresh imagery and a new-look website.
The re-brand was officially Pensions are available to all employees, either through participation launched at our annual sales conference and communicated in the state pension schemes in the country in which the employee is to employees based at every office location via special resident or by provision of a defined contribution pension scheme.
announcements and presentations by office heads and Such schemes are maintained in accordance with legislative senior executives.
requirements, custom, practice and Group policy as appropriate.
Company results continue to be cascaded via an audio or video Employees by function: 2013 2012 2011 webcast, including internal audio video webcasts and Q&A sessions with the CEO and CFO.
R&D 1,352 1,430 1,979 SG&A 794 687 966 We also encourage employees to share their ideas which might be Total 2,146 adopted into new technologies and products.
These ideas can be 2,117 2,945 submitted by any employee via our intranet Innovation Portal, an online suggestions tool.
Employees are advised what information Employees by region: 2013 2012 2011 is required in submitting their ideas, which are then subject to Europe 716 609 868 evaluation and if considered appropriate, further scrutiny and Asia 962 1,045 1,220 commercial evaluation.
The Group also supports an innovation award for the best invention.
