CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Remuneration element Treatment on exit Salary Salary will be paid over the notice period.
The Company has discretion to make a lump sum payment on termination of the salary payable during the notice period.
In all cases the Company will seek to mitigate any payments due.
Benefits Benefits will normally be provided over the notice period.
The Company has discretion to make a lump sum payment on termination equal to the value of the benefits payable during the notice period.
Pension Company pension contributions will normally be provided over the notice period.
The Company has discretion to make a lump sum payment on termination equal to the value of the Company pension contributions during the notice period.
EIP Element Other reason Permitted reason Element A No entitlement for year of cessation.
Vesting pro-rated to time and performance for year of cessation.
Element B share awards in relation to previous years will vest in full on the basis that these represent an earned entitlement.
Long-Term Other reason Permitted reason Incentive Plan Forfeited Vesting subject to performance and pro-rated to time at the date of the cessation of employment.
Pursuant to the plan rules, the Committee has discretion to determine whether cessation of employment is for a permitted reason.
The Committee may, in accordance with the plan rules, permit a higher level of vesting on the death of an option holder, not greater than the original grant.
Permitted reason is defined as cessation in the following circumstances: - death: - injury or disability: - retirement: - redundancy: and - at the discretion of the Committee if exercised a full explanation will be provided to shareholders.
Change of control The Committees policy on the vesting of incentives on a change of control is summarised below.
Name of incentive plan Award Treatment on change of control Executive Incentive Plan Element A The Committee will determine the level of payment based on the level of satisfaction of the performance targets as at the change of control.
The Committee has discretion to reduce any potential payment to take into account the portion of the financial year completed as at the date of change of control.
The Committee has determined to exercise its discretion as follows: If a change of control occurs in the first or second quarter of any financial year, pro rating will be applied to reflect the proportion of the financial year which has not been completed.
If a change of control occurs in the third or fourth quarter of any financial year there will be no such pro rating.
The value which is earned will be determined solely by reference to satisfaction of the performance targets.
Element B Element B share awards will vest in full on the basis that these represent an earned entitlement.
Long-Term Share options The number of share options that will vest will be determined by the Committee, having regard Incentive Plan to the satisfaction of the performance targets and, unless the Committee determines otherwise, will be pro rated to reflect the proportion of the vesting period which has been completed.
To determine the satisfaction of the performance target, the offer price for the Company will be compared to the proportionate growth in absolute TSR up to the date of the change of control.
