Board of Directors Ron Mackintosh Joep van Beurden Will Gardiner Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Mr Mackintosh age 65, has served as a non-executive Mr van Beurden age 53, was appointed Chief Executive Mr Gardiner age 49, joined CSR as Chief Financial director since May 2004 and was appointed Chairman Officer on 1 November 2007.
He has over 15 years of Officer in June 2008.
Prior to joining CSR, Mr Gardiner with effect from 2 May 2007.
Mr Mackintosh is a experience in managing technology companies in the US was Finance Director for Technology and Enterprise at non-executive director of software company Fidessa and Europe.
Prior to joining CSR, Mr van Beurden was Chief BSkyB plc.
Before its acquisition by BSkyB in 2006, Group plc and non-executive chairman of AlertMe.
com Executive of NexWave Inc. a provider of embedded software Mr Gardiner had since 2001 been CFO of Easynet Ltd and of Nomad Digital Ltd. Mr Mackintosh has held a solutions for the consumer electronics market based in Group plc, a pan-European broadband telecoms number of senior executive positions in European France.
Before joining NexWave, Mr van Beurden held senior company.
Between 1991 and 2001, Mr Gardiner held technology companies.
Between 1992 and 2000, positions at Canesta Inc. a fabless semiconductor company a number of senior roles within JPMorgans investment Mr Mackintosh was Chief Executive of Computer in San Jose, California and Philips Components also in San banking division, specialising in the telecoms and Sciences Corporations CSC European business, Jose.
Prior to that, Mr van Beurden had worked for five years technology sectors.
Mr Gardiner has a BA from which had revenues of $2.5 billion.
He is also a former for management and strategy consultants McKinsey & Harvard College and MA from Johns Hopkins University.
director of Gemplus SA, and the former chairman of each Company in Amsterdam.
Mr van Beurden has also worked of Smartstream Technologies Ltd, Northgate Information as a crude oil trader for Royal Dutch Shell in Rotterdam and Solutions plc and also of Differentis, a privately owned IT lectured in Physics and Electronics at the University of Zambia consultancy which he co-founded in July 2000. in Lusaka.
In January 2009, Mr van Beurden was appointed Mr Mackintosh is Chairman of the Nomination Committee a director of the Global Semiconductor Alliance GSA, a and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
not-for-profit organisation supporting collaboration, supply chain integration and innovation in the global semiconductor industry.
He served as Chairman of the GSA from December 2011 to December 2013, after serving as a Vice Chairman since December 2009.
Mr van Beurden holds a Masters degree in Applied Physics from Twente University of Technology in Enschede, The Netherlands.
Walker Boyd Anthony Carlisle Levy Gerzberg Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Mr Boyd age 61, was appointed a non-executive Mr Carlisle age 66, a non-executive director and CSRs Dr Gerzberg age 68, joined the Board of CSR as a director of CSR on 6 December 2013.
On 1 January Senior Independent Director, was appointed a nonnon-executive director on 31 August 2011 following the 2014 he assumed the role of chairman of the Audit executive director of CSR in July 2005 and acquisition by CSR of Zoran Corporation which he Committee.
Mr Boyd is a chartered accountant, with was appointed as Senior Independent Director on co-founded and was its President, CEO and Director.
extensive experience of working in listed companies in 27 May 2009.
He is also a member of our Audit, Dr Gerzberg has over 30 years experience in the high the UK and US.
Until June 2010, when he retired, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
technology industry in areas related to semiconductors, Mr Boyd served as Group Finance Director of Signet Mr Carlisle has over 30 years experience in marketing software and systems utilising digital signal processing Jewelers Limited formerly Signet Group plc, Signet, and communications, advising major companies in the and System-Ona-Chip SOC platforms in consumer a position he held from 1995.
Dual listed on the London UK and internationally.
He holds a BA in Economics.
electronics, communications, PCs, military and medical and New York stock exchanges, at the time he stood electronics markets.
Prior to co-founding Zoran, down from the Board, Signet had global revenues of Dr Gerzberg was Associate Director of Stanford Universitys $3.3bn, was the largest US specialty jeweller and Electronics Laboratory, where he managed, conducted incorporated a number of recognised UK brands research and taught.
Dr Gerzberg served as a director on including H Samuel and Ernest Jones.
Between the Consumers Electronics Associations Board of Industry September 2010 and August 2013, Mr Boyd was Leaders for two terms, from 2006 to 2008 and from 2011 non-executive chairman of WH Smith PLC.
He was named Northern Californias 2003 Ernst currently non-executive chairman of Spirit Pub & Young Entrepreneur of the Year in the Semiconductor Company plc, a role he has held since the fide-merger category, and in 2004 he was the recipient of the California of Spirit from Punch Taverns in August 2011.
Israel Chamber of Commerce International Partnership Mr Boyd is a member of the Remuneration and award.
Dr Gerzberg holds a PhD in Electrical Engineering Nomination Committees.
from Stanford University in California and an MSc in Medical Electronics and a BSc in Electrical Engineering from the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology in Haifa, Israel.
52 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
indb 52 11 03 2014 21:17 CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Christopher Ladas Operations Director Mr Ladas age 68, was appointed a director of CSR on 1 January 2008.
He joined the Company in May 2000 when he served as CSRs Executive Vice President, Operations.
He has been instrumental in establishing CSRs supply chain partnership with TSMC, world leader in wafer foundry operations and ASE, the largest assembly and test subcontractor in the industry.
Mr Ladas currently serves as Executive Vice President Operations.
Between January 1996 and May 2000, Mr Ladas served as the vice president of operations at Micro Linear Corporation.
Prior to 1996, Mr Ladas held several managerial and technical positions at National Semiconductor, Fairchild, Harris, Sperry, Motorola and Signetics.
Mr Ladas holds a BS in Chemistry from Arizona State University, USA.
He is also a member of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and a member of the Europe, Middle East and Africa Leadership Council of the Global Semiconductor Alliance.
Chris Stone Teresa Vega Non-executive director Non-executive director Mr Stone age 51 joined the Board of CSR as a non-executive Ms Vega age 59, joined CSR as a non-executive director director on 16 July 2012 and is also Chairman of the on 27 October 2010 and is also a member of our Audit Remuneration Committee.
Mr Stone is Chief Executive Officer Committee.
Ms Vega has over 35 years experience of Nair & Co, a private company, with operations in gained working in the technology and telecommunications the UK, India and the USA, which is a leading provider of industries for leading global companies, including specialist technical and administrative support services for Motorola Inc. where she served as senior vice president companies which are looking to expand into international between June 2005 and July 2007, leading their global markets.
Prior to taking on this role, in 2012, Mr Stone CDMA handset business, and Lucent Technologies Inc. served as Chief Executive of Fitness First, one of the worlds where she served as Chief Operating Officer of the leading health and fitness groups, as it went through a wireless infrastructure unit.
In each of these organisations, financial restructuring.
From October 1999 until December Ms Vega led and built multi-billion dollar divisions and 2011, Mr Stone served as Chief Executive Officer of spearheaded major product launches.
Between 2002 Northgate Information Solutions plc Northgate, and was and 2005, Ms Vega also served as Group President, responsible for creating a market leader in providing specialist Wireless Cable and Emerging Markets at Telecordia software, outsourcing and information technology IT services Technologies Inc. a leading global provider of to the human resources, local government, education and telecommunications software and services for network public safety markets across 5 continents with revenues of operators.
Ms Vega is currently non-executive chairman over 850 million and employing over 10,000 people.
of Cambridge Broadband Networks Limited and ip.
access Following the acquisition of Northgate in 2007 by private Limited, both of which are based in Cambridge, UK.
equity firm KKR for 1 billion, when Northgate fide-listed, Audit Committee Mr Stone remained as CEO until December 2011.
Prior to his role at Northgate, Mr Stone held senior positions with Remuneration Committee Accenture, Digital Equipment Corporation UK and EDS.
