CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information In 2012, we paid cash dividends of $21.3 million 2011 $16.3 million, and spent $294 million 2011 $47.5 million repurchasing our own shares through a tender offer and buybacks.
In 2012, the Group received $271.3 million from the Samsung Transaction, whilst in 2011 there was a net cash outflow of $123.9 million arising from the Zoran acquisition.
Details of these can be found in notes 33 and 34 to the consolidated financial statements.
Other financing activities represent cash inflows from shares.
In 2012 we received $34.4 million from an equity injection from the Samsung Transaction which is described on page 22, whilst the remaining $16.8 million arose from employee share option exercises.
This increased compared to $4.0 million in 2011 due to the rise in the Companys share price which both increased proceeds and encouraged employees to exercise more share options and awards.
A full breakdown of cash flows can be found in the consolidated financial statements on page 96, and details of our capital and liquidity policies can be found below.
Finance policies Our finance policies are reviewed annually, and changed where necessary to reflect current industry and macro economic factors.
There were no significant changes in our policies during 2013.
Hedging We operate using a functional currency of uSD, which is the currency underlying substantially all of the revenue and cost of sales during the year.
Operational expenditure arises in a number of local currencies, with approximately 23% denominated in GBP.
In order to reduce the volatility of our earnings due to foreign exchange rate fluctuations, we enter into forward contracts to fix an exchange rate for our future GBP denominated expenditure.
These contracts are accounted for as cash flow hedges and do not affect the profit and loss until the period in which the related transaction is recorded.
Occasionally, after discussions with the Treasury committee we may choose to hedge against specific transactions in other currencies, however we do not currently hedge against non-specific movements in any other currency as we do not believe this offers significant risk to the Group.
See notes 3, 19 and 31 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on our accounting policies for hedging, the status of hedging at 27 December 2013, and a sensitivity analysis on foreign currency.
Liquidity Our primary source of liquidity is the cash inflow from our operations.
At present we do not rely on third party financing and therefore we do not consider liquidity risk to be significant.
We manage this risk by maintaining adequate cash reserves and by continuously monitoring forecast and actual cash flows, and matching the maturity of financial assets and liabilities.
Neither CSR nor any of its subsidiaries is subject to any externally imposed capital requirements.
There are no material restrictions on the use of any of our cash, cash equivalents or treasury deposits.
We hold all our liquid investments in accordance with the counterparty and settlement risk limits in the treasury policy approved by the Board of Directors namely that: at any one time cash is placed with at least three banking counterparties: authorised banking counterparties require a credit rating of A3 or above: no more than 30% of money market deposits will have over 90 days maturity and no deposit will have over 12 months duration: and no counterparty can hold more than $75 million of funds, or 25% of aggregate gross cash balances, whichever is higher.
Capital management Our policy is to maintain a strong capital base and substantial cash balances so as to maintain customer, creditor, investor and market confidence, as well as to sustain future development of the business.
Any additional funds will be considered for return to shareholders, as and when appropriate.
During 2013, we bought back 8,453,289 ordinary shares for an aggregate of $67.8 million for further details see page 85.
Our issued share capital at 27 December 2013 was 187,494,513 ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each, including 21,313,577 ordinary shares held in Treasury.
Dividend policy It is the Boards intention to follow a progressive dividend policy that reflects the underlying growth prospects of the Company.
The Board currently intends to pay dividends on a semi-annual basis.
Given our confidence in our future growth the Board is recommending an increase of 14% to $0.091 per ordinary share in respect of the final dividend for the 2013 financial year.
Subject to shareholder approval at the annual general meeting to be held on 21 May 2014, the dividend will be paid to shareholders of record on 9 May 2014.
The final dividend will be paid in GBP.
CSR Employee Benefit Trust EBT From time to time the EBT purchases CSR ordinary shares in the stock market.
The timing of such transaction is subject to compliance with uK listing regulations, agreement between CSR and the trustees of the EBT, and prevailing market prices.
In 2013 the EBT purchased 541,894 ordinary shares for an aggregate of $4.8 million.
These shares are intended to be used for satisfying obligations to deliver shares under our employee share incentive plans.
