Chief Executives review I remain excited about the long-term prospects for the markets in which we operate and believe we are well positioned to grow faster than our industry.
Joep van Beurden Chief Executive Officer headsets in China as a result of the enforcement of hands-free Financial review of the year driving legislation.
2013 has seen CSR deliver good Core growth, driven by a strong increase in Voice & Music revenue and a solid We saw good growth in Auto, with revenue of $228.8 million, an performance by Auto with growth starting in Bluetooth Smart, increase of 8% on 2012.
This was due to increasing adoption contributing to increased overall profitability and underlying of our connectivity products and a more general shift towards earnings compared to 2012.
We performed well in 2013, the increasing deployment of electronics within the automobile growing our Core revenue to $722.3 million, an increase of 9% industry.
CSR was one of the first suppliers into the automotive on the prior year.
Within Core, we saw particularly strong growth market for wireless connectivity and we have a strong track in Voice & Music, with revenue of $312.0 million, an increase of record for supporting our customers, as they adopt our 64% from 2012.
This was driven by the growth in stereo wireless technologies for wireless connectivity and infotainment.
audio devices such as soundbars, headphones and remote We continue to work with the largest companies in the speakers.
We have leading technologies in Voice & Music, the automotive market to develop a broadening range of solutions result of our research & development R&D investment and that support consumer demands for in-dash GPS functionality, targeted, strategic acquisitions, which means we are able to audio, imaging and connectivity products.
offer differentiated solutions that contribute to our continued Our Consumer segment revenue declined by 30% to market leadership.
We also saw a non-recurring positive impact $181.5 million, primarily due to declining revenue in Cameras.
in the first half of 2013, which was due to demand for mono STRATEGIC REPORT OuR BuSINESS MODEL Five markets Business model Fabless excluding revenue from the yet We focus on our chosen end Our strategy is to deliver growing We are a fabless semiconductor to be commercially introduced markets, and aim to use our shareholder returns by generating company.
We design and develop market of Indoor Location, integrated and differentiated revenue growth and increasing semiconductor integrated circuits representing a compound annual technology platforms, with the profitability.
We seek to do this by chips, including platforms, and growth rate of 13.5%.
goal of achieving sustainable focusing our investment on software, and subcontract to R&D growth with higher margins and markets that are fast growing and independent third parties the In order to be at the forefront of our returns.
We currently develop where we can deliver manufacture wafer fabrication, chosen markets, we make significant enhanced and connected differentiated platforms with a packaging and test of our investment in research and platforms in our Voice & Music, leading market position.
During 2013, we Auto and Consumer business to build a strong portfolio of mostly subcontracted to TSMC, a spent $273.1 million on R&D.
areas, where we believe we can innovative multifunction platforms world class leading foundry, and The majority of our products under achieve a strong position.
using our connectivity, location, ASE, a leading provider of design are to be manufactured on audio and imaging technologies semiconductor manufacturing We focus on five strategic end the 40nm node, as moving to a for the market segments as services, and is predominantly markets in our Core business smaller lithography can enable a described on pages 14 and 15. undertaken in Taiwan, while other group Automotive Infotainment, lower bill-of-materials cost to The delivery of this strategy has locations include South Korea, Imaging, Voice & Music and the the customer.
been supported by a combination China, the United States, and two nascent markets of Bluetooth We continue to have dedicated of acquisitions and organic Singapore.
Our solutions Smart and Indoor Location processes which underpin the growth, which has allowed us to increasingly include software, which we believe will enable us to evaluation of new ideas from both on our chips and as part of broaden the technologies we have generate sustainable revenue their conception through their broader system solutions.
It has also growth with good margins over development to market launch.
widened our market presence and We sell directly to the producers the medium and longer term.
Our Our overall aim is to grow our Core customer base.
As a result, we of consumer electronic objective is to develop higher revenue while maintaining control of have moved beyond the design equipment, as well as to original margin platforms in markets that our underlying operating expenses, and supply of single technology design manufacturers and we expect will outgrow the overall which comprise underlying R&D and semiconductor products and distributors, and therefore our semiconductor market.
related software solutions technologies and their lifecycles our total serviceable addressable predominantly using the are impacted by the product cycle market to grow from Bluetooth standard for the mobile of many consumer end products.
approximately $3.1 billion in handset that characterised our 2013 to $5.9 billion in 2018, focus following our IPO in 2004.
8 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
