Corporate Social Responsibility continued CSR Japan: reaching out to the community Learning and Development We recognise that our people are a very important part of what has made CSR a success to date and of building on that success for the future.
The execution of our strategic objectives is significantly dependent on the capabilities, knowledge, experience and skills of our people.
We continue to invest in training and career progression in order to sustain and further develop these capabilities and to support our employees in achieving their personal development and career ambitions.
Not only does this help to motivate and strengthen our people and encourage them to build rewarding careers, it also helps us in our drive to continually enhance the quality of service to our customers and supports our objective to deliver innovative solutions into the marketplace.
As part of its planned SR activities, staff from our Tokyo office staged a  technology event at the campus As CSR seeks to extend its markets and technologies, we require a festival of the local Akita Prefectural university.
This was the second more diverse range of skills to support the business and our strategic time CSR Japan had supported the local universitys community objectives.
During 2013, we have continued to invest in Learning outreach efforts.
CSR staged a special Bluetooth technology and Development around the globe, offering training in such areas showcase and best product contest to help introduce the latest in as manager development, interpersonal skills and technical skills short-range radio connectivity technology to university students and development.
Activity in the commercial areas has involved the people of Akita.
developing learning programmes in R&D, Marketing, Operations and CSR USA: going the distance to fight cancer Project Management.
In 2013, we have continued the implementation of our Learning Management System and the online training system will enable expansion of the training offering to more individuals around the Company.
We continue to be a member of The Learning Collaboration in the uK which enables us to provide a range of development opportunities.
We also continue working with the American Management Association offering a range of skills training in the uS.
We seek to continuously improve our Learning and Development resources and engage directly with line managers and personnel in the proactive development and continuous improvement of their teams.
This is an important part of supporting our business strategy Staff from our Burlington office took part in sporting challenges to be a leading technology company.
Through this engagement with to fundraise for deserving causes.
Art Weeks devoted his passion our people, we are developing courses and online resources that for long-distance cycling to complete the grueling 163-mile-long help us in reinforcing winning behaviours.
For example, in the uK, Pan-Mass Challenge in 12 hours and raise over $6,700 for we are enhancing our Learning and Development to employees The Jimmy Fund, which supports cancer research and care at and managers by introducing various short courses targeted at Dana-Farber Cancer Institute for children and adults.
hoping that someday cancer fundraisers are a thing of the past, writes Art for the CSR People blog.
We also offer a range of lunch and learn courses which cover a wide range of topics from technical a better understanding of how a department works to how to use a particular process or simply sharing knowledge of what we do at CSR for example, demonstration day of products containing our chips.
During 2013, we completed the migration of our Learning Management and Performance Management systems into Oracle, which enables us to provide improved interface with our Enterprise Resource Planning system.
This is an important communication tool in capturing and cascading our organisational goals, connected with the performance objectives of all people across our Group, thereby CSR also contributed to research into treatment for and awareness enabling everyone to understand their contribution to delivering of breast cancer thanks to the efforts of Frank McSorley and business performance and supporting the fulfilment of our strategy others who participated in the Susan G. Komen 3-Day, a which also encourages shared vision and personal accountability.
60-mile-long walk from Framingham to Boston over three days.
We now have an extensive library of material in the iLearn element This was Franks fourth time walking through rain and shine with of Oracle, and are further developing both the content and the his yellow-shirted Men with Heart team.
This year the walkers of system to make online learning accessible globally.
Examples of Boston raised $2.5 million.
In his report for the CSR People blog the resources provided include online training in areas such as about crossing the finishing line, Frank writes: The long line of Project Management, Performance Evaluation, compliance training in breast cancer survivors at the closing ceremony reminded us Health & Safety and in the uK Bribery Act.
We expect to launch, in exactly what we are here for.
They showed us why we have to early 2014, additional material that will augment existing training in keep on fighting until pink is just another colour.
40 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
