CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information our five strategic areas of focus Following the transfer of handset connectivity and handset location development operations to Samsung, our platform strategy has accelerated and we have focused our energies on five markets which we believe provide growth potential.
We are developing enhanced and We take a disciplined approach to Our strategy focuses on targeting connected platforms in five end capital allocation, investing in higher our chosen end markets with our markets, including Automotive margin platforms and markets where integrated and differentiated technology Infotainment, Imaging and Voice & we see the best prospects for platforms, with a goal to achieve Music and the two nascent markets of profitable revenue growth.
sustainable growth with higher Bluetooth Smart and Indoor Location.
We also develop a range of products for other markets including handsets, gaming and computer.
Automotive Infotainment Indoor Five strategic Imaging Location areas of focus Bluetooth Voice & Music Smart See more on page 14 www.
indb 9 11 03 2014 21:17 Chief Executives review continued The digital still camera marketplace has experienced a sharp TRENDS IN OuR MARKETPLACE drop in demand with an acceleration in the move by consumers away from digital cameras, towards smartphones and tablets We operate in a fast moving marketplace and the results of our operations with video and still shot capabilities.
Revenue from our Gaming during 2011-2013 were materially affected by the following trends within the business was also weaker as a result of weakness in some areas semiconductor industry in which we operate, several of which are likely to of the console market.
At the same time, we see potential for continue and which we expect are likely to affect our performance in 2014. growth in Bluetooth Smart albeit from a small revenue base These include: driven by the general interest in Internet of Things, and we are consumer taste for electronic devices can show rapid change and so impact making progress with our Indoor Location technology.
on the size of the differing markets which take our products and technologies: In December 2013, due to the weakness in the digital still changes in the semiconductor industry, which can affect the availability of camera market, we decided to discontinue investment in the sufficient capacity to meet our demands for integrated circuits: COACH platform.
This decision resulted in a non-cash prevailing economic uncertainty particularly in China and India, which affects impairment charge for the 2013 financial year of $76.9 million.
the level of demand for consumer related products: We also incurred restructuring costs of $6.5 million, which were we continue to see intense competition from third parties, particularly from mainly due to the planned redundancies for staff in the Camera Asia, including in respect of product features, pricing strategies and release business who were not redeployed to other business activities.
of new products: These employees are expected to leave during 2014.
We the recognised and ongoing trend in the semiconductor integrated circuits anticipate that further costs relating to this decision will arise industry for declining average selling prices: during 2014.
As a result of this action, in 2014 we expect shorter order lead times: revenue to be reduced by approximately $10 million and our cyclical trends in the semiconductor industry generally: underlying costs by approximately $30 million, compared to our the lithographic dimensions used for semiconductors can now be measured expectations prior to December 2013. almost in individual atoms and continue to reduce allowing improved throughput and functionality: Revenue in our Legacy Products Group, which comprises the discontinued home entertainment, handset connectivity and changes in consumer demand for particular applications, for example, the handset location businesses was $238.4 million, a decline of integration of standalone functions into devices like smartphones, such as taking photographs: 35% on the prior year.
Performance in this area was better than expected, primarily due to demand for our handset products.
fluctuations in currency exchange rates which can affect our costs in light We expect Legacy Products revenue in 2014 to decline by of the global nature of our business: and around 65% compared to 2013.
This compares to our previous litigation associated with alleged infringement of proprietary rights which is expectation of 50% revenue decline and is due to products commonplace in the industry.
reaching end-of-life earlier than previously expected.
In addition, the majority of the technologies which we develop and supply to our customers are installed into devices that are sold to consumer markets.
Growth in Core offset by a decline in Legacy revenue, resulted Demand for consumer products, and therefore for our own products, is in a decrease of 6% in Group revenue in 2012, to $960.7 million subject to seasonal variation for the types of goods in which our products in 2013. and technologies are used.
This in turn affects our results, which typically are stronger in the second and third quarters of a financial year, as our customers We prepare our financial statements in accordance with IFRS, increase orders in anticipation of demand for their own products.
but also report underlying measures, which are non-GAAP We rely on our suppliers to provide the volumes of integrated circuits sufficient measures.
underlying measures are supplemental measures to meet the demands for our products from our customers.
Our largest that management uses in assessing the financial performance suppliers have continued to expand their capacities in the face of increasing of the Company see pages 150 to 153. underlying gross demand.
In most instances the strength of CSRs relationship with its primary margin increased from 50.8% in 2012 to 52.4%, as we suppliers has enabled us to respond to the needs of our customers.
We work increased the proportion of revenue derived from our higher to maintain a strong relationship with our suppliers and the Company has margin Core business.
Importantly, we saw Core underlying benefited from the commitment of a number of key partners who have gross margins increase to 59.7%, compared to 58.1%, which supported our business.
we believe reflects well on our strategy of moving towards differentiated, higher margin platforms.
Gross margin mirrored the performance of underlying gross margin and increased to 51.6%, compared to 49.6% in the prior year.
10 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
