CSR in review Strategic report Governance Financial statements Other information Going concern The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the going concern basis.
The directors have considered future cash forecasts and revenue projections, based on prudent market data, in their consideration of going concern.
The issues surrounding going concern are discussed regularly by the Board and were evaluated as part of the Groups budget for the next financial year and the Groups longer term plans.
Notes 31, 18 and 19 of the consolidated financial statements include the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of the financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to credit risk.
Management is currently of the opinion that the Group has adequate financial resources and a robust policy towards treasury risk and cash flow management.
The Group has $306.2 million of cash, cash equivalents and treasury deposits as at 27 December 2013 and no debt liabilities.
The directors believe that the Group is adequately placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook and challenging macro economic conditions.
After considering the above factors, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Payment of creditors The Group agrees payment terms with its suppliers when it enters into binding purchase contracts to ensure that suppliers are made aware of terms of payment.
The Company abides by these terms of payment.
At 27 December 2013 and at 28 December 2012 the Company had no external creditors whilst the Group reported 37 creditor days at 28 December 2012 44 creditor days.
Donations The Company and employees support a number of charities for a variety of causes.
For the period ended 27 December 2013, the Company made charitable donations totalling $137,942 2012 $105,282 to charities local to the Groups operations.
The Company did not make any political donations during the year.
Auditors Deloitte LLP are the Companys auditors and have expressed their willingness to continue in the office of auditors and therefore, in accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act 2006, a resolution for their reappointment will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board Brett Gladden, Company Secretary 1 25 February 2014 1 Certain share and share capital information has been updated within this report to 10 March 2014 to reflect changes, arising between signing and the latest practicable date prior to publication.
