Corporate Social Responsibility continued CSR is a fabless semiconductor company.
We design and sell We have generated and approved an internal management system semiconductor products and we subcontract to third parties the to determine an approach in addressing the requirements of the processes for the manufacture, packaging and testing of our Dodd-Frank Act.
The management system reflects the guidelines products.
We recognise the importance of ensuring that our key defined by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and suppliers have appropriate policies and practices on social, Development.
Day-to-day activity is undertaken by our product environmental and ethical matters.
Key manufacturing partners are compliance team.
selected and assessed based on certification to appropriate globally recognised standards such as ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and SA All manufacturing of CSRs semiconductor products is performed 8000.
We are proud to continue to work alongside TSMC, which is by our supplier partners.
As such, we are a downstream company.
reputed to be the greenest semiconductor fabricator company in We have no direct business relationship with smelters or refiners.
By reducing emissions, recycling water and consuming We also believe that our suppliers have no direct business less water, TSMC is already recognised as a champion of good relationship with smelters or refiners.
We have generated new supplier requirements to address the We periodically undertake audits of the operations of our key supply requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act in respect of conflict partners to provide assurance that appropriate standards are being minerals disclosure.
maintained in these areas and to determine whether internationally recognised certification exists to the standards mentioned above.
We have performed a Reasonable Country of Origin Inquiry which was sent to our main semiconductor suppliers.
We have received During 2013, reviews of product environmental compliance were completed forms back from all of these suppliers but in some cases, conducted by our Supplier Audit Team at suppliers in Taiwan and the responses show that our suppliers cannot yet fully identify that Korea.
Through these reviews, we obtained assurances on certain the conflict minerals used are DRC Conflict-Free.
We recognise that the Conflict-Free Smelter programme is still in Based on the extent of our ongoing engagement described above, development.
Companies, who are required to report, but are unable the Board believes that steps are being taken to mitigate against to determine whether the products are conflict free are allowed to the risks relating to health, safety and environmental responsibilities describe products containing conflict minerals as DRC Conflictand there is no present expectation that prevailing practices would undeterminable during a transitional period, provided they exercise materially affect our strategic objectives.
due diligence on the source and chain of custody.
We do not expect complete data to be available from all suppliers immediately.
Conflict Minerals Pursuant to Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and We will continue to make reasonable enquiries with our suppliers in Consumer Protection Act, the Dodd-Frank Act, in August 2012, order to understand the extent of their use of conflict minerals in our the SEC adopted disclosure requirements for SEC reporting semiconductor products.
companies on the utilisation of certain so-called conflict minerals tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold mined from the Democratic Republic of Congo DRC and adjoining countries in their products.
The Strategic Report has been approved by the Board of directors CSR is registered with the SEC and our products contain one or a on 25 February 2014 combination of tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold which is intentionally added and necessary to product functionality.
The majority of these Signed by Order of the Board supplies do not come from scrap or recycled sources.
Whilst we for and on behalf of the Board of directors are not a direct buyer of the conflict minerals from source, we recognise that we need to report on our supply chain and the extent Brett Gladden to which such conflict minerals may be used in our products.
For this Company Secretary purpose, we have implemented measures for gathering information 25 February 2014 from our suppliers.
44 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 z 655547 CSR BOOK.
