Strategic report O ur business model At Afren, our business model is designed tocreate sustainable long-term value for ourshareholders across the E&P value chain.
Governance Active Portfolio Management Exploration Appraisal and Production development Net prospective resources Net 2C resources 809.8 mmboe Net 2P reserves 286.0 mmbbls 10,031mmboe Mature resource base Target high-margin projects Access early-stage opportunities to contingent basis Pursue active work programme Prioritise exploration options Evaluate optimal to produce and develop remaining development solution 2P reserves base Execute E&A programmes Efficiency and speed key to success Extend field maturity High margin cash flow Financial management Afren plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Operational expertise Strategic report Responsibility Governance How we are organised At Afren, we aim to be a responsible We create value by pursuing a clear and consistent strategy that aims to achieve a balance between exploration, appraisal and transparent business.
The Board and development investment, with funding from production has established a management structure and capital financing.
To do this successfully and sustainably, with defined lines of responsibility and our business model is supported by a meticulous planning and clear delegation of authority.
The various financial management process.
This focuses on achieving specific committees are key elements of the overall milestones within projects, and ensuring we adhere to high control structure.
The Group has developed standards of governance, corporate and social responsibility.
a formal business planning process, which In addition, as part of our ongoing portfolio management process, operates on an annual cycle.
The Board we continually review and look to optimise our portfolio through approves the consolidated annual budget, farm-outs and strategic divestments.
This allows us to mitigate and budget performance is monitored and risk and introduce new Partners with complementary skills.
Italso generates cash flow to re-invest in our growth strategy, and supports a range of funding options to ensure we maintain We identify and assess the key risks to our astrong balance sheet and financial flexibility.
strategy in the context of our business plans, and functional and line managers monitor and act upon the risk registers generated.
The Audit and Risk Committee of the Board is then regularly updated of the progress in implementing the risk management systems, and takes steps to mitigate significant business risks.
Shareholder Cash flow value B Bo oa ar rd d o of f D Dire irec ct to or rs s E Exe xec cu ut tiiv five e C Co om mm miit tte tee e S Sen eniio or r m ma an nag agem emen ent t T Te ec ch hn niic ca all C Cor orp por ora at te e o op per era ati tio on na all fu fun nc ct tiio ons ns lle ea ad fide er rs shi hip p te tea am m te tea am m For more information on the skills and experience of our Board members see: P78 Financial management Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 21
