Strategic report Industry overview Oil and gas analysts and forecasters, Groppe, Long & Littell, provide an insight into the economics of the oil and gas industry that weoperate in.
Afrens 2013 share price performance Economic context Crude oil prices Global economic growth remained subdued Benchmark Brent crude oil averaged US$108 30% AFR FTSE 350 O&G in 2013, with GDP growth declining from per barrel in 2013, slightly lower than the FTSE 350 25% 3.2% in 2012 to an estimated 2.9% in 2013.
US$111 per barrel realised in 2012.
The price FTSE 350 O&G FTSE 350 20% This marked three consecutive years of was largely range-bound over the course of AFR 15% decline and, in real terms, highlighted aglobal the year, having oscillated between US$100 10% slowdown in GDP growth rate compared US$120 per barrel.
This relative stability 5% topre-crisis levels.
masks several developments which had direct impacts on the oil industry in 2013.
0% This prolonged period of weakness has -5% compelled the major economies to continue Tightening of economic sanctions continued -10% various quantitative easing measures and to reduce oil production in Iran through most remain unconvinced of changes in the global of 2013.
Production in Libya plunged from economic conditions.
Financial markets July as political instability crippled the nations have in turn benefitted, with the FTSE 350 oil industry.
In all, geopolitical events have index rising 16% during 2013.
Stock prices constrained oil supply by over 3 mmbpd since Estimated proved gas reserves for oil and gas producers, however, have the end of 2010.
Source: Oil and Gas Journal collectively underperformed the broader Left unchecked, these supply constraints index, rising only 8%, as a result of poor would have pushed oil prices significantly exploration success and failure to meet Rank Country Trillion Cubic Feet higher.
However, the outages were offset forecasted production guidance.
Afrens stock 1 Russia 1,688 byincreased production, primarily in Iraq, performance was stellar in comparison, rising 2 Iran 1,193 theUnited States and Saudi Arabia which by 23% on the back of positive exploration 3 Qatar 885 acts as the global swing producer.
results, including the Ogo discovery offshore 4 United States 372 Nigeria and delivering production ahead Development of tight oil reservoirs has 5 Saudi Arabia 291 ofguidance.
reversed the decades-long decline in 6 Turkmenistan 265 USoilproduction.
The application of Oil consumption in 2013 was essentially flat 7 Abu Dhabi 200 proven technologies hydraulic fracturing year-on-year, at 87.3 million barrels per day 8 Venezuela 196 and horizontal drilling along with higher mmbpd.
Consumption in the developing 9 Nigeria 181 oil prices, has made it possible to expand economies rose 0.5 mmbpd, ledby China.
10 Algeria 159 production from these lower grade resources.
The increase was offset by lower consumption The rapid increase in oil production created as of 1 January 2014 in the developed OECD nations, where oil logistical bottlenecks that resulted in price demand has been steadily declining, due discounts for West Texas Intermediate WTI - largely to the continued expansion of the Estimated proved oil reserves based crudes relative to Brent.
Thediscount Source: Oil and Gas Journal worlds natural gas industry.
has narrowed with the addition ofnew The key factor supporting the rise in gas pipeline capacity, but remains volatile Rank Country Billion bbl production has been higher oil prices.
When due tothe effects of refinery shutdowns, 1 Venezuela 297.7 oil was US$30 per barrel, or approximately weatherand other factors.
2 Saudi Arabia 265.9 US$5 per mmbtu energy equivalent, Most of the new US production is light oil 3 Canada 173.2 corresponding natural gas prices were too and has displaced foreign imports of similar 4 Iran 157.3 low to justify the production, liquefaction quality.
US imports from Nigeria have fallen and transport of natural gas in most places 5 Iraq 140.3 from over 1 mmbbls d at the end of 2010, around the world.
However, with an oil 6 Kuwait 101.5 toless than 150 kbpd at the end of 2013. price environment in excess of US$100 per 7 United Arab Emirates 97.8 This shift could have pressured Brent prices barrel, orover US$17 per mmbtu energy 8 Russia 80.0 asthe Nigerian barrels sought to penetrate equivalent, alevel that has been maintained 9 Libya 48.5 other outlets.
Instead prices remained for the better part of three years, resultant 10 Nigeria 37.1 relatively stable, as these volumes were used natural gas prices have supported increased to backfill declining North Sea output and as of 1 January 2014 development and shipment in the form the reduction in Libyas oil production ofliquefied natural gas LNG.
Afren plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Jan 13 Feb 13 Mar 13 Apr 13 May 13 Jun 13 Jul 13 Aug 13 Sep 13 Oct 13 Nov 13 Dec 13 Strategic report Africa are set to transform that region Market outlook into a significant exporter of LNG.
A new Oil consumption is forecast to remain liquefaction plant is planned for Mozambique relatively flat as higher oil prices have set in and further exploration efforts are well motion key structural changes.
These include underway in neighbouring countries.
greater efficiency of use, and a reduction ingovernment subsidies, in addition to the Natural gas prices remain disconnected along key shift of fuel substitution to natural gas.
Expansion of LNG exports is forecast to help narrow the imbalances over the At the same time, oil supply is set to expand longer term.
The significant capital cost required significantly.
Some resolution of geopolitical to develop LNG is supportive of gas prices within constraints is expected along with continued an environment of strong demand growth.
growth in North American production for the near term.
Plans are underway to expand Meeting the energy challenge oil production in southern Iraq, from the Oil and natural gas currently provide over current 3 mmbbls d to over 9 mmbbls d by 50% of the worlds energy needs.
Infrastructure requirements and political hydrocarbons will continue to play an instability may prevent the full goal from being important role in the challenge of sustaining reached, but volumes are still forecast to double.
global development, especially in nations Oil production in Kurdistan, the semiwith developing economies.
Global oil and autonomous region in northern Iraq, is gas markets tend to move in a discontinuous also poised to expand.
The availability of fashion rather than in a straight-line trend, Production Sharing Contracts and sizeable driven by a number of complex factors reserves have attracted a range of companies, that influence the industry, including including large IOCs such as ExxonMobil, geopolitics, economics, technology, the aswell as smaller independents such as Afren.
regulatory environment, and the underlying Based on the success of recent discoveries, fundamentals of supply and demand.
the productive capacity in Kurdistan is Theresulting uncertainty creates challenges forecast to triple over the next five years.
as well as opportunities for oil and gas companies operating in this environment.
Crude oil prices could come under pressure during the next couple of years as supply Independent operators have an advantage looks set to outpace demand.
Brent prices over larger competitors in their ability to in the US$70 to US$90 per barrel range respond quickly to shifting market conditions.
These lower The most successful companies use their prices will slow additions to oil supply where agility to harvest assets while prices are high resources are more expensive to develop, or make valued acquisitions when prices are such as the unconventional oil plays in North low.
Crystallising these opportunities requires America.
Areas with more competitive cost focus and a disciplined approach to portfolio of supply, and therefore higher operating management over the long term.
margins such as Kurdistan and Nigeria are likely to be less affected, given robust economics at much lower oil price thresholds.
Africa will continue to play a key role in global Total primary energy demand oil production.
The region saw the greatest Source: IEA expansion in exploration and development activity during 2013, with the number of Oil 31% drilling rigs increasing by over 25% from Gas 21% 2012.
Exploration in West Africa continues Coal 29% to expand, with a focus on deep-water and Nuclear 5% pre-salt drilling.
Nigeria remains an important Renewables 13% element in global oil supply and ranks in the top ten of worldwide proved oil reserves, with an estimated 37.1 billion barrels.
It also Company description holds Africas largest natural gas reserves Groppe, Long & Littell has been at181 trillion cubic feet.
providing thoughtful, proven insight on the economics of the oil and gas Global natural gas consumption has been industry since 1975.
Recognising that markets move in discontinuous expanding at over 2% per year and currently patterns, the firm specialises in stands at nearly 60 million barrels of oil forecasting major changes of direction equivalent per day.
Substantial efforts are based on thorough bottom-up analysis of supply and demand.
underway to help meet this growing need, including investment in exploration, pipelines and LNG.
Sizeable gas discoveries in East Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 15
