Strategic report A s trategy for achieving long-term growth Strategic priorities KPIs Risk Our vision is to be the Our opportunistic entrepreneurial approach has enabled us to be successful Effective portfolio management is a critical task that seeks to mitigate the risks associated P ortfolio management Net effective working interest production inaccessing low cost reserves.
We have been consistent in achieving low entry with the various assets within the portfolio either to access attractive opportunities leading independent costs by seizing the early-mover advantage and focusing on areas where through acquisition or to divest where, forexample, exploration or operating risks are wehave a strategic and competitive advantage.
Acquisitions and divestments are the subject of detailed risk 47,112 boepd upstream exploration We focus on areas where: assessments in the same way asfor other projects and cover issues such as geology, there are proven working hydrocarbon systems reservoir, production facilities, financial exposure and, where relevant, wider aspects and production E&P such as the integration ofpeople and management systems.
opportunities have been overlooked, under-developed or may be outof reach to much larger companies we have an in-depth understanding of the subsurface, key relationships company in each area orlocal structure we can use to our advantage.
During the year we increased our holding in FirstHydrocarbon Nigeria Company we operate in.
Theacquisition has established a large onshore presence, grown our material reserves and resources, and established a solid production This is underpinned by a clear and consistent platform tocontinue to grow.
For more information see: P30 strategy one designed to provide sustainable long-term growth across the E&P value chain We place great emphasis on achieving exploration and appraisal success, as this By taking a focused view on exploration and appraisal risks we have been able R eserves growth Reserves replacement ratio three-year average is integral to creating value for our shareholders.
Our dedicated E&A team tosuccessfully grow our reserves.
The checks in the system are our rigorous third through balanced funding, exploration and isresponsible for identifying exploration ideas, prioritising our prospect partyreviews of our reserves cases that prevent over-statement of our position.
production in our main areas of operation inventory, ensuring efficient deployment of capital and executing our exploration 580 % Nigeria and other WestAfrica, Afren and drilling activities.
Our exploration strategy is play led and balanced across key themes: EastAfrica Exploration and the Kurdistan Net effective working interest production Exploration in proven areas, which are low risk and quick to monetise region of Iraq.
Proven play concepts that offer significant upside, with moderate risk To fulfil our strategy, we have identified Higher-risk frontier areas with play-opening possibilities and potential large rewards.
47,112 boepd In 2013, our exploration and appraisal campaign yielded remarkable results, five clear priorities focusing on running withthe play-opening discovery in OPL 310, offshore Nigeria, one of the largest our business, and growing efficiently discoveries in the world last year and thesuccessful drilling and testing results andresponsibly.
onthe Ain Sifni and Barda Rash PSCs, Kurdistan region of Iraq.
Our E&A success has resulted in net 2P reserves addition of 34.1 mmbbls anda 2Preserves replacement ratio for 2013 of 201%.
For more information see: P30 The growth in our production platform has enabled us to generate high-margin Production operations come with a wide range of risks, both subsurface, associated P roduction growth Reserves replacement ratio three-year average predictable cash flows for the Group, which in turn hasenhanced our financial with reservoir and well performance, and above ground in respect of the processing, flexibility to undertake our work programmeefficiently.
storage and export of oil.
We have complex systems in place to mitigate these various In 2013, our production was at the upper end of guidance, having achieved risks, such asour EHSS management system, well planning and engineering and reservoir 580 % anaverage net production 47,112 boepd representing a increase of 7.5% modelling.
Critical to mitigating risks in this area are our close working relations with our excluding discontinued operations in Cte dIvoire from the previousyear.
key contractors providing drilling, operations and maintenance services.
Net effective working interest production With a net 2P & 2C recoverable reserves and resources total of over abillion barrels, the vast majority of which has yet to be developed andbrought into production, we have a sustainable platform for long-term growth.
47,112 boepd Operating cash flow 1,216 US$million For more information see: P30 We have effective operational and financial management processes which place Ensuring operational efficiency is at the heart of managing our field delivery risk O Op per era ati tion ona al l e ef ffi fic cie ien nc cy y Operating cash flow emphasis on delivery, safety and efficient allocation ofcapital.
As an agile and affects all aspects of our operations from executing seismic surveys todrilling a an nd d fi fin na an nc ci ia al l d di is sc ci ip pl li in ne e independent company, we employ a range offunding sources, including debt, and development projects to production operations.
We manage these diverse risks equity, operating cash flow and portfolio management.
by carrying out detailed project risk assessments.
Financial discipline has traditionally 1,216 US$million We continue to have strong operating cash flow and a well-funded balance been one of the main focuses of business risk management and is deeply embedded sheet.
At 31 December 2013, we had US$1.22 billion of operating cash flow inour culture.
Normalised operating c ost per barrel andnet debt excluding finance leases of US$739 million.
14.0 US$ boe For more information see: P30 Working responsibly is important to us.
We are committed to ensuring Afren It is critical to our licence to operate and future new business opportunities that W Wo or rk kin ing g r re es sp po on ns sib ibly ly Total Recordable Incident Rate TRIR isrecognised as a responsible organisation with high standards ofcorporate we continue to meet high standards of corporate responsibility performance.
and Lost Time Injury Frequency LTIF .
Throughout 2014 we will further enhance our monitoring and reporting on these Incidents per million man hours worked Maintaining these standards will ensure the business grows successfully for the issues to demonstrate to our stakeholders that we are effectively managing risks benefit of all stakeholders, whose concerns and aspirations wemust understand inthisimportant area.
if we are to develop long-term successful relationships.
2.52 TRIR 1.05 LTIF For more information see: P30 Afren plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report Strategic priorities KPIs Risk Our opportunistic entrepreneurial approach has enabled us to be successful Effective portfolio management is a critical task that seeks to mitigate the risks associated P ortfolio management Net effective working interest production inaccessing low cost reserves.
We have been consistent in achieving low entry with the various assets within the portfolio either to access attractive opportunities costs by seizing the early-mover advantage and focusing on areas where through acquisition or to divest where, forexample, exploration or operating risks are wehave a strategic and competitive advantage.
Acquisitions and divestments are the subject of detailed risk 47,112 boepd We focus on areas where: assessments in the same way asfor other projects and cover issues such as geology, there are proven working hydrocarbon systems reservoir, production facilities, financial exposure and, where relevant, wider aspects such as the integration ofpeople and management systems.
opportunities have been overlooked, under-developed or may be outof reach to much larger companies we have an in-depth understanding of the subsurface, key relationships orlocal structure we can use to our advantage.
During the year we increased our holding in FirstHydrocarbon Nigeria Company Limited by 31.3%.
Theacquisition has established a large onshore presence, grown our material reserves and resources, and established a solid production platform tocontinue to grow.
For more information see: P30 We place great emphasis on achieving exploration and appraisal success, as this By taking a focused view on exploration and appraisal risks we have been able R eserves growth Reserves replacement ratio three-year average is integral to creating value for our shareholders.
The checks in the system are our rigorous third isresponsible for identifying exploration ideas, prioritising our prospect partyreviews of our reserves cases that prevent over-statement of our position.
inventory, ensuring efficient deployment of capital and executing our exploration 580 % and drilling activities.
Our exploration strategy is play led and balanced across key themes: Net effective working interest production Exploration in proven areas, which are low risk and quick to monetise Proven play concepts that offer significant upside, with moderate risk Higher-risk frontier areas with play-opening possibilities and potential large rewards.
47,112 boepd In 2013, our exploration and appraisal campaign yielded remarkable results, withthe play-opening discovery in OPL 310, offshore Nigeria, one of the largest discoveries in the world last year and thesuccessful drilling and testing results onthe Ain Sifni and Barda Rash PSCs, Kurdistan region of Iraq.
2.52 TRIR 1.05 LTIF For more information see: P30 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 23
