Report of the Directors Business review continued Milk Procurement Working with our farmers to deliver a sustainable supply of milk.
79% of the milk that Dairy Crest sources, comes direct from farms located throughout England and South Wales.
Milk from direct supply is a key part of our added value strategy and we are actively working to increase this proportion.
We value the relationship we have with our 1,250 dairy farmers who supply their milk to us.
It provides the opportunity to work together to generate greater efficiencies, by sharing information and knowledge, and delivers security for both our farmers and Dairy Crest.
incentive scheme was also introduced for is likely to increase.
We all therefore have cheese contracts, similar to the initiative for a part to play in ensuring consumers are liquid contracts, to support farmers who well informed about how the milk they buy were able to increase milk production.
is produced on modern dairy farms, and 1,250 Secondly, following the establishment the important factors that affect the level of of the Defra voluntary code, Dairy Crest quality and animal welfare.
dairy farmers supply became the first milk processor to sign The market for milk supply is increasingly their milk directly to us up to the key principles in advance of the competitive as milk processors seek to code being signed.
In early summer we attract new farmer suppliers.
Milk contracts Challenging year gave a commitment to our farmers that need to reflect the external environment 2012 was a particularly challenging year for 30 days notice would be provided for any and challenges.
We believe the Dairy Crest agriculture and dairy farming in particular.
price reduction and that farmers could package is very competitive, offering a range Adverse weather conditions persisted give three months notice to cease supplying of contract options to enable farmers to throughout the year and will have a longer their milk to us if they did not agree with a choose how they work with us.
We continue term impact on milk production than is change to their milk price.
Since then we to invest in our farmer base by offering normally seen.
have continued fully to support the code additional benefits, including the unique The combined effect of the weather and have committed to incorporate its terms White Gold advisory service.
This helps our together with high input costs and milk within our farmer contracts.
farmers achieve the highest standards and price reductions in the spring put the dairy Thirdly, together with Dairy Crest comply with current dairy legislation in an sector under the spotlight.
Dairy farmers Direct DCD, the independent organisation efficient way.
Our long standing reputation were clearly frustrated at the situation they representing our farmers, we commissioned for this higher level of farmer support found themselves in with their margins being a renowned, independent consultant to together with secure payment for milk is squeezed.
At the same time processors develop a more transparent formula method seen as a key benefit.
had to respond to falling market values, of milk pricing.
The result was that Dairy A particular area of focus is for our whilst acknowledging that consumers Crest became the first processor to develop farmers to be able to access up to date continued to look for value as household a milk price formula for farmers on standard information and news about Dairy Crest.
Launched with effect from This is important for the decision-making Relationships have been tested and as April 2013, this has been a great success process on farm.
Investment in a new farmer a result the industry questioned if the sector with 175 of our farmers applying to place website, Farm Connect, delivers this and has was operating effectively and what steps all or part of their milk supply on the new been welcomed by our farmers.
The website could be taken to improve the milk pricing formula contract.
and the upgrade of our systems to support process in order to build trust.
One of the Looking forward we are determined to this innovative, interactive management tool outcomes was the development of the Defra maintain our leading position and develop is part of our continued drive to improve voluntary code for milk supply contracts.
innovative ways of delivering a sustainable efficiency.
Dairy Crest response Summary Dairy Crests response to the challenges of Future supplies Our supplying farmers play a key role within the past year can be summarised with three National milk supply is below the level seen our business as they do within their distinct actions: last year and supply is expected to take time local communities.
We are committed to Firstly, following the spring milk price to recover.
Weather, with the consequent doing the right thing and supporting them to reduction for liquid contracts, the plans impact on grass growth, will play a key produce high quality milk in a way that will for further milk price reductions were set part in production levels.
So too will the support our respective businesses, as well aside.
A series of milk price increases then long-term decline in dairy farmer numbers.
as enhancing the rural economy and British followed, starting in the autumn.
A volume It is recognised that the average farm size countryside.
24 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 72236 Glasshouse p18-p25.
indd 24 05 06 2013 06:27 Report of the Directors We act responsibly with a passion to do the right thing Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 25 Business review
