Report of the Directors Business review continued Cheese million 2012 13 2011 12 Revenue 231.3 229.6 Profit 33.3 35.5 Margin 14.4% 15.5% Share of the total UK retail UK after it again won the Danisco Grand Prix Dairy Crest produces and cheese market by value trophy for consistently topping the judges markets the UKs leading lists at cheese shows around the country.
Cathedral cheese brand, Cathedral City.
Consumer-led marketing, including City Named in an independent innovation in the form of new products and range extensions has led to significant survey as one of the UKs top 10% growth in our branded cheese sales in ten positively viewed brands, recent years.
the only food brand to achieve Other 90% Reported revenue for the year this standing, Cathedral City is Source: Nielsen 52 w e 30 March 2013 ended 31 March 2013 grew by made at our Davidstow 1% to 231.3 million.
Segment creamery in Cornwall from milk profits fell 6% to 33.3 million supplied by around 450 local as stock profits recorded last dairy farmers before being year were not repeated, matured in Nuneaton and cut resulting in a segment margin and wrapped at either our of 14% 2012: profit 35.5 state of the art facility there or million, margin 15%.
our highly flexible site in Frome.
We also make and sell the premium UK retail cheese market volumes fell by 2% Davidstow brand cheddar, which can in the year with values increasing by 2% justifiably claim to be the best cheddar in the to 2.6 billion.
Cathedral City sales grew 20 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 The long-established mature variant behind this brand and we expect to see accounted for 57% of total Cathedral City further progress going forward.
sales, down from 65% last year, reflecting We also continue to achieve increased the progress we have made in broadening efficiencies throughout the supply chain and the range.
have reduced packing costs during the year.
We have continued to advertise and The growth in our cheese sales has promote Cathedral City strongly and have encouraged us to expand Davidstows worked with key retailers to increase the production capacity in the year and we have brands in-store presence.
For example, further plans for expansion in the future.
It has again working with Tesco, we set up a trial in Profits in this business have been increased its market share and remains by 36 of their stores.
A whole bay of the supported by strong returns from whey far the largest brand in the total everyday cheese fixture was dedicated to Cathedral the by-product of cheese manufacture.
The cheese sector, although its sales account City, ensuring the full range was on offer to whey stream at Davidstow is particularly for only 16% of this sector, reflecting the consumers and allowing increased in-store valuable because of its size and quality and dominance of retailer own label.
The trial was successful and because it contains no colouring.
We are Over recent years we have widened the Cathedral City bays will be rolled out to excited about an opportunity to increase appeal of Cathedral City and now have four more Tesco stores in the year ending 31 whey profits by extending manufacturing into taste variants mild, mature, extra mature March 2014. higher value products which are in demand and vintage as well as Lighter reduced fat The strong performance of Cathedral world-wide and have initiated a project to Cathedral City, and Chedds, a snack brand City has been acknowledged externally.
Chedds was launched in 2011 Grocer has placed it as Britains 15th biggest The farmers supplying their milk to our and has made a significant impact in the grocery brand up from 21st last year and cheese business have shared in its improved childrens cheese market.
in a recent YouGov poll Cathedral City was performance through higher milk prices.
We Innovative packaging continues to be ranked as Britains tenth most positively are happy to continue to pay a premium for important to the brands growth and the viewed brand and was the only food brand our milk at Davidstow to ensure we get a launch of Cathedral City Selections, packs in the top ten.
top-quality supply and since the year end containing bite-sized pieces of cheese, In addition to the performance of have announced a further increase in the has been extremely successful, bringing Cathedral City we have made good progress price we pay.
new consumers to the cheese market, with our premium Davidstow brand.
We Looking forward we are well positioned boosting sales in its own right and giving continue to widen distribution, replacing to increase market share and profits from consumers an opportunity to sample the Davidstow products that have carried cheese sales.
The opportunity to boost range of taste variants.
the name of specific retailers.
This has returns from whey only adds to the future encouraged us to increase the investment prospects of this product category.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 21 Business review
