Report of the Directors Business review continued A clear plan to restore Dairies have developed a new long life product Dairies profitability which will allow us to push the brand into 2012 13 was another tough year for the convenience and other outlets where million 2012 13 2011 12 Dairies business.
Following the drop in refrigerated storage is less available.
profits in 2011 12 we have created and The flavoured milk category is growing Revenue 951.6 1,069.0 started to implement a plan to restore the strongly.
Total sales are up 5% in volume Profit 10.3 10.2 returns from our Dairies business to an and 10% in value.
Fresh flavoured milk sales Margin 1.1% 1.0% acceptable level.
We believe this business are up 8% in volume and 16% in value as can deliver a 3% return on sales and have new brands introduced by competitors have set this as a medium-term target.
The Dairies business Returns in the second half of the year FRijj sales grew by 5% in value in the processes and delivers fresh increased to 1.7% compared to 0.4% in the year, boosted by the innovative FRijj The conventional, organic and first half reflecting both the usual seasonal Incredible premium range of flavours but flavoured milk to major factors and initial results from the actions we declined 2% in volume.
We advertised FRijj on television with retailers, middle ground Profits will be increased by a encouraging results, although we expect customers including, for combination of higher FRijj and other added to continue to use social media and other example, smaller retailers, value sales, reduced costs and a greater alternative forms of marketing to support this willingness to only supply those customers brand going forward, reflecting the age of its coffee shops and hospitals who will pay a fair price.
We expect that our actions will lead to We expect to see further material growth We also manufacture and higher margins to offset cost inflation and in this brand in the future and are continuing sell FRijj, the leading fresh lower residential sales that command an to invest at our Severnside production facility above average margin.
to ensure there is sufficient headroom to flavoured milk brand, cream At the same time we will continue to pay allow unfettered growth.
a fair milk price to the farmers who supply Reported revenue fell by their milk to us and provide high quality 11% to 951.6 million 2012: products and cost efficient services to our customers.
Segment profit rose slightly to 10.3 million FRijj one of the drivers behind the plan 2012: 10.2 million, resulting in FRijj operates in the flavoured milk product category.
This comprises fresh flavoured a margin of 1.1% 2012: 1.0%.
milk and long life flavoured milk.
FRijj is predominately in the fresh category but we 22 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 Efficiency improvements and cost 5 million annually, will contribute to the to customers choosing to buy their milk from reductions are also key restoration of profitability in this area.
shops rather than have it delivered.
The rate During the year we have completed the three of decline was lower amongst customers year 75 million investment programme.
As Getting the right customer mix who use our internet doorstep delivery anticipated, the investment has allowed us to During the year we retained our contract proposition, milk&more, where we have pack milk more efficiently and has provided to supply liquid milk to Sainsburys - one of maintained over 200,000 customers who an opportunity to focus polybottle production our largest customers - and now have an use the service every week.
However, overall at three sites and glass bottling on one agreement to supply them through to 2017. residential volume sales of milk fell 12% site.
As a result we closed the Aintree and We also strengthened our offering compared to last year.
As a result we closed Fenstanton dairies during the year with the to retailers by buying Proper Welsh Milk, 28 local depots, finishing the year with regrettable loss of 450 jobs.
We expect the a small dairy business that packs Welsh 92.
We also closed our residential delivery resultant full-year cost savings to contribute milk in Wales.
Several key retailers are product distribution centre in Sunbury to future profit growth.
customers of this business which we will during the year, moving this operation to our We have made further efficiencies look to expand.
National Distribution Centre in Nuneaton.
including introducing a new design of We had to negotiate higher milk prices Profits from the sale of depots closed in polybottle in partnership with our supplier with customers so that we could pay our earlier years as well as 2012 13 were 7.7 Nampak.
This uses up to 15% less farmers more and compensate them for million.
We anticipate that property profits plastic good for costs and good for the the difficulties they faced from the poor from the sales of depots will continue into environment.
weather and higher animal feed costs.
We the future and contribute to our mediumOur Dairies business also benefits from also need to make an acceptable return term target of 3% margin.
our on-going company-wide cost saving for ourselves.
Many of our customers projects.
As the largest of our businesses were willing to pay higher but fair prices.
Ingredients it covers the highest proportion of central However, we chose to stop supplying Our ingredients operation continues to overheads and the decision to move to one some smaller customers who were not provide us with a valuable balancing solution business, which is anticipated to save over prepared to do so.
Going forward we for seasonal raw milk supplies and cream.
will continue to review our customer mix, We aim to minimise throughput in particularly in the middle ground.
this business to reduce our exposure as far as possible to dairy commodity Residential sales still important markets.
However, our Dairies business Delivering milk to customers doorsteps generates more cream than that required remains a key part of our business.
We by our Spreads business.
Prices for dairy have 850,000 residential customers and ingredients were low during the early months have a network of 1,800 milkmen delivering of the year then rose towards the middle of to them.
However, sales in this area the range seen in recent years.
Since the continue to fall as financial pressures lead year end they have increased further.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 23 Business review
