Report of the Directors Additional statutory information Principal activities Post balance sheet events The principal activities of the Group are the manufacture, processing On 18 April 2013 the Group repaid 106.9 million 92.7 million and and distribution of milk and dairy products.
Further information can 7.2 million of 2007 notes as a premium of 8.7 million.
69.2 million be found within the Business review section at pages 18 to 33. of these notes were due for repayment in April 2014 and 30.7 million were due for repayment in April 2017.
On the same date, the Going concern Group also paid 40 million to the Dairy Crest Group Pension Fund The Group and Companys business activities, together with factors and it granted the Fund a floating charge over maturing cheese likely to affect future development, performance and position are set inventories with a maximum realisable value of 60 million.
out in the Chief Executives review on pages 14 to 15, the Business review on pages 18 to 33 and the review of principal risks and Dividends uncertainties on pages 16 to 17.
The financial position, cash flows, The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 15.0 pence liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the 2011 12: 14.7 pence per ordinary share, which if approved, will be Financial review on pages 30 to 33.
In addition, Notes 30 and 31 to paid to members on the register at the close of business on 28 June the Accounts include the Group and Companys objectives, policies 2013.
Together, the final dividend and interim dividend 5.7 pence and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk per ordinary share paid on 24 January 2013 make total dividends for management objectives: details of its financial instruments and the year of 20.7 pence per ordinary share 2011 12: 20.4 pence.
hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Share capital As highlighted in Note 30, the Company and Group meet day-to-day The authorised and issued share capital of the Company together working capital requirements through syndicated revolving credit with details of movements in the Companys issued share capital facilities and cash to ensure that forecast net borrowings plus a during 2012 13 are shown in Note 24 to the financial statements.
reasonable operating headroom are covered by committed facilities As at the date of this report, 136,608,131 million ordinary 25p shares which mature at least 12 months after the year end.
At 31 March were in issue and fully paid with an aggregate nominal value of 2013, effective headroom was 573.1 million.
the Group has repaid certain private placement notes details of which are set out in Note 34 Post balance sheet events on page 112.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys There were no breaches of bank covenants in the year ended Reports and Accounts: to attend and speak at General Meetings of 31 March 2013 and projections do not indicate any breaches in the the Company: to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
Since the sale of St Hubert in August 2012, effective, electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting exchange rate fluctuations no longer materially impact our bank instructions must be received at the Companys registered office, or covenant tests.
such other place in the United Kingdom specified in the relevant notice of meeting, not later than 48 hours before a General Meeting.
Forecasts and projections, taking into account reasonably possible None of the shares carry any special rights with regard to control of changes in trading performance, show that the Company and Group the Company.
There are no known arrangements under which will be able to operate within the level of current facilities.
financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of the shares and no known agreements on restrictions on share transfers Having reviewed and taken into account Going Concern and or on voting rights.
Shares acquired through Company share Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, schemes and plans rank pari passu with the shares in issue and published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009, the have no special rights.
Directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
Transfer of shares For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in Subject to applicable statutes and regulations, there are no preparing the financial statements.
restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of any class of shares and no requirements for prior approval of any transfers.
Business review The information satisfying the Business review requirements of s417 Shareholder waiver of dividends of the Companies Act 2006 is set out in the Corporate governance The Company established an employee benefit trust in 1996 which section of the Annual Report: the Chairmans Statement on page 13: in certain circumstances holds shares in connection with the the Chief Executives review on pages 14 to 15: the Business review Groups employee share incentive plans.
As the registered holder, on pages 18 to 33: the review of the principal risks and uncertainties the voting rights in the shares are exercisable by the trustee.
on pages 16 to 17: and the Group Key Performance Indicators on However, the trustee does not ordinarily exercise those rights and page 5. waives its entitlement to dividends.
Group results Articles of association The Groups consolidated income statement set out on page 58 Changes to the Articles must be approved by the shareholders in shows a profit for the financial year of 54.5 million compared with accordance with the legislation in force from time to time.
No compensation for loss of office The Company does not have agreements with any Director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the Companys share schemes and plans may cause options and awards granted to employees under such schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 53 72236 Glasshouse p41-p55.
indd 53 04 06 2013 17:30 Governance Report of the Directors Additional statutory information continued Issue of shares The Company also has strong relationships with certain major At the AGM on 17 July 2012, shareholders renewed the authority for retailers to supply them with liquid milk and other branded products.
the Board under the Articles to exercise all powers of the Company Individually these contracts are important to the business but not to allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of essential.
Substantial shareholdings Purchase of own shares During the period and up to 22 May 2013, the Company has been At the AGM on 17 July 2012, shareholders granted the Company notified in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules authority to make market purchases of up to 13,336,036 of its issued by the Financial Services Authority of the following interests of issued ordinary shares of 25 pence each, provided that: the 3% or more in the Companys existing issued ordinary share capital.
minimum price which may be paid for any such ordinary share is Notified 25 pence exclusive of expenses and appropriate taxes : the percentage maximum price exclusive of expenses and appropriate taxes which Notified of issued No.
of shares share capital may be paid for any such ordinary share shall be not more than 5% Legal & General Group plc L&G 3% above the average of the middle market prices for an ordinary share in the Company, as taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the No notifications have been received in the period from 1 April 2013 date of purchase.
The Company did not exercise this authority to 22 May 2013. during the year and made no market purchases.
Except in relation to a purchase of ordinary shares, the contract for which was Directors interests concluded before this authority expires and which will or may be Details of the interests in the shares of the Company of the Directors executed wholly or partly after such expiry, the authority granted holding office as at the date of this Report, along with those of the shall expire at the conclusion of this years AGM.
Directors who held office during the year but retired or resigned from office, and their immediate families appear in the Remuneration The Directors believe it advisable to seek renewal of both of the Report on page 51. above-mentioned authorities or replacement of them with suitable alternatives, annually at the AGM.
Approval will be sought from the Details of the Directors service contracts and letters of appointment shareholders at this years AGM to renew the authorities for a appear in the Remuneration Report on page 45. further year.
No Director had a material interest in any significant contract with the Pensions Company or any of its subsidiaries during the year.
Procedures for On 31 March 2010 the Groups defined benefit pension fund was dealing with Directors conflicts of interest are in place and are closed to future accrual.
Accordingly, the fund is now in run-off.
remains under the control of a corporate trustee, Dairy Crest Pension Trustees Limited, the board of which comprises four directors Directors and Officers indemnities and insurance nominated by Dairy Crest Limited and three directors elected by all The Company maintains liability insurance for its Directors and members.
The pension funds assets are held separately from those Officers and those of its subsidiaries.
The Directors, Company of the Group and can only be used in accordance with the rules of the Secretary and other Officers of the Company and those of its pension fund.
Pension provision for employees is now made through subsidiaries are indemnified by the Company to the extent permitted a defined contribution pension scheme.
That indemnity provision has been in place during the year and remains in force.
Significant agreements change of control A change of control of the Company following a takeover bid may Employees cause a number of agreements to which the Company or its At the end of March 2013, the Group employed approximately 4,900 subsidiaries are party, to take effect, alter or terminate.
It depends on the skills and commitment of its employees in agreements that are considered significant are as follows: order to achieve its objectives.
Personnel at every level are encouraged to make their fullest possible contribution to Dairy Borrowing facilities Crests success.
Non-compliance with the change of control clauses in the Groups funding arrangements, or failure to reach agreement with the parties Employees are kept regularly informed on matters affecting them on revised terms, would require any acquirer to put in place and on issues affecting the Groups performance through a variety replacement facilities.
of communication tools, including the Group intranet.
Supply agreements The Group has well-established consultation and negotiating Certain supply agreements contain provisions whereby on a change arrangements with established trade unions.
of control of the Group, they may be terminable.
Accordingly, a change of control of the Group could result in the need for the Group Employees are encouraged to acquire shares in the Group through to source alternative supply for certain materials.
participation in the savings-related share option scheme Sharesave Scheme.
Details of the Scheme are set out in Note 26 to the financial Essential contracts statements and at page 52 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
It is vital that the Group is able to source high quality raw milk at the most competitive prices.
To that end, the Group has numerous contracts for its supply.
While these contracts are collectively essential to the business, no single contract nor any single supplier of raw milk is critical to the Companys business.
54 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 72236 Glasshouse p41-p55.
indd 54 04 06 2013 13:55 Report of the Directors In recognition of the key part played by employee engagement in the For the purposes of this statement on disclosure of information to Groups long-term success, the Group has established a wide the External Auditor, relevant audit information is the information ranging programme aimed at promoting and enhancing employee needed by the Companys External Auditor in connection with the engagement.
The programme includes regular surveys in which all preparation of its report at page 57. employees are invited to participate, to gauge the level of employee engagement within the Group.
Once the outcome of the survey has Directors responsibility statements been fed back to the Divisions, business units and departments, The responsibility statements required under Disclosure and plans designed to maintain and improve employee engagement are Transparency Rule 4.1 are set out on page 56. prepared and implemented.
Annual general meeting The Board is committed to ensuring that a culture, free from both The AGM will be held at Eversheds LLP, One Wood Street, London, discrimination and harassment, remains embedded within the Group.
The Notice Discrimination of any sort is not tolerated.
Proper consideration is convening the meeting will be issued separately, together with given to applications for employment from disabled people who are details of the business to be considered and explanatory notes employed whenever suitable vacancies arise.
Wherever practicable, relating to each of the resolutions being proposed.
staff who become disabled during employment are retained.
The Group practices equality of opportunity for all employees, Auditor irrespective of ethnic origin, religion, political opinion, gender, marital Ernst & Young has expressed its willingness to continue as Auditor status, disability, age or sexual orientation.
A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young as the Companys Auditor will be put to the forthcoming AGM.
Research and development The Group has adopted a target of delivering 10% of its annual By order of the Board turnover through new product development.
Focus continues to be on offering consumers a wide product mix, and especially the Robin Miller Company Secretary development of lower fat variants of existing products.
Dairy Crest 22 May 2013 remains at the forefront of dairy industry developments to reduce packaging waste through innovation.
Land and buildings Having obtained an informal valuation of certain of the Groups land and buildings, the Directors are of the opinion that the current market value in existing use of the Groups land and buildings slightly exceeds their book value.
Supplier payment policy The Company is a holding company and had no amounts owing to trade creditors at 31 March 2013 2011 12: nil.
The Groups creditor days outstanding at 31 March 2013 were 24.3 2011 12: 23.6 days of purchases.
With the exception of milk suppliers, the Group has standard payment terms of 60 days from invoice date.
Payment terms for purchases under major contracts are agreed as part of the contract negotiations.
Financial instruments Details of the use by the Company and its subsidiaries of financial instruments and any related risk management objectives and policies including hedging policy and exposure, including to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk of the Company in connection with such financial instruments can be found at Note 30 to the financial statements.
Charitable and political donations No political donations or expenditures were made or incurred during the year.
Charitable donations amounted to 0.1 million 2011 12: 0.1 million.
The Corporate Responsibility section of the Business review at pages 26 to 29 provides additional detail on the charitable activities of the Group and its employees.
Disclosure of information to the Auditor So far as each Director in office at the date of approval of this Report is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys External Auditor, Ernst & Young is unaware.
Each of the Directors has taken all steps that they might reasonably be expected to have taken in order to i make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and ii establish that the External Auditor is aware of such information.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 55 72236 Glasshouse p41-p55.
