Report of the Directors Going where consumers take us Bringing dairy to life from a shoppers perspective A key part of our Vision is that we listen to consumers and react as their needs change.
We have recently completed a project to gain a deeper understanding of the dairy category in UK supermarkets which accounts for over 10 billion of shopper purchases each year.
To do this we have analysed market data, interviewed shoppers at the point of purchase and held discussion groups to refine findings and recommendations.
Dairy products are consumed by 99% of all UK households which each spend 386 per year on them.
14 million litres of The average milk are sold in the household in the UK UK every day buys cream 12 times a year Cheese features in 29 packs of butter over 5.5 billion meals and spreads are in the UK every year bought in the UK every second We have known for some time that consumers want us to help them: lead a healthier life through the diet they eat healthy life find enjoyment and pleasure from their food pleasure create wholesome tasty meals and snacks making life easier Our recent work has led us to add a fourth driver in response to growing eco-ethical issues.
Consumers also want us to help them: to be more eco-ethically responsible responsible consumption 6 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 Report of the Directors What shoppers also told us is that there is a disconnect between the pleasure of consuming dairy and the chore of shopping for it.
Dairy lives in the field, the farm and the Consumers are at the home but not in supermarkets.
We have heart of our business made recommendations that we believe will change this and help the dairy category realise its full potential.
A summary of these are: Celebrate dairy Shoppers understand and believe in the inherent goodness of dairy products.
We should accentuate the positive messages and defend against negative perspectives in a more confident manner.
Get the taste buds working for shoppers People love to consume dairy products.
We need to remind them of this while they are shopping by using emotive imagery and descriptions.
Product tasting and trial opportunities are also a good way of doing this.
Engage and educate shoppers Shoppers are hungry for advice and information.
We need to provide product information in shops and on packs as well as quick and easy recipe suggestions and usage advice.
What do shoppers think about Encourage experimentation shopping for milk and dairy Many shoppers want to try something new products?
and different but are wary about doing so.
We need to provide opportunities for Milk is happily seen as a planned top-up item shoppers to become more adventurous because it is available everywhere.
while at the same time minimising the risk Cheese is generally recognised as being for them when they try something new.
good value despite it being one of the most expensive items in most shopping trolleys.
Spreads shoppers generally have a favourite brand and most have alternative brands that they will buy more reluctantly.
Some mums see flavoured milk as a slightly better for you treat.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2013 7 72236 Glasshouse p01-p17.
