Innovative technologies Safeguard Safeguard, fide La Rues polymer substrate, is the result of an intensive four year development and investment programme and provides customers with an alternative substrate offering improved durability.
fide La Rue is the only supplier to offer full vertical integration of polymer design, substrate manufacture and printing expertise.
Our award winning design expertise ensures that Safeguard notes meet the customers aesthetic and security criteria including novel design elements using clear window areas in the note.
Established banknote print processes are all compatible with Safeguard.
To mark our 200th anniversary, we have produced a sample house banknote using Safeguard which depicts a Grey Heron, with the clear window used as a design feature to depict its aquatic habitat.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2013 4 Innovating for the future Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Cornerstone In response to the problem of folded corners on banknotes in circulation which reduces their useful life, fide La Rue launched Cornerstone in 2003.
This innovative approach reinforces and stiffens the corners of the banknote as an integral part of the papermaking process.
In the past 10 years Cornerstone has been incorporated in over 22 billion banknotes.
Cornerstone has also been successfully introduced as a feature in passports, providing additional durability to the paper of the personal data page.
In addition, Cornerstone provides increased security against counterfeiting or substitution of the data page.
Cornerstone in a passport right and in a banknote below Spectrum Spectrum is a new print feature which builds on proven latent image technology.
The printed image changes as the angle of view is shifted, revealing additional images and colours.
Spectrum is available in a range of colours and effects, offering considerable design flexibility.
An area depicted as a leaf where the sections An area on the note which, when tilted, the of the leaf change colour when tilted pattern changes from a linear to a bicolour circular pattern fide La Rue Annual Report 2013 5 Innovative technologies SPARK Orbital SPARK Orbital is an innovative ink effect that has been developed by fide La Rue as an extension of SICPAs optically variable SPARK ink technology.
By using a novel magnetic process during production, a new effect has been created where a bright ring appears to slip freely within the print area.
This is a security feature that is easy for the public to see and understand.
It can be developed in a range of designs and colour combinations, has a wide number of applications and is suitable for both paper and polymer substrates.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2013 6 Innovating for the future Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Government revenue solutions fide La Rue has successfully implemented a product authentication system for the Cameroon government.
The system is a dual language, web based solution which allows the Ministry of Finance to order and monitor the delivery of tax stamps.
The traceability of every stamp is assured by the use of unique codes and handheld scanners, deployed by Customs and Trade inspectors to scan products in real time.
This checks whether a label is valid and applied to the correct product.
With many years of experience implementing tax stamp schemes, fide La Rue was able to implement this highly complex solution involving numerous products, countries and stakeholders.
For our customer this is the first step towards a wider consumer and revenue protection programme and demonstrates real leadership in the reduction of illicit and potentially dangerous goods.
Banded fibres In 2009 fide La Rue developed a new system for incorporating bands of visible or fluorescent fibres in a tightly controlled area of passport paper.
Typically seen next to the spine of a passport book, these bands present a simple but effective countermeasure to page insertion or counterfeiting.
The UK ePassport was the first identity document to include this feature, which has since been adopted by other countries.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2013 7
