Other statutory information Introduction Payments to suppliers Political donations fide La Rue plc is incorporated as a public As the Company is a holding company The Groups policy is not to make any limited company and is registered in and does not trade, it owed no amounts political donations and none were made England and Wales under the Companies to trade creditors at 30 March 2013 during the year.
The Company will propose Act 1985 with registered number 3834125 and therefore the number of creditor to shareholders at this years AGM that the and has its registered office at fide La Rue days required to be shown in this report precautionary authority granted at the 2012 House, Jays Close, Viables, Basingstoke, to comply with the provisions of the AGM, pursuant to the Companies Act Hampshire, RG22 4BS.
2006, be renewed and details are included in the notice of meeting.
The Directors present their annual report The Group subscribes to the policies in for the period ended 30 March 2013, which the UK Governments Prompt Payment Essential contracts or other includes the business review, corporate Scheme and undertakes to pay suppliers arrangements governance report and audited financial on time, give clear guidance and The Group has a number of suppliers statements for the period.
Pages 1 to 58 encourage good practice.
More details of key components, the loss of which inclusive of this annual report comprise a can be found on the Groups website.
could disrupt the Groups ability to deliver Directors report which has been drawn up on time and in full.
However, none of these Change of control and presented in accordance with English arrangements are so vital that their loss Contracts law and the liabilities of the Directors in would affect the viability of the Group There are a number of contracts which connection with that report are subject as a whole.
allow the counterparties to alter or to the limitations and restrictions of such terminate those arrangements in the event law.
This Directors report also represents of a change of control of the Company.
the management report for the purpose These arrangements are commercially of compliance with DTR 4.1.
5R of the sensitive and confidential and their UK Listing Authority disclosure rules.
disclosure could be seriously prejudicial The business review contains certain to the Group.
forward looking statements which Banking facilities are subject to assumptions, risks and The 200m credit facility between the uncertainties: actual future results may Company and its key relationship banks differ materially from those expressed in or contains a provision such that, in the event implied in such statements.
Many of these of a change of control, any lender may, if it assumptions, risks and uncertainties relate so requires, notify the agent that it wishes to factors that are beyond fide La Rues to cancel its commitment whereupon the ability to control or estimate precisely.
commitment of that lender will be cancelled The forward looking statements reflect the and all its outstanding loans, together with knowledge and information available at the accrued interest, will become immediately date of preparation of this annual report, due and payable.
and will not be updated during the year.
Nothing in this annual report should be Employee share plans construed as a profit forecast.
In the event of a change of control, automatic vesting would occur in accordance with the relevant scheme or plan rules.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2013 40 Innovating for the future Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for keeping Provision of information to auditors in respect of the annual report and the adequate accounting records that are The Directors who held office at the date financial statements sufficient to show and explain the Parent of approval of this Directors report confirm The Directors are responsible for preparing Companys transactions and disclose that, so far as they are each aware, there the annual report and the Group and with reasonable accuracy at any time the is no relevant audit information of which Parent Company financial statements financial position of the Parent Company the Companys auditors are unaware: and in accordance with applicable law and enable them to ensure that its financial each Director has taken all the steps that and regulations.
statements comply with the Companies he or she ought to have taken as a Director Act 2006.
They have general responsibility to make himself or herself aware of any Company law requires the Directors for taking such steps as are reasonably relevant audit information and to establish to prepare Group and Parent Company open to them to safeguard the assets of that the Companys auditors are aware financial statements for each financial the Group and to prevent and detect fraud of that information.
Under that law they are required to and other irregularities.
prepare the Group financial statements Auditors in accordance with International Financial Under applicable law and regulations, the Our auditors, KPMG Audit Plc have Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted Directors are also responsible for preparing instigated an orderly transfer of its business by the EU and applicable law and have a Directors report, Directors remuneration to its parent company, KPMG LLP.
The elected to prepare the Parent Company report and corporate governance Board has decided to put KPMG LLP financial statements in accordance statement that comply with that law and forward to be appointed as auditors and with UK accounting standards and those regulations.
a resolution concerning their appointment applicable law UK Generally Accepted will be put to the forthcoming AGM of The Directors are responsible for the Accounting Practice.
maintenance and integrity of the corporate Under company law the Directors must not and financial information included on By order of the Board approve the financial statements unless the Groups website.
Legislation in they are satisfied that they give a true and the UK governing the preparation and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group dissemination of financial statements may Edward Peppiatt and Parent Company and of their profit or differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company Secretary loss for that period.
In preparing each of 29 May 2013 Directors responsibility statement the Group and Parent Company financial The Directors who held office at the date statements, the Directors are required to: of approval of this report confirm to the Select suitable accounting policies best of their knowledge: and then apply them consistently The Group financial statements, Make judgements and estimates that prepared in accordance with IFRS as are reasonable and prudent adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial For the Group financial statements, position and profit of the Company state whether they have been prepared and the undertakings included in the in accordance with IFRS as adopted consolidation taken as a whole by the EU The management report represented by For the Parent Company financial the Directors report includes a fair review statements, state whether applicable of the development and performance UK accounting standards have been of the business and the position of the followed, subject to any material Group and the undertakings included departures disclosed and explained in in the consolidation taken as a whole, the Parent Company financial statements together with a description of the Prepare the financial statements principal risks and uncertainties that on the going concern basis unless they face it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business fide La Rue Annual Report 2013 41
