Shareholders and share capital Share capital Rights and restrictions on shares Transfers of shares As at 30 March 2013, there were and transfers of shares The Companys articles place no 99,743,705 ordinary shares and Certain restrictions, which are customary restrictions on the transfer of ordinary 111,673,300 deferred shares in issue.
for a listed company, apply to the rights shares or on the exercise of voting rights and transfers of shares in the Company.
attached to them except: i in very limited Deferred shares carry limited economic The rights and obligations attaching to the circumstances such as a transfer to more rights and no voting rights.
They are not Companys ordinary and deferred shares, in than four persons, ii where the Company transferable except in accordance with addition to those conferred on their holders has exercised its rights to suspend their the articles of association.
by law, are set out in the Companys voting rights or to prohibit their transfer The ordinary shares are listed on the articles of association, copies of which can following the omission by their holder or London Stock Exchange.
be obtained from Companies House in the any person interested in them to provide UK or by writing to the Company Secretary.
the Company with information requested Details of shares issued during the year The key points are summarised below.
by it in accordance with part 22 of the are provided in note 18 to the financial Companies Act 2006, or iii where the statements on page 87.
Ordinary shares holder is precluded from exercising rights Notices of meetings must be given to every Pre emption rights and authority by the Financial Services Authoritys Listing shareholder and to any person entitled to allot Rules, the City Code on Takeovers and to a share unless the articles or the rights The Companies Act 2006 requires that Mergers or any other regulations.
of the shares say they are not entitled any shares issued wholly for cash must to receive them from the Company.
The Dealings subject to the Model Code be offered to existing shareholders in Board can decide that only people who are of the Listing Rules proportion to their existing holdings unless entered on the register of members at the Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the authorised to the contrary by a resolution close of business on a particular day are Financial Services Authority, Directors of the shareholders.
Resolutions giving entitled to receive the notice.
On a show and other persons discharging managerial such authority were passed in 2012. of hands, each holder of shares present in responsibilities and certain employees Authorities to renew for one year the person and entitled to vote has one vote require the approval of the Company to power of Directors to allot shares pursuant and, upon a poll, each such holder who is deal in the ordinary shares of the Company.
to section 551 of the Companies Act 2006 present in person or by proxy and entitled will be sought from shareholders at the Exercise of rights of shares in employee to vote has one vote for every share held.
The Company was granted authority share schemes by its shareholders at the 2012 AGM to Dividends and distributions on winding Awards held by relevant participants under purchase a maximum of 10 per cent of its up to shareholders the Companys various share plans carry own ordinary shares either for cancellation Holders of ordinary shares may receive no voting rights until the shares are issued.
or to be held in treasury or a combination interim dividends approved by Directors The Trustee of the fide La Rue Employee of these.
No purchases have been made and dividends declared in general meetings.
Share Ownership Trust does not seek to pursuant to this authority and a resolution On a liquidation and subject to a special exercise voting rights on existing shares will be put to shareholders to renew the resolution of the Company the liquidator held in the employee trust.
No shares are authority for a further period of one year.
may divide among members in specie currently held in trust.
the whole or any part of the assets of the Company and may, for such purpose, value any assets and may determine how such division shall be carried out.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2013 38 Innovating for the future Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Substantial shareholdings The share register is actively monitored.
As at 30 March 2013, the Company had been notified in accordance with the Financial During the year meetings take place with Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following interests in the individual institutional shareholders and voting rights of the Company: analysts, and presentations are made at the time of major announcements.
Date last TR1 Per cent of issued Additionally, the Chairman, Senior notification ordinary share Persons notifying made Nature of interest capital held Independent Director, Executive Directors and some Non-executive Directors Prudential plc group 18.02.2013 Direct 14.80 together with members of the Executive of companies Committee met with major shareholders 1 Kames Capital 14.12.2012 Direct 4.54 and analysts in June 2012.
The views of Indirect 1.49 shareholders and analysts and brokers Contracts for difference 0.14 reports are reported to the Board and from time to time a survey of institutional Total 6.17 shareholders views is carried out by the Mondrian Investment 26.01.2011 Indirect 5.80 Companys brokers.
Partners Limited Additional information to shareholders Jupiter Asset 04.01.2013 Indirect 5.09 Processes for the appointment and Management Limited replacement of Directors are governed by the Companys articles of association, Ameriprise Financial, Inc 05.08.2011 Direct 0.05 The UK Corporate Governance Code, Indirect 5.01 the Companies Act 2006 and related Total 5.06 legislation.
The articles of association may be amended by special resolution BlackRock Inc 19.03.2012 Indirect 3.79 of shareholders.
The powers of the Board Contracts for difference 1.14 are described in the corporate governance Total 4.93 report on pages 42 to 47.
Schroders plc 19.06.2012 Indirect 4.90 Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held at 10:30 on Thursday Notes 25 July 2013 at fide La Rue House, Jays 1 On 24 April 2013 Kames Capital notified the Company that their holding had fallen to 5.96% Close, Viables, Basingstoke, Hampshire, 2 On 29 April 2013 Nordea 1 SICAV notified the Company that they have an interest of 3.07% RG22 4BS.
Relationship with shareholders They are also entitled to speak at general The Company places great importance meetings of the Company, to appoint one on communications with and accountability or more proxies or, if they are corporations, to shareholders.
A fully audited annual corporate representatives, and to exercise report and accounts is made available to voting rights.
Shareholders may vote and shareholders either in hard copy by post appoint proxies electronically.
or via the Groups website and the interim At this years AGM, voting on resolutions statement is posted on the Groups website.
will be conducted on a poll, the results Announcements are also regularly made of which will be made available to by the Company through a Regulatory shareholders on the Groups website.
Information Service to the London Stock At the meeting, the Chairman will provide Exchange.
The Chairman and the Senior a trading update and the Chairmen of the Independent Director are available Board Committees will also be present to to meet key shareholders to discuss answer questions on any matters relating strategy, governance and other matters.
Shareholders All holders of ordinary shares are entitled also have an opportunity to meet Directors to attend the AGM and receive the notice informally after the meeting.
of meeting which is posted at least 20 working days before the AGM.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2013 39
