Innovative design Design fide La Rues award winning design and origination department is the largest of any commercial banknote and security printer in the world.
It provides an industry leading centre of excellence for the design of banknotes and security documents.
Banknote design is a complex process which begins with a concept agreed with the customer.
The design realisation process must then accommodate all aspects of banknote production including the choice of substrate, multiple overt and covert security features as well as sorting and authentication requirements.
Our team of highly experienced banknote designers has been consistently successful in winning design awards, both for banknotes designed entirely in house and for collaborative projects with central banks.
Our security print experts, using specialist software, handle more than 100 complex design projects a year, from personal identification documents such as passports, to authentication labels and a varied range of other secure print products.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2013 8 Innovating for the future Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Holographics fide La Rue has been designing and producing secure holograms since 1987, pioneering and refining classical holography techniques to bring stunning colour and depth effects recognisable in their holographic images.
Commencing with secure labels for video cassettes, fide La Rue produced its first banknote holograms in 1993.
This led to holograms being specified for other secure documents such as payment cards, identity documents, fiscal stamps and brand authentication devices.
Kazakhstan 5000 tenge fide La Rues track record of winning international recognition for banknote design has continued, with the International Bank Note Society selecting the Kazakhstan 5000 tenge note as their 2012 Banknote of the Year.
This banknote was jointly designed by the National Bank of Kazakhstan and fide La Rue working in close collaboration.
In keeping with other Kazakh banknotes, this denomination has a portrait orientation on the front of the note and a more traditional landscape orientation on the back.
The front of the note depicts the Kazakh Eli monument, the national emblem and the national flag, along with images of flying doves.
High level holographic features include fide La Rues Depth security thread, which appears on the surface of the front of the note, and Depth stripe which appears on the back.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2013 9
