20 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Delivering a compelling customer proposition... 21 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 A key feature of our offer is the balance and resilience provided by a 50 50 split of sales between clothing and non-clothing categories.
Non-clothing includes footwear, handbags, swimwear, mens accessories, homeware, furniture and our strong premium beauty offer which encompasses some of the worlds leading brands.
Like our clothing ranges, we offer customers a broad choice of own core brands, Designers at Debenhams, international brands and concessions across a good better best price architecture.
Non-clothing is an area ideally suited to large space retailers like Debenhams and is also seeing very strong growth online.
22 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategy in action...
Putting our best foot forward 23 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Footwear is a category that sells extremely One of the non-clothing categories which Our shoe offer has been transformed well online, accounting for nearly 25% of we are targeting for growth is footwear.
in recent years as we have developed all UK footwear sales source: BRC-KPMG We saw good traction during 2013 with own brand ranges.
In particular we have Online Retail Sales Monitor, August 2013. our market share of womens, mens and expanded our Designers at Debenhams Our online footwear share increased by childrens footwear up 10bps, 40bps and shoe choice, especially for women, as we 100 basis points to 3.3% in 2013 and 32% 30 bps respectively.
seek to emulate the success that many of our total own bought footwear sales of the luxury brands have achieved in There is plenty more to do and our are now online.
We have also seen good ambition is to double our footwear share example of how online is enabling us results from the Faith brand which was over the next five years by closing the gap to widen our product and price ranges acquired out of administration in 2010. between our footwear share of 2.6% and for all customers.
our clothing market share of 5.5%.
New third party brands have also been added to our offer, including the UKs Our marketing campaign has been leading shoe brand Clarks.
strengthened to support footwear more overtly including a dedicated shoe and bag brochure for each new season.
