68 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Remuneration policy Remuneration at a glance Salary Chief Executive 615,000 CFO 410,000 Annual Maximum of 100% of base salary 80% based on PBT.
20% based on a performance matrix of like-for-like sales growth bonus and gross margin percentage performance.
PSP Chief Executive Usual award of 150% of base salary 75% of the award granted may vest dependent on EPS CFO Usual award of 100% of base salary performance and 25% dependent upon ROCE performance versus cost of capital.
Both performance metrics are measured over a three year performance period.
Pension Chief Executive A cash payment of 20% of base salary CFO A cash payment of 15% of base salary allowance Benefits Flexible benefits allowance and other core benefits Introduction Directors remuneration policy This remuneration report for the year ended 31 August 2013, Link between remuneration and strategy complies with the requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Our executive remuneration policy has been designed to support Listing Authority, Schedule 8 of the Large and Medium-Sized our Group strategy: Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 Reward philosophy Our reward philosophy is that and the provisions of the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code.
remuneration arrangements should be set at a level that Although Debenhams is not formally required to comply with the is sufficient to recruit and retain an individual of the calibre new executive remuneration reporting regulations The Large required to run the business without paying more than and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and is necessary to do so.
Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 until the year ending Alignment with our business strategy Remuneration 30 August 2014, we have provided additional disclosure in structures are designed to support the business strategy with anticipation of the new requirements in order to help our the majority of the remuneration package being linked to the shareholders better understand our remuneration policy delivery of performance, paid in a combination of cash and and practice.
Short-term and long-term performance measures have This report will be put to an advisory shareholder vote been selected to be aligned with the delivery of the four pillars at the Annual General Meeting in December 2013. of our business strategy.
These are an annual focus on profitability and increasing sales volume while improving margin, and a long-term focus on growing earnings and delivering a sustainable level of return on capital.
Market conditions are also taken into consideration when setting pay.
Alignment with shareholders Variable remuneration opportunity is delivered in Debenhams shares through the PSP and through the annual bonus.
The Committee operates a shareholding guideline policy for executive directors which aligns the interests of executives with our shareholders and demonstrates the executives on-going commitment to the business.
