34 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Innovation Leading the way in responsible retailing Debenhams shows diversity is in fashion We have broken convention by becoming the first high street retailer in the UK to promote our latest fashion collection using models in a diverse variety of ages, size and looks.
The imagery features Kelly, who was born without her left forearm, Paralympian swimmer Stefanie Reid, size 18 model Jada, petite model Jess and a number of models aged over 40 including Valerie aged 69.
Fashion industry expert Caryn Franklin, who worked with us on the campaign, said: I never underestimate the power of great clothes to bolster self-esteem or the impact of imagery that celebrates difference.
Debenhams vows not to retouch The Debenhams Foundation The Debenhams Foundation was launched in 2012 to give model shots us a clear focus for the money Debenhams customers, As part of our long-standing commitment to encourage employees, designers and suppliers raise for good causes.
positive body image, we use only minimal digital retouching A registered charity, the Foundation supports the charity because we know that the use of some digital techniques partners that were chosen after we consulted our customers to create unrealistic body shapes can make women and men about what mattered to them most.
feel insecure about their natural looks and size.
During 2013 we extended this commitment to our lingerie imagery and Since the launch of the Foundation, Debenhams has raised are now only using pictures which reflect the natural beauty more than 1 million for Children in Need and the three of the models and help customers to feel confident about breast cancer charities that sit under our Think Pink initiative: their own figures.
Breakthrough Breast Cancer, Breast Cancer Campaign and Pink Ribbon Foundation.
The first retailer to sign code of conduct for models In May 2013, Debenhams became the first retailer to sign up to the Equity code for the fair treatment of models in all of our photo shoots, TV ads, PR imagery and photography for debenhams.
The code provides assurances in relation to areas such as the maximum length of working hours, the provision of breaks and refreshments and the use of private changing areas.
The move builds on our guidelines which ensure that no model under the age of 16 is used to represent an adult and that all female models must be at least a size 8.
Model Dunja Knezevic who is Chair of Equitys Models Committee said: Debenhams is not only positively employing models who represent the body image more typical of women but they are treating models with the same care as a good employer.
