76 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Remuneration policy continued Annual bonus The Committee considers that EPS and ROCE versus the cost The annual bonus for 2014 will be based on the same criteria of capital are the most appropriate performance metrics for our as 2013 with 80% based on PBT and 20% on a matrix of like-forbusiness, as growing our earnings while maintaining an efficient like sales growth and gross margin percentage performance.
and sustainable level of return on capital is a key strategic driver The Committee considers that these measures are the most of business performance and is closely aligned with the creation appropriate to create a strong alignment with shareholder value of shareholder value.
creation and effectively incentivise executives to meet profit ROCE means profit before interest and tax excluding any pension and like-for-like sales growth targets on an annual basis whilst credit or debit divided by consolidated balance sheet net assets ensuring focus on the level of gross margin.
These criteria also excluding net debt, pension balances, corporation tax and create alignment with the longer term four-pillared strategy.
Cost of capital is calculated based on the weighted The proportion of the bonus based on like-for-like sales growth average cost of capital as determined by the Committee and gross margin will only pay out if threshold performance is following advice from the Companys brokers.
achieved under the PBT measure.
In addition to considering performance against targets, the Committee will consider the In addition, in order for the award to vest the Remuneration overall quality of the Companys financial performance when Committee must be satisfied that the underlying financial determining annual bonus payments.
performance of the Company over the performance period is sufficient to justify the vesting of the award.
Should any performance condition not be met at the end of the relevant performance period, that portion of the award will lapse immediately without any opportunity to re-test the relevant % performance condition.
PBT 80 Both the EPS and ROCE elements of the awards vest on a LFL sales growth and straight-line basis between 30% and 100% based on performance gross margin matrix 20 achieved between the threshold and maximum targets disclosed.
2014 PSP awards PSP awards for 2014 will be made once targets have been finalised.
Details of the performance measures and targets will be provided in the RNS announcement released at the time The maximum bonus opportunity will remain at 100% of of the grant of awards.
base salary, payable in cash.
The bonus will begin accruing for delivering threshold levels of performance with the maximum bonus only being payable on the delivery of performance significantly in excess of plan.
Debenhams Performance Share Plan PSP It is intended that a PSP award will be granted to executive directors in 2014 with a face value of 150% of base salary for the Chief Executive and 100% of base salary for the CFO.
Performance for PSP awards granted in 2011 and 2012 was based on stretching earnings per share EPS and return on capital employed ROCE performance targets.
This is illustrated below: 25% 75% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% EPS growth ROCE vs cost of capital
