28 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Expanding the brand internationally...
The magnitude of the international department store market makes expansion outside the UK an attractive proposition for Debenhams and therefore an important strategic aim.
We use a different approach for different markets, including franchise stores and international online sales.
We also own stores in the Republic of Ireland and in Denmark through the countrys leading department store chain Magasin du Nord which we acquired in November 2009.
30 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategy in action... Magasin du Nord 31 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Magasin also has the opportunity Magasin du Nord is a long established, Looking forward, we can grow sales and to become the leading online retailer well known brand in Denmark with strong margins by introducing more Debenhams in Denmark and even elsewhere customer awareness.
Although it has a brands and developing the Magasin own in Scandinavia.
Its trading website, different customer base and product offer label.
Whilst Magasin will always have www.
dk, was launched during compared to our UK business, Magasin a lower penetration of own brands than the course of 2013 and is already showing has benefited from leveraging the Groups the UK due to its more premium market encouraging signs.
A mobile site and expertise and experience in a number positioning, we anticipate we can double app will be available in time for Christmas of important areas in the four years since the own brand mix over the medium-term.
Multi-channel services such as click acquisition, including sourcing, multiWe are investing in the Magasin stores and collect are also under development.
The business is now including a substantial makeover of the very profitable, having been loss-making flagship store in Kongens Nytorv in central when acquired, and delivered another Copenhagen and upgrades to the Aarhus year of strong sales growth in 2013. and Odense stores.
