4 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Market overview Understanding the context Figure 1: GfK Consumer confidence Index What was the wider market context that you operated in during 2013?
0 The UK economy provided no benefit to the performance of the retail sector, -5 including Debenhams, during 2013 even though a double dip recession was -10 avoided.
Inflation CPI was 2.7% in the year to August 2013.
Consumers felt the -15 impact of higher housing costs, food prices and fuel costs for their homes and -20 vehicles which outstripped wage increases, resulting in a decline in real income -25 source: CEBR.
Unemployment for the most recently available period May to July 2013 remained high at 7.7% with many of the new jobs created during the -30 year being part-time and or at minimum wage.
-35 Has there been any improvement in consumer confidence over the past year?
Consumer confidence remained firmly in negative territory throughout the year Source: research carried out by GfK see figure 1, although there was some improvement in the last quarter with the on behalf of the European Commission GfK Consumer Confidence Index rising to its highest level in three years in August 2013.
However, this has yet to drive any meaningful increase in retail sales.
Nick Figure 2: BRC-Springboard Footfall Monitor Moon, Managing Director of Social Research at GfK, explains the paradox of rising 2 confidence but falling real income thus: The explanation probably lies in the fact 1 that there has been a steady flow of economic good news over the past few 0 months showing the economy growing however anemically and even the -1 double dip recession revealed by revised ONS figures never to have existed.
-2 With these figures receiving far more prominence than reports about declining -3 real incomes, it is perhaps not surprising that people react to all this good news -4 by declaring themselves more optimistic.
-5 -6 What were the key market trends in 2013?
The key trends centred around the growth in multi-channel shopping and the implications for both store and non-store sales.
Overall market expenditure on clothing footwear accessories in the UK grew by 0.4% whilst online expenditure grew by 14.1%.
Market data demonstrated a high degree of volatility throughout Figure 3: BRC-Nielsen Shop Price Index, 2013 as evidenced by the BRC-KPMG Retail Sales Monitor.
High street footfall clothing and footwear remained under pressure as illustrated in figure 2 which in particular highlights 0% the snow in January and prolonged cold snap in March.
Shop vacancy rates -2% remained high estimated to be at 14.1% by the Local Data Company in June 2013, driven by a number of high profile exits.
These factors, as well as the very -4% cold spring, meant that the market remained highly competitive with discounts -6% at elevated levels throughout 2013.
This is evidenced by the BRC-Nielsen Shop -8% Price Index figure 3 which shows deflation in the clothing and footwear sector for the entire period, accelerating in the final months of the year as retailers sought -10% to clear stock that remained unsold due to the cold spring.
The deflation of -12% 9.7% in July 2013 was the deepest since the series commenced in December 2006.
How did those trends affect Debenhams?
Debenhams continued to take advantage of the shift into multi-channel shopping Figure 4: LFL sales and temperature chart and our online sales grew well ahead of the market.
We are making our stores 6 more compelling places to shop through the modernisation programme, 20 improving store standards and services and enhancing their role as a key channel 15 4 in the multi-channel environment.
We adjusted our promotional strategy in line 10 with the highly competitive sector which impacted gross margin in the first half.
2 5 How did the adverse weather influence Debenhams sales?
0 0 -2 We were affected by adverse weather in two ways during the year.
First, in the -5 last two weeks of January widespread snowfall across the UK impacted the ability -4 of customers to visit our stores.
As this is a key trading period for Debenhams, -10 coinciding with the final weeks of the important post-Christmas sale period, -6 -15 it resulted in a significant reduction in sales volumes.
We were unable to recover -8 -20 all of those lost sales during February which impacted the profitability of the UK segment, and in turn the Group, during the first half of the year.
In addition, March April May -25 -10 the coldest spring weather for 50 years resulted in depressed demand for LFL sales Temperature vs LY spring summer clothing in the UK, leading to highly volatile sales patterns, especially during March and April.
This volatility is illustrated in figure 4 which plots our weekly like-for-like sales change against the average UK temperature compared to the prior year during March, April and May.
Like-for-like sales % Sep 12 Sep 12 Sep 12 Oct Oct Oct Nov Nov Nov Dec Dec Dec Jan Jan Jan Feb Feb Feb Mar Mar Mar Apr Apr Apr May May May Jun Jun Jun Jul Jul Jul Temperature vs LY C Aug 13 Aug 13 Aug 13 Strategic report Directors report Corporate governance report Directors remuneration report Financial statements Overview Strategy Financial review 5 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 How are the economies in your international markets performing?
Debenhams continued to take advantage of the With activities in 28 different international markets, it is not surprising that we have seen a range of economic conditions.
In the countries where we own stores, shift into multi-channel the Danish economy has shown signs of resilience whilst the Republic of Ireland shopping and our online remains weak.
sales grew well ahead In terms of our most important franchise market, the Middle East, there has been a narrowing in the economic performance of oil exporters and oil importers as of the market.
the growth in the former moderates and the latter experience a modest recovery.
The Cypriot banking system has recovered from the crisis seen in the spring of 2013, although we continue to monitor the performance of our franchise stores in Cyprus closely.
Independent market analysis The changing nature of retail Maureen Hinton, Research & Analysis Director, Verdict Research Retail is entering a new era.
Because of technology, the living Meanwhile the website is increasingly becoming the first point room is becoming our favourite shopping location rather of contact a retailer has with its customers and there is very than the high street.
The ease of shopping from our sofas, little time to make an impact on those visitors.
It must appeal using our mobile devices, has replaced the need to visit shops.
instantly, be fast, easy to navigate and relevant, to keep That said, physical stores still have a place in our shopping potential customers on site and convert them into buyers.
habits, albeit a different one from the past.
The result is even greater pressure on retailers.
Apart from the Technology, firstly through the internet, and now via the demand for unique products, they have to adapt to a far more usability of tablets, has completely changed the way we shop.
complex distribution model to satisfy customers delivery and The combination of online researching, ordering and buying service requirements and retailers are no longer competing has become an integral part of how we purchase items now.
on a national level they face global competition.
The outcome of this changing technology is that the power Despite the shift online and we at Verdict expect online sales has shifted from retailers to consumers: we live in a demand-led to be worth 50 billion by 2018 physical stores are still an asset environment rather than the traditional supply-led one where but the nature of those stores is changing.
Local convenience a retailer only had to open another shop to increase its sales.
stores have been given a boost by becoming collection points Crucially online shopping means shoppers are able for other retailers products ordered online, while the growing to compare products and prices quickly and easily, therefore attraction of click and collect as the preferred delivery return the importance of product relevance and differentiation has option has given a boost to online sales and gets consumers become even more vital.
Having a completely integrated into stores to pick up products.
omni-channel operation, with fast delivery and outstanding But for the large multiples, having a store in every conurbation customer service, is meaningless unless you have products to pull in maximum footfall is no longer necessary, or profitable.
Instead retailers are creating flagship hubs that showcase Furthermore, despite the signs of economic recovery, products and provide a customer experience that fulfils more household budgets will continue to be squeezed as earnings than a shopping need: they also entertain.
These are aligned lag behind price inflation for at least another couple of years.
with smaller concepts, which are just as likely to be affiliates, The result is that consumers will carry on being cautious with for collection and ordering points.
their spending and will be looking for value at all price levels.
So while technology is making it easier for the consumer, Therefore the pressure is even greater for retailers to offer for retailers life will continue to be challenging.
products that will entice customers to spend.
6 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Market overview continued Suzanne Harlow, Group Trading Director, and Ross Clemmow, Director eCommerce, discuss our market share performance offline and online during 2013 and the ways in which what we sell and how we sell it are becoming increasingly co-dependent.
Where did you see the strongest market share growth How is the availability of other channels influencing during 2013?
how you stock your stores?
Suzanne: We gained market share in all our key categories.
Suzanne: We are following the trend of how customers are Total clothing footwear accessories share increased by 20 choosing to shop areas such as homeware.
Online penetration basis points to 4.9% and included growth in womenswear of homeware is one of the fastest growing categories in the up 10 basis points to 5.3% and menswear up 60 basis points market as customers take advantage of the convenience to 5.0%.
Childrenswear share was flat at 3.1% but we started of having heavy or bulky items delivered to home.
So we to see positive momentum in the last months of the year.
are reducing the space we give to homeware in store and In non-clothing categories, we continue to consolidate increasing our offer online so it is now some 40% larger our strong market position in premium beauty.
Our share than the store offer.
of the homewares market grew, as did our furniture share.
Why is a wide choice online so important?
How did your online market share growth compare Ross: Whilst customers know that the instore offer is limited with your overall performance?
by the physical size of their local store, they expect online Ross: Across the board, our online market share grew ahead to have elastic walls.
We need a wide choice to meet this of our total share.
For example our total clothing footwear expectation.
But choice is also important because it drives accessories online share increased by 70 basis points to natural search, thereby reducing the reliance on paid search 3.6%, with womenswear up 80 basis points to 3.9% and and lowering the cost of customer acquisition.
This is one menswear up 60 basis points to 2.9%.
Childrenswear online of the ways we are seeking to improve the economics of our share is already ahead of our total share in this category and online business you can read more about this on page 9. gained 10 basis points to 3.8% in 2013.
We are very pleased Our online choice is a third larger than that in our biggest with this performance and it demonstrates the significant store and five times larger than a small store.
opportunity for sales growth from closing the gap between What were the key multi-channel trends in 2013?
total share and online share.
Ross: In terms of channel, 2013 was all about mobile and How did Debenhams online performance compare in particular tablets.
In 2013 we saw a 5% increase in visits with the market?
and 7% increase in sales through desktops whilst for tablets Ross: Our online sales grew by 46.2%, more than three these were 205% and 238% respectively.
Overall, tablets times faster than the overall market which grew by 14.1%.
accounted for 19% of online sales in 2013 compared with Online sales as a percentage of our total sales increased just 7% in the prior year.
What should we be looking out for in 2014?
What are the main product areas where online Suzanne: Having a unique and differentiated product is creating a real opportunity for Debenhams?
offer will be more important than ever to give customers Suzanne: There are opportunities in all product categories, a compelling reason to shop with us and to reduce our including those in which we already have a successful instore exposure to online price comparison.
We will therefore business and others where online provides a conduit for continue to focus on developing our core and designer category extension.
A good example is how online has own brands.
As part of this we are investing in sourcing revolutionised our ability to sell furniture.
Our stores are to reduce lead times, increase efficiency and improve generally too small to have anything but a token offer but both pricing and quality.
online, supplemented by the home catalogue which we Ross: As Maureen Hinton from Verdict suggests in her introduced in 2011, has led to our furniture sales more than commentary on page 5, the digital channel shift will clearly doubling over the past three years.
In clothing, online is continue.
We are ready to take advantage of this.
Mobile will allowing us to consolidate our strong position in areas such continue to be very important, powered by growth in tablet as occasionwear dresses and to meet demand for peripheral usage.
We may even see a slowing of smartphone growth.
sizes in mens big and tall suits and in lingerie where some The work we are doing to create a single customer view will products may come in up to 48 size options.
It also makes start to allow us to communicate with customers in a tailored international brands which have only limited store presence way and to offer them specific incentives that match their available to all customers.
Examples include beauty brands purchasing habits.
A wider range of delivery options will such as MAC and footwear brands such as Clarks.
be available in time for peak trading and we will be continuing to develop a single view of stock to improve availability and widen delivery options further.
Strategy 7 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
