Strategic report Directors report Corporate governance report Directors remuneration report Financial statements Overview Strategy Financial review 43 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 The key points of the process are described in more detail below.
Risk identification Risks exist within all operations and it is important to identify them in order to understand the degree to which their occurrence would threaten the delivery of key objectives.
Risks are identified through a number of routes.
They include the membership of industry bodies, environmental scanning e. g. market research, changes to legislation, enterprise risk management best practices, strategic planning exercises, ongoing operational reviews by management, project governance processes, internal audits and control environment reviews.
In addition to this, an extensive review was undertaken of the organisations risk universe to verify that all key risks have been identified and to ensure that management has considered these as part of its control environment.
This organisation-wide review is facilitated by the risk management team for each operating division on an ongoing cyclical basis.
All senior managers participate in the exercise, including the board.
It considers strategy, objectives and risks to their achievement together with the existing and new controls required to mitigate risk.
The outputs from this process are collated into the Groups risk register and are taken into consideration when setting the annual internal audit plan.
Management is required to update the register with any new or emerging risks as they are identified.
Risk evaluation In order to understand the impact specific risks would have to the Group, each risk is evaluated based on the likelihood of occurrence and its severity.
The risk ranking matrix figure 2 has been developed to ensure that a consistent approach is taken when assessing the overall impact to the Group.
Likelihood is based on the frequency of occurrence across rolling time periods and severity is determined by the degree of change across key performance indicators.
Figure 2: Risk ranking matrix Frequency of event occurence RISK RANKING MATRIX Event will probably occur at least 4 4 16 36 64 Frequent once every year Event will probably occur once 3 3 12 27 48 Common every 3 years Event will probably occur at least Occasional 2 2 8 18 32 once every 10 years Event will probably occur less than Unlikely 1 1 4 9 16 once every 10 years 2 2 2 2 1 1 4 2 9 3 16 4 Low Moderate Serious Critical Severity of impact based on specic degrees of change across one or more financial or reputational key performance indicators
