Strategic report Directors report Corporate governance report Directors remuneration report Financial statements 73 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Incentive plan leaver provisions Remuneration policy for non-executive directors In the event of cessation of employment, outstanding unvested Fees for non-executive directors are set at an appropriate level awards typically lapse.
However, the Committee may determine to recruit and retain directors of a sufficient calibre without paying in certain exceptional circumstances, and in accordance with more than is necessary to do so.
the plan rules, that awards options may vest taking into account Fees are set taking into account the following factors: the time performance against targets and the time elapsed between commitment required to fulfil the role: typical practice at other grant and cessation of employment.
companies of a similar size and complexity to Debenhams: and salary increases awarded to employees throughout the Group.
Change of control Generally the rules of the Companys share schemes provide Our non-executive director fees policy is to pay a basic fee that in the event of a change of control, awards options would for membership of the board, and additional fees for the vest to the extent that the performance conditions where Senior Independent Director, chairmanship of a committee applicable are satisfied at the date of such event.
Any such and membership of a committee to take into account the early vesting would generally be on a time pro-rata basis.
additional responsibilities and time commitment of these roles.
The non-executive directors are also eligible for a staff discount.
Considering employee remuneration arrangements Debenhams employs a large number of colleagues in a variety Fees are reviewed at appropriate intervals normally once every of roles: from store sales advisors to sales directors, buyers and year by the board.
There is no increase in fees planned for 2014. support staff, across a range of geographies.
Our reward Our current fee policy is as follows: structure for executive directors to store sales advisors is built around a set of common reward principles but our reward Basic fee 40,000 framework is altered as necessary to suit the needs of the Senior Independent Director 10,000 business for our different employee groups across the Company.
Reward packages therefore differ taking into account a number Committee chairmanship fee Audit and Remuneration of appropriate factors including seniority, impact on the business, 10,000 local practice, custom and legislation.
Committee chairmanship fee Sustainability 7,500 The remuneration policy for the executive directors reflects Committee membership fee per committee 2,500 the overall remuneration philosophy and principles of the wider Group.
When determining remuneration policy and The fees for the Chairmans role are set taking into account arrangements for executive directors, the Remuneration the time commitment of the role, the skills and experience Committee considers pay and employment conditions elsewhere of the individual and typical market practice for other companies in the Group to ensure that pay structures from executive director of a similar size and complexity.
The Chairman is also eligible to store manager are appropriately aligned and that levels of for a staff discount.
remuneration remain appropriate in this context.
When considering salary increases for the executive directors, the Committee considers the general level of salary increase across the Group.
Typically, salary increases will be aligned with those received elsewhere in the Group unless the Committee considers that specific circumstances require a different level of salary increase for executive directors.
The remuneration arrangements for the members of the executive committee who are not executive directors fall within the Committees remit ensuring a common approach to the design of reward and determining reward outcomes for the most senior people within the organisation.
Considering shareholder views The Committee is committed to an on-going dialogue with shareholders and seeks shareholder views when any significant changes are being made to remuneration arrangements.
Over the last few years the committee has consulted with shareholders regarding the use of the Deferred Bonus Matching Plan and the performance measures for the annual bonus plan and Performance Share Plan.
The Committee takes into account the views of shareholders when formulating and implementing the policy.
