17 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Focusing on UK retail... Our stores in the UK will remain our largest single sales channel for the foreseeable future although their role is changing.
We are investing in the modernisation of older stores and building new stores in target markets where we can deliver an acceptable level of return.
The case for new stores is clearly demonstrated by our experience in Chesterfield, one of two new stores opened during 2013.
18 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategy in action...
The case for stores 19 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 We have also seen online sales in Stores are central to our strategy but The case for opening new stores is the Chesterfield area double, which their role is changing.
They are not only demonstrated by Chesterfield which demonstrates the close correlation a physical point of sale for products which trades from 45,000 sq ft on a retail park between store sales and online sales.
customers want to see, touch and feel.
It is They are also a collection and return point a store that is fully configured to operate We are scheduled to open 16 new for multi-channel orders and they unlock in a multi-channel environment.
stores in the UK during the next four sales in multi-channel catchments.
In Chesterfields first year we have seen years, starting with four in 2014.
Many We are investing in our stores to support sales in the local area more than triple.
of these are located on retail parks, just like multi-channel growth through new instore The store itself has contributed the largest Chesterfield.
Lease lengths on these new ordering points which focus on self-service portion of this growth.
Importantly, other stores are generally shorter than we would and access to choice and giving our Click stores where our Chesterfield customers have signed in the past and those on retail & Collect facilities a stronger presence, may have shopped prior to opening have parks usually have a break clause.
These with new collection points and new seen only a limited amount of deflection, variations ensure we have sufficient branding for increased visibility.
suggesting that the overwhelming majority flexibility to meet the changing role of store sales have been incremental.
of stores in a multi-channel world.
