Strategic report Directors report Corporate governance report Directors remuneration report Financial statements 71 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 The table below sets out details of other plans that the Company has in place.
It is not currently intended that these plans will be operated during 2014.
However, the Committee retains the discretion to operate these plans if it considers it to be appropriate and in the best interests of shareholders.
Purpose and link to What is the maximum Element remuneration policy Key features operation potential value?
Performance metrics Deferred Bonus Incentivises executives The Committee can invite The Committee would If this plan were operated, Matching Plan to achieve Debenhams participants to invest up to 100% operate this plan when appropriate performance DBMP long-term strategy and of their net bonus into shares it considers it to be conditions would be create sustainable appropriate and in the best determined by the If the participant remains in shareholder value interests of shareholders Committee at the time employment and retains the of award Aligns executives interests invested shares for three years with shareholders through they may receive matching shares the investment of their cash of up to the gross amount of the bonus into shares bonus deferred subject to performance conditions being met over a three year period Executive Share Incentivises executives Market value share options The Committee may If this plan were operated, Option Plan to achieve Debenhams operate this plan in the appropriate performance Three year vesting period ESOP long-term strategy future if it considers it to be conditions would be 10 year exercise period from and create sustainable appropriate and in the best determined by the the date of grant shareholder value interests of shareholders Committee at the time Options can be granted in the of award The maximum award that form of unapproved options can be made under the or HM Revenue & Customs plan is 100% of base salary.
approved options up to the Options may, in exceptional prescribed HMRC limit, circumstances, be granted currently 30,000 with a market value in excess of this amount at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee Recruitment remuneration arrangements The Committee may make awards on appointing an executive In the event that the Company recruits a new executive director director to buy-out remuneration arrangements forfeited on either from within the organisation or externally when leaving a previous employer.
In doing so the Committee will take determining appropriate remuneration arrangements, the account of relevant factors including any performance conditions Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors attached to these awards, the form in which they were granted including but not limited to quantum, the type of remuneration e. g. cash or shares and the time over which they would have being offered and the jurisdiction the candidate was recruited vested.
Generally buy-out awards will be made on a comparable from to ensure that arrangements are in the best interests of basis to those forfeited.
both the Company and its shareholders without paying more In the event of recruitment, the Committee may also grant than is necessary to recruit an executive of the required calibre.
awards to a new executive director under the Listing Rule 9.4.
2 The Committee would generally seek to align the remuneration which allows for the granting of awards, specifically to facilitate, package offered with our remuneration policy outlined in the in unusual circumstances, the recruitment or retention of an table above.
However, the Committee retains discretion to make executive director, without seeking prior shareholder approval.
proposals on hiring a new executive director which are outside the standard policy.
In the first year of appointment, the Committee may offer additional remuneration arrangements that it considers appropriate and necessary to recruit and retain the individual.
Such remuneration may be made in the form of cash or share based awards which may vest immediately or at a future point in time.
Vesting may be subject to performance conditions selected by the Committee.
