Strategic objectives Identify 42 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Risk review Safeguarding future returns The board, which has overall responsibility for risk management and internal control, Effective management of considers it important that there should be a regular and systematic approach to the management of risks in order to provide assurance that strategic and operational goals risks and opportunities is can be met and the Groups reputation is protected.
essential if Debenhams is In order to identify and manage risks effectively, a risk management framework has to deliver its strategic and been developed, which includes: processes to identify the risks facing the Group: a process to evaluate the potential impact of risks: appropriate controls and strategies operational goals, protect to treat the risks: reporting requirements for changes to the risk profile: and details its reputation and ultimately of specific roles and responsibilities relating to the management of risk.
The Groups management team is expected to utilise the risk management framework when enhance shareholder value.
assessing risks and implementing suitable controls.
Risk management framework The board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control, which is based on the COSO model covering control environment, risk assessment, information and communication, control activities and monitoring and for reviewing the effectiveness of the internal control systems in place.
Such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the strategic business objectives.
They can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of internal controls and is satisfied that the controls in place remain appropriate.
The board exemplifies the control environment to its stakeholders through its compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, Debenhams policies and procedures and, in particular, policies covering risk management, code of business conduct and anti-bribery and corruption.
To support this system for internal control, the Debenhams risk management framework figure 1 has been developed using the principles of the international standard ISO31000 Risk Management.
Figure 1: Debenhams risk management framework Strategic objectives Report define risk appetite Executive committee Audit Committee Risk reporting define principal risks Risk management Risk identication and risk treatment team Risk identication DivisionsSpecialist functions Risk evaluation Evaluate Strategic objectives This framework highlights the central role that the management of risk plays in the successful delivery of strategic objectives, including the four pillars of our strategy to build a leading international, multi-channel brand, and the fact that this process is dependent on people fulfilling their clearly defined roles and responsibilities.
