24 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Increasing availability and choice through multi-channel... Our multi-channel strategy is predicated on following the customer.
Customers are firmly in control of the way they want to shop.
We cant wrest that control from them so we must develop the most profitable way to provide the products and services they want.
Fortunately we are very well positioned to take advantage of the growth of multi-channel because of who we are: our width of choice, our exclusive brands and the role all our channels can play including our stores in following the customer.
25 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 26 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategy in action...
The rise of mobile 27 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 make shopping easier but they can also Our customers are increasingly mobile.
Mobile is also important because it is more reduce the cost of customer acquisition In 2013, 40% of our 241 million online visits than just a direct sales channel.
It can have through the use of push notifications.
came through tablets, smartphones and a significant influence on sales through the instore ordering kiosks and these other channels, especially stores.
Industry Looking forward, there are many ways that devices accounted for 25% of our 366 analysis suggests that for every 1 spent mobile will enhance our multi-channel million online sales.
Much of this growth on mobile, a spend of a further 10 will offer even further.
It has an important part came from tablets where visits increased be influenced instore.
We help customers to play in our planned developments for by over 200%.
Tablet customers also to use their mobile devices by providing Click & Collect, for example by allowing spend more, with the highest average free wi-fi in all our stores.
customers to check in when they arrive order value of all channels.
We have We actively encourage our mobile in store to collect their parcel so we can developed specific content for each customers to engage with us through our have it ready for them.
mobile channel which reflects the part suite of apps which have been downloaded of the shopping journey customers use more than 6 million times.
a number of awards for them and they have an average customer rating of 4 stars.
Apps are important not only as a tool to
