Strategic report Directors report Corporate governance report Directors remuneration report Financial statements Overview Strategy Financial review 45 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 In addition, the Audit Committee satisfies itself that the key risks are being monitored by senior management and that the internal audit plan is focused on high priority areas.
The internal audit team updates the board and the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of risk management within each discrete area audited throughout the year.
The Audit Committee will bring any areas of concern to the attention of the board.
Roles and responsibilities The effective management of risk is reliant upon all employees successfully performing their specific roles and responsibilities and individual managers are expected to familiarise themselves with their responsibilities, which are outlined below, and to act accordingly.
Only suitably qualified employees are responsible for each of the functions within the Group to ensure that each area operates effectively.
Training, performance reviews and support mechanisms are in place to ensure standards of performance are maintained.
Board of directors The board of directors is responsible for: approving the risk management policy and related framework: setting and communicating the Groups risk appetite and related policies: setting the tone and culture for managing risk: providing strategic direction and guidance on risk-related decision making: ensuring that risk management processes are adopted across the whole Group: obtaining assurance on the effectiveness and compliance with the risk management framework: reporting on the management of risk to stakeholders: and signing off public disclosures related to risk and risk management.
Divisional directors and heads of function Divisional directors and heads of function are responsible for: identifying and evaluating the risks that relate to their areas and activities: implementing appropriate controls to manage risks in line with the Groups risk appetite: and taking ownership for risks and controls within their area of responsibility.
All employees All employees are responsible for: being aware of the risks that relate to their roles and their activities: continuously improving their management of risk: implementing appropriate controls to manage risks: and reporting ineffective and or inefficient controls wherever they sit.
Risk management and internal audit The Groups risk management and internal audit function is made up of three discrete areas: risk management, internal audit and profit protection, all of which report into the Director of Internal Audit and Risk Management.
This combination enables the Group to maintain a cohesive approach to all aspects of risk management whilst allowing the internal audit team to benefit from the insights that other areas of the function can provide.
Risk management team The risk management team is responsible for: developing, implementing and reviewing the risk management framework and process: promoting effective risk management at all levels of the Group: encouraging an appropriate risk culture within the Group: liaising with other functions that advise on specialist areas: coordinating responses where risks impact more than one area: reporting, escalating and communicating risk management issues to key stakeholders: and providing assurance regarding risk management within the Group.
In addition, the team manages corporate insurance and undertakes business continuity planning activities.
Internal audit team In relation to risk management, the internal audit team is responsible for providing independent assessment of: the design, operation and effectiveness of the risk management framework and process: management of key risks, including the effectiveness of the controls: reporting of risk and control status: reliability of assurances provided by management relating to risk management.
Profit protection The profit protection teams responsibilities include activities such as ensuring loss prevention strategies are developed and implemented, anti-fraud monitoring across the Group and the management of whistleblowing.
