52 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report Directors The directors present their Composition of the board The following persons were directors of the Company during the report and the audited financial period ended 31 August 2013 and unless otherwise stated at the statements of Debenhams plc date of this Annual Report: the Company together with Nigel Northridge its subsidiary undertakings Michael Sharp the Group for the period Simon Herrick Dennis Millard ended 31 August 2013.
Peter Fitzgerald appointed 4 October 2012 Stephen Ingham appointed 8 January 2013 Martina King Principal activities Mark Rolfe Debenhams is a leading international, multi-channel brand Sophie Turner Laing with a proud British heritage which trades from 238 stores across 29 countries.
Customer reach is extended via online stores at The membership of the board and biographical details of the www.
fide directors are given on pages 56 to 57.
The rules governing the and www.
dk and through mobile sites and apps.
appointment and replacement of the board members are set Debenhams gives its customers around the world a unique, out in the Companys Articles of Association.
In accordance with differentiated and exclusive mix of own brands, international the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors will retire at brands and concessions.
In the UK, Debenhams has a top five the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company and market share in womenswear and menswear and a top ten share will offer themselves for re-election, except for Stephen Ingham in childrenswear.
It leads the market in premium health and who will offer himself for election.
A formal evaluation of the beauty.
Debenhams is the tenth biggest UK online retailer performance of each director and of the board has been by traffic volume and has been awarded International Growth carried out and the performance of each of them continues Initiative of the Year and Retail Technology Initiative of to be effective and demonstrates commitment to his or her role.
the Year for Endless Aisle at the Oracle Retail Week Awards.
There is more information on the evaluation and its outcome within the corporate governance report on page 55.
A detailed review of the business of the Group during the financial year ended 31 August 2013, including an analysis of the In addition to the indemnity provisions in the Articles position of the Group at the end of the financial year, the trends of Association, the Company and other Group companies and factors likely to affect the future development, performance have entered into a direct indemnity agreement with each of and position of the business and a description of the principal the directors and with certain other officers or senior employees risks and uncertainties the Group faces are set out on pages of the Group.
These indemnities constitute qualifying indemnities 2 to 51 which constitute the strategic report and are therefore for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006 and remain in force incorporated into this report by reference.
Information about at the date of approval of this report without any payment having environmental matters, employees and social and community been made under them.
The Company also maintains directors issues appear on the Companys Sustainability website and officers liability insurance which gives appropriate cover http: sustainability.
for any legal action brought against its directors.
Events since the year end Information relating to the remuneration and share interests Since the year end Debenhams has: of each director is given in the directors remuneration report on pages 81 to 82.
No director had, during or at the end of the year, Opened international franchise stores in Estonia, Libya any material interest in any contract of significance in relation and Malaysia to the Groups business.
Received a statement of objections from the OFT in respect Profit and dividends of sports bra products.
Refer to note 32 of the financial The profit after tax for the financial year ending 31 August 2013 statements on page 126 for further information was 127.9 million 2012: 125.3 million.
The directors recommend Bought a further 14.3 million shares the payment of a final dividend of 2.4 pence per ordinary share, to be paid on 10 January 2014 to members on the share register at the close of business on 6 December 2013.
This, together with the interim dividend of 1.0 pence per share paid in July, gives a full year dividend of 3.4 pence per share.
Strategic report Directors report Corporate governance report Directors remuneration report Financial statements 53 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to exercise Interests in voting rights voting rights, to receive dividends, to receive all shareholder In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6 2 a, the following investor communications and to attend and speak at general meetings interests have been disclosed to the Company pursuant to the of the Company.
All the shares rank pari passu.
These rights Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR : and the obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, As at 31 August 2013: in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, a copy of which can be obtained by writing to the Company Secretary.
The Debenhams % of issued Retail Employee Trust 2004 the Trust holds 808,655 ordinary sharecapital shares in the Company 0.06%.
Of those shares, 335,118 shares excluding shares are invested shares held by the Trust on behalf of the participants Number held as treasury Shareholder of shares shares of the Deferred Bonus Matching Plan who exercise voting rights in relation to those shares.
Any voting or other similar decisions Schroders 248,368,031 20.02 relating to the balance of shares held by the Trust are taken by the trustees, who may take account of any recommendations Milestone Resources 89,183,155 7.19 of the Company.
Group Ltd There are no significant agreements to which the Company is a Majedie Asset 66,480,510 5.36 party which take effect, alter or terminate in the event of change Management Ltd of control of the Company except that the supplier agreements Bestinver Gestion, 61,358,602 4.94 with certain major cosmetic suppliers contain termination S. A. provisions on change of control and the multicurrency credit facility dated 16July 2010 as amended by supplemental agreements dated 13July 2011 and 22 May 2012 contains In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
There are no agreements providing for notifications have been received during the period compensation for directors or employees on change of control.
1 September 2013 to 11 October 2013: Details concerning the impact on share options and share awards held by directors or employees in the event of a change of control % of issued are set out on page 73 of the directors remuneration report.
sharecapital excluding shares Essential contracts Date of Number held as treasury Debenhams has contractual arrangements with many notification Shareholder of shares shares organisations, but no one contract is so material as to be essential to our business, with the exception of the warehouse operators 17 9 2013 Majedie Asset 60,805,070 4.92 and the e-commerce platform provider.
Management Ltd Employees 19 9 2013 BlackRock Inc 62,539,048 5.06 Debenhams directly employs around 30,000 people in the UK, 23 9 2013 GIC Private Ltd 37,156,695 3.01 Republic of Ireland, Hong Kong and Denmark with thousands more employed by our partners in our franchise stores worldwide 24 9 2013 BlackRock Inc N A below 5% and within our supply chain.
threshold In December 2012, the Company launched Your Voice, a survey 07 10 2013 Schroders 243,990,254 19.83 which gave our employees in the UK and the Republic of Ireland the opportunity to share their opinions and feedback about working for Debenhams.
The aim of the survey was to identify Share buyback programme priority areas to improve employee engagement and ultimately The Company commenced its share buyback programme in drive business performance.
The results of the first survey, which April 2012.
As at 31 August 2013 the Company has purchased provided a benchmark to measure progress in future surveys, 47,441,877 ordinary shares of 0.01p at a total cost of 45.2 million.
were evaluated by market leaders in engagement surveys, ETS.
of which 23,882,722 ordinary shares of 0.01p per share were The results were very positive with 77% of employees feeling purchased representing 1.9% of the Companys share capital engaged working at Debenhams and actions plans are being at a cost of 25.1 million during the last financial year.
All shares implemented across divisions within the business to address the purchased by the Company are being transferred to treasury.
key concerns of our employees.
655,573 treasury shares were transferred out of treasury during Business information and key messages are cascaded to the year to satisfy awards granted under the Companys share all employees throughout the business via personal briefings plans.
Approval will be sought from shareholders at the and email.
Briefings are also held by the Chief Executive and forthcoming Annual General Meeting to renew the annual members of the executive committee to update employees on authority to purchase shares.
the performance of the Company and the Companys strategy.
Share capital and control The Employee Consultation Forum, which is attended by elected The issued share capital of the Company and the number of representatives from stores and head office, is another medium shares held in treasury as at 31 August 2013 are shown in note 27 by which employees receive information on the Company as well to the financial statements starting on page 121.
In addition to the as giving employees the opportunity to be consulted on certain shares trading on the London Stock Exchange, the Company activities of the business.
Each ADS represents four ordinary shares of 0.01p each.
There are no known arrangements which may restrict the transfer of shares or voting rights.
54 Debenhams plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report continued Debenhams is committed to ensuring that employees Going concern or applicants for employment are treated equally regardless After making enquiries, the directors consider that the Group has of gender, race, ethnic or national origin, religious, political or adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable philosophical beliefs, disability, marital or civil partnership status, future.
For this reason, they have adopted the going concern sexual orientation, gender reassignment and age.
Through our basis in preparing the financial statements.
equal opportunities policy we aim to create an environment that Corporate governance statement offers all employees the chance to use their skills and talents.
1R, the disclosures required by As part of the Companys policy on equality of opportunity, DTR7.2.
10R are within the corporate decisions on recruitment, training, promotion, pay terms and governance report and directors remuneration report on conditions and leavers are based solely on objective, job-related pages 55 to 82 and risk review on pages 42 to 51 and are therefore criteria and personal competence and performance.
The incorporated into this report by reference.
Company seeks wherever possible to make reasonable Disclosure of information to auditors adjustments to ensure that an employee who becomes disabled Each of the directors of the company at the time when the during the course of his or her employment is able to continue directors report was approved confirms that: working effectively.
This includes providing equipment or altering working arrangements: providing additional training: reallocating a So far as the director is aware, there is no information needed on a temporary or permanent basis some of the employees by the Companys auditors in connection with preparing their duties to other members of staff: transferring the employee report of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and to a suitable alternative role: and adjusting working times.
Any b S He has taken all the steps that s he ought to have taken such adjustment will be monitored and reviewed on a regular as a director in order to make herself or himself aware of any basis to ensure it continues to be effective.
information needed by the Companys auditors in connection Payment of suppliers with preparing the report and to establish that the Companys It is the Companys policy to pay suppliers in accordance with auditors are aware of that information.
the agreed payment terms provided that the invoice is properly Independent Auditors presented and not subject to dispute.
 LLP have indicated their willingness The ratio, expressed in days, between the amounts owed by to continue in office and a resolution dealing with their the Company to trade creditors at the end of the year and reappointment as auditors of the company will be proposed the amounts invoiced by suppliers in the financial year ended at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
31 August 2013 was nil days 2012: nil days.
The ratio, expressed Annual General Meeting in days between the amounts owed by the Group to trade The Annual General Meeting of Debenhams plc will be held at creditors and the amount invoiced by suppliers in the financial Debenhams Registered Office, 10 Brock Street, Regents Place, year ended 31 August 2013 was 60 days 2012: 59 days.
London NW1 3FG on Tuesday 10 December 2013 at 2.00pm.
Financial instruments The Notice is given, together with explanatory notes, in the Debenhams does not enter into financial instruments for booklet which accompanies this report.
Details of financial instruments entered into By order of the board for underlying risks are set out in note 22 on page 114.
Environment Paul Eardley The Company has been reporting greenhouse gas GHG Company Secretary emissions online to the Carbon Disclosure project since 2010.
24 October 2013 The Company also participates in the UK governments CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme where Debenhams is in the top quartile of the CRC league table.
Information on how the Company tackles climate change together with our latest CO e 2 emissions for Scope 1 direct emissions, Scope 2 purchased electricity and Scope 3 indirect emissions can be found on our website, http: sustainability.
Charitable giving During the year the Group raised 1.2 million 2012: 0.75 million.
Following a customer survey in 2012, breast cancer and children were identified as the causes closest to the hearts of our customers and so our charity strategy is mainly focused on these two areas.
The Debenhams Foundation Foundation which was formally registered with the Charity Commission in June 2012 manages the donation of funds to charities supported by the Company.
Further information on the Companys charitable activities can be found on our website: http: sustainability.
Key donations made by the Group and Foundation during the year were to the NSPCC 193,000, ISPCC 10,000, Breast Cancer Campaign 97,000 Pink Ribbon Foundation 36,000, Breakthrough Promotions Ltd 91,000, Children in Need 159,000 and the Este Lauder MAC Aids campaign 46,000.
