18 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Strategic Report Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2013 Our Business Key Products and Specialisations Historically, Dechras product range was entirely focused on companion animals and horses.
However, the acquisition of Eurovet has given the Group a significant and strategically important platform in the food producing animal product market.
The majority of key products in both the companion animal and food producing animal markets are novel or have clear marketing advantages over competitor products.
Several of our branded ranges have market leading positions in the majority of territories in which we operate.
Dermatology and Care The Care range comprises unlicensed products which complement our pharmaceutical range.
They are available over the counter within veterinary practices.
The three key products Dermatology represents approximately 20% of veterinarians are CleanAural, a non-irritant cleaner suitable for frequent use clinical time and is currently a major focus area for the industry.
in ears producing excess wax, Neutrale, a range of specialist Best practice and management techniques look to adopt more shampoos for skin conditions in dogs, and Lubrithal, an eye topical products, as opposed to oral treatments, with the aim lubricant for cats and dogs.
of utilising antibiotics more appropriately.
Dechras product portfolio, with its range of licensed and non-licensed topical products, is well positioned for this approach.
Ophthalmology Canaural was first licensed in 1975 and is still the leading first line treatment for otitis externa in cats and dogs in several EU territories.
Canaural, which is now registered in 27 countries, can also be used in conjunction with our leading ear cleaning product CleanAural.
Fuciderm, licensed in 1995, is the only licensed product for the treatment of surface pyoderma in dogs, such as acute Ophthalmology is an area of veterinary medicine where moist dermatitis and intertrigo.
It is a key product within our we have a number of leading products including licensed dermatology range, selling into 23 countries.
pharmaceuticals, unlicensed care products and instruments.
Malaseb, was first licensed in 1996 and is still the market leading Fucithalmic Vet, licensed in 1993, is the only licensed product medicated shampoo for cats and dogs.
It is used to treat skin available for the treatment of conjunctivitis associated with diseases caused by Malassezia and staphylococcal infections.
It is highly effective because of its unique sustained release formulation that ensures prolonged Animax, licensed for the treatment of skin conditions in dogs retention within the eye.
It is currently licensed in 21 countries.
and cats, is only approved in the United States.
The marketing rights for this product were acquired in May 2007.
This product Additionally, we market a range of ophthalmic products is currently unavailable due to third party supply issues.
There are six products in the range, with the majority being the only veterinary licensed products in the US DermaPet, acquired in October 2010, is a range of shampoos, market.
These products are currently unavailable due to third conditioners and ear products to treat numerous skin and ear party supply issues: however, we anticipate relaunch in the conditions in dogs and cats.
Key brands are Triz, MalAcetic and 2013 2014 financial year.
22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3 Strategic Report Our Business Our Performance Our Governance Our Financials Shareholder Information 19 www.
com Stock code: DPH Forthyron is licensed to treat the most widely recognised endocrine disorder, canine hypothyroidism.
It is the only Equine Medicine mutually recognised levothyroxine treatment in Europe and is marketed in all the major European countries.
Felimazole was the first veterinary licensed product for the treatment of feline hyperthyroidism.
Originally licensed in the UK in 2002, Felimazole was then licensed in the EU in 2005, the US in 2009 and has subsequently been approved in Canada.
The Group has a wide range of licensed products supporting the equine veterinarian.
The leading product with the highest sales is Equipalazone which is licensed in five major EU Analgesia and Critical Care countries.
Equipalazone was first licensed in a sachet presentation in 1972 and subsequently in paste and injection presentations.
It continues to be the leading non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug NSAID for the treatment of musculoskeletal disorders, such as lameness arising from acute and chronic laminitis in horses.
Equidone Gel was approved in 2010 for the treatment of fescue Dechra has a wide range of products that support emergency toxicity in horses.
This niche product is targeted specifically at medicine, pain relief and sedation.
The Vetivex range of infusion fluids are licensed for the treatment HY-50 is used for intra-articular and intravenous treatment of of dehydration.
They are widely used to meet normal fluid and lameness in horses caused by joint dysfunction.
The acquisition electrolyte requirements when fluids cannot be given orally, such of this product, in January 2012, strengthened Dechras position as during surgery.
in equine pain management in several major European territories.
Sedation and analgesia are major sub-groups of critical care.
Domidine is an injectable used for the sedation and slight Dechra, enhanced by the Eurovet acquisition, markets one of analgesia of horses and cattle, to facilitate physical examinations the largest ranges of products in this sector.
The range covers and treatment, such as minor surgical interventions.
a wide number of species, different degrees of pain intensity management and duration of effect.
Within the range there are a number of unique licenses, Intra Epicaine, a local anaesthetic Endocrinology recommended for infiltration, nerve block, intra-articular and epidural anaesthesia in horses, Comfortan, the only licensed methadone hydrochloride for analgesia in dogs and Fentadon, the only licensed fentanyl for intra-operative analgesia and postoperative pain management.
Atipam is a selective a2-antagonist receptor which reverses the sedative effects of medetomidine and dexmedetomidine in cats and dogs.
Endocrine disorders are a key focus for the business with a Sedator is licensed for sedation, analgesia and anaesthetic number of unique licensed products treating a range of chronic premedication and contains the active ingredient medetomidine diseases.
The three leading brands are Vetoryl, Forthyron and hydrochloride.
Other products in the range include Buprenodale Vetoryl is a novel product for the treatment of Cushings buprenorphine, Ketamin ketamine hydrochloride and Plegicil syndrome excess cortisol or hyperadrenocorticism in dogs.
is marketed internationally and is the only recognised licensed efficacious veterinary product for the treatment of Cushings syndrome around the world.
22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3 20 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Strategic Report Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2013 Our Business Key Products and Specialisations continued product when added to drinking water.
This reduces the need for additional enhancing agents widely used by competitor products.
Generics Octacillin, marketed since 2003 in the Netherlands, is sold in 15 European countries following approvals in 2006 and 2011.
Octacillin is a highly soluble and stable antibiotic powder containing amoxicillin which is added to drinking water in the treatment of diseases in swine and poultry.
Soludox, marketed in Benelux since 2002, is a highly soluble Several generic products are registered within the United antibiotic powder for administration via drinking water and Kingdom: this basket of products is marketed under the Dechra is currently sold in 16 EU countries as a result of approval, Veterinary Essentials brand.
A number of products are also in 2010, for swine and chickens.
The active ingredient is registered in Europe: we are in the process of in-licensing and doxycycline.
registering additional products to expand our branded generic range within this territory.
Methoxasol, is a ready to use liquid medication, which can be easily added to the drinking water of swine and poultry: it has been marketed in the Netherlands since the mid 1990s.
Cardiovascular Following successful European procedures in 2000, 2009 and most recently in 2012, this highly soluble liquid is marketed in 15 EU countries.
The active ingredients are sulphamethoxasol and trimethoprim, a proven synergistic combination for antimicrobial effectiveness.
Cyclospray is the leading antibiotic spray treatment in Europe for claw hoof infections, interdigital dermatitis foot rot in sheep and digital dermatitis in cattle.
It is widely used in the prevention of infection of superficial traumatic or surgical wounds in cattle, This is a new area of focus following the acquisition of Eurovet.
Cyclospray has been marketed since 2000 in Cardisure is the leading product in this category.
The active ingredient is chlortetracycline.
ingredient in Cardisure is pimobendan.
It is a leading treatment for canine congestive heart failure and is marketed throughout Europe.
Food Producing Animal Pet Diets Antimicrobials Dechra has two main cat and dog diet product ranges, both Dechra has a superior range of antimicrobial treatment products branded Specific, which are sold exclusively through veterinary predominantly for swine and poultry.
In a market where there practices.
Therapeutic diets, which represent approximately is increased emphasis on reducing the usage of antibiotics in 70% of overall diet sales, provide optimum levels of nutrition in the food producing animal sector, it is essential that reliable areas such as diabetes, arthritis and urinary, kidney, liver and and effective products are available to veterinarians to support heart problems.
Life stage diets, which represent approximately them in the prudent use of antibiotics.
The Solustab range has 30% of diet sales, provide premium quality daily nutrition for been specifically developed to meet this need and is renowned healthy dogs and cats.
for its high level of solubility leading to a reliable and stable 22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3
