36 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Strategic Report Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2013 Our Performance Operating Review continued US Performance US Pharmaceuticals The underlying performance within the US Revenue from this Segment delivered growth remains strong with our key products, Vetoryl of 4.7% in the year, hampered by third and Felimazole, growing by 11.6% and 16.3% party supply issues with the ophthalmic and respectively.
We continue to increase our The underlying dermatological ranges.
Third party supply reputation in the US with an ongoing educational problems for our leading dermatological programme on the conditions which our key performance within the product, Animax, persisted throughout the products treat: within the year we held almost US remains strong with year and an enforced change to a new API 100 meetings with over 3,300 veterinarians in our key products, Vetoryl supplier resulted in a complete out of stock attendance.
We have continued to strengthen and Felimazole, growing situation.
Every effort is being made by our our sales team and have also appointed a new supplier to produce the validation batches director of marketing, Nancy Zimmerman, who is by 11.6% and 16.3% required to submit a variation for the change already having a positive impact.
It is possible that the product could be back in production for the end of In December 2012 we completed an our current financial year.
As the product is agreement to in-license three new companion clinically unique it is considered that we should animal products: A-Cyst, Polyglycan SA be able to recover the majority of historic sales and PolyChews.
None of these products once Animax becomes available again.
will make a material impact: however, they complement our existing range of specialist We had also anticipated that at least one of companion animal products and will make a our licensed veterinary ophthalmic products contribution to the growth of our US business.
would have been back in production within Development continues on the new the financial year being reported.
However, in-licensed generic product outlined in the the review period by the FDA was longer than Half Yearly Report.
Following an initial review expected and we still await approval for the by the FDA, it is unlikely this product will change in manufacturer.
If we are successful receive registration in the 2013 2014 in this first round review by the FDA, products financial year.
should be available for marketing within the first half of the financial year ending June 2014.
If a second round review is required, the relaunch will be extended into the third or fourth quarter.
Above: The US animal health market is approximately $15 billion, out of a total US spend of $50 billion on pets 22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3 Strategic Report Our Business Our Performance Our Governance Our Financials Shareholder Information 37 www.
com Stock code: DPH Case Study Group Information Technology Following the appointment of a new Group IT Director on 2 April 2012 a new Group IT strategy Technical CE has been defined and implemented.
The essence of the proposed strategy, which commenced in August 2012, is to standardise applications and hardware Meetings across the Group and to implement a network and infrastructure to support the implementation of the DVP US organises technical continuing education CE meetings Oracle ERP project.
The second phase of the Oracle which are centred around the education of veterinarians in terms of implementation is progressing well with Bladel recognising, diagnosing, treating and managing diseases.
The meetings manufacturing expected to go live in the second are designed to improve awareness of Dechra and instil the message quarter of the new financial year.
Future roll outs will that Dechra is a company with state-of-the-art products, technical include our European and US subsidiaries as well as knowledge and a commitment to supporting the veterinary community.
The meetings are an ongoing series of dinner seminars, with around 150 People held each year across the US.
Some of these events are organised by Anne-Francoise Nesmes was appointed the Veterinary Medical Association VMA and are hosted by Dechra to the Board as Chief Financial Officer on veterinarians.
They feature guest speakers including experts and key 22 April 2013.
She joined the Group and the opinion leaders, such as specialists and university veterinary clinicians Board from GlaxoSmithKline PLC GSK.
Annewho are respected leaders in their discipline.
Dechra also sponsors Francoise is a high calibre finance professional with evenings that do not feature a Dechra speaker, when they cover topics international pharmaceutical, manufacturing and pertinent to our products.
This gives Dechra independent, third party commercial experience.
support and adds to the Companys reputation.
Tony Griffin, formerly Chief Executive Officer of the From a strategic point of view, these evenings are an inroad to markets AUV Group, was appointed as a Director of Dechra DVP US is targeting, and ensures attendees are aware of Dechra on 1 November 2012.
Tony has played a key role in products and how to use them as their first choice treatments.
The the integration of the Eurovet business into Dechra.
seminars are RACE Registry for Approved Continuing Education In addition to his PLC Board responsibilities Tonys approved, meaning that veterinarians gain educational credits for principal responsibility is his role as the Managing attending, as well as increasing their knowledge on diseases and Director of Dechra Veterinary Products Europe treatments.
On average Dechra-led seminars are attended by over 500 veterinarians Two new Independent Non-Executive Directors a year, with this figure rising significantly when Dechra-sponsored were also appointed to the Board.
Julian Heslop evenings are held at major veterinary congresses.
Since Vetoryls launch commenced his role on 1 January 2013 and Ishbel in 2008 it is estimated around 4,000 veterinarians have attended a Macpherson on 1 February 2013.
Julian served seminar specific to this product which supports the momentum DVP is as Chief Financial Officer of GSK between 2005 currently building in the US.
and 2011, having previously held senior roles in both GSK and Grand Metropolitan PLC.
Ishbel currently holds a number of Non-Executive roles and has previously had 20 years experience as an investment banker specialising in mid-market corporate finance.
Neil Warner has confirmed his intention to stand down as a Non-Executive Director at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank Neil for his commitment to Dechra over the past ten years and wish him well in his future.
Neil is also our Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Above: Audit Committee.
On his retirement from Board Within the year DVP US held almost 100 meetings with over 3,300 veterinarians in Ishbel Macpherson will be appointed as the Senior attendance Independent Director and Julian Heslop as the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
