48 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2013 Our Governance Board of Directors Michael Redmond Ian Page Anne-Francoise Nesmes Ed Torr Tony Griffin Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Managing Director, Dechra Business Development Veterinary Products EU Director Committee Membership Committee Membership Committee Membership Committee Membership Committee Membership Nomination Chairman, Not applicable Not applicable Remuneration Not applicable Not applicable Background Background Background Background Background Ian joined NVS at its Anne-Francoise was Michael joined the Group as a formation in 1989.
He was appointed Chief Financial Ed joined NVS as Sales Tony was appointed Non-Executive Director in April also part of the MBO in 1997.
Prior Director in 1997 and was Managing Director of DVP 2001, and was appointed In 1998, he was appointed to joining the Company, appointed Managing Director EU in May 2012 following the Chairman in July 2002.
He Managing Director at NVS.
Anne-Francoise worked at of Arnolds and Dales in acquisition of Eurovet Animal has extensive pharmaceutical He joined the Board in 1997 GlaxoSmithKline GSK for 1998.
He was appointed Health BV from AUV Holding industry experience having and became Chief Executive over 15 years, where she Development Director B. V. He joined the AUV begun his career with Glaxo in November 2001.
Ian has held a number of finance in 2003 and Managing Group in 1993 as Director of and through senior positions played a key role in the roles including Senior ViceDirector of Dechra Veterinary Exports, having previously with Schering Plough development of the Groups President, Finance, of the Products EU in January worked at Norbrook Corporation.
Prior to global vaccines business unit 2008, following completion Laboratories and Moy Park.
joined Fisons plc and in 1993 joining the Company, he based in Belgium.
With GSK, of the acquisition of VetXX.
In Tony was promoted to was appointed to the Board gained extensive knowledge Anne-Francoise developed May 2012 on the completion Managing Director of Eurovet as Managing Director of the and experience through her experience in a variety of the acquisition of Eurovet in 1996 and in 2006 became Groups Pharmaceuticals various positions he held of roles including internal Animal Health BV, Ed the CEO of the AUV Group.
Michael left Fisons within the pharmaceutical audit, corporate planning, reverted to his historical External appointments in 1995 following its takeover and veterinary arena.
commercial finance and position within Dechra as None.
between 2003 and 2006 Business Development External appointments was Vice-President Finance Director.
Prior to joining the External appointments In October 2010 Ian was Controller for Europe.
Prior Group, he worked within In November 2009, Michael appointed as Non-Executive to this Anne-Francoise held the animal healthcare sector was appointed Chairman of Chairman of Sanford DeLand finance roles with John for a number of companies Abcam PLC, an AIM listed Asset Management.
Crane, Tetra Pak, ADP and including ICI, Wellcome and company, where he had Caterpillar UK.
previously held the post of External appointments Deputy Chairman appointed External appointments February 2009.
22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3 Strategic Report Our Business Our Performance Our Governance Our Financials Shareholder Information 49 www.
com Stock code: DPH Neil Warner Dr Christopher Richards Julian Heslop Ishbel Macpherson Zoe Goulding Senior Independent NonNon-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Company Secretary and Executive Director Solicitor Committee Membership Committee Membership Committee Membership Committee Membership Background Remuneration Chairman, Audit, Nomination, Audit, Nomination, Audit Chairman, Audit, Nomination Remuneration Remuneration Zoe was appointed as Nomination, Remuneration Company Secretary in July Background Background Background 2007.
She qualified as a Background Chris joined the Group as Julian joined the Board in Ishbel joined the Group as solicitor in April 2000.
Prior Neil joined the Board in a Non-Executive Director January 2013.
He served a Non-Executive Director to joining the Group she May 2003.
He was Finance in December 2010.
He as Chief Financial Officer in February 2013.
She has worked at Eversheds LLP Director at Chloride Group is Chairman of Arysta of GlaxoSmithKline PLC over 20 years experience and Brammer plc.
PLC, a position he held for LifeScience Corporation, between 2005 and 2011, as an investment banker, External appointments 14 years until its acquisition having previously been having previously been specialising in UK mid-market by Emerson Electric Co. appointed its President and appointed its Senior Vice corporate finance.
Prior to this, Neil spent six Chief Executive Officer from President, Operations was Head of UK Emerging years at Exel PLC formerly 2004 to 2009.
Arysta is a Controller between 2001 Companies Corporate Ocean Group PLC and Japan-domiciled international and 2005 and as Financial Finance at Dresdner acquired by Deutsche Post company, developing and Controller of Glaxo Wellcome Kleinwort Benson from 1999 in December 2005 where marketing crop protection PLC between 1998 and to 2005, having previously he held a number of senior products in more than 125 2000.
Prior to this, Julian worked at Hoare Govett and posts in financial planning, countries worldwide.
Before had senior finance roles at Barclays fide Zoete Wedd.
He has joining Arysta, Chris spent Grand Metropolitan PLC and External appointments also held senior positions in 20 years in international Imperial Brewing and Leisure.
Ishbel is currently Balfour Beatty PLC formerly management and leadership He is a Fellow of the Institute Non-Executive Chairman of BICC Group plc, Alcoa and roles with Syngenta of Chartered Accountants in Speedy Hire PLC, a position .
Crop Protection and its England and Wales.
which she has held since predecessor companies.
External appointments External appointments January 2011 having been External appointments In February 2011 Neil was appointed to the Board of Julian was appointed as appointed Non-Executive Chris holds a number of Speedy Hire in 2007.
Ishbel a Non-Executive Director Director and Chair of the Non-Executive Directorships is also a Non-Executive at Revolymer PLC in July Audit Committee of Vectura including Cibus Global Director at Dignity plc and, 2012 and is their Audit Group plc, a product Limited appointed previously, at May Gurney Committee Chairman.
He is development company November 2011, and he is Integrated Services plc from also Chairman of the Audit focused on the development Chairman of Oxitec Limited 2010 to 2013.
Committee of the Royal of a range of inhaled appointed January 2012 Academy of Arts.
therapies, principally for and Plant Health Care PLC the treatment of respiratory appointed July 2012. diseases.
He is also NonExecutive Chairman of Enteq Upstream plc, a specialist reach and recovery products and technologies provider to the upstream oil and gas services market, a post he has held since 26 May 2011.
