Strategic Report Our Business Our Performance Our Governance Our Financials Shareholder Information 21 www.
com Stock code: DPH Manufacturing Strengths and Capabilities Mike Annice Kirsty Ireland Andrew Parkinson Gareth Davies Chris Ashcroft Managing Director Finance Director Quality Director Sales and Marketing Operations Director Director What We Do Work has also been ongoing in improving the Dechra Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing lean processes and to introduce a standard DPM produces the vast majority of Dechras ERP system across the whole of DPM.
pharmaceuticals and also manufactures for third Skipton parties on a contract basis.
The key strategic The site at Skipton employs 215 people, objective of manufacturing is to efficiently and and offers a comprehensive range of economically produce Dechras veterinary pharmaceutical manufacturing and packing pharmaceuticals product range, maintaining a services, predominantly for companion robust and reliable supply chain for the Group, animals.
The site is dual-licensed to produce and to contribute revenue and profit to the both veterinary and human products.
The Group from third party manufacturing.
site includes a Pharmaceutical Development Our Sites Laboratory, a Routine QC Quality Control After the Eurovet acquisition, DPM operated Laboratory and a Stability Testing and out of three sites based in Skipton, England, Validation Laboratory: these play a significant Bladel, the Netherlands, and Uldum, Denmark.
part in the new product development Since then, the focus of DPM has been to programme and are necessary for new product integrate the sites, ensuring their processes introductions.
and reporting are consistent so that the most Bladel effective manufacturing capabilities are available The site at Bladel, acquired as part of to DPMs internal and external customers.
The operation The small site at Uldum will be closed by the complements the existing Dechra capabilities: end of the 2013 calendar year, as part of this the site predominantly manufactures restructuring with its two key products being products for food producing animals in large transferred to Skipton.
The Skipton and Bladel scale batches.
This site also has an aseptic management teams have worked closely manufacturing facility to produce sterile together to pool their skills and technical injections, a new competence in DPMs capabilities to standardise procedures and manufacturing portfolio.
improve quality systems across the Group.
Above: Above: Dechra Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing, Skipton Dechra Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing, Bladel 22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3 22 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Strategic Report Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2013 Our Business Manufacturing Strengths and Capabilities continued Our Expertise pack into sachets, tubs, bags, capsules, DPMs primary expertise is its ability to perform tubes, bottles and jars.
These capabilities are a wide range of services which delivers the very important for the production of veterinary flexibility that the veterinary market requires products where our licensed portfolio comes in and provides a one-stop shop for its external many dosage formats and in various scales of customers.
Furthermore, it offers a wide batch size.
Relative to human pharmaceuticals, range of dosage forms and packaging veterinary batch runs are often very small.
capabilities and also supports the Group with A number of our licensed branded minor the Pharmaceutical Development Laboratory products, although highly profitable, are of such DPM will continue to which is integrated and aligned with our a small scale that it would be difficult to find a support new product manufacturing capabilities.
third party manufacturer to produce them at a competitive price if we were unable to perform development and the One-stop Shop the function in-house.
increasingly important DPM offers an end-to-end service: from product pipeline.
Product Development formulation, method validation, stability The Pharmaceutical Development Laboratory testing, licensing support, flexibility in scale is integrated with our production capabilities.
of production and packaging options to take The primary objective is to formulate and products to market.
The supply chain for the validate products for our in-house pipeline majority of products is short and we offer which is a major benefit to the Group in reliable high service levels with exceptional order to shorten the time to get a product quality control throughout.
Our technical expertise and Production Capabilities development capabilities are also outsourced DPM has a wide range of capabilities in terms to third party customers which helps to of dosage form, packaging capabilities and secure new business.
We can produce high, Contract Manufacturing medium and low volumes of almost all dosage In addition to manufacturing our own products, forms and have great flexibility in producing both Skipton and Bladel generate income to demand.
Dosage forms include: tablets, through contract manufacturing.
Although capsules, creams, ointments, gels, sterile the clear focus is on Group manufacturing, injectables, low volume and high volume we still seek to increase our third party sales: powders and pre-medicated feeds.
We can currently approximately 50% of Skiptons and approximately 10% of Bladels output by value is contract manufacturing.
The external offering includes product development, formulation, trial manufacturing, validation, production and packaging for both human and veterinary pharmaceuticals.
Looking Forward Over the coming years the in-house production strategy will continue.
There are currently no significant capacity constraints: therefore, we will continue to pursue profitable third party business.
DPM will continue to support new product development and the increasingly important product pipeline.
Manufacturing will also continue to maximise effectiveness and efficiency and improve productivity whilst constantly adapting our quality, health and safety and environmental systems.
Above: Autoclave trolley in the injection suite, DPM, Skipton 22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3
