14 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Strategic Report Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2013 Our Business DVP US Strengths and Capabilities Mike Eldred Doug Hubert Dana Fertig Nancy Zimmerman President, US Operations Vice-President, Sales and Veterinary Technical Director of Marketing Marketing Services Manager What We Do Our Market DVP US markets and sells Dechras veterinary Our customers are primarily small animal products across the USA, the worlds and equine veterinarians, of which there are largest animal health market.
The business approximately 90,000, working in 26,000 is strategically located in Kansas City, at the clinics across the country.
DVP US provides heart of the Animal Health Corridor, which products that solve clinical problems and is the worlds largest concentration of animal help veterinarians treat medical conditions, health businesses.
Several products in the Led by an operating board of four DVP US currently only markets companion development pipeline senior managers, DVP US comprises 42 animal and equine products: it is estimated will ensure the continued employees, 26 of whom are field-based that there are around 80 million dogs and organic growth of our US sales representatives responsible for around 95 million cats in the US at present and pet 1,000 clinics each.
The rest of the team ownership is increasing.
consists of marketing professionals, in-house market is approximately $15 billion, out veterinarians, field veterinarians, technical of a total US spend of $50 billion on pets.
See Case Study on 37 Continuing Education support staff and a customer service team.
Spending in the pet market is recovering since the decline seen in the recent global financial crisis.
It is now beginning to build, with industry experts predicting an annual growth rate of 3% to 5%.
Above: DVP US provides products that solve clinical problems and help veterinarians treat medical conditions 22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3 Strategic Report Our Business Our Performance Our Governance Our Financials Shareholder Information 15 www.
com Stock code: DPH In the US, veterinarians and clinics are The product portfolio of DVP US currently primarily supplied through distributors.
Our includes 11 NADA approvals with 20 different sales representatives promote and sell package sizes and 50 products that are products directly, but also network and non-regulated.
We have niche market leading visit clinics together with these distributors.
positions in veterinary endocrinology, veterinary Becoming increasingly important are dermatology and topical dermatology.
corporate pet hospitals, such as Banfield and Veterinary Centers of America VCAs which Our Dechra brand has gained momentum are consolidating the market and delivering in the US, building on our strong reputation good growth.
for customer service, the quality of an expanding product portfolio, further education Our Expertise programmes on our key areas of specialisation To increase knowledge of Dechra and high quality technical support.
products to all key customers, technical Continuing Education CE meetings, Looking Forward attended by veterinarians, are being Several products in the development pipeline leveraged.
Product awareness and knowledge will ensure the continued organic growth of is established in a face-to-face environment, our US business.
Commensurate with this key opinion leaders and influencers then growth, we will continue to invest in the sales share their increased knowledge of Dechras and marketing infrastructure to develop a products to a wider audience.
stronger US presence and improved contact with veterinarians.
