30 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Strategic Report Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2013 Our Performance Operating Review continued Product Development and Regulatory Affairs Product Development Vetoryl, for the treatment of canine The product development pipeline continues Cushings syndrome, has been approved in to deliver: South Korea, Brazil and New Zealand.
The Methoxasol and Soludox registrations There has been material 1. new products for global markets: extend our portfolio of food producing animal Methoxasol, an antimicrobial for swine and progress on our novel antimicrobial products which will provide poultry has been approved in the EU: pipeline.
new opportunities in this competitive market.
Buprenodale, a multi-dose small animal The Comfortan, Buprenodale and Anesketin Read more about our analgesic, has received authorisation approvals give us the widest and most 25 Product Pipeline throughout the EU: and complete range of analgesics and sedatives of any animal health company within the EU.
Anesketin, a generic companion animal This further strengthens our position as a sedative, has been approved in seven EU market leader in critical care.
1.25mg registration increases dosing 2. line extensions: options which allows veterinarians to better Soludox, our water soluble antibiotic for manage feline hyperthyroidism where each swine and poultry, has a new indication for cat requires its own specific dosing regime.
turkeys in the EU: The introduction also further differentiates us from a generic version of the drug which has Felimazole 1.25mg, a new low dose recently been launched in a number of EU strength to increase dosing options has territories.
been approved throughout the EU: and Comfortan, a companion animal analgesic There has been material progress on our has received an extension to its approval novel product pipeline.
We have previously for use in cats.
reported that the first major product launch, an equine lameness product, to be branded 3. registrations in new territories: Osphos, had experienced delays due to Libromide, used in the treatment of canine an enforced change to a new third party epilepsy, has had its EU registration manufacturer.
We anticipate making a extended into France, Austria, Portugal submission for registration of this product in and Switzerland: the UK, Canada and Australia imminently.
As Felimazole, for feline hyperthyroidism, has the horse, in the majority of the EU, is classed been approved in Australia: and as a food producing species we are currently Above: Dechra is now entirely focused on developing, manufacturing and marketing high margin, cash generative veterinary pharmaceuticals and related products across global markets 22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3 Strategic Report Our Business Our Performance Our Governance Our Financials Shareholder Information 31 www.
com Stock code: DPH Above: Dechra has a wide range of products that support emergency medicine, pain relief and sedation conducting work to establish a maximum site in Skipton for solid oral dosage forms, residue level prior to submission for approval a strategic decision was made to invest in throughout the rest of Europe.
In the US the manufacturing in-house wherever possible.
product already has complete safety and The necessary equipment has been acquired efficacy sections from the FDA.
The Chemistry and validated at our Skipton site and the pilot and Manufacturing Controls CMC section, batch has been manufactured.
The clinical trial the final requirement for the US submission, is is at an advanced stage with all the dogs now dependent upon a successful FDA inspection enrolled and initial results are very positive.
of the third party manufacturing site.
There are an additional six novel products A second major product, for a canine in the development pipeline, three of which endocrine disorder, was originally intended to have long term patent protection: four novel be manufactured by a third party.
However, products are for the global market and two following ongoing external supply problems are targeted specifically at the EU.
There and the successful FDA approval of our own are also three major differentiated generic products for food producing animals under development.
A potential twelfth product is at an advanced stage of assessment for inclusion in the programme.
We anticipate a further two clinical trials to commence within the new calendar year.
In addition to the novel products in development we have several generics, territory expansion and range extending products in development.
Furthermore, we have a number of exploratory ideas to pursue.
