32 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Strategic Report Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2013 Our Performance Operating Review continued European Performance European Pharmaceuticals and Iberia performing well, and the Netherlands Revenue from this segment increased by and Nordics underperforming.
The underlying 61.0% 66.3% at constant currency compared performance of our key strategic licensed to last year.
On a like-for-like basis, including veterinary products was robust.
Our own the contribution from the Eurovet business, branded pharmaceuticals grew by 5.1% at As the enlarged product revenue grew by approximately 5%.
constant currency: growth was delivered across portfolio now has all key therapeutic sectors.
Food producing three areas of focus, DVP EU animal antibiotic usage remains under review food producing animal The initial objectives of the integration of in a number of EU markets due to concerns Eurovet have been achieved within the year: regarding antimicrobial resistance: however, we products, companions still saw overall growth in this sector in all markets animal products and Closure and restructuring of duplicate sales other than Belgium and the Netherlands.
Our companion animal diets, and marketing offices and teams in the UK, Specific pet diets grew by 2.6% at constant a new strategy has been Benelux and Denmark: currency: this growth was assisted by the relaunch of a new presentation of our wet diet developed to give the Dechra products launched in Germany range and also by the introduction of a new sales and marketing through the newly acquired subsidiary with intensive support diet for animals in rehabilitation a smooth transition and retention of market teams across Europe post-surgery.
share following the termination of the prior clear direction.
distribution agreement: As the enlarged product portfolio now has Read more about our The majority of the Eurovet companion three areas of focus, food producing animal 16 International Footprint animal products have been transferred to products, companion animal products and Dechras own sales organisation in France: companion animal diets, a new strategy has been developed to give the sales and marketing Eurovets major swine and poultry products teams across Europe clear direction.
In our have been launched for the first time in key therapeutic areas, where Dechra has a France: substantial market position, a strong reputation All Eurovet products have been and an in-depth knowledge and expertise transitioned ready for launch into Norway, have been better defined and prioritised.
Clear Finland and Sweden in the first quarter of focus on these therapeutic sectors will allow the new financial year: us to target our marketing support and provide sales team prioritisation and also provide a Manufacturing rationalisation is underway, structure to support key pipeline products further details of which are provided later in which fit into these therapeutic segments.
Two this report: and distinct marketing teams have been created, Management teams have been one focusing on food producing animal and successfully integrated creating a new equine products, the other on companion operating board.
We are already seeing the benefits of improving the alignment of This first phase of integration has progressed diets with companion animal pharmaceuticals.
in line with our strategy and is delivering the Our allergy diet range was promoted as part expected cost and revenue synergies.
of a dermatological campaign, one of our key therapeutic categories, which resulted in strong Despite a very slow third quarter following the sales growth.
Furthermore, a key account prolonged bad winter weather, pharmaceutical management structure has been implemented sales for the full year increased by approximately to focus on swine, poultry and equine as the 5% on a comparable basis.
There were big veterinarians within these sectors have become variations in performance on a territory by very specialised and work increasingly in a territory basis with the UK, France, Germany concentrated number of practices.
22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3 Strategic Report Our Business Our Performance Our Governance Our Financials Shareholder Information 33 www.
com Stock code: DPH Case Study Felimazole European Marketing Campaign Felimazole was the first veterinary licensed product for the treatment of feline hyperthyroidism.
Originally licensed in the UK in 2002, it has since been approved in the EU, US and Canada, becoming a key Dechra product.
However, the feline hyperthyroidism market is now highly competitive, with Dechras market share coming under pressure from alternative products.
In order to protect and strengthen Dechras position in this market, an international marketing campaign has been commissioned to reposition Felimazole.
The objective is to highlight the benefits of Felimazole creatively through emotionally engaging communications, and to position Dechra as the European expert in endocrinology.
The campaigns theme reflects the key benefit of the product, namely restoring balance to a cat by flexible dosing options.
By visualising this in dramatic imagery, the campaign draws attention to the positive effects that Felimazole can have on the hyperthyroid cat and demonstrates that the poise and precision that hyperthyroidism can take away, can be restored.
The integrated campaign delivers a range of support for the veterinarian, pet owner and sales teams.
It includes awareness generating press and banner advertising, flowcharts for diagnosis and treatment, sales aid, booklets and a loyalty pack.
Key opinion leader-written case studies, articles and Academy learning will follow.
The campaign will be launched in Germany and the UK in September, with France, the Netherlands, Belgium, Spain and the Nordics to follow in January 2014.
Above: New Felimazole marketing material 22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3 34 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Strategic Report Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2013 Our Performance Operating Review continued European Performance continued Manufacturing systems and GMP compliance systems are Following the Eurovet acquisition our progressing well.
Further efficiencies are also manufacturing sites were rebranded as being delivered: significant yield improvements Dechra Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing.
After have been achieved and batch failure rates Third party contract a detailed review of our capabilities following have halved.
Furthermore, there has been a this acquisition, it was decided to close the year on year improvement in accident rates manufacturing continues manufacturing facility in Uldum, Denmark.
with no reported RIDDORs in the last 12 to perform strongly.
This site only produced two major prescription months.
products which have now been successfully transferred into Skipton.
The care range of Third party contract manufacturing continues unlicensed products, previously manufactured to perform strongly with an increase in at the site, are now being outsourced to a external sales of 12.5% at constant currency third party supplier.
This site will be closed year on year.
We continue to have a high prior to the end of the 2013 calendar year.
level of new external contract manufacturing We are also in the process of transferring business enquiries.
two Eurovet products, which were previously manufactured by a third party, into the Skipton tableting facility.
Once the transfer of these products is complete, the full manufacturing synergies identified prior to the acquisition will be delivered.
The manufacturing management teams of both businesses have been fully integrated and programmes to standardise IT Above: Fuciderm manufactured at DPM, Skipton 22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3 Strategic Report Our Business Our Performance Our Governance Our Financials Shareholder Information 35 www.
com Stock code: DPH Case Study New Sterile Endocrine Product Manufactured In-house The Suspension is a new sterile injection product, developed for use in the treatment of Canine Hypoadrenocorticism Addisons disease.
It is unique within the European market and has clear benefits over the daily tablet formulation used to treat the condition.
The product was developed by Dechras Pharmaceutical Development Laboratory but was outsourced to an external manufacturer based in Swindon, UK.
At the time, our injections facility was in need of significant refurbishment and we believed that outsourcing manufacturing to a facility that had an existing FDA approval would be the quickest way to get the product to market.
The contractor produced three product registration batches in December 2011, but soon after decided to cease operations at the site.
Rather than outsourcing to another contractor Dechra decided to bring the product into Dechra Pharmaceuticals Manufacturings Skipton site.
In the time that had elapsed, the injection facility had gone through a major refurbishment and we had also gained FDA approval for our solid dose manufacturing suite.
Therefore, we had the confidence in our capabilities to take the refurbished injection suite through the necessary approval process.
The unexpected change in manufacturing site actually resulted in several benefits for Dechra.
Manufacturing in-house lowers the cost of producing the product and increases the margin on all future sales.
Additionally, improvements were identified to optimise the production process which would not have been possible externally.
Finally, while Skiptons injectables suite had recently been refurbished, including a new autoclave, the decision to bring the product in-house necessitated this investment.
This has enhanced the sites capability for both internal and external customers and has contributed towards Above: Sterile Injectable Suite at DPM, Skipton the ultimate aim of having global approval of the Skipton site for all dosage forms.
