12 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Strategic Report Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2013 Our Business DVP EU Strengths and Capabilities Tony Griffin Ren Hogenkamp Giles Coley Jan Jaap Korevaar Managing Director Finance Director Sales and Marketing Sales and Marketing Director, Region I Director, Region II Region I: Denmark, Finland, France, What We Do Our Market Norway, Sweden and UK DVP EU markets and sells Dechras veterinary Our customers are principally veterinarians: Region II: Belgium, the Netherlands, products throughout Europe and exports to however, in some territories the route Germany, Portugal and Spain over 40 countries worldwide.
The business has to market is through wholesalers and an operating board of six senior managers, pharmacies.
Our products are distributed and is managed from Bladel, the Netherlands, through a mixture of our own direct sales, Sansaw, UK, and Uldum, Denmark.
In total, wholesalers and national distributor channels.
Inventory is When critical mass within a country is managed through a central distribution centre reached, and whenever financially beneficial, Our customers are in Uldum, Denmark.
local sales operations are established.
We principally veterinarians: look to build teams with local knowledge who however, in some DVP EU has sales operations in 12 countries: can draw from Dechras technical expertise territories the route Belgium, Denmark, France, Finland, Germany, across the Group.
Ireland, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, to market is through Our Expertise Spain, Sweden and the UK, each run by wholesalers and In order to forge relationships with customers, regional country managers.
technical dinners and seminars are held to exports to other European countries such provide a face-to-face programme to educate as Austria, Italy and Poland, and across the veterinarians on our key therapeutic sectors.
globe to Australia, Brazil, Canada, the Middle Key opinion leaders, at both local and East and the Far East.
international levels, are recruited for seminars and presentations: additionally, webinars The key products in the DVP EU portfolio are and online interactive educational tools are predominantly companion animal products: available on the DVP EU website.
however, with the acquisition of Eurovet, the range has expanded into the food producing We have identified eight core therapeutic animal market.
During the year we have categories where we leverage our expertise: integrated the expertise and products from endocrinology, dermatology, ophthalmology, Eurovet and have continued to develop the equine, cardiovascular, analgesia and critical Dechra brand across Europe.
This drive to care, diets nutrition, and antibiotics for food grow the brand will continue in the future with producing animals.
As well as novel products, the launch of new products from the pipeline, DVP EU also produces generic products and an increased technical and educational specialist, therapeutic and maintenance pet programme, and expansion into diets.
22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3 Strategic Report Our Business Our Performance Our Governance Our Financials Shareholder Information 13 www.
com Stock code: DPH Carsten Jeppesen Marie-Louise Mans Logistics Director Europe HR Director Europe Above: Canaural was first launched in 1975 and is now registered in 27 countries Looking Forward introduce Comfortan to veterinarians in the DVP EU is performing strongly in the three UK, a total of 865 veterinarians attended, major European markets.
The UK was the demonstrating a strong interest in this fastest growing EU market during the year, product.
France and Germany also saw solid growth.
DVP EUs export business is also expanding Across all territories the business is committed in markets around the world.
In endocrinology, to developing new products and services that an important therapeutic sector, Vetoryl, support the work of veterinarians.
We will be Felimazole and Forthyron are key growth expanding the Dechra brand through newly drivers as we gain marketing approval in an established subsidiaries within the EU and increasing number of countries.
we will continue to develop our international presence through strong relationships with Other key products include the broad key partners.
dermatology range, including Fuciderm, Malaseb, Canaural and the DermaPet range.
Cardisure, a generic product in DVP EUs cardiovascular category, shows significant potential, as does Comfortan, a recently approved product, in the analgesic category.
Over ten technical seminars were held to 22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3
