Strategic Report Our Business Our Performance Our Governance Our Financials Shareholder Information 23 www.
com Stock code: DPH Product Development Dr Susan Longhofer Rob Joosten Group Director, Product Product Development and Development and Regulatory Affairs Director Regulatory Affairs Product Development and Product development process Regulatory Affairs Although some products may have a slightly The Product Development and Regulatory different path, most novel and generic Affairs PDRA team develops and licenses products follow a fairly standard process Dechras own branded veterinary product which contains five phases which Dechra portfolio of novel and generic pharmaceuticals.
defines as: Exploratory, Pre-Clinical, Clinical, Additionally, the team manages post-approval File Submission and Launch.
adverse event reporting, periodic product renewals and other activities required to Dechra employs a structured process in maintain the product approvals.
its development pipeline however retains an opportunistic and entrepreneurial The team of 52 people are split into approach.
Focus is given to the Groups European Regulatory Affairs, US Regulatory therapeutic specialisations: endocrinology, Affairs, Pharmaceutical Development and equine medicine, analgesia and critical Product Development.
They work at four care, cardiovascular, ophthalmology, locations: Overland Park, USA, Sansaw, and antimicrobials for food producing England, Skipton, England, and Bladel, the animals.
The team includes veterinarians, and in-license opportunities are evaluated formulation chemists, pharmacists, for strategic fit within these categories: analysts, clinical trial managers and product therapeutics outside of the key areas are development managers.
considered for inclusion in the pipeline if they 3 - 5 years average Go Go Go Exploratory Pre-clinical Clinical File Launch No Go No Go No Go Dose formulation Selection CTR Safety CAP Formulation CTR Indication s determined Efcacy 3 CTR Residues Novel Active Pharmaceutical Pilot Environmental CTR Ingredient API Dose Titration Start from scratch batches Risk Assessment manufacturer selected Ecotoxicology User Safety Preliminary Safety study Manufacturing Studies site selected nished products CAP FAP 2 Commercially - Bio equivalency Pilot Study Studies Formulation Is it worth taking batches Generic or waiver the development Copycat product idea forward?
CAP Companion Animal Product CTR Clinical Trials Required Chemistry Drives timing, FAP Food Producing Animal needs stable formulation New Formulation of products with existing maximum residue level MRL 22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3 24 Dechra Pharmaceuticals PLC Strategic Report Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 30 June 2013 Our Business Product Development continued are novel and address unmet needs in the The Clinical phase is the longest part of the veterinary market.
process, potentially taking two or three years.
After the formulation has been demonstrated A products return on investment can vary: to be stable, two to three pilot batches are We believe our novel developments tend to have a mid to manufactured for use in safety studies, long term realisation with attractive high value efficacy studies and stability testing.
For integrated and returns: generic developments generally have generic products, the batches are used entrepreneurial approach shorter development timescales with returns in one or more bio equivalency studies to to product development dependent upon the number of generic demonstrate that activity will replicate the successfully delivers new entrants and speed to market relative to pioneer product.
If the studies conducted competition.
Dechras current development during the Clinical phase demonstrate the product effectively and pipeline is a mix of short, medium and long required safety, efficacy and chemical stability efficiently in the shortest term opportunities.
of the product, regulatory dossiers are possible time frame.
The Exploratory phase begins with identifying a novel molecule, an opportunity to develop From beginning to end, this process takes on a new formulation for an existing molecule, or average between three and five years.
Before initiating a Our Expertise development programme, each opportunity The PDRA team includes skilled people with is assessed by market need, market value, expertise in spotting niche opportunities, therapeutic indications, strategic fit and the and the experience to navigate the hurdles likely complexity of the regulatory pathway.
Across the four locations, project teams operate to tackle the The second phase of the process is Prewide range of projects.
Investment in stateClinical, which involves the collection of-the-art laboratories in Bladel and Skipton, of a range of preliminary data.
When each with their respective dosage form initiating development of a novel product, expertise, provides the resources required to the correct dose has to be titrated and develop novel and generic formulations cost a stable formulation, that can be reliably effectively.
and consistently manufactured, must be developed.
For a generic product, the We believe our integrated and entrepreneurial pioneer formulation may not meet the current approach to product development successfully regulatory requirements and may need to delivers new products effectively and efficiently be reformulated.
This phase is vital prior to in the shortest possible time frame.
initiating the clinical phase which involves expensive clinical trials or bio equivalency studies.
Above: Dechra Development Laboratory at DPM, Skipton 22581-04 22 08 2013 Proof 3
