I 2 3 4 Strategic Report UNDERSTANDING OUR MARKETS A GLOBAL FOOTPRINT IN CHANGING TIMES Introduction From our creation over 50 years ago, There have been many improvements in edible Devro has evolved into an established collagen casing over the past 50 years: some as a result of technical developments and others as leading supplier of edible collagen a result of improved plant manufacturing systems.
The significant investment over many years by Devro has enabled the provision of a unique, modern edible collagen casing that runs more efficiently on sausage production lines at much higher speeds and produces products that are widely accepted by consumers.
Average global income US$000 per capita Today, Devro products are sold by our dedicated commercial teams, in association with our experienced distributor network, to over 100 individual markets and are used in the production of a huge variety of regional and national sausage types.
Maintaining a detailed understanding of our markets and our customers has been, and continues to be, a key aspect of our business philosophy.
2002 2012 2018 Estimates Growth Devros developed markets Devros emerging markets World Cost savings opportunities for sausage producers Source: International Monetary Fund IMF and consumer acceptance continue to drive strong demand for edible collagen casings.
Over the past ten years there has been a steady increase in the global market share of edible Global market share of edible collagen collagen casing used in sausage production.
casings used in sausage production Market share doubled in last decade Trends There are numerous social and demographic factors that are contributing significantly to the growth in the consumption of sausage, and consequently an increased growth in the use of edible collagen casings, across both developing and emerging markets.
The growth in global population is a key driver, particularly in relation to the rapid increase in the rate of urbanisation.
Consumers are being exposed to a much wider choice and better availability of sausage within the urban environment, compared to those who are living in rural areas.
The global population living in an urban environment has surpassed that of rural and is forecast to continue to rise steeply.
This urbanisation trend contributes significantly towards improved living standards and Source: Devro Collagen Casing Trade Association rising incomes which in turn influence the affordability CCTA estimates.
of sausage and processed meat products.
The improvement in the availability of sausage and processed meat products gives rise to increased average meat consumption across both developing and emerging markets.
4 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 03 23% 29.4 04 24% 3.4 05 25% 7.4 06 27% 07 28% 40.4 08 30% 7.0 11.8 09 34% 10 36% 50.6 11 40% 10.3 12 43% 15.9 13 46% Europe, Middle East & Africa EMEA Asia Pacific EMEA continues to be a major market for the use In Asia and the Pacific region, growth in the use of edible collagen casing and remains a market of edible collagen casing continues strongly.
The where there is excellent potential for future growth, fastest growing market, and now the largest single including further conversions of animal intestines edible collagen casing market, is China.
Use of the gut to edible collagen casing.
Many regions within product has grown considerably, primarily due Western Europe, including Germany, are highly to the increase in urbanisation and the growing developed, sophisticated and mature markets popularity for Western-style sausage.
The need for sausage manufacture.
However, traditional for efficient manufacturing of quality sausage has techniques are still widely employed, and many driven producers to explore more urgently the of the premium products remain in gut.
As Devros benefits of edible collagen casing.
new generation of edible collagen products are introduced, more and more producers and retailers Americas are looking closely at the savings to be made by The Americas remains a strong market for edible converting to edible collagen casings.
collagen casing, particularly small calibre sausage production in North America.
Rapid growth in demand in a number of Latin American countries continues, driven by increasing meat consumption and improving economic conditions.
