I 2 3 4 Report of Directors DIRECTORS REPORT Introduction The directors present their Report and the audited consolidated financial statements of the entire Devro group of companies including the company the group for the year ended 31 December 2013.
The Corporate Governance Report, which can be found on pages 40 to 46 also forms part of this Directors Report as do other disclosures elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts and these are cross-referenced in this Directors Report where appropriate.
A review of the performance of the groups business during the year, the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group and its future prospects are included in the discrete Strategic Report set out on pages 1 to 37 which should be read in conjunction with this Directors Report.
The company The company is a public limited company and is incorporated in Scotland under number SC129785.
The companys principal subsidiary undertakings and branches, including those located outside the UK, are listed in Note 16 to the financial statements.
Amendment of the companys articles of association the Articles Any amendments to the companys Articles must be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 the Act by way of special resolution.
Directors The names and brief biographical details of the directors of the company at the date of this report and at any time during the year ended 31 December 2013 are set out on pages 38 and 39.
Directors shall be no less than two and no more than eleven in number.
Directors may be appointed by the company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A director appointed by the Board holds office only until the next annual general meeting of the company AGM and is then eligible for election by the shareholders.
The Board may from time to time appoint one or more directors to hold employment or executive office for such period subject to the Act and on such terms as they may determine and may revoke or terminate any such appointment.
In line with the recommendations of the Code, the company requires every director to stand for election or re-election by the shareholders at each AGM, if he or she wishes to continue being a director.
The company may by ordinary resolution remove any director before the expiration of his or her term of office.
The office of director shall also be vacated if i he or she resigns: ii where he or she has been appointed for a fixed term, the term expires: iii he or she ceases to be a director by virtue of a provision of the Act, is removed from office pursuant to the companys Articles or becomes prohibited by law from being a director: iv he or she becomes bankrupt or compounds with his or her creditors generally or he or she applies to the court for an interim order under section 253 of the Insolvency Act 1986 in connection with a voluntary arrangement: v he or she has been suffering from mental ill health or becomes a patient for the purposes of any statute relating to mental health or any court claiming jurisdiction on the ground of mental disorder makes an order for his or her detention or for the appointment of a guardian, receiver or other person to exercise powers with respect to his or her property or affairs, and in any such case the Board resolves that his or her office be vacated: vi he or she is absent, without the permission of the Board, from Board meetings for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that his or her office be vacated: or vii he or she is removed from office by notice addressed to him or her at his or her last-known address and signed by all his or her co-directors.
The company maintains directors and officers liability insurance for the benefit of personnel throughout its group including its directors and the directors of its subsidiary undertakings in respect of their duties as directors.
Following shareholder approval, the company has also provided an indemnity for its directors and the Company Secretary which is a qualifying third party indemnity provision for the purposes of the Act.
This indemnity was in force throughout the year and remains in place at the date of this report.
None of the directors had during the year ended 31 December 2013 or has an interest in any material contract relating to the business of the company or of any of its subsidiary undertakings.
The interests of the directors in the share capital of the company as at 31 December 2013 are shown on page 63.
As at 18 March 2014, no changes in the directors interests have been reported to the company.
Share capital The share capital of the company consists entirely of ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
The company had 166,779,230 shares in issue at 31 December 2013 2012: 165,633,564 as shown in Note 26 to the financial statements.
64 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Dividends The Board is recommending a final dividend in respect of 2013 of 6.1 pence per share 2012: 5.85 pence, making a total dividend for the year of 8.8 pence per share 2012: 8.5 pence an increase of 3.5%.
If approved, the final dividend will be payable to shareholders on the register as at 28 March 2014.
Based on the recommendation for the full year, dividend cover will be 2.3 times 2012: 2.3 times.
Shareholders rights Subject to applicable laws and the Articles, holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive all shareholder documents, including the Annual Report and notice of any general meeting: attend, speak and exercise voting rights at general meetings, either in person or by proxy: and to participate in any distribution of income or capital.
Subject to applicable laws and regulations, there are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of shares and no requirements for prior approval of any transfers.
None of the shares carry any special rights with regard to control of the company.
The company is also not aware of any agreements between its shareholders which may restrict the transfer of their shares or the exercise of their voting rights.
Shares acquired through company share schemes and plans rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
During the year 1,145,666 shares were issued under the rules of the Devro 2003 Performance Share Plan 2012: 625,000 and nil shares were issued under the rules of the Devro plc Performance Share Plan 2012: Nil.
Powers of the directors The business of the company is managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the company, subject to the provisions of the companys Articles and applicable legislation.
At the companys AGM on 18 April 2013, shareholders renewed the authority for the directors to exercise all powers of the company to allot relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 11,000,000.
At the same AGM, shareholders granted the company authority to make market purchases of up to 16,500,000 of its issued ordinary shares, provided that: the minimum price which may be paid for any such ordinary share is 10 pence exclusive of expenses, its par value: the maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to not more than 5% above the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the date on which that ordinary share is purchased.
Except in relation to a purchase of ordinary shares, the contract for which was concluded before this authority expires and which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority, the authority granted shall expire at the conclusion of this years AGM.
Employees As of 31 December 2013, the group employed 2,290 people at locations across the world.
The group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees, recognising that it depends on their skills and commitment in order to achieve its objectives.
Employees are kept informed on matters affecting them as employees and on the various factors affecting the performance of the group.
This is achieved through regular communications, the groups means for which were enhanced during 2013 with the launch of a group wide intranet.
Financial results are circulated throughout the organisation on the day of their announcement.
Employees representatives are consulted regularly on a wide range of matters affecting their current and future interests.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always given full and fair consideration, bearing in mind the aptitudes and abilities of the applicant concerned.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the group continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of the group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, be identical with that of other employees.
Research and development The group is committed to research and development activities principally in relation to product and process development, in order to secure its position as a world leader in the casings industry.
The research and development expenditure incurred in the year is set out in Note 9 to the financial statements.
Greenhouse gas emissions All disclosures concerning the groups greenhouse gas emissions as required to be disclosed under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 are contained in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report forming part of the Strategic Report on pages 32 to 37.
Political contributions The company and its subsidiary undertakings made no contributions for political purposes in 2013 2012: nil.
Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 65 I 2 3 4 Report of Directors DIRECTORS REPORT Post balance sheet events There have been no material events from 31 December 2013 to the date of this report.
Future developments Future developments are described in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 37.
Financial instruments Details of the groups financial risk management policies and objectives in respect of its use of financial instruments are included in Note 23 to the financial statements together with a description of its exposure, including to market risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and capital risk of the company, in connection with such financial instruments.
Change of control The company has a number of financial agreements which it considers significant, with major banks containing certain termination rights for those banks upon a change of control of the company.
The company does not have agreements with any director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the companys share schemes and plans may cause options and awards granted to directors and employees under such schemes and plans to become exercisable on takeover.
Substantial shareholdings During the period up to 7 March 2014, the company had been notified of the following material interests in the issued ordinary share capital of the company under DTR 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Notified percentage Notified number of ordinary shares % of issued share capital Schroder Investment Management 13,611,611 8.2 Marathon Asset Management 11,492,268 7.1 ING Groep N. V. 10,268,491 6.2 Annual General Meeting AGM The AGM of the company will be held on 30 April 2014 at 11.00am at Glasgow City Halls, Candleriggs, Glasgow G1 1NQ.
The Notice of Meeting is set out on pages 126 to 127.
Shareholders will be asked for their approval of the items of business which are explained in the notes on pages 128 to 131.
These notes form part of this Directors Report and are incorporated into it by cross-reference.
Disclosure of information to auditors So far as each person who is a director at the date of approval of this Report is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware.
Each of the directors has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make him or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office, and a resolution that they be re-appointed will be proposed at the AGM.
66 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the group and parent company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company and the group and of the profit or loss of the group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and the group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the directors remuneration report comply with the Act and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulations.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and the group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the companys website www.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors statement pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rule 4.1 Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 38 and 39, confirms that, to the best of his or her knowledge and belief: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the company and of the group included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the management report required by DTR4.1.
8R contained in the Strategic Report and the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the company and group included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
In addition, each of the directors considers that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the companys performance, business model and strategy.
