I 2 3 4 Strategic Report OUR STRATEGY Our mission Our priorities Our approach Operating safely, to provide the worlds food REVENUE Growing in developed manufacturers with a safe and secure supply of GROWTH and emerging markets consistently better collagen products, helping them optimise efficiency and enhancing the value of Growth in developed markets their offering.
through displacement of gut casing Volume growth in emerging Our strategic markets where demand is rising objectives Price and value enhancement Our aim is to achieve earnings growth and improve return on capital.
We have three strategic priorities to achieve this.
MANUFACTURING Optimising our use EFFICIENCY of existing assets and investing in new technology Upgrading existing assets to improve efficiency Bringing on new capacity using most-efficient technology Improving raw material sourcing and cost management DIFFERENTIATION Differentiating ourselves through research and development Investment in research and development Product and process technology development Unique collagen science knowledge built up over 50 years 6 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 STRATEGY IN ACTION Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 7 I 2 3 4 Strategic Report STRATEGY IN ACTION continued Revenue growth What we did in 2013 In a year when revenue was broadly flat, Japan Devro had some notable successes in Volumes grew in Japan following key strategic markets.
the expansion of capacity in Australia, enabling more supply and inventory Germany build in Tokyo, and the promotion Volumes sold in Germany increased of advantages of collagen over gut, 30% as we continued to introduce our led by a recently appointed General premium Select range to manufacturers Manager and stronger sales team.
of wiener sausages and Devro Stix Sales volumes in Japan have more casing was strongly promoted to the than doubled since 2010. snack sector, following a change in distribution arrangements and a more China focused approach to customers.
Sales Volumes continued to increase as we revenues from the German market built our market presence, sourcing have doubled since 2010. from capacity in Scotland and the Czech Republic and building upon Latin America the relationships developed by the Increased product availability and sales new Beijing sales team since 2011. activity enabled a 23% annual growth in sales to the Latin American market in 2013.
South East Asia Since 2010, volumes to the region have Additional Czech capacity and specific increased 61% whilst the average price product enhancements supported has grown 12%.
Appointment of a new volume growth.
sales director in 2012 and additional Czech capacity have supported this growth.
Co-extrusion gel Following capacity expansions at the South Carolina plant in 2012 and 2013, we have supported key accounts in the USA as they use collagen gel to convert from cellulose casing.
8 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 GROWING IN DEVELOPED AND EMERGING MARKETS Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 9 I 2 3 4 Strategic Report STRATEGY IN ACTION continued OPTIMISING OUR USE OF EXISTING ASSETS AND INVESTING IN NEW TECHNOLOGY 10 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Manufacturing efficiency What we did in 2013 Upgraded Czech facility Completion of a three-year, 25 million capital investment project at Jilemnice, completely upgraded a manufacturing hall, including boilers, electrical supply and air-handling systems.
Added capacity With more efficient new lines and through a redesign of the floor space in the Jilemnice hall, group capacity was increased 9% by using the most modern manufacturing lines, leading to a 25% per unit cost reduction in the upgraded hall.
Continuous improvement During 2013 every Devro site has established a Lean Six Sigma programme using knowledge and expertise in the company, and collaborating across sites to share learning and techniques.
Upgrade of our USA plant Our plant in South Carolina, the oldest in the group, experienced a number of operational problems in 2013.
In October, we announced that a new plant would be built on the site using our latest, most efficient, technology.
Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 11 I 2 3 4 Strategic Report STRATEGY IN ACTION continued DIFFERENTIATING OURSELVES THROUGH RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 12 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Differentiation What we did in 2013 Established a global approach to R&D worldwide During the year, a focused group of R&D specialists was brought together to prioritise and co-ordinate near-term product developments around the world and to allocate resources for longer-term product development.
Significant developments Development of a Fresh Select product for the UK market, with greater clarity and translucency, attributes that customers normally associate with gut.
Extension of our FINE Processed product range for Bratwurst applications.
Line speed and raw material processing have both progressed further in the year.
Knowledge capture Working with a leading UK university, we are undertaking a major programme of systematically recording and documenting our unique knowledge, developed over the past 50 years.
Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 13
