I 2 3 4 Report of Directors DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT Board of Directors Steve Hannam Peter Page Simon Webb Gerard Hoetmer Jane Lodge Paul Neep Paul Withers Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Steve was appointed Chairman Peter joined Devro as Chief Simon joined Devro Gerard joined Devro Jane joined Devro Paul joined Devro Paul joined Devro Date of appointment of Devro in May 2009.
Executive in June 2007. at the start of 2011. on 30 July 2013. in March 2012. in February 2005. in April 2011.
Committee chairmanship Chairman of the Nomination Chairman of the Non-Executive Chairman of the Audit Chairman of the Executive Chairman of the Health Committee.
Directors Remuneration and Safety Committee.
Expertise and key Until 2000, Steve was Chief Peter has worked for 27 years Simon previously worked as Gerard is Chief Executive of A Chartered Accountant, Jane Paul is Chairman of The At BPB plc, Paul was Group Executive of the global speciality in the international food and Chief Financial Officer of fide Corbion, an international was formerly a senior audit Glenmorangie Company, part Managing Director responsible external appointments chemical company BTP plc.
agribusiness sector, as a general La Rue plc and has held senior bio-based products company.
partner with Deloitte, where she of LVMH, having previously for emerging markets and group Since that time Steve has held manager, and as a marketing finance positions in global Gerard, a Dutch national, started spent over 25 years advising been President & Chief development, giving him real a number of Non-Executive manager where he gained manufacturing companies his career with Unilever in 1980, global manufacturing companies Executive.
Pauls knowledge insights into the challenges Director or Chairman positions experience of managing the such as Enodis plc, Paxar Inc and held a number of positions including businesses in the food of marketing and experience and opportunities for growth with both public and private interface between technology and BAT plc.
there until 2005, latterly as and automotive sectors.
Jane of international business at Devro.
He is a Non-Executive companies, mainly in the food and food manufacturers, which Senior Vice President Supply was a member of the CBI development is particularly Director of Hyder Consulting and chemical sectors.
These is relevant to Devros situation.
Chain, Unilever Foods and Manufacturing Council until 2011. helpful in his role as a NonPLC, Premier Farnell plc and have included Clariant AG, ABF a member of the Unilever Her extensive experience with Executive Director.
He is Senior Independent Director plc, Aviagen International Inc. Foods Executive.
manufacturing companies Senior Independent Director.
at Keller Group plc, and and AZ Electronic Materials Ltd. and her strategic work with is therefore able to bring He is currently Senior Deloitte has given her a experience of current thinking Independent Director at Low strong international business to Devros Board.
& Bonar plc and McBride plc.
She is a NonExecutive Director of Costain Group PLC and DCC plc.
Dorothy Lowry Michal Stocek Graeme Walford Executive Board Moir Donelson Gordon Frame Group Human Business Director Group Technical & Business Director Business Director Resources Director Operations Director Moir joined Devro in January Gordon joined Devro in 1986.
Dorothy joined the company Michal has worked in product Graeme joined Devro in 2013 as Business Director with Over the past 27 years, Gordon in January 2012.
She has held development and, more recently, November 2013.
A Chartered responsibility for all the groups has worked for Devro in the a number of senior level HR general management, for 29 Mechanical Engineer, he has activities in the Americas region.
USA, UK, Europe and Asia, and management positions across years, bringing in-depth held a number of senior He brings with him over 20 years so has a broad understanding a number of sectors and knowledge of collagen products.
positions in the automotive experience in manufacturing, of markets, technologies brings with her a thorough A chemical engineer, he was industry, most recently with consulting and general and customer applications.
understanding of how to appointed to the Czech GKN plc.
Over the past 30 management, with several Gordon has been based in develop a strong leadership management team in 1997 years, Graeme has lived and well-known organisations Hong Kong since 2011 and is team through development, and became a member of the worked in the UK, Germany, including Motorola, Alcoa, Bain, responsible for the groups succession planning, coaching Executive Board of Devro and Japan, China and the USA for Olin and most recently Kraft activities in China, Japan and and resourcing.
She is a Member Business Director with companies including Ford and Foods, where he has held both South East Asia.
of the Chartered Institute of responsibility for Eastern Europe Rolls Royce.
corporate and operational Personnel and Development.
was expanded to include all of Europe and Africa and in 2014 he will in addition assume responsibility for Devros Research and Development effort.
38 Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Board of Directors Steve Hannam Peter Page Simon Webb Gerard Hoetmer Jane Lodge Paul Neep Paul Withers Chairman Chief Executive Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Steve was appointed Chairman Peter joined Devro as Chief Simon joined Devro Gerard joined Devro Jane joined Devro Paul joined Devro Paul joined Devro Date of appointment of Devro in May 2009.
Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 39
