Talking to our employees about In the United States, Diageo is now supporting, Tackling alcohol misuse responsible drinking through an unrestricted grant toNORC at effectively through our As well as taking new employees through the theUniversity of Chicago, the adaptation programmes DRINKiQ course, we communicate with our of a high-risk alcohol use screening and people throughout the year about responsible counselling training system for military medical Some people misuse alcohol, drinking.
For example, as the 2012 festive personnel in all US military health clinics harming themselves and their season approached, we wrote to employees worldwide.
The two-year programme draws urging them to celebrate our brands communities.
Were helping tackle on the training techniques and materials responsibly, whether hosting their own private developed by NORC for the employee alcohol misuse because its bad celebrations, or an event on behalf of the assistance programmes we supported for our consumers and society, company.
We reminded them of our internal last year.
it damages our reputation, and it hosting guidelines that explain how to ensure Also in the United States, The Century jeopardises our licence to operate.
alcohol is served responsibly at an event, as Council, a not-for-profit organisation funded well as reminding them of the expectations by distillers including Diageo, announced Our approach set out in our Employee Alcohol Policy.
a three-year grant to the University of We put our resources and skills into Pittsburghs Department of Emergency programmes that are designed to prevent and Promoting responsible drinking through Medicine, which is researching the reduce alcohol misuse by working with others our brands effectiveness of text messaging in reducing to seek to raise awareness and to change As the guardian of many premium brands, we hazardous drinking.
A previous study on the peoples attitudes and behaviour.
However, use our world-class marketing skills and reach subject in 2010, also funded by The Century there is no one-size-fits-all approach different to promote responsible drinking.
Listed below Council, demonstrated measurable change cultures and societies require different are some of our brand-led responsible in behaviour over a 12-week period.
In line with our fide-centralised drinking campaigns.
study will look at an entire year.
business, local teams choose programmes Johnnie Walkers Join the Pact: former In Western Europe, we launched the Ask relevant to their country, so that the resources Formula One World Drivers Champions Dave website in December.
Dave is our drinks we provide meet a genuine local need.
Jenson Button, Lewis Hamilton and Mika guru, who calculates how long it will take for In tackling alcohol misuse, were always Hkkinen led this years Join the Pact alcohol to be processed by your body.
We looking to reinforce our social responsibility campaign, which is now in its fifth year promoted the initiative on social media so goal namely helping consumers enjoy and aims to collect online signatures from astofacilitate discussion in a way that is not alcohol responsibly, thus celebrating life, consumers pledging never to drink and preachy, but instead, factual, friendly and today and tomorrow.
The number of signatures now neutral.
Since its launch, Ask Dave has reached This year, we backed more than 300 stands at just under a million.
The campaign over 70,000 unique visitors in 20 countries.
responsible drinking programmes in more covers 15 countries and this year included Of those who provided feedback after using than 40 countries, including 39 of our top 40 avisit by Lewis Hamilton to Singapore Ask Dave, 63% said that the site added to countries by value.
In the remaining market, where he performed the Worlds Most what they knew about drinking, and 69% said United Arab Emirates, we did not support any Powerful Signature.
it made them think differently about the way initiatives given the countrys stance on alcohol.
Captain Morgans The Ships Cat: in late they drink alcohol.
2012, we launched a competition in As part of this initiative we launched Preventing excessive drinking association with Facebook challenging the Coaster, an educational tool advising Our work in this area ranges from funding our marketing community to create shoppers and consumers of the comparative advertising campaigns that raise awareness of breakthrough ideas to reinforce responsible alcohol levels of beers, wines and spirits, as well the risks of binge drinking, to supporting the drinking on a brands Facebook pages.
as smart drinking tips and a link to Ask Dave.
medical profession in identifying and helping The winning entry from the Captain Morgan problem drinkers.
global brand team created a new For example, we support the training of responsible drinking ambassador, doctors and other health workers in screening Cinnamon the Ships Cat, and aimed witty and brief intervention SBI, a simple but proven messages at Captain Morgan consumers approach supported by the WHO.
Through SBI, through Facebooks new newsfeed health professionals identify potential problem advertising.
The campaign, which targeted drinkers, and work with them to change their mobile users, was launched during the behaviour.
The project in Russia has involved festive period in December 2012 and was over 3,000 patients and 50 physicians in three rolled out across Western Europe in 2013, cities since its launch in 2010, and information reaching more than 5.5 million users.
has been shared with key medical and research institutes in an effort to expand the project.
Performance against target: tackling alcohol misuse effectively through our programmes Target by 2013 2013 performance Achievement Responsible drinking initiatives in place in our 39 top 40 countries by value 24 Diageo Sustainability & Responsibility Report 2013 About our business Approach and performance Impacts: Alcohol in society About this report Tackling drink driving Meanwhile in Sweden, we have joined We support many initiatives to reduce drink other industry leaders to finance Teach driving with public and private partners.
In about Alcohol, an initiative in schools, Scotland, for example, a multi-agency team, developed by experts, which discourages sponsored for the past four years by Diageo, young people from drinking, while won a Prince Michael International Road Safety encouraging those of legal drinking age who Award in 2012 for its radio and social media do drink to avoid irresponsible behaviour.
Since campaign around safe driving, particularly in it began in 2006, more than 9,000 teachers relation to alcohol.
According to police data, have taught the programme to about 450,000 the campaign contributed to a 33% reduction students, and it has been recommended by In South Africa the Drive Dry Campaign adopted in fatalities, a 39% reduction in serious injuries, the Swedish National Agency for Education.
a powerful new tagline for 2012 and a 62% reduction in the number of Independent evaluation demonstrated that drink drivers.
students who have been through the Were also using interactive methods in programme have a healthier attitude towards Colombia, where last November we launched drinking alcohol, become intoxicated less We train our customers and a smartphone application called Diageo frequently, and engage in fewer risky activities work with them to develop Guardian Angel.
By using this app, people can while drinking, than students who did not their own training find a safe way home through information participate in the programme.
programmes to ensure about designated driver services, SMSthat the skills needed to confirmed taxi cabs, and a flat rate for overnight Working with retailers to ensure promote responsible parking.
So far, more than 26,000 people have responsible sales downloaded the app, and more than 1,000 Diageos retail customers, from global retailers drinking are taught to staff have used the designated driver service.
to local convenience stores and the hospitality on the front line.
In Taiwan, Diageo launched a designated industry, play a critical role in advancing a driver service in partnership with 7-ELEVEN and culture of responsible drinking, and we work Taiwan Taxi to help drinkers reach home safely.
closely with retail chains, bars and pubs to The service is available from 4,700 stores support them in this effort.
around the country and is accessed through We train our customers and work 300 mobile phones.
A Taiwan Taxi driver will arrive with them to develop their own training within 10 minutes to drive a drinkers own car.
programmes to ensure that the skills needed Diageo supports more than to promote responsible drinking are taught 300 responsible drinking Addressing underage drinking to staff on the front line, from bar staff serving programmes in more than Diageo does not want underage drinkers as drinks to shopkeepers selling alcohol over 40 countries consumers and we work with many partners the counter.
around the world to try to solve this complex In Italy, we partnered with the social problem.
This has included developing supermarket chain Auchan on a consumer and implementing programmes which range information campaign Conoscere lAlcol in from enforcing minimum purchasing ages, collaboration with the NGO, Fondazione to helping adolescents develop the skills to Umberto Veronesi.
It was recognised by the resist social pressure to drink.
Italian Ministry of Health as a best practice We place great emphasis on training to approach.
Banners were displayed and leaflets embed our message.
For example, in Russia distributed in the supermarkets outlets, our DRINKiQ seminars have been attended by showing the recommended daily guidelines more than 6,200 students from 30 universities, for drinking, the various strengths of different with more than 10 trainers who are also drinks, and suggestions for occasions when students.
In Venezuela, we have provided it is better not to drink.
More than 250,000 DRINKiQ training to 5,000 adult students across shoppers were exposed to the campaign: the country.
over 60% said they would talk to family and friends, and almost 50% said they would think differently about what they drink.
We also ran an anti-drink driving event in some outlets using a simulator: 80% of the people who tried it said they learned something new about alcohol consumption.
