Our value chain customers and Assurance Our response to last years consumers food safety and quality assurance Here we detail the basis of calculation for: We aim to align our reporting Setting baseline data and targets with what we believe to be the In addition to creating value for Packaging defects ppm best standards for non-financial our business and our stakeholders, Total concerns complaints.
We believe in reporting having a strategy that addresses against reliable data and strive to our material impacts, and reporting Setting baseline data and targets improve the quality of our Baselines for each metric are always based on against them appropriately, is part the final actual performance in the previous non-financial disclosures.
Improvement targets are set based on the process externally assured helps give trajectory required to hit our medium-term Towards these aims, we engaged KPMG again us confidence that we are following strategic goals 2015.
Some adjustment may this year to provide limited assurance of three best practice.
be made to the targets for each business aspects of our report, determined as being depending on their actual level of highly material to the success of our Last year we commissioned KPMG to assure performance and strategic priorities.
Sustainability & Responsibility Strategy: our reporting, focusing on the following Our application of the Global Reporting threeareas: Packaging defects ppm Initiative GRI principles of materiality Reliability of performance data for the year Packaging defects data is based on a 0.1% andstakeholder inclusiveness during ended 30 June 2012 marked with the sampling for wines and spirits and a 0.025% for theevolution of our Sustainability & symbol in the water and the environment beers.
Individual packs are inspected against a Responsibility Strategy section Global Finished Product Standard.
The number Reliability of environmental performance Diageos alignment with the GRI principles of defects is recorded and reported monthly data for 2013 carbon emissions, water of materiality and stakeholder inclusiveness against the sample size for the production run.
usage, biochemical oxygen demand BOD, marked with the symbol as described Figures are aggregated globally and are and waste to landfill in the Sustainability & Responsibility weighted based on volume of production.
Our self-declared GRI application level.
Strategy section Diageos self-declared GRI application Total concerns complaints As in previous years, we also engaged the level marked with the symbol in the GRI All complaints are recorded validated or not London Benchmarking Group to assure Index section.
through consumer care lines and in-market our community investment data and companies.
The concern rate is calculated methodology.
In its public assurance statement, KPMG based on the volume produced at the site outlined a number of recommendations.
The in the same period as the complaint was table below sets out these recommendations received.
Figures are aggregated globally, are and explains how we have addressed them.
weighted based on volume of production, andare expressed as number of complaints per units sold, with a unit being one case of nine one-litre bottles.
Response to 2012 assurance recommendations Topic Recommendations How we responded Stakeholder engagement To date, Diageos local market strategy reviews have involved Our focus this year has been engaging external Diageo employees assessing the companys material global stakeholders to provide input into our impacts and programmes.
Diageo should extend these local global strategic priorities.
We worked with an market reviews to more markets and engage with external external consultancy firm to interview over stakeholders to ensure consistency across markets in light 40 external stakeholders to assess the key of the new operating model.
Furthermore, Diageo should material issues that could affect Diageo and continue to drive, embed and formalise the Sustainability & ourstakeholders in the medium to long term.
Responsibility Strategy process as a whole in its 21 markets.
Sustainability and responsibility Diageo should continue to drive, embed and formalise the Regional executives have been closely involved management co-ordination Sustainability & Responsibility Strategy process as a whole in in the development of our global strategic between markets and global its 21 markets.
Local general managers have also been involved in discussions of performance metrics, which will be developed in the next reporting year.
Approach to acquisitions Diageo should set out how it will incorporate acquisitions into As part of our global stakeholder study, we its Sustainability & Responsibility Strategy.
interviewed selected stakeholders in acquisition markets such as India and Brazil, and fed their insights into the development of our refreshed strategic priorities.
88 Diageo Sustainability & Responsibility Report 2013 About our business Approach and performance Impacts About this report and GRI Assurance scope Independent Assurance Report The scope of assurance was determined by of KPMG Audit Plc to Diageo plc Diageo in accordance with the materiality principles as defined by the GRI.
As Diageos KPMG Audit Plc was engaged by reporting processes mature, the scope of Diageo plc Diageo to provide assurance will expand over time.
In the United limited assurance over selected Kingdom, assurance of  disclosures within the Diageo information is not mandatory.
The organisation Sustainability & Responsibility Report is able to select the scope and level of assurance to be provided by a practitioner.
for the year ended 30June 2013 The extent of evidence-gathering the Report.
procedures for a limited assurance engagement is less than for a reasonable This independent assurance report is made assurance engagement, and therefore a lower solely to Diageo in accordance with the terms level of assurance is provided.
Our conclusions of our engagement.
Our work has been are based on the appropriate application of the undertaken so that we might state to Diageo criteria outlined in Diageos environmental those matters that we have been engaged to reporting methodologies on pages 84-86. state in this Report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do Inherent limitations not accept or assume any responsibility to Non-financial performance information is anyone other than Diageo for our work, for this subject to more inherent limitations than independent assurance report, or for the financial information, given the characteristics conclusions we have reached.
of the subject matter and the methods used for determining such information.
The absence Responsibilities of a significant body of established practice The directors of Diageo are responsible for onwhich to draw allows for the selection of preparing the Report and the information and different but acceptable measurement statements within it.
They are responsible for techniques which can result in materially theidentification of stakeholders and material different measurements and can affect issues, for defining objectives with respect to comparability.
The precision of different sustainability performance, and for establishing measurement techniques may also vary.
and maintaining appropriate performance Furthermore, the nature and methods used management and internal control systems from todetermine such information, as well as the which reported information is derived.
measurement criteria and the precision Our responsibility is to express our thereof, may change over time.
It is important conclusions in relation to the assurance scope to read the selected sustainability information which is set out below.
contained within the Report as set out in the assurance scope and in the context of Diageos environmental reporting methodologies included on pages 8486.
Assurance scope Selected sustainability information Level of assurance Reporting criteria Reliability of performance data for the year ended 30 June 2013 Limited assurance Diageos environmental reporting methodologies on pages marked with the symbol in the water and the environment 84-86 outline the reporting criteria for the following selected section of the report.
sustainability data: Greenhouse gases are based on the World Resources Institute World Business Council for Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Edition otherwise referred to as the WRI WBCSD Protocol Water consumption is based on the Global Reporting Initiative GRI G3 Reporting Guidelines Water efficiencies are based on Diageos environmental reporting methodologies Waste to landfill is based on the GRI G3 Reporting Guidelines Biochemical oxygen demand BOD load to environment under direct control is based on GRI G3 Reporting Guidelines.
Diageos alignment with the GRI principles of materiality and Limited assurance The criteria set out in the GRI G3 Reporting Guidelines for each stakeholder inclusiveness marked with the symbol as described of the principles of material and stakeholder inclusiveness.
in the About this report section of the report.
Diageos self-declared GRI application level marked with the Limited assurance GRI G3 Reporting Guidelines and application level symbol in the GRI Index section of the report.
About this report and GRI 89 Greenhouse gases Work performed Assurance Scope 2 Diageos alignment In particular, inherent limitations affect the We planned and performed our work to obtain withthe GRI principles of materiality and all the evidence, information, and explanations conversion of electricity and fuel used to stakeholder inclusiveness marked with the calculate carbon emissions.
Conversion of that we considered necessary in relation to the symbol as described in the section of the electricity and fuel used to calculate carbon above scope.
Our work included, but was not Report entitled about this report emissions is based upon, inter alia, information limited to, the evidence-based procedures We: further explained below.
and factors derived by independent third Evaluated the completeness of Diageos parties as explained in Diageos environmental materiality assessment by performing reporting methodologies on pages 8486.
Our Assurance Scope 1 reliability of performance limited media analysis and internet searches assurance work has not included examination data for the year ended 30 June 2013 marked for references to Diageo during the with the symbol in the section entitled water of the derivation of those factors or of other reporting period and reviews of investment third-party information.
Our assurance work has and the environment within the Report analysts reports not included challenging the scientific work At group level we: Evaluated Diageos action plan for 2013 at undertaken by independent third parties Evaluated the suitability of reporting group level and assessed whether it systems against the WRI WBCSD Protocol, when calculating these emissions factors.
incorporated the recommendations in our the GRI G3 Reporting Guidelines, and Internal Management Report from the year Basis of our work Diageos internal reporting requirements ended 30 June 2012 We conducted our work in accordance with Conducted interviews with management Interviewed senior management including 1 and other personnel at Diageo to obtain a selection of members from the CSR ISAE 3000.
We conducted our engagement with a multi-disciplinary team, qualified and anunderstanding of the data collection leadership team experienced in non-financial assurance.
process, information flows and the systems Interviewed a selection of key staff at head Theteam included specialists in auditing and controls used to generate, aggregate, office level to assess activities related to and report the environmental data stakeholder engagement and determining environmental and financial information and with experience of similar engagements.
Reviewed measurements, calculations, Diageos material issues in the development supporting information, quality controls of the refreshed Sustainability & Our independence systems, and procedures which support Responsibility Strategy theenvironmental data for the year ended Reviewed key documentation to come out ISAE 3000 requires the practitioner to comply with the requirements of Parts A and B of the 30 June 2013: our work included verifying of the process of stakeholder engagement Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, the application of the appropriate CO and material issue analysis which was part 2 issued by the International Ethics Standards emission factors for all sites.
ofthe development of the refreshed Sustainability & Responsibility Strategy Board for Accountants the IESBA Code.
This Code requires, among other things, that the At site level we: Reviewed drafts of the Report and relevant members of the assurance team practitioners Tested data from 11 different sites covering web text to ensure there were no disclosures as well as the assurance firm assurance between 39% and 77% of the data for each that were misrepresented or inconsistent with our findings.
provider be independent of the assurance data set in the year ended 30 June 2013. client, including not being involved in writing Sitesvisited were in: Uganda, Cameroon, the Report, and that they plan and perform Ethiopia, Tanzania, Turkey, Scotland and Assurance Scope 3 Diageos self-declared theengagements to obtain limited assurance Kenya two sites.
We performed desk-top GRI application level marked with the symbol about whether data are free from material in the GRI Index section of the Report audits over two sites in Nigeria and one in misstatement.
The Code also includes detailed the US Virgin Islands We: requirements for practitioners regarding The sites were selected based on their risk Checked the GRI Index included in the integrity, objectivity, professional competence factors and levels of materiality, such as their section of the Report entitled about this and due care, confidentiality and professional report to ensure consistency with the GRI contribution to group CO emissions, size, 2 behaviour.
KPMG Audit Plc has systems and and location.
application level requirements of B processes in place to monitor compliance with Reviewed Diageos self-assessment against the Code and to prevent conflicts regarding GRI application level B including the independence.
Our independence from the companys description of the extent of client is reviewed on an annual basis.
1. International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000: Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board.
90 Diageo Sustainability & Responsibility Report 2013 About our business Approach and performance Impacts About this report and GRI Conclusions Appendix observations arising from LBG Assurance The following conclusions are based on the ourwork Statement Diageo work performed and the scope of our In this appendix we have set out certain matters assurance engagement described above.
that came to our attention during the course of Diageo is an active member of the LBG this engagement.
Our objective is to use our London Benchmarking Group.
The LBG Assurance Scope 1 reliability of performance knowledge of the groupgained during our model helps businesses to improve the data for the year ended 30 June 2013 marked limited assurance engagement to make useful management, measurement and reporting with the symbol in the section entitled water comments and suggestions for Diageo to of their corporate community involvement and the environment of the Report consider.
Without prejudice to our conclusions programmes.
It moves beyond charitable Nothing has come to our attention to suggest presented above, we present some of the key donations to include the full range of that the performance data marked with the observations and areas for improvement below.
contributions in time, in kind and in cash symbol in the section entitled water and made to community causes, and assesses theenvironment within the Report, is not, Our observations on Assurance Scope 2 the actual results for the community and for inallmaterial respects, fairly stated in We present some of the observations in the business.
net for accordance with Diageos environmental relation to Diageos alignment with the GRI more information.
reporting methodologies on pages 8486. principles of materiality and stakeholder As managers of the Group, we have inclusiveness which are part of our Report to worked with Diageo to ensure that it Assurance Scope 2 Diageos alignment Management.
Our observations include but understands the LBG model and has applied its with the GRI principles of materiality and are not limited to the following.
principles to the measurement of community stakeholder inclusiveness marked with the Diageo engaged with external stakeholders involvement programmes during the year symbol as described in the section of the this year to inform its Sustainability & to 30 June 2013.
Having conducted an Report entitled about this report Responsibility Strategy.
The focus of this assessment, we are satisfied that this has been Nothing has come to our attention to suggest engagement was primarily with global achieved.
Our work has not extended to an that Diageos description of the companys stakeholder groups.
Going forward we independent audit of the data.
alignment with the GRI principles of materiality recommend that Diageo extend this Two developments in Diageos data and stakeholder inclusiveness marked with the engagement to a wider range of key market merited attention this year.
symbol as described in the sections of the level stakeholders to further integrate local Firstly, Diageo has included data on Report entitled approach and performance, insights into its global Sustainability & major cause-related marketing activity in Latin and about this report, is not, in all material Responsibility Strategy.
American countries aiming to establish new respects, fairly stated.
Diageo progressed its internal stakeholder forms of volunteering.
While we are satisfied engagement with its board and senior level that only those elements relating directly to Assurance Scope 3 Diageos self-declared employees this year, and should continue to the delivery of voluntary activity have been GRIapplication level marked with the symbol roll this out to remaining levels.
While Diageo reported, Diageo and its partner should in the GRI Index section of the Report consistently tracks employee perception of ensure that the amount of ongoing activity Nothing has come to our attention to suggest sustainability and responsibility performance and the growth in participation are that Diageos self-declaration of GRI application through its annual Values Survey, it could measured, to establish that the level of level B marked with the symbol in the further collect and integrate employees volunteering achieved is proportionate section of the Report entitled GRI Index, is not, ideasand concerns into its Sustainability & to the investment made.
in all material respects, fairly stated.
Responsibility Strategy in a uniform way.
Secondly, a significant increase in This year Diageo has refreshed its strategic donations of Diageo product has been Paul Nichols for and on behalf of sustainability and responsibility priorities reported.
In light of the sensitivities around KPMG Audit Plc and will update its aspirations for the alcohol, we are encouraged that Diageo has Chartered Accountants business accordingly.
Once it is ready to only included those donations that support London implement its new strategy, Diageo should fund-raising activities of community 30 July 2013 formalise a process for embedding it into organisations.
Finally, we reiterate a previous recommendation that Diageo should more systematically quantify the achievements of its activities outputs and impacts in its application of the LBG model so that a clear assessment of the overall impact of its investment into the community can be achieved.
co. uk July 2013 About this report and GRI 91
