About our business Approach and performance Impacts: Socio-economic development About this report Other initiatives We believe that one of the Advocacy and awareness Below are just a few examples from our best ways companies can other brands.
Joining forces with governments, contribute to sustainable Buchanans: our Time to Share campaign NGOs, suppliers, local communities, local change is by engaging recruited 6,500 volunteers from Venezuela, and the consumers of our brands, others to become Colombia, and Mexico, each of whom means we can make an even greater advocates for causes donated four hours of their time to contribution to socio-economic community improvement projects, directly important to them and development around the world.
influencing the lives of 36,214 people in the theirstakeholders.
regions neighbourhoods, schools and Our approach community centres.
There is increasing recognition and Bells: in October 2012, we launched a expectation among governments and campaign to raise 1 million by the end of NGOs that the private sector can be a catalyst 2013 for Help for Heroes, the British military for sustainable development.
This is especially veterans charity.
By the end of the financial so in countries without well-developed year, we had raised over 500,000. regulatory environments.
Beyond good Johnnie Walker: the Keep Walking project business practices and participatory in Taiwan has funded community-minded, community investment, we believe that one pioneering business ideas since it launched of the best ways companies can contribute to in 2003.
By the end of 2013, it had invested sustainable local change is by engaging others over 4.5 million in social entrepreneurs.
to become advocates for causes important to them and their stakeholders.
Our worldAdvocacy famous brands provide us with a great Some of our strongest advocacy work involves opportunity to engage consumers in arguing for industry-wide standards to tackle campaigns that champion social and alcohol misuse and promote responsible environmental causes.
drinking, as discussed in our alcohol in society section.
We are also active advocates in the Awareness: brand-led programmes following areas.
Our brands sponsor many initiatives that Anti-corruption: we are working to address address social issues, one of the main ones this barrier to economic development in being the Arthur Guinness Fund.
Building on a number of countries.
So far the emphasis the legacy of giving back that originated with has been on Africa, including joining the our founder, Arthur Guinness, the Arthur Convention on Business Integrity CBi in Guinness Fund was established in 2009 to Nigeria in a move towards a visible zero support entrepreneurs with a business head tolerance for corruption, and leading the and a social heart, and is committed to development of the Code of Ethics for finding innovative solutions to address Business in Kenya.
Food security: we are one of 28 global To date, the Arthur Guinness Fund has companies behind The World Economic invested over 11 million in sustainable Forums New Vision for Agriculture as a enterprises.
In Ireland, 2.54 million has so far driverof food security, environmental been awarded to 30 projects for example sustainability, and economic opportunity.
Hireland, an organisation which aims to reduce We are also part of the Grow Africa initiative unemployment, received 42,000.
Elsewhere which promotes agricultural development we are working with Ashoka, the worlds through public private partnerships.
leading association of social entrepreneurs, Water: we are signatories to the CEO Water tohelp finance their network of over 3,000 Mandate, joining UN agencies, NGOs, social entrepreneurs.
For example, one governments, and other stakeholders in project is a progressive housing development committing to developing, implementing, programme in Kenya which could make and disclosing policies and practices around home ownership affordable to 70% of the water sustainability.
urban working population, while offering Womens empowerment: this year Diageo them the chance to be part of a secure, became the first beverage alcohol company prosperous community.
to sign the Womens Empowerment Broadening our reach to Southeast Asia, Principles, a joint initiative between UN in November 2012 we began working with the Women and the UN Global Compact, British Council in Malaysia, investing 50,000 to which Diageo signed in 2002.
The UN fund worthwhile enterprises: while in October defines empowerment as a womans right 2012, we launched the Arthur Guinness Fund to have choices, opportunities and access inSingapore, committing 95,000 in the first to resources all of which improve her sense year to projects that enhance the lives of of self-worth and ability to influence society marginalised women.
Impacts: Socio-economic development 53 53 Case study Lack of a regular clean water supply, sanitation and hygiene, A question of supply: pose a significant health problem in Tanzania particularly in access to clean water for the dispensaries and health centres where almost 70% of the Tanzanias health services population go to receive health services.
National figures show that almost two-thirds Water of Life projects such as these provide of all health facilities lack a regular water kick start funding and expertise so that they supply this is a familiar situation for the can eventually stand on their own.
These people of the Songea district in the Ruvuma initiatives, funded by the Diageo Foundation, region of Tanzania.
will also provide education and promote To improve access to clean and safe water hygiene among staff and patients.
for the 50,000 people who use the Mletele Through these projects we hope public primary health facility and for the ultimately to strengthen the governance of, surrounding communities of Songea, Diageo and community participation in, water has committed 24,067 to construct deep management in these regions.
boreholes and install a hand water pump.
The For more case studies from around the world, work, which will be managed by the African please visit http: srreport2013.
com Medical and Research Foundation AMREF, is expected to be completed by July 2013.
Weve also committed 27,755 to AMREF to do the same for the Mkamba public primary health facility and surrounding municipality in the Dar es Salaam region, bringing access to clean water to another 10,100 people.
Case study Public sanitation exists in only 23% of communities in rural Empowering women to Cambodia, while only around 50% have access to clean drinking improve sanitation and water.
These rates persist despite decades of NGO and government hygiene in rural Cambodia schemes to give away toilets, hand-pumps, chlorine tablets, and water filters.
To address this challenge, the public enterprise people from the community to work as agents, Watershed has sought to change community labourers, and installers.
Using a hands-off These are achievements to be proud of: marketing model, it aims to develop local social however we believe more can be done.
With entrepreneurs and community networks to act a further investment of 50,000 from the as sales agents and local retailers, creating new Diageo Foundation through Plan W, our global channels to distribute sanitation products.
programme to empower women, Watershed Diageo invested 50,000 in the will build directly on the work in Kampong Watershed programme in Cambodias Cham province.
It will investigate how access Kampong Cham province between December to clean water, sanitation, and hygiene can be 2011 and January 2013, in a partnership with improved, focusing specifically on increasing USAID.
As a result of the project, more than opportunities for women in business and on 10,000 rural Cambodian households chose to women as consumers of safe and affordable purchase their own toilet or water filter device, products that improve their families health investing more than 282,000 of their own and comfort.
Consequently, local businesses For more case studies from around the world, prospered and suppliers employed more please visit http: srreport2013.
com 54 54 D Di ia ag ge eo S o Su us st ta ai in na ab bi il li it ty & R y & Re es sp po ons nsi ib bi il li it ty R y Re ep po or rt 2 t 20 01 13 3
