About our business Approach and performance Impacts About this report and GRI Principles of management andreporting In managing our sustainability programme, and describing it in this report, we aim to adopt the principles of the Global Reporting Initiative GRI.
This table sets out how our report responds to each element of the framework.
Diageos response to GRI reporting principles Principle What it means Our response Stakeholder The report should identify stakeholders We set out who our key stakeholders are, explain how we have engaged them this year inclusiveness and explain how the reporting and identify key areas of the report that address their areas of interest see engaging organisation has responded to their stakeholders on page 15.
This year we interviewed 40 external stakeholders to gather reasonable expectations and interests.
their views onDiageos approach to sustainability and responsibility see page 14.
Materiality The report should cover topics and This year we expanded our analysis of material issues through internal and external indicators that: stakeholder engagement and additional research.
We prioritised issues by assessing Reflect the organisations significant both stakeholder and business interests.
Our aim is to report fully on issues deemed economic, environmental, and highly material and to explain our approach to those deemed of medium materiality.
socialimpacts See Sustainability & Responsibility Strategy on page 13.
Would substantively influence the assessments and decisions of stakeholders.
Sustainability The report should present the Where appropriate, we give the context for each impact area at the start of each section, context organisations performance in the and, where possible, explain the local impact of our operations, for example highlighting widercontext of sustainability.
our impact on water in water-stressed areas.
Completeness Coverage of the material topics and Our coverage of material topics is explained in the scope and boundaries section.
indicators and definition of the report boundary should be sufficient to reflect significant economic, environmental, and social impacts, and enable stakeholders to assess the reporting organisations performance in the reporting period.
Balance The report should reflect positive and We report against stretching targets and against GRI indicators, whether or not our negative aspects of the organisations performance has been strong.
This gives a balanced view of our impacts, which have performance to enable a reasoned been defined taking into account the views of a range of stakeholders.
Comparability Issues and information should be We continue to report against GRI as well as targets disclosed in prior years to ensure selected, compiled, and reported that readers can compare this years performance with that of previous years.
Accuracy The reported information should be We explain our methodology for calculating performance against targets see reporting sufficiently accurate and detailed for methodologies.
KPMG has provided limited assurance for water usage, carbon stakeholders to assess the reporting emissions, biochemical oxygen demand BOD, and waste to landfill data disclosed in organisations performance.
this report where marked with the symbol.
Timeliness Reporting should occur on a regular This report is published with our annual report every year.
The data in both reports schedule and information should be reflect performance in the year ended 30 June 2013. made available in time for stakeholders to make informed decisions.
Clarity Information should be made available We aim to make our report easy to understand for a wide audience.
Wherever possible, in a manner that is understandable we define terminology and use visuals to make our messages clear.
For example, we andaccessible to stakeholders using have a visual introduction on the homepage of the report website, and an interactive thereport.
map summarising information about the company, called at a glance included here on pages 6-7.
Reliability Information and processes used in the KPMG has assured three aspects of our report, determined as being highly material for preparation of the report should be the success of our business and Sustainability &Responsibility Strategy see page 89 : gathered, recorded, compiled, analysed, Diageos alignment with the GRI principles of materiality and stakeholder inclusiveness and disclosed in a way that could during the development of the Sustainability & Responsibility Strategy at central level be subject to examination and that Reliability of environmental performance data for 2013 carbon emissions, water usage, establishes the quality and materiality biochemical oxygen demand BOD and waste to landfill where marked with the ofthe information.
symbol Diageos self-declared GRI application level.
About this report and GRI 83
