In this section: Approach and performance 13 Sus tainability & Responsibility Strategy Supporting the communities in which 15 Engaging stakeholders we operate is part of our strategy for 16 How we manage sustainability and success through Project Entrepreneur responsibility in our Learning for Life programme, 17 Performance and key metrics forexample, were providing skills and education to many of the thousands of cooperativa families collecting materials for recycling in Colombia.
About our business Approach and performance Impacts About this report and GRI In the last few years we have developed our Sustainability & Approach and business in new high growth markets such as Responsibility Strategy performance Ethiopia, Turkey and Brazil.
Consequently we are now considering even broader social and Putting the principles of sustainability As the leading premium environmental issues to address the evolving and responsibility into practice expectations of our stakeholders.
This drinks business, our social and means accounting for our most evolution, combined with the impending environmental impacts are material social and environmental expiry of our existing social and environmental targets led us to review our Sustainability & impacts in every aspect of what we diverse we touch many people, Responsibility Strategy this year.
do from sourcing raw materials, from the farmers who grow our Following conversations with internal torunning our manufacturing safely raw materials through to the and external stakeholders around the world, and efficiently, to influencing how we prioritised those issues of most interest consumers of our brands.
our brands are sold and consumed.
both to our external stakeholders and to us Operating sustainably and from cost savings as a result of environmental Diageos business strategy is to drive top line efficiencies, to employee or consumer responsibly to ensure that sales and profit in a sustainable and responsible engagement, to securing our licence to overall our impact is a positive way so that we create consistent, long-term operate.
Our central principle remains the value for our shareholders.
While our wide one is at the heart of the way same: at each stage of the value chain, we seek range of brands and the expertise of our to maximise our positive impacts to create we do business.
people are central to our commercial success, value for our stakeholders while improving no less important are our values and our our own performance.
For us, the two are commitment to meeting the evolving inextricably linked our companys future expectations of our stakeholders.
success depends on our ability today We know the worlds expectations of to contribute positively to society and business are continuously progressing.
legislation is being passed for multinationals We call this celebrating life, today around the world, for example requiring greater and tomorrow.
human rights transparency in the United States or stricter environmental controls in China.
We adapt to these changes to secure our licence to operate, but also take account of the expectations and interests of other stakeholders around the world be they our employees, our local communities, non-governmental organisations NGOs or business partners.
There are certain basic issues that any food and beverage company should address, from health and safety, human rights anddiversity, to environmental impacts, sustainable agriculture and good governance.
Moreover, every company should be committed to openness and transparency in its dealings with stakeholders, including clear and accurate reporting.
We will continue to address these as a matter of course.
Beyond this, there are certain social and environmental activities that we believe are particularly important to focus on given the nature of our business, where we operate, with whom we do business, and our global and local stakeholders.
Identified this year following a materiality study described in more detail below, our strategic priorities are: Alcohol in society as our highest priority, we will broaden our approach to communicating about alcohol responsibly and tackling misuse through effective programmes and policies Water stewardship we will work to protect watersheds by continuing to maximise efficiencies in our operations and supply chain, investing in infrastructure in our communities, and advocating more broadly for change Approach and performance 13 Skills and empowerment we will expand major players in the alcohol industry should Many of the issues our skills-building community programme collaborate to have a greater collective impact considered most important on reducing alcohol misuse.
Learning for Life to support and empower by stakeholders correlated stakeholders upstream and downstream Within water security, stakeholders noted with our view of Diageos from our operations.
theneed for alcohol producers to work on most important risks the issue both within their own operations and opportunities.
and with local communities and raw material We are now in the process of setting new targets for all areas of sustainability and suppliers, particularly those operating in responsibility, and will announce them next water-stressed areas.
This year, however, we continue to report stakeholders in our value chain through skills and education particularly for smallholder on our original targets across the five impact areas our programmes have focused on farmers and women was frequently cited to date: alcohol in society, water and the as important for contributing further to environment, socio-economic development, socio-economic development.
Other issues ranked relatively highly governance and ethics, and our people.
As in previous reports, we look not only at our own by external stakeholders were industry operations, but also at the impact we have collaboration, gender equality, and across the value chain from our suppliers transparency in the supply chain.
In internal interviews with senior managers, a few others through to our customers and consumers.
came up frequently as important to address: Refreshing our strategic priorities workplace diversity: health and safety: and Our central theme has always been shared sustainable packaging.
value, by which we mean that everything we do should bring benefits to the stakeholders The business case risks and opportunities who are affected by our operations as well Having collected feedback from stakeholders, as to Diageo.
In refreshing our strategic we assessed the risks and opportunities priorities, we determined what social and associated with each issue they identified to environmental issues were most material by determine our strategic priorities.
Interestingly, engaging internal and external stakeholders many of the issues considered most important by stakeholders correlated with our view of to understand their views, as well as by looking at the business risks and opportunities Diageos most important sustainability risks associated with sustainability and and opportunities.
For example, activities to promote a positive role for alcohol in society both Last year we ran materiality workshops in three key markets United Kingdom, Kenya, mitigate risk and provide opportunities.
First and China with managers who have worked and foremost, working to ensure that our with, and know the concerns of, our major products are consumed responsibly is core to securing our licence to operate around groups of stakeholders.
Using the findings from these workshops the world.
However, responsible drinking as a starting point, we conducted a global programmes, such as our Conoscere lAlcol study this year.
Central to our approach were campaign in Italy, can be meaningful ways to engage customers and consumers.
interviews with our own senior managers and with more than 40 external stakeholders.
The security of our raw material supply, We invited global NGOs and multilaterals for which relies heavily on water, is another key their expertise and wide geographical scope of risk.
As such, we focus on improving water efficiency, reducing water wasted and work in our key impact areas, while stakeholders such as investors, customers increasing the quality of the water we discharge and suppliers were invited because of the to local water sources.
This is particularly importance our businesses have to each important in Africa, where 50% of our operations are in water-stressed areas.
We also included local NGOs and government representatives to gain insight Reducing water use, along with emissions into stakeholders expectations in areas of such as carbon and waste, also makes our new business activity such as India and Brazil.
operations more efficient: some of our environmental investments, such as water Results of the global study efficiency projects in Kenya, have paid for Three areas were revealed as most significant themselves in as little as six months.
for stakeholders: alcohol in society, water Finally, demonstrating a positive impact on socio-economic development not only security, and skills and education.
Within alcohol in society, stakeholders meets broader stakeholder expectations, raised the continuing importance of but also can engage business partners and communicating the risks of excessive drinking consumers, for example through cause-related campaigns such as Buchanans Time to Share to consumers and society at large.
They also mentioned working actively to tackle misuse in Latin America.
We also know that the work itself through programmes and partnerships.
we do in this area motivates our own people A common piece of feedback was that all and helps us retain and attract talent.
