In this section: About our business 6 Diageo at a glance 8 Our brands Together with our stakeholders, we have 10 Our history the ability to shape our future.
The work we are doing to refresh our approach to sustainability and responsibility will help make that future a bright one we call this celebrating life, today and tomorrow.
About our business Approach and performance Impacts About this report and GRI Our brands are sold in more than 180 countries, Were proud of what we do we act sensitively About our business and at a wide range of prices, from ultra with the highest standards of integrity and social responsibility.
We strive to be the best premium through premium to more Diageo is the worlds leading affordable brands.
They include six of the we are restless, always learning, always premium drinks business.
worlds top 20 spirits brands, with Smirnoff improving.
Finally, we value each other the number one by volume, and Johnnie weseek, and benefit from, diverse people Great brands like Johnnie Walker, andperspectives.
Walker the number one by value.
Our beer Smirnoff and Guinness, and portfolio includes Guinness, the number one The concept of valuing different stout by value in the world, as well as a range perspectives is essential: working hard a global presence as a marketer, of leading lager brands in Africa.
In certain to understand the interests and concerns distributor and producer, give us of all our stakeholders is integral to our markets, such as North America and Great the reach and a responsibility Britain, we also own a number of wine brands.
development as a sustainable and responsible Diageo has a long heritage and a portfolio business.
As we continue to expand into new to enable people all over the of strong brands reaching millions of people high growth markets, engaging stakeholders world to celebrate life, every with diverse perspectives will become even around the world, and we have a responsibility to ensure that our influence is a positive one.
more important: over 40% of net sales this day, everywhere.
Its not just consumers drinking responsibly year came from high growth markets such as that we need to consider: as a producer, Russia, Turkey, Kenya, Mexico and Indonesia, distributor and marketer of great brands, and we expect that to reach 50% by the end Diageo touches the lives of many other of 2015.
Staying true to our companys core people as well employees, customers, strengths and values, while adapting to new consumers, suppliers and those living in the environments and changing expectations, wider communities in which we operate.
will help ensure that our purpose of celebrating To ensure our brands and our growing life is something we do, not only today, but business have a positive influence, we put our also tomorrow.
company values at the heart of everything we do.
Were passionate about customers and consumers our curiosity and customer and consumer insights drive growth.
We give ourselves and each other the freedom to succeed because this fosters an entrepreneurial spirit.
