About our business Approach and performance Impacts About this report and GRI We report against the Global Reporting Scope and boundaries About this report and GRI Initiative GRI guidelines and received limited assurance from KPMG see page 89.
Diageo This report is for all our stakeholders.
Diageo has published an also supports the UN Global Compact UNGC It explains our key impacts across annual global Sustainability and reports on progress against its advanced our value chain and sets out our framework.
& Responsibility Report since goals, strategy, and performance We believe that online reporting makes 2003.
It is an integral part of for the year.
our content more accessible to a wider audience, while being more sustainable in our corporate disclosure and Programmes and goals terms of production and our carbon footprint.
reporting practice, and is The report outlines our programmes, We welcome stakeholders views on our describing our goals of: published each year alongside report and on our approach to sustainability Creating a positive role for alcohol in society and responsibility in general.
We hope that you our Annual Report.
Addressing global water and environmental enjoy this report and we encourage you to give challenges at our operations, and the global us your feedback either by contacting us or water challenge more broadly in our local filling in the feedback form on our contact page, communities www.
com Contributing to socio-economic development Creating a great place to work for our people Holding ourselves to the highest standards of governance and ethics Working with our suppliers, customers, and consumers to ensure we have a positive impact across our value chain.
The report refers back to certain targets set outin our 2011 Sustainability & Responsibility Report and assesses our progress in meeting them.
This year we refreshed our approach tosustainability and responsibility.
We interviewed more than 40 external stakeholders to understand their social andenvironmental concerns for our business and industry, taking stock of our changing geographical footprint and any new implications for our Sustainability & Responsibility Strategy.
We will use this feedback to refine our reporting areas and targets in future years.
About this report and GRI 81 Reporting boundaries operational control.
We report are included from, or up to, the date that This report covers the global operations of environmental data for acquired businesses control passes, as indicated in the as soon as practical, and no later than after Diageo plc in the financial year ended 30 June acquisitions table below.
Dates refer to financial years unless we collate one full years financial data.
This Supplier data includes all business otherwise stated.
The following are boundaries years report includes environmental data contracts, shortor long-term, which Diageo for the various types of figures found from four newly acquired businesses: upholds for the purchase of raw materials, Zacapa in Guatemala, Mey ki in Turkey, throughout the report.
packaging, logistics and transportation, Financial data includes the results of the Meta Abo in Ethiopia and Sichuan marketing materials, and information company and its subsidiaries, together with Shuijingfang Co,.
Diageos attributable share of the results of Socio-economic development data Food safety and quality data is collected includes charitable giving on behalf of associates and joint ventures.
The results of and reported for all sites where Diageo has subsidiaries acquired or sold are included the company, all subsidiaries, and the full operational control.
While new from, or up to, the date that control passes, independent Diageo Foundation, as defined acquisitions adopted our global measures asindicated in the acquisitions table below.
by the London Benchmarking Group.
This within the first year, performance is being years report includes data from three newly A subsidiary is an entity controlled, directly tracked outside the scope of this report until or indirectly, by Diageo plc.
Control is the acquired businesses: Mey ki in Turkey, a reliable baseline has been established.
power to govern the operating and financial Meta Abo in Ethiopia and Ypica in Brazil.
policies so as to obtain benefits from its Our people: safety data has the same Uncertainty and estimates activities.
On the acquisition of a business, or boundary as environmental data, described While we make every effort to capture all of an interest in an associate or joint venture, above.
In addition, we include all off-site information as accurately as possible, it is fair values, reflecting conditions at the date employee work-related risks driving on neither feasible nor practical to measure all of acquisition, are attributed to the net assets public roads and activities at third-party data with absolute certainty.
Where we have including identifiable intangible assets and locations.
For other data in the our people made estimates or exercised judgement, this is contingent liabilities acquired.
section, we have included the results of the highlighted within these reporting guidelines.
Alcohol in society includes data such as for company and its subsidiaries, as well as the all sites for which Diageo has full operational following three newly acquired businesses Significant changes in our operations control.
This years report includes data from Mey ki in Turkey, Meta Abo in Ethiopia and Diageo has made a number of acquisitions of three newly acquired businesses: Mey ki in Shuijingfang in China.
brands, distribution rights, and equity interests Turkey, Meta Abo Brewery in Ethiopia, and Compliance and ethics data such as in premium drinks businesses over the last Ypica Bebidas S. A. in Brazil.
breaches includes information for all sites for three years, including those in the table below.
Environmental data is collected and which Diageo has full operational control.
reported for all sites where Diageo has full The results of subsidiaries acquired or sold Acquisitions 1 Consideration Acquisition Date acquired million Location Principal brands acquired 25.02% equity interest in United Spirits Limited 13 May 4 July 2013 594 India McDowells Nr 1 family and other Indian whisky, brandy and rumproducts 50% equity interest in United National Breweries traditional sorghum 27 June 2013 23 South Africa Chibuku, Leopard beer business Special and Ijuba sorghum beer products 2 93% equity stake in SJF Holdco which owns a 39.7% controlling equity 27 January 2007 267 China Shui Jing Fang Chinese interest in Shuijingfang 7 June 2013 control white spirit of Shuijingfang from 29 June 2012 100% of the equity share capital of Ypica Bebidas S. A.
9 August 2012 284 Brazil Ypica cachaa 100% of the equity share capital of Meta Abo Brewery Share Company SC 9 January 2012 153 Ethiopia Meta beer 49% of Diageo Philippines Inc not already owned by the group 14 December 2011 15 Philippines Distribution company 20% of Kenya Breweries Ltd not already owned by the group 25 November 2011 134 Kenya Tusker and other beer products 45.5% of the equity share capital of Hanoi Joint Stock Company Halico 13 May 2011 60 Vietnam Vodka Hanoi 24June 2012 100% of the equity share capital of Mey ki Sanayi five Ticaret A.. 23 August 2011 1,260 Turkey Yeni Raki, Terkirda Raki, Istanblue vodka 50% controlling equity stake in Rum Creations Products Inc. 5 July 2011 148 Guatemala Zacapa rum 51% equity stake in Serengeti Breweries Limited via a 50.03% equity-owned 22 October 2010 60 Tanzania Serengeti lager subsidiary 20% equity stake in LNJ Group 30 September 2010 6 United 22 Marquis sparkling States liqueur 1.
Includes net borrowings acquired but excludes the value of put options and transaction costs.
Excludes cash acquired in Shuijingfang when first consolidated.
For more information see our 2013 Annual Report.
