Our approach and performance Local wealth creation Socio-economic Our stakeholders expect global companies development like Diageo to contribute to socio-economic We have a strategic interest in development in the communities in which ensuring that our value chain is both they operate.
At Diageo, giving back to our Celebrating life, every day, commercially and ethically robust.
communities has been a part of our history everywhere, means that Doing so underpins our success dating back to the founders of our predecessor and contributes to local economic through all our activities we companies, from Arthur Guinnesss work with prosperity.
Dublins poor in the nineteenth century, to aim to contribute positively to Grand Metropolitans projects addressing the lives of our employees and Our approach unemployment in the 1980s.
In recent years, we have made a Like most businesses, we create wealth directly business partners, and to the for our local stakeholders through our daily meaningful assessment of the potential wider community.
Working business operations, including providing jobs, impact of our entire value chain on our together with local people for sourcing locally, and paying local duties.
This is continuing as our business grows around the world.
Today, our However, creating wealth in a lasting way the benefit of the societies and requires more: we must work with local people commitment to giving back helps us build economies where we operate to address development challenges such as relationships with our stakeholders, and directly supports our business strategy.
education and health, and advocate high builds trust with our stakeholders Three pillars define our approach to standards of governance in the communities and perpetuates the stable where we operate.
socio-economic development: operating environment we This work is only going to become more Local wealth creation contributing to economic development through business important as our presence in high growth need to succeed.
activities such as local hiring, local sourcing, markets increases: recent investments, namely in Turkey, Brazil and India, are shifting Diageos our tax contributions, and fostering an centre of gravity.
These markets represent enterprise culture Community investment establishing over40% of net sales today and are expected investment programmes that empower to represent 50% by 2015.
Contributing to economic and social development will individuals and communities, bolstered by become core to our business success and brand-led initiatives and charitable activity Advocacy and awareness harnessing the reputation in those regions, as it already is in power of consumers, and collaborating with the markets where our production footprint islong-standing and well-established.
other companies, governments, industry bodies, and non-governmental organisations NGOs to advance sustainable development.
Performance There are many ways that our business created wealth for its local communities this year.
A strong principle in this work is to engage Forexample: stakeholders to understand and address local interests and concerns and, where possible, We employed an average of 28,410 people work in partnership to solve complex in 2013, with 54.6% from high growth markets in Africa, Latin America and problems.
By doing so we ensure that we Caribbean, and Asia Pacific achieve the greatest impact from our investment in development programmes.
In Kenya, Ghana and Nigeria, we contributed Our community investment this year 6%, 3% and 0.7% respectively of the governments total tax receipts 0.9% of operating profit resulted in around We also create wealth through sourcing our 1million people getting better access to clean water and 25,307 students improving their core ingredients and packaging, for example vocational and other skills.
This year we have we purchase about 180,000 tonnes of grain from farmers in Africa, as discussed in the begun to emphasise women in our skills sustainable agriculture section of this report development work.
In Asia for example, 9,000 women participated in programmes specifically Some of our subsidiaries are publicly listed designed for them.
Beyond community on local stock exchanges, where investors receive dividend payments and potential investment, our business contributed to local capital growth: in total we have over 100,000 wealth creation in many ways.
One indicator that we track is local sourcing in Africa: this year local shareholders in high growth markets.
52% of our raw materials used in the region were sourced locally.
Performance against targets: local wealth creation Performance against targets Target by 2015 2013 performance Cumulative performance 2011-2013 Achievement Source 70% of raw materials used 1 52% N A Achieved Off track inAfrican operations from Africa 1.
Given that this number represents agricultural raw materials only, we are confident that, once we include all On track Not achieved raw materials in our reporting, we will be on track to achieve our target.
48 Diageo Sustainability & Responsibility Report 2013 About our business Approach and performance Impacts: Socio-economic development About this report Cash value added in 2013 Other Cash from income customers Diageo 218m 15,487m 6,539m 4,703m 1,453m 1,294m Suppliers Governments Retained invested for growth Employees More than 40% of our contribution Every year, our tax contribution This year we made a number of Recruiting, developing and retaining comes from buying raw materials, accounts for a significant proportion of acquisitions of brands, distribution local talent is one of the more direct logistics and transportation, the value we contribute to economies rights and equity interests in premium ways in which we can help develop packaging and marketing materials, around the world.
This year it amounted drinks businesses, particularly in high local communities.
This year we paid advertising and information services to about 30% of our total contribution, growth markets such as India and our employees 1,294 million, or 8% and business support from tens of including 4,054 million in alcohol taxes Brazil.
Such opportunities for growth of our total contribution, in salaries thousands of direct suppliers.
This year and 649 million in other taxes.
This benefit not only us as a company but and benefits.
our procurement spend increased represents an increase of almost 6% also the economies in which we do by 7% compared to last year.
Read more about changes Where possible and economically is made up of direct taxes including to our business this year in our 2013 appropriate, we source locally to corporation and local business taxes, Annual Report.
support local farmers, communities excise duties and other sales taxes such and economies.
Indirect taxes might include source 70% of our raw materials from income and corporate taxes paid by our the region by 2015.
At the moment, we employees and suppliers.
work with thousands of farmers across the continent and source 52% of our raw materials locally.
1,125m 538m 32m 21m Research and development Investors Lenders Community investment Regionally focused innovation helps We work hard to add long-term value Diageo is an active borrower in global We invested 32 million this year create local jobs and supports local for shareholders and are pleased to debt capital markets.
Investing in in community development that communities.
Guinness Ghana report that our total shareholder return Diageo debt instruments allows aimed to address local interests and Breweries, for example, launched Ruut continues to outperform the FTSE 100. investors to achieve attractive yields, needs.
In total, this amounted to Extra Premium beer, brewed from Diageo is committed to a sustainable while their capital is guaranteed by our 0.9% of our operating profit before locally sourced cassava which is a and progressive dividend policy and strong cash flow generation and sound exceptional items.
The this year recommended a further 9% business model.
This year, about 3% innovation is designed to benefit local increase in the annual dividend paid of our total contribution was paid farmers as well as produce a quality to shareholders.
We encourage our to lenders.
branded beer at a reasonable price for employees to become shareholders.
As at 30 June 2013, 16,788 past and present employees held 1.27% 2012 1.27% of Diageos ordinary issued share capital excluding treasury shares.
Impacts: Socio-economic development 49 Our focus on empowerment through skills, Community investment education, and enterprise embodies a 28,410 long-standing commitment to investing in We invest in long-term, activelyWe employed 28,410 people communities.
Our approach has evolved over managed programmes that help in 2013, with 54.6% from high the years, looking increasingly at our entire serve critical local needs, from access growth markets in Africa, Latin value chain from providing vocational skills to clean water to skills development, America and Caribbean, and in the hospitality industry in Latin America aiming to make a sustainable Asia Pacific and Asia, which you can read about below, difference to our communities.
toworking with smallholder farmers in Africa on increasing their yields, which you can read Our approach about in our supply chain section.
Building on the legacy of our brands We have begun to emphasise womens founders, among them John Walker and empowerment as part of this work, reflecting James Buchanan, who saw business sense feedback from NGOs and other stakeholders in protecting and investing in their own about the impacts of the alcohol industry communities, we focus our efforts on what on women, and the rise of womens will best serve local needs and where we empowerment as an issue on the global believe we can make most impact.
include: responsible drinking: access to clean Beyond these areas, we also contribute water: empowerment through skills, education to local charitable causes and disaster relief as and enterprise: and supporting local interests part of our community investment, particularly and infrastructure.
in regions where employees and operations Promoting responsible drinking is are directly affected.
These rely both on a significant aspect of our community employees from across the business giving investment, as detailed in the alcohol in their own time and money, and on society section.
So are our efforts on water, contributions from Diageo and the Diageo which is critical to our business and to local Foundation, a UK-registered charity.
Our Blueprint Water Framework, many of our brands run programmes to raise explained further in the water and funds for worthwhile causes, whether in environment section, focuses in part on response to natural disasters or to support improving water infrastructure and sanitation wider charitable campaigns.
in local communities where access to clean water is limited.
Community investment by type 000 Community investment by region 000 Management costs 1,007 North America 4,510 1 Asia Paci c 4,926 Responsible drinking projects charitable projects only 5,588 Latin America and Skills, education and Caribbean 6,537 enterprise 6,069 Africa, Eastern Europe Access to clean water 1,383 and Turkey 1,970 1 Local interests and infrastructure 18,075 2 Western Europe 14,178 1.
Note that investment shown in local interests and 1.
Investment shown for Asia Pacific includes infrastructure 8.4 million 2012 8.1 million to 1.7 million 2012: 1.5 million to The Thalidomide the Thalidomide Trust in the United Kingdom, and Foundation Ltd in Australia as explained in our 1.7 million 2012 1.5 million to The Thalidomide Thalidomide trust legacy commitment.
The Foundation Ltd as explained on page 52. contributions listed here are distinct from the litigation settlement achieved in July 2012 in Australia.
They also include total investment from Global Travel & Middle East.
Investment shown for Europe includes 8.4 million 2012: 8.1 million to the Thalidomide Trust in the United Kingdom.
Performance against target: community investment Target by 2013 2013 performance Achievement Contribute 1% of operating profit to charitable 0.9% causes every year 50 Diageo Sustainability & Responsibility Report 2013 About our business Approach and performance Impacts: Socio-economic development About this report Performance against target: access to clean water Water of Life 200 Target by 2013 2013 performance Achievement Improve access to safe drinking Approximately 1million Since 2006, Diageo has initiated water for 1 million people in Africa more than 200 Water of Life 1 every year until 2015 projects in 18 countries 1.
To better manage our programme, we have reworded this target to focus on annual performance.
Performance against target: Investing in skills, education and enterprise Learning for Life Target by 2016 2013 performance Cumulative performance 2008-2013 Achievement 88,910 Train 100,000 people through our 25,307 88,910 Learning for Life programme in 88,910 people have been trained Latin America and the Caribbean through our Learning for Life programme since its launch Access to clean water: Water of Life Learning for Life in 2008 Water of Life provides safe drinking water to Our Learning for Life programmes teach skills people who need it.
Since June 2006, we and provide training in bartending, tourism, have developed more than 200 projects in retailing, hospitality, and entrepreneurship, 18 countries, supporting initiatives including helping participants gain a real chance of boreholes, wells, rainwater harvesting and finding employment and becoming active domestic filtration devices.
We aim to develop contributors to their community.
a Water of Life community programme at each In 2013, we ran 59 programmes in production site in Africa by 2015.
As well as 30 countries, and trained 25,307 people, providing access to clean water, Water of Life bringing the numbers trained since the launch of Learning for Life five years ago to over projects aim to: Combine safe water with sanitation 88,000.
The programme spans our entire value Promote good hygiene and sanitation chain to maximise its impact.
In Colombia, Develop peoples skills and communities for example, Project Entrepreneur, which has been running since 2011, involves working ownership of projects Be self-financing, to ensure the upkeep of with bottle collecting cooperativas or equipment and technology.
associations of low-income families to help them operate their businesses more efficiently while acquiring an entrepreneurial vision.
In Most projects are co-funded with other organisations so that they benefit from both August, 300 Project Entrepreneurs graduated.
local knowledge and expertise in water Elsewhere, in Miami, 198 students graduated sustainability.
For example in Uganda, we from our Project Hospitality programme, which trains them for the hospitality and partnered with the government on a water system rehabilitation project at Jinja hospital, tourism sector.
In Nairobi, We are seeking to expand Learning we worked with the city council to invest in forLife beyond its traditional locations.
In Scotland, for example, we are developing water tanks and a piping system at the Kariobangi health centre.
Elsewhere, our pilot projects which we aim to launch within partners range from social enterprises on the the next two years.
We are also intensifying ground in Kenya, to NGOs, to multinational Learning for Lifes focus on the quality of training, identifying particular needs in local consumer goods companies.
Although most of our Water of Life job markets along with commercial links to our projects are in Africa, we have also launched business.
Ultimately, we want participants to Water of Life projects in Asia, including in be best placed to find a job and keep it.
In line with this, were conducting economic impact Malaysia, Vietnam, and Cambodia, which you can read about in our case study.
studies to measure the success of projects, beginning with Mexico, with the aim of Investing in skills, education, using the results to help us to enhance our programmes.
and enterprise We believe that developing new skills and providing education are important indicators of socio-economic development, and we have, historically, placed great emphasis on this in our local communities.
Another big priority for us is encouraging enterprise as a means of improving social mobility, particularly in high growth markets and increasingly among women.
Impacts: Socio-economic development 51 Plan W: Empowering women Supporting local interests and through learning infrastructure 6.4 million In December 2012, Diageo announced a Many of our brands and employees support We have pledged 6.4 million to 6.4 million strategy to empower 2 million local causes, from disaster relief efforts after the empower 2 million women in 17 women in 17 countries in Asia Pacific by 2017. earthquake in Chinas Sichuan province in April, countries in Asia Pacific by 2017 As we grow in that region, it becomes and the flooding in Australia, to events like the increasingly important to support local Great British Bike Ride, which raised 60,000 communities, particularly women who often for Help for Heroes, a charity that supports play pivotal roles there.
Plan W: Empowering wounded servicemen and women.
Read women through learning, aims to improve the more about our fundraising for social causes experience of women from many different in brand-led programmes opposite.
32.1 million backgrounds by helping them develop their Sometimes, an investment made to 32.1 million 0.9% of our skills through training.
benefit our operations also has a tangible operating profit went to our Building on existing community positive impact on our local communities.
community investment programmes which had womens In Nigeria, for example, we made a significant programmes this year empowerment components such as investment in the Lyoha road connecting our Champions for Change, described in last years production and distribution site to the main report, we have created Plan W to empower Lagos road networks, including asphalting women further in four ways: and gas pipe protection.
Our company strengthen our internal diversity policies and practices Thalidomide trust legacy commitment Our industry increase womens Our community investment figures include employability in the hospitality sector 8.4 million 2012: 8.1 million to the through training Thalidomide Trust and 1.7 million 2012: Our communities work with partners to 1.5million to The Thalidomide Foundation train women in marginalised communities Ltd in Australia, in support of a legacy to improve their prospects, and establish commitment.
Thalidomide is a drug which was programmes to support social distributed in the United Kingdom, Australia, entrepreneurs and New Zealand by the pharmaceutical Our consumers raise awareness through subsidiary of the Distillers Company Limited brand-led campaigns.
It was withdrawn after side-effects of thedrug on unborn children were discovered.
To date we have worked with CARE In 1986, Guinness acquired DCL and in International, an NGO specialising in gender 1997 merged with Grand Metropolitan to issues.
In Nepal, were working with CARE to becomeDiageo.
We therefore inherited this deliver skills-based training and seed funding commitment from DCL.
We are working with to marginalised women to start their own various thalidomide organisations, including businesses, while in Sri Lanka were training making contributions to the Thalidomide women to work in the hospitality industry.
Trustin the United Kingdom and to The Were also working with other partners in Thalidomide Australia Fixed Trust in Australia.
For example, in Thailand we are working with the NGO PDI Population and Development International, to address gender inequality in the rural village of Ban Kok Klang by generating income through farming, establishing loan funding, and training influential female community leaders who can help the programme reach a wider audience.
In Cambodia weve extended our partnership with Watershed, which you can read about in our case study.
In April we launched the Diageo Foundation Korea with a pledge to contribute 500,000 every year for the next five years.
In partnership with the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family, the foundation will support initiatives to empower marginalised women.
