Performance We have continued to gather and act on Food safety and quality To maintain the best-tasting, highest quality customer and consumer concerns through our consumer care lines and in-market companies, products and packaging, we constantly When a consumer drinks one measure our performance.
We record and we aim to respond to any concern within of our brands, it should be safe, defects any individual fault on a single five working days.
We are enhancing our product, that can be as small as a tiny tear on network for consumer care services in markets pleasurable, and produced to in Asia Pacific, Latin America, and Africa: and a label and incidents, which usually refer to the highest standard.
a defect that applies to a larger number of consumers can also reach Diageo through units.
While the majority of the defects that we their retailers or our website.
In total, this year Our approach report on here are found before our products we received and responded to 33 customer We aim to design and make products that are complaints per million units sold a unit being go to market, we also collect and respond to always safe for consumers to drink, and that complaints from customers and consumers one case of nine one-litre bottles, which meet their expectations in terms of taste, on any issue ofconcern to them.
primarily concerned taste, or leakage from consistency, and presentation.
By doing so we This year we recorded a 62% decrease in damaged containers.
protect consumers, our customers, and the total defects found before our products left our reputations of our brands and our business.
This includes a 76% reduction in critical All our products go through a full defects issues such as closure or cap damage, regulatory review before they are launched, or an illegible date code.
When defects such as This year we recorded no and although food safety legislation varies these occur, we respond by holding the stock from country to country, we maintain food safety incidents that and carrying out a full root-cause analysis to consistency through global quality standards resulted in a product recall.
designed to match or exceed local market These decreases are the result of quality regulations.
Our Global Quality Policy applies improvement programmes at all our sites.
We to all Diageo businesses.
We also apply relevant have seen encouraging progress, for example, quality standards to our third-party producers, from a programme designed to address the who are contracted to comply with them.
challenge of packaging defects in Africa.
Since Legal requirements for labelling vary from it was introduced in 2011, we have reduced country to country: wherever we operate, defects in Africa by 74%.
In North America, we wecomply with the local requirements and have invested in new packaging, coding, and include a drink responsibly reminder on each labelling equipment which has resulted in a of our bottles and cans, and a reference to 87% reduction in defects this year.
We have also built quality into the design We are pleased to report that we recorded phase of our innovation process, which has no food safety incidents in 2013 that resulted helped reduce defects: for example, we expect in a product recall.
We want to maintain this the redesigned labels for Johnnie Walker Red record and ensure that we always strive for the Label and Baileys Irish Cream to reduce minor highest quality for our products.
To this end, all defects by 42%.
our manufacturing sites have improvement plans in place and are working towards a goal of zero defects in four main ways.
We analyse the root causes of quality defects and create improvement plans to address them this has already resulted in asignificant reduction in total defects acrossDiageo.
We are improving our management systems by working towards certification toISO 9000 and FSC22000 at every site.
Thefirst site accredited was Bushmills, Northern Ireland, in December 2012.
Quality performance 2013 We continue to engage our employees Improvement on 2012 across the business to deliver right first Quality issue Description % reduction timequality.
1 Total defects Individual defects identified on 62 Were also building relationships with our isolated products customers through regular meetings to 1 Critical defects Unsafe or illegal defects 76 discuss their concerns.
For example, we 2, 3 Internal incidents When an incident is identified before the 30 havepiloted a new programme to develop product leaves our plant customer feedback in North America 2, 3 External quality incidents When an incident is identified by customers 14 thisyear that has improved our quality or consumers performance through activities such as a Customer and Gathered through consumer care processes 9 consumer concerns quarterly scorecard review with each key customer where we share insights, highlight 1.
A defect refers to an individual fault on a single product unit.
We define a critical defect as something that is unsafe or illegal.
For example, an illegible product code is a critical defect.
areas for improvement and track progress.
An incident relates to an entire batch.
The possible causes of a quality incident vary, but might include: inconsistent taste: particles visible in the products: or incorrect labelling.
External quality incident: an incident that has resulted in a product recall from the customer.
78 Diageo Sustainability & Responsibility Report 2013 About our business Approach and performance Impacts: Our value chain About this report and GRI Case study In the fields around the central Ethiopian town of Sebeta, home of Ethiopia: the cradle Meta Abo Brewery, an exciting barley development programme is ofbarley underway.
If it succeeds, it could help improve the lives of thousands of small-scale farmers.
The high land around Sebeta is very suitable itskind in Ethiopia, and early signs are that for growing barley, an essential ingredient for it has the potential to tap a great source our beer business and a potential cash crop ofingredients.
that could make a significant difference to the After one year, the project yielded 225 lives of farmers and to the local economy.
tonnes of good quality barley, and we are Inpartnership with farmers, the Ethiopian confident that we can significantly improve Governments Agricultural Transformation the collective performance of all the projects Agency ATA, Oromia Bureau of Agriculture, partners as we build on what we have learnt and Technoserve, we are developing a scalable from the pilot.
farming project that aims to be commercially We have underlined our commitment viable, environmentally sustainable, and tothe project with a Letter of Intent, signed at socially inclusive.
the World Economic Forum in Davos, and the The project is based on building close project is in line with the commitment of the relationships with farmers and farmers G8 to support agricultural development co-operatives, and could eventually reach inEthiopia, and the growth and transformation thousands of smallholders.
Last year, 764 plan of the Ethiopian Government.
smallholder farmers took part in a pilot For more case studies from around the world, involving training and technical assistance, please visit http: srreport2013.
com finance, and the sharing of sustainable cultivation practices.
It is the first project of Case study Even when youve been a beloved brand for centuries, like Bushmills Bushmills leads the way Irish Whiskey, you should never stop looking for ways to improve onfood safety quality.
So when we began seeking a new food safety certification for every one of our manufacturing sites, our Old Bushmills distillery in Northern Ireland became the first to achieve it.
Consumer safety is always an essential focus for The audit began in October 2012, and our brands, so were continually on the look-out covered all operations including distilling, for ways to improve quality assurance.
This year warehousing, and bottling: accreditation was we began a programme to achieve food safety successfully achieved in December 2012.
The certification FSSC 22000 TS22002-1, an team held an open day for colleagues from international standard for food safety systems other sites across the region to share what they in the food manufacturing industry.
had learnt, and help them achieve the same At Old Bushmills, the team launched a high standard.
Implemented by Asked how they had got there, Site the existing food safety and quality team, led Director Gordon Donoghue commented: Its by Helen Mulholland, and backed by the whole all about safety, not food or health, but overall leadership team, it involved all employees safety.
It is at the heart of everything we do and in a one-day training session to build their is treated with the same degree of respect capability in food safety.
linked to our building manufacturing For more case studies from around the world, excellence programme which helped it gain please visit http: srreport2013.
com momentum and become part of the sites day-to-day ways of working.
