In the moment it takes to sip one of our drinks, Our value chain Our supply chain the consumer is making a connection: to thefarm, plantation or vineyard where the Making our operations more From the farmers who grow our ingredients for that drink were grown: to the sustainable is important, but raw materials to the businesses many suppliers of packaging, energy, raw materials, and labour, without whom we it isnot enough on its own.
who make our packaging, we could not create our brands: and to the shop Our brands rely on a long and invite our suppliers to be our or venue where the drink was bought.
That whole journey, from the field to the glass complex value chain that joins partners in providing locally and and beyond, is our value chain: it is our us with our suppliers, customers, sustainably sourced materials responsibility to ensure that at every link and consumers.
We share a which have apositive impact in that chain, our impacts on people, communities, and the natural world are as responsibility to make every link onthe communities and beneficial as possible.
environment in which we operate.
Our reputation, and the sustainability of our business model, depend on our ability to Our approach recognise and mitigate the potential risks Around 30,000 direct suppliers from more than along our value chain.
In this section, we report 100 countries provide us with the raw materials, on the work we are doing with three of the expertise and other resources which help most important links in that chain suppliers, us make great brands.
Many of those direct customers, and consumers.
suppliers themselves have an extensive supply chain, connecting us with thousands more Our supply chain farmers and businesses.
Our supplier network presents us with a great This network of direct and indirect opportunity: to co-operate with a diverse suppliers presents us with opportunities to group of farmers, businesses, and utilities on form partnerships based on ethical, social, the vital undertaking of making our business andenvironmental principles.
As a starting point, we set collaboration with our suppliers, other rigorous minimum standards in areas like consumer goods companies, and industry ethical business, human rights, environmental associations like AIM-PROGRESS, the Carbon sustainability, and health and safety.
Disclosure Project CDP, and the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange SEDEX, is the most Customers and consumers effective means of improving practice in our We produce more than 100 brands which are supply chain and in the industry as a whole.
enjoyed in more than 180 countries.
This gives While we engage with suppliers throughout us the opportunity to engage a large and our supply chain, our main focus is on working extremely diverse group of shoppers and with those with whom we have the most consumers, whose safety, health, and immediate relationships.
enjoyment are all central to our business.
Our work with suppliers is based on three Here you can read about food safety and core principles.
quality how we ensure our brands are Optimise due diligence: our due diligence produced to the highest standard.
Elsewhere processes are designed to help our suppliers in this report you can read about some of our improve their sustainability performance.
brand programmes that engage consumers While we have our own standards and with sustainability issues.
guidelines, we also work with industry Our customers are the retailers, hotels, associations like AIM-PROGRESS and SEDEX, restaurants or other venues that sell our brands, which provide collaborative platforms for and they are important partners in helping sharing supply chain ethical data in order usto encourage responsible drinking and toreduce duplication and the burden on reduce our environmental footprint shared suppliers.
covered elsewhere in this report.
Many of our Build capability: when we can, we help customers also look to Diageo to help them suppliers meet our standards by offering improve their own sustainability performance.
training to build their skills and capabilities.
Support local businesses: working with local suppliers is an important way in which we contribute to local economies, especially in high growth markets.
Performance against targets Achieved Off track On track Not achieved 74 Diageo Sustainability & Responsibility Report 2013 About our business Approach and performance Impacts: Our value chain About this report and GRI Managing our supply chain impacts Raw materials by volume 2013 With a network as wide and diverse as ours, 30,000 Wheat 14% work with suppliers inevitably takes many We work with around 30,000 Aniseed 1% forms.
However, we focus on three key impact direct suppliers from more than areas in our supply chain.
Raisins 1% 100 countries Responsible sourcing: managing the social Grapes 13% and ethical risks of our procurement.
Molasses 5% Sustainable agriculture and local sourcing: working with suppliers to ensure that our Sugar 5% raw materials are produced sustainably, Dairy 1% and, where possible, seeking suppliers local Cassava 1% to our operations who can meet our Weve created a new beer in Sorghum 4% procurement needs.
Ghana brewed with cassava, Carbon reduction, sustainable packaging, Maize 20% a sustainable local crop and environmental management: Hops 1% managing the carbon footprint of our Barley 36% supply chain through collaborative initiatives like the CDP, setting robust targets for the sustainability of the packaging Packaging materials by volume 2013 we use, and promoting environmental Labels and sleeves 1% management standards in our supply chain are all important in reducing our overall Corrugate 5% impact.
Our work in these areas is described Crowns 1% in the water and environment section of Cartons 2% thisreport.
Closures 1% What we buy Cans 1% We source goods and services from a wide PET 1% variety of businesses around the world, and our Glass 89% procurement systems depend on relationships with suppliers that are local, regional, and global.
Alignment with our sustainability and Where we buy responsibility standards, which include our While we source these materials from around Partnering with Suppliers standard, is among the world, we want to provide a sustainable many factors we assess in choosing our market for local raw materials by stimulating suppliers, alongside cost, quality, and service.
the development of local supply chains.
The goods and services we buy include: For example, in the United Kingdom and Marketing materials media, sponsorship Ireland, our largest production region by and other materials that promote our volume, we source up to 90% of our cereal brands at retail customers business sites supply locally.
In Africa, which is our largest and elsewhere region by production volume for beer, our Raw materials and utilities including ambition is to source 70% of all raw materials agricultural crops like barley, maize, locally by 2015 read more on page 77. sorghum, and sugar: and utilities, such as electricity and water used at our manufacturing sites and offices Information services and business support including consultants, travel, and other support services Packaging materials such as glass, paper, board, plastic, and aluminium Logistics the services for distributing our materials and products around the world.
This year, in total we spent 6.5 billion on supplied goods and services, which included 1.9 million tonnes of agricultural raw materials like barley and maize, and approximately 1 million tonnes of packaging.
