About our business Approach and performance Impacts: Our people About this report and GRI In April, two contract employees died at our Safety Accra brewery in Ghana.
One, a member of the 28,410 brewing team, entered a disused basement We all have the right to work in We employ 28,410 employees area and was overcome by a lack of oxygen: a safe environment.
In Diageo, our around the world the other was a member of site security who philosophy of Zero Harm is simple: went in to help.
Diageo does have a clear everyone goes home safe, every approach to confined space management day, everywhere.
covering all risks, procedures and emergency response plans: however, this tragic incident Our approach emphasises the importance of having robust 92% The safety of our people is our highest priority.
procedures for identifying confined spaces, 92% of employees took part Our Zero Harm programme is designed to including locations not traditionally considered in our annual Values Survey ensure that all our people go home safe, every as confined spaces, such as disused and day, and is based on four pillars prevention, redundant parts of the plant.
It is also a culture, compliance, and capability.
Our safety reminder to ourselves that we need to be model, followed at all our sites, is based on constantly vigilant about activities not directly strict health and safety controls, robust risk related to normal and official operations.
assessments, and a desire to improve safety Wemust ensure that all employees and 86% standards continuously.
contractors are fully aware of, and understand 86% of our employees believe the hazards represented by, confined spaces, Diageo contributes positively Performance and that they are familiar with specific to the Sustainability & Last year, we introduced the Severe and Fatal requirements for entry, including emergency Responsibility agenda Incident Prevention SFIP programme, response procedures.
specifically designed to identify and effectively The fourth fatality occurred in late June control the highest risks in our operations.
We at our glass facility in Kenya.
A contractor was are confident that this is the right approach and killed in a lift when he got trapped between have committed significant leadership and the door and the door frame on an upper floor.
capital resources to the programme.
However, As we published this report, the fatality was such an ambitious programme will take a still under investigation and the exact cause number of years to embed fully.
No fatality is unconfirmed: the preliminary review acceptable, and we are resolute in our confirmed that the lift was in working order ambition to eliminate them from our business.
and was up to date with statutory inspections.
We are deeply saddened to report that four colleagues were fatally injured at work this year.
In December, one of our Nigerian sales colleagues died in a traffic accident tragic proof that driving remains the biggest risk to our people.
We recognise that we have little control over significant driving risk factors such as road conditions or other drivers, but our approach focuses on elements we can control.
To date, our SFIP programme has significantly reduced employee road traffic accidents in Nigeria, and we will continue to work to prevent severe and fatal incidents.
Performance against target: safety Target by 2013 2013 performance Achievement Reduce our lost-time accident frequency 1 60% rate by 60% compared to a 2010 baseline 1.
Number of accidents per 1,000 employees and directly supervised contractors resulting in time lost from work of one day or more.
Number of accidents per 1,000 employees and directly supervised contractors resulting in time lost from work of one calendar day or more.
Due to organisational changes, comparable data for this period is not available.
Includes results from the Meta Abo Ethiopia acquisition this year for the first time.
The LTA rate of the pre-existing Diageo Africa business was 1.69 this year.
Includes results from the Mey ki Turkey acquisition this year for the first time.
The inclusion of these numbers had little impact on Diageos total rate.
Includes results from the Zacapa Guatemala acquisition this year for the first time.
The LTA rate of the pre-existing Diageo LAC business was nil this year.
Zacapa is showing a 60% improvement in its LTA rate since acquisition.
Includes results from the Sichuan Shuijingfang Co. Ltd China.
We are unable to break the number out due to local regulatory restrictions: however the inclusion of these numbers had little impact on Diageos total rate.
Number of days lost to accidents per 1,000 full-time employees 20102013 2010 2011 2012 2013 Diageo total 190.71 158.79 106.63 66.37 Lost-time accidents more to do.
Our business in South Africa had an Our overall safety performance is on track and excellent year with no LTAs for the second year compares favourably with that of our peers.
running, and our Nigeria sites achieved the This year, our LTA frequency rate had fallen by same.
Moreover, with the implementation of over 60% compared with our baseline set in SFIP this year, our independent contractors 2010, and we remain on track to reduce LTAs experienced a 40% reduction in LTAs.
Moreover, the However, even without the tragedy of the severity of LTAs measured by days lost as fatalities, our employee LTA performance in illustrated in the table has reduced even Africa was disappointing: our team there further, dropping by almost 40% since 2012. remains committed to improving next year, We have achieved this despite including and will do so by continuing to focus on SFIP.
results from our new acquisitions in Ethiopia, Our North American business continues Turkey, China, and Guatemala, where safety to deliver exceptional improvement.
Of programmes have not as yet been brought particular note was our Amherstburg site in fully into line with Diageos.
Our existing Canada, which achieved more than one million business therefore performed ahead of target: hours worked without an LTA.
Overall, 75% of overall results were offset by the results of our manufacturing sites had no LTAs this year.
While we are pleased with our progress, In Africa, safety performance has not been our aim remains to have no accidents as positive as we aimed for, but within the anywhere.
Over the next 12 months we will results there are some highlights.
Meta Abo, focus on further embedding our SFIP and which has been included in our safety results behaviour-based safety programmes, as well this year for the first time, is showing a dramatic as working with our new acquisitions in improvement, with a reduction of over 60% in delivering Zero Harm.
However, with eight LTAs there is still 60 Diageo Sustainability & Responsibility Report 2013
