About our business Approach and performance Impacts: Governance and ethics About this report and GRI Tax policy Code and policies At the end of 2012, we began one of our regular 1 reviews of our tax policy.
This coincided with Our Code and policies are not simply We brought our global risk, anincrease in the debate on international sets of rules: they are written to give internal controls and compliance corporate tax rules, including initiatives at the accessible and helpful guidance to agenda together into one team OECD, the European Union, and the United employees on how to bring our to provide an even stronger Nations.
Our updated global tax policy values to life every day.
framework for great corporate is broader in scope to ensure it covers the governance widest view of tax accountabilities as well as To create a culture of compliance and ethics, increased transparency for employees and itis essential that we make sure our people stakeholders concerning our approach to tax.
understand what is expected of them and how Our approach to tax, set out in our policy, they should behave.
Our Code of Business is based on six key principles: Conduct our Code sets the standard for what We are committed to the effective, balanced 9,600 is expected of everyone working at Diageo.
and active management of our tax affairs to We extended our annual All of our other policies and standards flow deliver our business strategy and to create certification of compliance from its principles.
sustainable shareholder value This year, the board mandated that from 3,220 to more than 9,600 We pursue open working relationships with managers this year alllower managers must join middle and all tax authorities and, as part of this aim, we seniormanagers in completing an annual adhere to a policy of disclosure to relevant certification of compliance to confirm their tax authorities in respect of all tax matters understanding of and adherence to our Code We conduct our business on sound and any applicable policies, and to identify any commercial principles and in doing so take areas of possible non-compliance.
account of all relevant costs, including tax We undertake tax management activities Code of Business Conduct incountries where we have manufacturing Our Code provides clear guidance on a operations, logistics, sales and marketing, number of areas, including: brand ownership and management, or a Our products marketing and innovation: significant corporate presence quality: international trade and free Transactions between Diageo subsidiaries zonesales are conducted on an arms-length basis Personal integrity conflicts of interest: according to appropriate transfer pricing insider trading rules and OECD principles: this ensures that Commercial integrity bribery, corruption, the groups global profits are properly and improper payments: competition and allocated to the jurisdictions in which those anti-trust: money laundering: accurate profits are generated reports and accounts Where appropriate, Diageo will express Employment health, safety, and security: views on the formulation of tax laws either discrimination and harassment: responsible directly or through trade associations and drinking similar bodies.
Company assets brand protection: information management and security: The policy also sets out guidelines for dataprivacy employees who are involved in, or whose External activity external actions impact the management of, Diageos communications: political activity: tax affairs.
The guidelines explain how to community and charitable giving: human ensure that Diageo complies with all relevant rights: environment.
It states that employees should act in a truthful and co-operative Our Code applies to everyone working for manner when dealing with tax authorities, Diageo worldwide, regardless of location, and that external organisations performing role, or level of seniority.
We expect those tax services for Diageo must act within the representing and acting on behalf of Diageo, principles of thepolicy.
including temporary and contract employees, To ensure that these guidelines are consultants, agents, and any other third party followed throughout the business, this year we acting in our name, to do so in accordance with made it compulsory for all employees in our the principles of our Code.
finance department to participate in training We expect all our suppliers to adhere to toimprove their understanding of how tax our Partnering with Suppliers standard, which applies in the business.
This included training includes the key principles from our Code that on transfer pricing, direct and indirect taxes, are applicable to them.
and the role our employees have in the reporting process and managing tax audits.
Impacts: Governance and ethics 67 Other policies New joiners Our Code is underpinned by a number of The estimated 3,693 employees who joined us 5,000 during the year were taken through a one-hour global policies covering specific areas of our Were training more than 5,000 activities in more detail.
We review our policy induction on compliance and ethics.
This is of our line managers in creating regime every year to ensure that we take the same for all, regardless of geography, role a culture of integrity account of any changes in our external or grade.
All new employees must do this induction within 30 days of joining: moreover, environment, and we update our policies accordingly.
Our global policies cover: they are expected to have a conversation Anti-corruption with their line manager about our Code and We aim to bring all our Anti-discrimination and human rights policies, and what is expected of them, within the first two weeks of joining the company.
Anti money laundering training to life through Brand assurance engaging workshops, Competition and antitrust communications and Corporate security competitions, taking the Data privacy words off the page and Employee alcohol into the culture of our Environment External communications workplaces.
Information management and security Marketing Occupational health and safety Quality Tax.
Training Building on the work we did to refresh our Code last year, for the past 12 months we havefocused on embedding its principles as well as our other policies through locally organised, risk-based training.
We aim to bring all our training to life through engaging workshops, communications, and competitions, taking the words off the page and into the culture of our workplaces.
Code training When an employee joins Diageo, he or she must attend training about our Code, which covers key areas including human rights and anti-corruption, and explains how to report breaches and where to get help and advice.
We give refresher training and updates as our standards evolve with changing regulation and best practice.
Some regions go beyond the basic training with annual events such as the Pathway of Pride programme in Africa, Asi soy, asi somos, sin excepcin in Latin America, and Ethics Day in Asia Pacific.
These events provide a forum for sharing experiences and promote ethical behaviour, with special workshops and activities that reflect the needs of the region.
Performance against target: training Target by 2013 2013 performance Achievement 100% of new joiners completing Code of Business Conduct 1 75% training on induction within 30 days 1.
This number reflects only those enrolled on the elearning programme: it does not include those trained in face-to-face sessions in several of our markets, and our Supply team.
