Values Survey results 2013 Our talent Movement Favourable from last year 1 Diageo is serious about its people, responses % % serious about investing in them.
Values Our Talent Story Passionate about customers and consumers 85 Freedom to succeed 79 -1 Our approach Proud of what we do 83 We want our people to feel excited and Be the best 73 engaged about working with us.
We are Valuing each other 73 committed to investing in their success, for Engagement indicators their benefit and for that of our business.
Our Engagement 85 -1 aim is to create a diverse, global workforce who 2 Leadership index 74 feel inspired to deliver brilliant results, and who Super-engagement 41 1 are strongly aligned to the aims of the business.
To achieve that vision, we have developed 1.
The percentage of respondents who selected the two most favourable responses typically strongly agree a rewards structure that recognises and agree.
performance: we have a career development 2.
As a significant driver of engagement, we measure leadership as part of the Values Survey.
The Leadership process that harnesses talent and rewards Index pulls together all of the key survey items that relate to My manager.
personal growth: and we have built the values of our business into everything we do, A culture that inspires ethical behaviour: Leadership training measuring them through our annual Values as described in the governance and ethics As our business grows, we need to ensure that Survey, run by external provider, Kenexa.
we have a pipeline of diverse, local talent ready section, this year we adapted two questions in this area, to give a better picture of how to fill our leadership roles.
We are constantly Performance employees feel about integrity within looking out for great people to hire and Our Values Survey helps us understand the Diageo.
The results showed that 85% of develop, providing them with the skills and extent to which our employees believe Diageo employees believed that their manager is support they need to lead our business and is living up to its values.
The feedback we committed to high standards of ethical be the best.
receive from the Survey helps us shape and business practices and conduct: while 84% The Diageo Leadership Performance develop our business 91% of the employees felt comfortable raising any concerns about Programme DLPP, launched in 2007, is our surveyed told us that they fully support the compliance and ethics.
values for which Diageo stands.
This year the This year the programme was refreshed to Survey included employees from our recently Developing talent align it with our new market structure and to acquired businesses, Mey ki in Turkey, Meta The cornerstone of our development initiatives place greater emphasis on coaching, and 257 Abo in Ethiopia, and Ypica in Brazil, and we is our Partners for Growth P4G performance new, or newly promoted, senior leaders were were therefore particularly pleased that our management programme.
All employees take invited to take part.
engagement level held up well at 85% overall.
part in P4G conversations with their managers, covering objectives, development plans, and Graduate training Sustainability and responsibility career aspirations.
The aim is to engage them This year we welcomed 126 graduate trainees Each year we ask a number of questions related with the business and with their own personal through regional early-career programmes in to sustainability and responsibility.
We believe leaders who really many of our markets and functions, reflecting brought these questions together to create know their people can better focus them on our desire to encourage local talent.
Our an Integrity Index to help us measure our strategic priorities and help them to feel valued.
management trainee programme in China performance in this area.
The results are shown was launched after a  below, and are broadly in line with last years.
Functional training and internship campaign with the prestigious Leadership in the responsible drinking Fu Dan University in Shanghai.
Nine candidates Functional excellence is vital, and we agenda: 91% of people thought that encourage our teams to keep developing were successful in joining Diageo from more Diageo was effective in promoting skills in their own professional field.
online learning and development tool, the Contribution to local communities: 81% Diageo Academy, allows employees to access felt that Diageo made a real contribution to development materials or to book places on the communities in which we operate.
classroom training events in their own markets Contribution to environmental and languages.
The Academy is also the sustainability: 86% agreed that Diageo pathway to both leadership and functional was environmentally responsible.
training resources, and provides access to Diversity and inclusion: 88% said people programmes such as iDevelop, a global can be themselves, regardless of their functional capability assessment and ethnic background, gender, or style.
62 Diageo Sustainability & Responsibility Report 2013 About our business Approach and performance Impacts: Our people About this report and GRI Mid-career training Share ownership Human rights Our mid-career regional programmes have We encourage all our businesses to operate We have a responsibility to respect human been developed to motivate middle managers employee share plans.
In 2013, 34 countries rights, and that starts with the rights of our and build their capability for leadership for operated an all-employee share plan, the employees.
Everyone has the right to expect example, our 12-month pan-African Growing majority of which participated in Diageos their basic human identity and dignity to be Leaders Programme GLP is designed for International Sharematch Plan.
As of 30 June fully respected in the workplace.
We have high-potential, mid-career talent from across 2013, 16,788 past and present employees held outlined our approach in our policies and the region.
In total, 483 managers across 1.27% 2012: 1.27% of Diageos ordinary share guidelines, including our Human Rights Diageo took part in mid-career programmes capital excluding treasury shares.
 policy, and we will this year.
continue to demonstrate our commitment Recognition through our activities.
Reward and recognition We recognise the achievements of our We work to ensure that we do not infringe Diageos reward and recognition strategy employees in every market, using a variety of human rights ourselves, and that we are not reflects our diverse, inclusive and schemes which both celebrate good work in complicit with others in any abuse of rights.
Our reward its own right, and help to inspire and motivate We do not use forced or compulsory labour programmes are designed to attract, motivate us to be the best.
and we will not work with others who do: nor and retain talented people, to be engaging, Each market develops its own recognition will we employ children under the age of 16. and to reward, fairly and equitably, sustainable schemes, highlighting examples of living our We have a special responsibility to protect and responsible performance that is aligned values, innovation, excellence in customer employees under 18, and ensure that their with our values.
service, and ideas or activities which interests are promoted.
We aim to ensure that employees have encourage profitable growth.
For example, Our commitment to pay wages and their personal contribution recognised and the Asia Pacific Hero Awards celebrate benefits for a standard working week that rewarded, with the opportunity to share in the excellence in the areas of people, performance, meet, at a minimum, national legal standards, is companys success and receive benefits that relationships and reputation.
The awards an important element of the policy.
We believe meet their needs.
Among other reward ceremony takes place at the regional wages should be enough to give employees a schemes, we: leadership conference and recognises both bit extra as well as meeting basic needs.
Offer competitive base pay that reflects teams and individuals for their contributions the individuals skills and knowledge to the regions success.
SpeakUp Carry out pay reviews that recognise We actively promote the use of our personal performance Collective bargaining independent whistleblowing service, Offer annual incentive plans, rewarding We have a strong commitment to industrial SpeakUp you can read more about SpeakUp employees for achieving both business dialogue, and in 2013 more than 35% of our in our governance and ethics section.
and personal goals employees were covered by collective Provide all-employee share plans to bargaining agreements.
We aim to maintain encourage employees to connect with the regular, open dialogue with unions over issues business by participating as shareholders of common interest.
For example, in Illinois, Design benefit packages in accordance United States, our history of working in with local conditions and practices in every partnership with employee representative market these may include retirement group Local 3 Union to enable the site to benefits, healthcare benefits and flexible adaptto the changing needs of consumers, working arrangements.
contributed to the 64 million investment we made in the site this year.
We benchmark our packages externally toensure they are in line with the local market.
We ensure that all employees are rewarded in ways that meet, at a minimum, national legal standards, and should provide for basic needs and some discretionary spend.
Executive rewards Like those for all our employees, the rewards forour executive directors and senior leaders are .
Their personal performance is measured against individual business objectives that include non-financial measures such as conformity with our Code of Business Conduct and our sustainability Employee share schemes by year 20112013 and responsibility policies.
More information 2011 2012 2013 about executive rewards is available in the Countries operating schemes 31 31 34 directors remuneration report in our 2013 1 Employees holding shares 16,057 16,531 16,788 Annual Report.
1 Employees holding more than 1,000 shares 48.9% 45.1% 43.9% 1 Shares held by employees 32m 32m 32m 1.
Impacts: Our people 63 Case study Our Plan W programme aims to empower millions of women Empowering women worldwide.
In the Asia Pacific region, where we have committed in Asia 6.4 million to improve the prospects of 2 million women in 17 countries by 2017, Plan W got off to a great start through a launch in Singapore attended by some of the regions most dynamic female leaders.
Plan W is designed to address the fact that in Singapore, Malaysia and Indonesia.
Many more many of the high growth markets in which followed it through Livestream and Twitter.
we operate, women remain substantially Gilbert Ghostine, President, Diageo Asia Pacific, disadvantaged: and that, when women are said: We are very proud to launch Plan W to empowered, businesses perform better, support women and the development of communities improve their standard of living, communities all around Asia Pacific.
As we and economies are strengthened.
Plan W gives progress with this major initiative across the a new focus to our efforts to improve the region, we will look for more strategic partners diversity of our own business, deliver targeted who are equally committed to supporting skills training to women in the hospitality thiscause.
industry, work with strategic partners to train Through Plan W, we work with strategic women in marginalised communities, and partners including CARE International to raise awareness among consumers.
support improvements in literacy and In December 2012, we hosted a panel sanitation, and empower women to develop discussion in Singapore to unveil Plan W to the their own businesses by building their skills.
More than 150 women For more case studies from around the world, joined the discussion in person, including please visit http: srreport2013.
com Siobhan Hamilton, General Manager Diageo Case study We welcomed a number of new businesses to Diageo this year, New acquisitions achieve and our Zero Harm philosophy is already delivering great results over 60% reduction in in Guatemala and Ethiopia.
lost-time accidents in just one year When we acquired Meta Abo Brewery in reduction in LTAs this year.
Two significant January 2012, the sites safety performance changes led to this great result: implementing fell far short of Diageo standards.
A key part safe ways of working including a safer of the business integration planning was environment, better safety training therefore to get them to adopt our Zero and leadership communications: and Harm programme and fast.
Since then, strengthening the safety culture of employees, improvements have been spectacular, thanks contractors and visitors.
to the commitment of local leaders, a change Nonetheless, there is no room for in culture, and the general pace of change, complacency all our new businesses still had resulting in an impressive 60% reduction in some LTAs this year, so there is still work to be lost-time accidents LTAs.
However, within all teams there is a fantastic first for the business in Ethiopia strong commitment to a Zero Harm culture, their first ever six months without an LTA, and we will continue to focus on improving which we celebrated in October 2012. safety everywhere until we have eliminated all Our commitment to Zero Harm has accidents from our operations.
also transformed operations and working For more case studies from around the world, conditions in our new business in Guatemala, please visit http: srreport2013.
com which makes Zacapa rum, with a 60% 64 Diageo Sustainability & Responsibility Report 2013
