About our business Approach and performance Impacts: Our people About this report and GRI In the United Kingdom and Ireland, ahealth We encourage our Health and wellbeing surveillance programme protects employees employees to have a against work-related conditions.
Itprovides What makes Diageo different isour healthy and balanced assessments for new and expectant mothers, deliberate choice to focus on people.
Our local night workers, lone workers, and those Our Talent Story occupational health teams working at heights.
Since 2009, an annual offer a range of activities to Walking Challenge has encouraged employees Our approach to take 10,000 steps a day to increase their encourage everyone to be When our employees come to work we overall fitness and general wellbeing.
more aware and more in like towelcome the whole person, which control of their wellbeing.
means supporting both their physical and Combating HIV Aids their emotional wellbeing.
How we do this Since 2003 our operating companies across varies according to local needs and how Africa have adopted HIV and Aids workplace our employees access their healthcare.
education and prevention initiatives, and There is, however, one constant: that our provided treatment for employees and their employees understand the importance of families through the Live Life employee responsible drinking.
This includes: education and awareness programmes: peer coaching: Responsible drinking access to counselling and testing: healthy living Our global Employee Alcohol Policy makes and nutritional advice: and free anti-retroviral clear to all our people their responsibilities with drugs.
Uganda, for example, held an Aids regard to alcohol, and we promote responsible awareness week in December which included drinking through our DRINKiQ programme.
blood donation, health education and peer DRINKiQ has been designed to equip all educator training, and access to counselling ouremployees to act as ambassadors for and testing on site.
It provides them with the knowledge they need to make the right decisions and to encourage others to do the same.
Employees may attend workshops or explore the subject as part of their induction.
Diageo North America has also created a new online training tool, which was made available to all their employees this year.
Occupational health We encourage our employees to have a healthy and balanced lifestyle.
Our local occupational health teams offer a range of activities to encourage everyone to be more aware and more in control of their wellbeing.
These include providing health tips in newsletters such as those shared by our Kenyan team, and, from Diageo Singapore, offering yoga and pilates classes as well as advice on cooking and accessing health checks.
In North America, the Striding towards Wellness programme encourages regular health checks and raises awareness of common health issues, and in Northern Ireland, the You are Made of More initiative has promoted strategies for managing both physical and mental health.
