among those who misuse alcohol.
In countries Getting policy right with significant informal sectors, high taxes can 13 also have the unintended consequence of The industry advocates effective, Diageo is one of 13 leading global driving consumers into non-commercial, evidence-based regulation to producers of beer, wine, and spirits unregulated markets where beverage alcohol maintain a positive role for alcohol to sign a set of commitments to is untaxed and sometimes unsafe.
in society and to develop and target alcohol misuse over the next five years implement solutions to alcohol Minimum pricing misuse.
Setting a minimum legal price per unit for alcohol is advocated by some NGOs and some Our approach governments as a measure to tackle harmful The alcohol industry is already one of the most drinking.
Diageo strongly supports the highly regulated in the world.
As a responsible objective of trying to tackle alcohol misuse, but business, Diageo supports policies where we are concerned that minimum pricing is an Diageo supports alcohol they are evidence-based, account for drinking unproven measure which fails to address the interlocks that is, breathalysers patterns, target at-risk groups, treat all forms of underlying causes of problem drinking.
tostop a car from starting if the alcohol equally, and involve all stakeholders.
According to the Centre for Economics drivers blood alcohol level is That is why, in addition to arguing for and Business Research, the evidence shows above a certain limit for repeat effective industry-wide standards in that although minimum pricing may reduce drink drivers responsible marketing and selling, providing overall alcohol consumption, it will not helpful information for consumers, and significantly change the drinking habits of the supporting effective programmes to tackle heaviest drinkers.
Rather, minimum pricing alcohol misuse, we publicly advocate that would treat all drinkers the same and therefore governments should adopt a minimum penalise the overwhelming majority of adults legal purchasing age of not less than 18, and a who enjoy drinking alcohol, and who do so maximum blood alcohol concentration BAC in a legal and socially acceptable way, causing level for drivers of no more than 0.08mg.
harm neither to themselves nor to others.
We also support lower BACs for novice and commercial drivers, high-visibility enforcement Non-commercial alcohol of drink driving laws, and alcohol interlocks A serious unintended consequence of that is, breathalysers to stop a car from starting excessively high tax rates as a means of curbing if the drivers blood alcohol level is above a alcohol misuse is to exacerbate the problem of certain limit for repeat drink drivers.
According to the We oppose measures that are not WHO, at least 30% of all alcohol consumed evidence-based and that are likely to have around the world is unrecorded, including unintended consequences, such as the use home-produced, illicit, counterfeit, and of high taxes to control consumption.
It is unregulated, we fully support measures to tackle harmful untaxed, and sometimes unsafe.
drinking, high taxes are a blunt instrument.
According to WHO, consumption of They often have the most impact on moderate illicitly or informally produced alcohol could consumers rather than reducing demand have additional negative health consequences due to its higher ethanol content and potential contamination with toxic substances, such as methanol.
Where harmful non-commercial products are consumed in large quantities, they represent a serious social, economic, and public health challenge.
26 Diageo Sustainability & Responsibility Report 2013 About our business Approach and performance Impacts: Alcohol in society About this report A recent example of this occurred in 2012 in the European Union alcohol strategy Czech Republic, where bootlegged alcohol Diageo has long been an active and 154,000 constructive partner in support of EU action to mixed with lethal methanol resulted in at least Over 154, 000 people have 31 confirmed deaths and led to the temporary tackle alcohol misuse.
In 2006, the European trained with DRINKiQ, including suspension of the sale of all beverages over Union adopted a strategy on alcohol-related hospitality industry trainers, 20% alcohol by volume.
harm, and we welcome its continuing students, traffic police, bus drivers, operation.
As a member of the European We are working to understand better members of the lifestyle media the scope of the informal market and its Alcohol and Health Forum, which aims to and of sports clubs implications so that it can be addressed deliver the objectives of the strategy, we have through policy and programmes, in partnered with governments, local authorities, civil society, NGOs, and the academic accordance with the ICAP Global Actions.
This will enable a wide range of stakeholders community to tackle alcohol misuse.
We to combat the spread and consumption of regard the Forum as an essential platform to harmful non-commercial alcohol more demonstrate how to facilitate partnerships, We are the only spirits company improve dialogue, and share best practices effectively.
However, there are complex social in the world to disclose nutrition and economic factors, and developing policies towards our common goal.
information for all brands and interventions in this field requires better see www.
com enforcement, new approaches, and the engagement of all stakeholders.
UN strategies to reduce the harmful use of alcohol Endorsed by all member states in May 2010, the WHOs global strategy to reduce the harmful use of alcohol presented a menu of policy options and interventions to address alcohol misuse at a national level.
This strategy is becoming even more important as countries seek to reduce non-communicable diseases NCDs for which alcohol misuse is one of several risk factors.
In May 2013, the UN adopted a global framework with a target of reducing mortality from NCDs, including heart disease, cancer, and diabetes, by 25% by 2025, with many associated targets, including reducing harmful alcohol consumption by 10%.
We support the balanced and pragmatic approach addressed by the WHO global strategy and the UNs NCD framework and willwork with member states and our own stakeholders to achieve these goals.
Impacts: Alcohol in society 27 Membership of industry bodies We have helped establish many social aspects organisations SAOs industry-funded bodies that work with governments, the private sector, and NGOs to promote responsible drinking.
We also fund responsible drinking programmes through some of our trade associations.
A list of our SAOs and trade associations that run responsible drinking initiatives can be found in the table below.
Diageos memberships of SAOs and trade associations that run responsible drinking initiatives 2013 SAO Location Website DrinkWise Australia www.
dk Entreprise & Prvention France www.
ie Mature Enjoyment of Alcohol in Society MEAS Ireland www.
ie The Sense Group Malta www.
com Fundacin fide Investigaciones Sociales A. C. FISAC Mexico www.
mx STIVA The Netherlands www.
nl Romanian Forum for Responsible Drinking Romania www.
ro Industry Association for Responsible South Africa www.
co. za Alcohol Use ARA Fundacin Alcohol y Sociedad FAS Spain www.
org Taiwan Beverage Alcohol Forum TBAF Taiwan www.
tw Thai Foundation for Responsible Drinking TFRD Thailand www.
php The Portman Group United Kingdom www.
uk The Century Council United States www.
org Trade association Location Website SpiritsEUROPE EU www.
eu Federal Association of the German Spirits Industry and Importers BSI Germany www.
fide Hungarian Association for Responsible Alcohol Consumption HAFRAC Hungary www.
it Brewers Association of Japan Japan www.
jp english PPS Poland www.
html Korea Alcohol Research Foundation South Korea www.
se Distilled Spirits Council of the US United States www.
org 28 Diageo Sustainability & Responsibility Report 2013 A Ab b ou ou t ou t ou r b r b usu in si en ssess A Appr ppro oac ach h a and nd p pe er rf for orm ma anc nce e Im Imp p a ac cts ts: Alcohol in society A Ab bou out t t th hi is s r re ep por ort t Case study We want party-goers to enjoy themselves during the festive Croc Ultra Premium season New Years Eve should be a night to remember, not presents a safe drinking one to forget.
So for the biggest night of the year we asked our message to remember consumers to get creative with this important message.
As New Yorks Official Vodka of New Years Eve, away free taxi and subway travel to New Croc took seriously its responsibility as a brand Yorkers on New Years Eve for the fifth year to spread the message of responsible drinking, running.
Chosen in December by visitors to especially during the holidays.
com ciroc, the 30-second spot with Esquire magazine, we launched a social features a just-married couple in their wedding responsibility advertising contest, The Ultra clothes heading to the Manhattan riverside Premium Cut, to generate buzz among with a celebratory bottle of Croc vodka.
In the consumers, readers and aspiring film-makers.
final seconds the bride playfully tosses their car The prize?
The chance to create the next Croc keys into the water.
responsible drinking commercial, which aired For more case studies from around the world, on US national television on New Years Eve.
com The celebrity judging panel included New Years Eve ringleader Sean Diddy Combs along with Esquires Jack Essig, and Twilight film star Nikki Reed, who narrowed entries down to a shortlist of three young, fresh, and funky advertisements.
The winning entry, written and directed by independent filmmaker John Ryan Johnson, embodied the dont drink and drive theme, complementing Crocs safe rides campaign which gave Case study Combating alcohol misuse requires multiple partners working Responsible drinking together on strategic projects with a common goal of bringing in Mexico a social about societal change.
In Mexico, we have developed a movement on a mission programme to reduce underage and binge drinking, drink driving, for change and ultimately to develop a culture and attitude of responsibility.
The programme, Actuando Mejor, seeks universities through DRINKiQ sessions, to make changes around the responsible encouraging designated drivers, and providing consumption of alcohol and the service safe rides home.
and sale of alcohol products in the state We are also advocating a balanced of Queretaro, Mexico.
The programmes regulatory framework to provide a solid various initiatives have so far reached more foundation for our programmes.
we promote responsible marketing, Weve recruited NGOs, government enforcement of the legal purchasing age, authorities, educators, and hospitality and anddrink driving legislation, among other media companies as well as parents, regulatory measures.
retailers, and bars to implement measures A statistical evaluation is underway to designed to reduce drink driving and measure the results of the programme and will underage and excessive drinking.
We aim to be available next year.
achieve these changes by providing expertise For more case studies from around the world, and resources for training, law enforcement, please visit http: srreport2013.
For example, we are training bartenders and service staff at bars and clubs, deploying responsible drinking ambassadors at Impacts A : A bou lco th ou ol in s r buo sic n ie et sy s 29
