Water and the environment Restatement of baseline environmental data Reporting methodologies This section details Diageos environmental Diageo will restate environmental data for the reporting methodologies, and outlines the baseline year and intervening years to reflect For each of our impact areas, we basis ofcalculation for the following metrics: changes in the company that would otherwise have analysed the best way of Setting baseline data and targets compromise the accuracy, consistency, and measuring performance, andput Greenhouse gas GHG emissions relevance of the reported information.
inplace a system of measurement Water consumption Restatements are made in line with the appropriate to thesubject.
Wastewater polluting power as measured protocols defined by the WRI WBCSD Protocol, by biochemical oxygen demand BOD and the Beverage Industry Sector Guidance Here you will find an explanation of our Waste to landfill forGreenhouse Gas Emissions Reporting methodology for calculating our targets and Litres of packaged product version 2.0. other key information for each impact area.
The base year environmental impact data, and data for intervening years, are adjusted to Alcohol in society Setting baseline data and targets reflect acquisitions, divestments, updates to Here we detail the basis of calculation for the Environmental data is externally reported databases for CO equivalent CO eq emission 2 2 following metrics: onthe basis of our financial reporting year, factors, any errors in methodology and Setting baseline data and targets running from 1 July to 30 June.
Diageos calculations, and any significant changes in Compliance with the Diageo Marketing environmental reporting methodologies are reporting policy that result in a material change Code DMC reviewed and updated on an annual basis by to the baseline of more than 1% as advised Responsible drinking reminders on Diageos environmental leadership team and byindependent sources.
We will report above-the-line marketing material ratified by Diageos environmental executive acquisitions data as soon as practical, and Responsible drinking initiatives working group, chaired by the President of nolater than after we collate one full years Effective industry codes in place.
Diageo Global Supply and Procurement.
We will also restate data where we can show that structural changes regarding Setting baseline data and targets Reporting boundaries outsourcing and insourcing have an impact of Diageos alcohol in society targets were set Environmental data is collected and reported more than 1%.
in the financial year ended 30 June 2010. for all sites at which Diageo has full operational The environmental impacts attributed Progress against baseline data is not relevant, control, and as defined by the World Resources toDiageos fiscal year 2007 baseline were aseach target measures a point in time, ending Institute World Business Council for adjusted in accordance with guidance from 30June 2013.
Sustainable Development Greenhouse Gas the WRI WBCSD Protocol, and the Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and methodology independently approved.
Compliance with the Diageo Marketing Code Reporting Standard, Revised Edition WRI The protocol describes the need for Breaches are reported as an estimated WBCSD Protocol.
Diageo believes that, by companies to restate environmental impacts percentage of total marketing executions.
The including environmental data from all offices for consistent tracking over time when they calculation considers the number of internally and production sites under its operational undergo significant structural changes.
This reported breaches of the DMC as a percentage control, its environmental reporting will be isnecessary to make meaningful historical of the total number of marketing projects consistent with reporting on other operational comparisons: in other words, previous submitted through SmartApprove in the year activities.
Environmental data from joint emissions data is recalculated to compare ended 30 June 2013. ventures and associates where Diageo does likewith like.
not have full operational control has not been In fiscal year 2013, the environmental Responsible drinking reminders on included within the reported figures.
impacts for the base year 2007 and intervening above-the-line marketing material years were restated due to the acquisition of Technical regulatory managers in each region Baseline four businesses: Mey ki in Turkey, Meta Abo in performed a manual review and assessment Diageos baseline year was set as the financial Ethiopia, Zacapa in Guatemala, and of our active product listings to determine our year ended 30 June 2007, applies to all Shuijingfang in China.
compliance with our current Diageo Alcohol environmental targets with the exception of Additionally, where more up-to-date Beverage Information Policy, including packaging, which has a baseline of 30 June information on electricity emission factors is whether www.
com appeared on 2009, and has been prepared in accordance available, including revisions to International ourlabels.
Given our total number of global with the internal reporting guidelines and Energy Agency databases, the latest available stock-keeping units SKUs, while the results are calculation methodologies set out here.
not absolute, they are sound and accurately baseline data is used as the basis for calculating The base year environmental impacts reflect the current status of our brands.
progress against Diageos targets for GHG associated with acquisitions and bringing emissions, water consumption, BOD and waste production in house are principally Responsible drinking initiatives to landfill, first announced in September 2008. determined directly from the historical data Performance is based on internally reported The continued relevance of 2007 as the records for production volumes, energy, water initiatives through a network of corporate baseline year is reviewed on an annual basis.
consumption and waste generated for the relations leaders in each of our markets.
base year and intervening years.
In certain cases where historical data is unavailable, Effective industry codes in place the environmental impacts for the base year Performance is based on internally reported and intervening years are extrapolated from initiatives through a network of corporate current environmental impact data, based relations leaders in each of our markets and onproduction patterns.
84 Diageo Sustainability & Responsibility Report 2013 About our business Approach and performance Impacts About this report and GRI In the current financial year, the environmental Greenhouse gas GHG emissions Renewable low-carbon electricity impacts associated with acquisitions and GHG emissions data has been prepared in A number of sites have entered into contracts accordance with the WRI WBCSD Protocol.
in-sourcing increased Diageos base year for green tariffs or low-carbon tariffs for their environmental impacts bybetween 6% and Asummary of the key elements of this electricity supply.
The CO eq emissions from 2 8% for water and GHG emissions respectively.
standard and their application to Diageos these tariffs have been zero-rated where the The impacts of these increases on 2015 targets business is outlined below.
contract specifies that the supply onto site will be absorbed, and Diageo reaffirmed its is from a 100% low-carbon source such as commitment to 2015 targets this year.
Scope renewable or nuclear energy.
Otherwise we Scope 1 emissions i. e. direct GHG emissions use the suppliers CO eq emission factor.
2 Uncertainty and estimates from on-site energy consumption of fuel sources, such as gas, fuel oil and diesel, are While we make every effort to capture all Water consumption information as accurately as possible, it is reported for all sites where we have operational Diageo collects water consumption data neither feasible nor practical to measure all control.
Scope 2 emissions i. e. indirect GHG from the production sites over which it has data with absolute certainty.
Where we have emissions from purchased electricity and heat operational control, using internally developed is also reported for these sites.
Diageo does made estimates or exercised judgment, this is reporting guidelines based on the GRI highlighted within these reporting guidelines.
notfully report on its scope 3 emissions at methodology.
In addition to tracking total present.
Carbon dioxide emissions from the water usage, Diageo also collects information Target setting fermentation process are not included within to calculate water efficiency, meaning the our reported environmental data as these Diageo has set environmental targets based ratio of the amount ofwater required to on a baseline year of the financial year ended emissions are from a biological short cycle produce one litre of packaged product.
The year by which Diageo aims carbon source outside scopes 1, 2, and 3.
As part of its continuing progress, using toachieve these targets is defined as 2015. the World Resources Institute Aqueduct tool, Calculation methodology and data from the United Nations definition Reviewing our targets The GHG emissions data is externally reported ofwater-stressed, Diageo has designated 12 In 2008 Diageo set environmental targets in tonnes of CO equivalent CO eq.
CO eq is ofits production sites as being located in areas 2 2 2 based on baseline data from the financial year the measure used to compare the emissions which are water-stressed, identifying them as ended 30 June 2007, with the aim of achieving from various greenhouse gases based on their higher risk in terms of sustainable water supply.
Since setting these global warming potential GWP.
Each year we We define water wasted as water leaving a site targets and reporting our performance against also look at the GWP of minor sources of CO eq as process wastewater.
2 them, we have included acquisitions and reset such as hydrofluorocarbons HFCs.
However, our 2007 baseline data using the principles Calculation methodology for water consumption the quantities are minimal, approximately 500 of the WRI WBCSD Protocol.
Until 2011 these tonnes CO eq, and therefore fall below the Diageo uses internally developed reporting 2 acquisitions were relatively minor in terms materiality threshold.
guidelines which define the total quantity of of our overall impact on the environment: The GHG emissions data has been water used in production as water obtained typically less than 5%.
However, in 2011 the from groundwater, surface water, and mains calculated on the basis of measured energy company announced its intention to buy and fuel use, multiplied by the relevant CO eq supply less any clean water provided back to 2 several larger businesses.
Therefore in the conversion factors.
Fuel and energy use is local communities directly from a site.
Sustainability & Responsibility Report 2011 we based on direct measurement verified through Uncontaminated water abstracted and confirmed a review of the implications of these returned to the same source under local purchase invoices for the vast majority of our proposed acquisitions for our environmental sites 99%.
In certain limited instances 1%, consent, water abstracted from the sea, and reporting methodologies in terms of the total where invoices or meter readings are not rainwater collection are excluded from water volume of production and overall impact on available, it has been necessary to estimate usage data reported.
Water used for irrigation the environment.
This review was completed purposes on land under Diageos operational energy and fuel use.
All CO eq is reported in 2 in January 2012, and concluded that there metric tonnes.
control is not currently included in Diageos would be no change to the environmental The most reliable and up-to-date total, since it does not influence water use reporting methodologies and that we would emissions factors, which are reviewed on an efficiency within our production operations.
continue to incorporate these new acquisitions Itis our intention to complete a comprehensive annual basis, are used to convert energy use in our 2007 baseline with no change to our toCO including: review of irrigation water use, including 2 2015 environmental targets.
kWh CO eq factor provided by energy establishing a robust methodology, to quantify 2 However, given the scale of the suppliers where a contract is in place with use on land under Diageos operational control investment in United Spirits Limited USL in in order to determine materiality and impacts.
respect to the energy supplied to the India, Diageo will review the environmental relevant site The findings from this review will be reflected impacts associated with this business during Relevant conversion factors to the country in future reporting.
All water use is reported in 2014 and reassess the implications and our of operation for example, national cubic metres.
approach to our environmental strategy and conversion factors supplied by the relevant future targets.
government International Energy Agency 2012 conversion factors.
About this report and GRI 85 Wastewater polluting power as measured Calculation methodology for production figures Setting baseline data and targets Baselines differ for each metric.
Our Water of bybiochemical oxygen demand Our calculation of litres of product packaged includes the total litres of product packaged Life targets were set in the year ended 30 June Much of the water used in brewing, distilling and beverage packaging facilities is used for which enter a finished goods warehouse at 2007.
Cumulative performance records activity cleaning process equipment, and such water operationally controlled sites, together with between 1 July 2006 and 30 June 2013.
Our Learning for Life target was set in the year becomes polluted with product residues.
any product sent to a third party for packaging i. e. a non-controlled site.
Damaged product ended 30 June 2009, and beneficiaries are Thestrength of effluent is expressed as biochemical oxygen demand BOD or isnot included in these figures.
counted from 1 July 2008 to 30 June 2013. chemical oxygen demand COD.
BOD is Ourcommunity investment target is set each financial year as a percentage of operating adirect measure of the polluting strength Sustainable packaging Diageo monitors and assesses the type and profit before exceptional items.
ofeffluent, and quantifies the oxidisable organicmatter present in the wastewater volume of packaging used and the alternatives oreffluent stream.
available to ensure our brands are delivered Plan W We measure four indicators of performance Diageo measures, reports, and controls tothe consumer with the smallest possible environmental footprint.
The methodology for Plan W programmes: number of women the polluting power of site effluent from its operationally controlled sites and reports the applying to sustainable packaging empowered: number of men engaged: final BOD load discharge to the environment, encompasses: number of indirect beneficiaries: and the broader indirect impact of the programme.
that is both directly controlled and treated by Pack weight third parties, consistent with international Recycled content Wehave developed an online survey tool methods and literature describing the Recyclability.
which each country team will fill in with the determination of BODimpacts.
The site results for each category next year.
effluent volume is determined from an on-site All sustainable packaging impacts are flow meter or calculated using a mass balance quantified and expressed in terms of weight: Water of Life beneficiaries formula, andvalidated through industry grams kgs: tonnes: or percentages.
Our implementation partners provide us with standard correlation coefficients.
Pack weight changes are determined by beneficiary data for each project.
To meet the criteria for a Water of Life programme, each The concentration BOD strength of the quantifying the weight reduction increase in effluent is determined from: grams and multiplying by the number of SKUs beneficiary should: On off site BOD analysis affected on an annualised basis.
Recycled Live within 2km of the water source, or 500m On off site COD analysis and applying content is determined by establishing the if in an urban area Be able to get his or her water from: industry or site specific correlation volume in grams kgs of non-virgin materials coefficient to convert to BOD used to generate the pack components, Piped water into a dwelling, plot or yard Third-party municipal treatment facility and adjusting for in-year changes to A public tap standpipe BOD data.
A tube well borehole Recyclability is expressed as a percentage, A protected dug well The final BOD load to the environment is determined by quantifying the weight of the A protected spring determined from the volume in cubic metres final pack deemed to be non-recyclable and Rainwater collection of site effluent multiplied by the BOD multiplying by the total annualised volume Water filtration and purification.
Having set targets against a 2009 concentration in mg l, and is expressed as thousands of tonnes.
baseline, we input regional packaging data We are aware that each partner has its own on each of our three metrics weight, recycled methodology and, with the help of an Waste to landfill content, and recyclability on a monthly basis.
independent organisation, we are conducting They are then consolidated and internally verified.
a review in an effort to improve the quality and Diageo records the type and quantity of all waste to landfill from across the production We have established a sustainable consistency of our data.
sites over which it has operational control packaging framework, implementation plan, using Diageos environmental reporting and targets to ensure that, where practical, Learning for Life beneficiaries our packaging has the smallest environmental Beneficiaries are defined as direct participants methodologies and GRI protocols.
Waste to landfill includes hazardous and nonfootprint consistent with the brand proposition, in Diageo-funded Learning for Life hazardous materials.
and our sustainable packaging team is working programmes from 1 July 2008 to 30 June 2013. to implement this throughout Diageo.
Community investment figures Calculation methodology for waste to landfill The definition of waste to landfill includes Socio-economic development Community investment includes contributions all hazardous waste and all unwanted or Here we explain the basis of calculation for: in the form of cash, in-kind donations or employee time from Diageo plc and the discarded material produced in solid, sludge Setting baseline data and targets Plan W Diageo Foundation.
It includes contributions orliquid form.
This includes all refuse, garbage, construction debris, treatment and process Water of Life beneficiaries to charitable entities, non-branded responsible sludges, and materials that a site has been Learning for Life beneficiaries drinking programmes that benefit charities, and management costs associated with the unable to reclaim, reuse, or recover.
All waste Community investment figures.
We use the principles of tolandfill is reported in metric tonnes.
the London Benchmarking Group, which we Litres of packaged product helped pioneer in 1994, to measure our community investment.
To calculate efficiency ratios, Diageo uses Cash, in-kind donations, and employee litres of product packaged as the standard measure for comparison, as this measures time contributions are recorded through the environmental impact associated with anannual survey of local markets around theworld.
the production of our products.
86 Diageo Sustainability & Responsibility Report 2013 About our business Approach and performance Impacts About this report and GRI Our people Women in senior management positions SpeakUp Here we explain the basis of calculation for: Gender data has been provided at market level Our SpeakUp whistleblowing line is advertised across our markets.
Calls that come in are Setting baseline data and targets by human resources systems and teams.
Employee profile data tracked by an external party and picked up Lost-time accident frequency rate Super-engagement results bythe global risk and compliance team.
All Fatalities Data is collected from an annual survey sent investigations are monitored by our corporate security team who track length of time and Women in senior management positions to all employees and administered by Kenexa, Super-engagement results.
one of the worlds largest employee survey resolution on a case tracking system.
This year the data represented 92% Setting baseline data and targets of Diageos employee base, compared with Our value chain suppliers Here we explain the basis of calculation for: Baseline information differs between metrics.
Employee profile information and superSetting baseline data and targets engagement results are calculated annually, Governance and ethics Local sourcing in Africa and for this year, they were calculated at the Here we explain the basis of calculation for: SEDEX self-assurance Audits of highest-risk suppliers.
Lost-time accident Setting baseline data and targets frequency has a baseline of 30 June 2010, and Values Survey questions targets were set for the end of this financial year.
New joiners Setting baseline data and targets Annual certification of compliance All performance figures against targets are for the period from 1 July 2012 to 30 June 2013.
Total employee data comprises our average number of employees, and is captured globally Setting baseline data and targets Local sourcing in Africa through financial information systems.
Having completed the initial roll-out of our Our target is to source 70% of all our raw Regional data describes where employees materials locally in Africa by 2015.
Our definition Code of Business Conduct globally we have reside: this differs from the annual report which focused on ensuring the key elements of our of local raw materials is all materials within considers the department for which the programme are working effectively by Africa and used in our African operations to employee works.
Gender data is collected measuring four key performance indicators.
produce our brands: this includes raw materials selectively by region, provided at market level These were set out in July 2012 with a of both agricultural and non-agricultural origin.
by local human resource systems and teams.
Breakdowns in employee profiles gender, age, SEDEX self-assurance etc are calculated by using ratio analysis, Values Survey questions Self-assessment data is provided to us in reconciling information gathered from market Data is collected from an annual survey sent reports run from the Supplier Ethical Data level systems and the global financial system.
toall employees and administered by Kenexa, Exchange SEDEX, a not-for-profit organisation one of the worlds largest employee survey that enables global suppliers to share Lost-time accident LTA frequency rate providers.
This year the data represents 92% assessments and audits on ethical and The LTA frequency rate is defined as the of Diageos employee base, compared with responsible practices with their customers.
number of LTAs per 1,000 employees.
Their system includes the number of suppliers defined as any work-related incident resulting who have registered with Diageo, linked their in injury or illness where the individual is unable New joiners operating sites with ours, and then completed to work or where a job restriction is required.
All new starters are automatically enrolled in the self-assessment or any other performanceOur LTA numbers also include any work-related our Code of Business Conduct e-learning related data.
We compare these results with fatalities.
programme through Diageo Academy, which the total number of suppliers we have The assessment of lost time excludes the tracks global participation and responses.
identified as potentially high risk considering day the incident occurred, is based on calendar Inmarkets where access to the Academy is industry type, location, or association with days, and is made without regard to whether difficult, we carry out face-to-face training ourbrand.
or not the person was scheduled to work.
In line with industry best practice, we include Audits of highest-risk suppliers in our definition of an employee all temporary Annual certification of compliance Audits are conducted by independent staff and contractors who work under our We extended the annual certification of third-party auditing companies, trained to direct supervision.
compliance to include more levels of SEDEX Members Ethical Trade Audit protocols management this year.
This was administered or equivalent.
Of total audits, four were Fatalities through the global online training tool, Diageo requested directly by Diageo, and 130 were Fatalities include any employee work-related Academy, which holds a record of participation requested directly by others.
Those requested fatality or any work-related fatalities occurring and responses for all employees.
These are by others remain valid through the AIMPROGRESS mutual recognition process or to third parties and contractors while on then reported to market and function Diageos premises.
leadership teams, and reviewed by control, through adherence to our own audit compliance, and ethics managers.
All were accessed via the SEDEXplatform on which the supplier owns the audit data.
The second tier merchandising supplier audits were conducted either by independent third-party auditing companies, or by the merchandising suppliers internal audit teams.
About this report and GRI 87
