Governance Business review Directors report 89 The review of the business of the company and the description of Board of directors and The directors have pleasure in submitting their Annual Report the principal risks and uncertainties facing the company, prepared executive committee for the year ended 30 June 2013. in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, comprises the 91 following sections of the Annual Report: the Chief executives Directors remuneration report statement, the Year in review, the Business description and the Annual General Meeting Business review.
112 The AGM will be held at Hilton London Paddington Hotel, Corporate 146 Praed Street, London W2 1EE at 2.30pm on Thursday, governance report Corporate governance statement 19 September 2013.
122 The corporate governance statement, prepared in accordance Directors report with rule 7.2 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Disclosure and Dividends Transparency Rules, comprises the following sections of the Diageo paid an interim dividend of 18.10 pence per ordinary Annual Report: the Corporate Governance Report and the share on 8 April 2013.
The directors recommend a final dividend Additional information for shareholders.
of 29.30 pence per ordinary share.
Subject to approval by shareholders, the final dividend will be paid on 3 October 2013 Significant agreements change of control to ordinary shareholders on the register on 16 August 2013.
Payment to US ADR holders will be made on 8 October 2013.
The following significant agreements contain certain termination A dividend reinvestment plan, which enables ordinary and other rights for Diageos counterparties upon a change of shareholders to invest their dividends in ordinary shares, is control of the company.
available in respect of the final dividend and the plan notice Under the agreement governing the companys 34% date is 11 September 2013. investment in Mot Hennessy SNC MH and Mot Hennessy International SAS MHI, if a competitor as defined therein directly or indirectly takes control of the company which, for Directors these purposes, would occur if such competitor acquired more The directors of the company who served during the year are than 34% of the voting rights or equity interests in the company, shown in the section Board of directors and company secretary LVMH Mot Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA LVMH may require the and Executive committee above.
company to sell its shares in MH and MHI to LVMH.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all The master agreement governing the operation of the the directors retire by rotation at the AGM and offer themselves groups regional joint ventures with LVMH states that upon a forre-election, with the exception of Todd Stitzer and Paul Walsh change of control of the company being, for these purposes, both of whom will retire immediately after the AGM and will the acquisition by a third party of 30% or more of the issued share therefore not seek re-election.
The non-executive directors capital having voting rights in the company, LVMH may either proposed for re-election do not have service contracts.
appoint and remove the chairman of each joint venture entity Further details of directors contracts, remuneration and their governed by such master agreement, who shall be given a interests in the shares of the company at 30 June 2013 are given in casting vote, or require each joint venture entity to be wound up.
the directors remuneration report above.
The directors powers are determined by UK legislation andDiageos articles of association.
The directors may exercise all the companys powers provided that Diageos articles of association or applicable legislation do not stipulate that any powers must be exercised by the members.
Auditor KPMG LLP is proposed as statutory auditor of the company and aresolution for its appointment as auditor of the company will besubmitted to the AGM.
KPMG Audit Plc a fellow KPMG group company has instigated an orderly wind down of its business.
Disclosure of information to the auditor The directors who held office at the date of approval of this directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditor is unaware: and each director has taken all reasonable steps to ascertain any relevant audit information and to ensure that the companys auditor is aware of that information.
122 Diageo Annual Report 2013 Other information Other information relevant to the directors report may be found in the following sections of the Annual Report: Information Location in Annual Report Amendment of articles of association Additional information for shareholders Articles of association Charitable and political donations Corporate governance report Corporate citizenship Corporate governance report Directors appointment and powers Additional information for shareholders Articles of association Directors indemnities and compensation Directors remuneration report Employment policies Business description Business overview Employees Events since 30 June 2013 Financial statements note 30 Post balance sheet events Financial risk management Financial statements note 19 Financial instruments and risk management Future developments Business review Trend information Purchase of own shares Business review Liquidity and capital resources and Financial statements note 23 Share capital and reserves Principal activities of the company and its Financial statements Principal group companies subsidiary undertakings in the course of the year Research and development Business description Business overview Research and development Share capital structure, voting and other rights Additional information for shareholders Share capital and Articles of association Share capital employee share plan voting rights Financial statements note 29 Employee share compensation Shareholdings in the company Additional information for shareholders Share capital Supplier payment policies and performance Corporate governance report Sustainability and responsibility Business description Business overview Sustainability and responsibility The directors report of Diageo plc for the year ended 30 June 2013 comprises these pages and the sections of the Annual Report referred to under Directors, Business review, Corporate governance statement and Other information above, which are incorporated into the directors report by reference.
The directors report was approved by a duly appointed and authorised committee of the board of directors on 30 July 2013 and signed on its behalf by Paul Tunnacliffe, the Company Secretary.
Directors report 123 To launch The award-winning John walker & SonS odySSey, a 1930S STyle luxury yachT, Voyager, reimagined Johnnie walkerS epic ocean Voyage To The four cornerS of The world.
aT each porT, Voyager waS The SeTTing for a SerieS of iconic eVenTS ThaT combined heriTage ST wiTh 21 cenTury luxury To creaTe once-in-a-lifeTime experienceS.
Voyager docked in 18 porTS from Shanghai To edinburgh, hoSTed 4,000 people and TraVelled 16,120 nauTical mileS.
Financial statements 125 I ndependent auditors 128 Consolidated balance 131 Accounting policies of 184 Company balance sheet report to the members of sheet thegroup 185 Accounting policies of Diageo plc consolidated 129 Consolidated statement of 135 Notes to the consolidated thecompany 126 Consolidated income changes in equity financial statements 187 Notes to the company statement 130 Consolidated statement of 183 Independent auditors financial statements 190 Principal group companies 127 Consolidated statement of cash flows report to the members comprehensive income of Diageo plc company
