The luxury market in Brazil is growing at more months of the launch.
It was also supported Delighting our luxury than 20% a year, providing a great opportunity by proprietary parties in top Brazilian bars and consumers has driven for our reserve business.
To capitalise on this co-branded events with top luxury brands growth, we launched a new Croc campaign, such as Mercedes Benz and Tiffany & Co, which impressive growth, Live Vividly, building on the trend towards were attended by over 10,000 people.
The creating a 1 billion super premium spirits in the Brazilian vodka campaign has supported an increase in Croc market.
The campaign sought to build volume of over 60% this year and the brand business awareness of the brands personality, bringing is on track to distribute over 100,000 cases and it to life via Gil Inoues vibrant photography be recognised as the most frequently ordered which promoted a celebratory theme of super premium vodka in Brazil.
The more you enjoy life, the better you get at it.
The campaign attracted 30,000 additional fans on Crocs fan page within three #livevividly APRECIE COM MODERAO Talisker has enjoyed a strong year thanks to While the Ketel One brand has been celebrating This year, John Walker & Sons announced the appeal of the Made by the Sea marketing the art of the bartender for years, the brand also the launch of John Walker & Sons Odyssey, campaign.
Talisker is the only single malt wanted to celebrate the skills of the creative a rare triple malt whisky retailing at $1,000, Scotch whisky made by the sea on the shores community who share so many of the brands an important price point for international of the Isle of Skye and the campaign was values: quality, provenance, craftsmanship, spirits in Asia.
Odyssey was launched to designed to create a strong emotional innovation and a compelling story.
The commemorate the 80th anniversary of connection with consumers.
Using the challenge faced by the brand was how to one of Sir Alexander Walkers most famous distillery location as the lead, we created an combine these elements into a platform innovations a whisky decanter that identity building on the power of the ocean that would connect with consumers and moves to match the motion of the sea.
with evocative imagery of rugged coastlines bartenders.
In response, Ketel One launched The exquisitely designed packaging is a and crashing seas.
The recently launched a new marketing campaign The Modern modern re-interpretation of this iconic Talisker Storm innovation, a more intense Craft Project.
The project was designed to design.
It has been launched throughout expression of a famously intense whisky, communicate the brands core values to a Asia Pacific and is beginning to roll out has been well received by customers and targeted audience that share the same within retail trade.
The quality of John whisky experts in Western Europe.
Ketel One chose to run a competition Walker & Sons Odyssey has already been innovation is a flavour-led rather than age-led in collaboration with two major magazines, recognised by the award of a gold medal innovation, carefully created by the selection offering prize money for the winner to create at the prestigious International Wine and of mature whiskies at different ages from a craft project of their choice, from jewellery Spirits Competition IWSC.
to furniture-making, ceramics to millinery.
20 Diageo Annual Report 2013 Building on the success of our first Johnnie Walker House in Shanghai, we opened a second House in Beijing three times the size and the biggest Scotch whisky embassy outside Scotland.
Located in Chien Men 23, one of Chinas most significant historical East West meeting points, the Johnnie Walker House is perfectly placed to tell the brands story in China.
The design is inspired by stories from Scotch whisky distilleries and the Johnnie Walker legacy and heritage combining a bar, museum, retail outlet and an exclusive members club.
Providing the ultimate luxury space, our VIP patrons also have access to money-cantbuy services, tailor-made whiskies and priority access to premium dining experiences.
The Johnnie Walker House concept has been our most successful experiment in marketing and commercial innovation in Asia to date giving us a unique competitive advantage in China.
This year saw Johnnie Walker Platinum Labels first full year of marketing, following its launch in Asia last year.
The variant is inspired by the Walker familys historic tradition of creating exclusive private blends, for favoured customers, directors of the company and select private Awareness of the Zacapa gatherings.
Johnnie Walker brand is growing thanks to the Platinum Label volume creation of engaging consumer more than doubled in Asia experiences to support the Pacific this year, rapidly growth of the brand.
In Western gaining share in the fast Europe, consumers experience growing 18 year old the brand via a campaign segment.
In Vietnam, called Experience Alchemy.
The Johnnie Walker Platinum campaign includes a new smoky was the lead variant for serve which provides a dramatic Diageos sponsorship of visual illustration of the brand the Vodafone McLaren Ketel One has created a new cocktail trend with while enhancing the at table Mercedes Formula 1 its innovative new drink, the Copper Kettle tasting experience for the team.
In South Korea, it Serve, which is driving sales and visibility in over consumer.
Fragrant cinnamon or was at the centre of a new 15 markets globally.
Developed as a signature vanilla infused smoke surrounds advertising launch featuring serve for Ketel One by Marian Beke, one of the a serve of Zacapa XO under a female film star Kim So-yeon.
worlds most inventive bartenders, the Copper bespoke glass dome that is The campaign has led to Kettle Serve has been designed to celebrate released as the drink is served at significant growth in and reflect Ketel Ones unique taste and the customers table, creating Johnnie Walker Platinum heritage, as well as modern craftsmanship.
Label in South Korea this The hand-made kettle, in which the vodka The smoke signifies Zacapas year.
Johnnie Walker is served, reflects the original copper pot high-altitude maturation at the Platinum Label is now still Distilleerketel No.
1 that gives this House Above the Clouds in the available globally.
The Copper Kettle provides a volcanic Guatemalan Highlands.
theatrical cocktail experience that has driven This ritual has already driven a rate of sale by over 25% and allows bartenders 58% increase in the rate of sale in to demonstrate the craft of modern mixology certain bars in Italy and has been at its best.
translated into a multi-sensory tasting experience named Path of Alchemy in Italy and the Zacapa Room in other markets.
