Analysis by reporting segments The organic movements for volume, net sales, marketing spend and operating profit before exceptional items by reporting segment for the year ended 30 June 2013 were as follows: Net Marketing Operating Volume sales spend profit % % % % Organic growth by region North America 1 5 10 9 Western Europe 3 4 6 7 Africa, Eastern Europe and Turkey 4 10 16 10 Latin America and Caribbean 4 15 11 26 Asia Pacific 1 3 1 6 Diageo 1 5 5 8 Operating profit excluding exceptional items.
Including Corporate Corporate revenue and costs Net sales were 76 million in the year ended 30 June 2013, up 6 million compared to last year.
Net operating charges were 149 million in the year ended 30 June 2013 having been 165 million in the year ended 30 June 2012.
The reduction comprised a 10 million decrease in corporate costs, primarily due to a reduction in acquisition costs and a 6 million favourable exchange rate movements.
Business review 49 Diageos organic performance in North America, with volume 2013 up 1% and net sales up 5%, has been driven by our strength in North America US spirits which continues to benefit from positive demographics and the consumers wish to premiumise.
Great innovation, impactful marketing campaigns, and our superior route to market have resulted in 3% volume growth and 8% net sales growth in US spirits.
We have taken price increases across our entrants in flavoured beer.
Wine has had a brands, especially on our premium and super good year, benefiting from innovation and premium brands.
The strong performance of price increases.
Canada has delivered good growth through price increases, innovation, Crown Royal, Johnnie Walker, Buchanans, and Bulleit Bourbon, and double digit growth of and marketing investment in Tanqueray, our reserve brands, were the key contributors Crown Royal, and Baileys.
We have sustained our successful across North America enhanced our gross margin and with our continued focus on innovation pipeline and again we have 5 of the top 10 new launches in the United States, overheads we were able to increase marketing with Crown Royal Maple the number one investment while still delivering 120bpts of US innovation this year.
We have increased operating margin improvement marketing spend 11% on our US spirits brands and we now have on air campaigns for all our Larry Schwartz core brands.
DGUSA, in contrast, had a difficult President, Diageo North America year with increased competition from new Net sales in beer declined 1%.
Guinness Key highlights lost share in the United States as we lapped US spirits net sales grew 8% driven by a the introduction of Guinness Black Lager strong performance in North American and Red Stripe was affected by supply whiskey, scotch, and vodka.
Bulleit Bourbon contributed more than 45% Ready to drink net sales declined 10% as of the net sales growth following successful Smirnoff Ice faced increased competition innovations such as Crown Royal Maple from established beer brands.
Finished and Bulleit 10 year old which were launched this year.
Smirnoff delivered a Marketing investment was up 10% driven strong performance and grew net sales 6% by an increased investment behind strategic with the expansion of the confectionery line brands.
Increased spend of 24% on Johnnie and the launch of Smirnoff Kissed Caramel, Walker was focused on the My Label is Black Iced Cake and Root Beer Float.
Johnnie campaign which was designed to celebrate Walker increased net sales 14% driven by the the Hispanic community.
Successful strong performance of both Johnnie Walker campaigns included the Reign On campaign Black Label and Blue Label.
5ppts of positive for Crown Royal, the continuation of the price mix arose from price increases put Master of the Mix programme, featuring through across categories and positive mix a DJ competition on cable TV, sponsored by from premiumisation as net sales of the Smirnoff, and the Luck Be a Lady campaign reserve brands grew 9%.
Net sales growth for Croc featuring Sean Combs.
Increased in the fourth quarter benefited from the investment behind Bulleit Bourbon was shipment of a new Croc flavour which was focused on raising consumer awareness launched in July.
Canadas net sales growth of 8% was Price increases implemented across the driven by price increases across categories, portfolio and positive mix from the double successful innovation launches in whiskey, digit net sales growth of our super and ultra rum, and liqueurs, and the impact of premium brands drove 120bpts of organic increased marketing investment behind operating margin improvement.
Johnnie Walker, Crown Royal and Baileys as well as bulk whiskey sales.
50 Diageo Annual Report 2013 Performance 2012 Acquisitions Reported and Organic 2013 Reported restated Exchange disposals movement Reported movement Key financials million million million million million % Net sales 3,556 22 24 179 3,733 5 Marketing spend 547 6 18 50 585 7 Operating profit before exceptional items 1,360 14 3 113 1,484 9 Exceptional items 11 Operating profit 1,349 1,484 10 Diageo reported net sales of 267 million 2012 266 million from Jose Cuervo in North America.
Acquisitions and disposals are in respect of the year on year movement for Jose Cuervo, as a result of the termination of the distribution agreement, and for disposals made in the years ended 30 June 2013 and 30 June 2012.
The variance is primarily driven by the sales decline of Nuvo.
Organic Organic Reported volume net sales net sales movement movement movement % % % Key markets and categories: North America 1 5 5 US Spirits 3 8 7 DGUSA 7 6 6 Diageo Chateau & Estate Wines 1 3 4 Canada 8 7 Spirits 2 8 8 Beer 2 1 3 Wine 1 4 4 Ready to drink 10 10 11 The strategic brands: Johnnie Walker 5 12 13 Crown Royal 14 17 17 Buchanans 13 19 19 Smirnoff 2 5 6 Ketel One vodka 5 8 8 Croc 1 4 5 Captain Morgan 4 4 Baileys 4 7 8 Tanqueray 7 11 12 Guinness 2 1 Organic equals reported movement for volume except for Canada 1 %, beer 3 % ready to drink 12 %, and wine 0%, reflecting the disposals in North American wine and other disposals and the termination of the Jose Cuervo distribution agreement.
Spirits brands excluding ready to drink.
Business review 51 Western Europe continued to be a challenging trading 2013 environment.
Our Southern European markets and Ireland faced Western Europe another very tough year and net sales declined 11%.
Trading in Great Britain was resilient as double digit growth in reserve brands coupled with growth from innovation and improved performance from Smirnoff offset a 9% decline in ready to drink and a 3% decline in Guinness.
Benelux, and Germany and Austria grew net sales double digit mainly driven by the strong performance of our scotch and rum brands.
Marketing investment, while lower overall, to be an area of significant growth, up double was focused on the biggest opportunities digits.
Overall we are addressing the challenges primarily on our strategic brands, Captain we see in Southern Europe and Ireland and we Morgan and Tanqueray as well as on Guinness are capturing growth in the stronger markets which made share gains in the last quarter of Western Europe.
in Great Britain and Ireland.
We increased marketing investment on Croc, Ketel One John Kennedy vodka, Zacapa, and Johnnie Walker and President, Diageo Western Europe consequently reserve brands continued Iberia, Greece and Italy now represent Key highlights 3% of Diageos net sales after a number of In the stronger economies of Germany, years of tough trading.
In these Southern Austria, and Benelux double digit net European markets, volume declined 13% sales growth was delivered.
Germany and and net sales declined 15% as deeper Austria maintained strong momentum on austerity measures affected overall the back of increased marketing investment consumption and sales mix.
J&B and Baileys and expansion of the sales force in the off were impacted the most, declining 30% trade.
Captain Morgan and Smirnoff both and 18%, respectively.
grew volume and share while net sales of Captain Morgan was the best performing Mey kis brands in Germany, the largest brand in Western Europe with 15% net export market for raki, grew following sales growth primarily in Great Britain and increased marketing.
Germany driven by higher marketing In Great Britain, innovation and growth of investment.
Reserve continues to show reserve brands offset the impact of a weaker significant growth across Western Europe, beer market.
Innovations included Pimms with strong growth from the Malts portfolio, Blackberry & Elderflower and a further while Tanqueray performed well in Great range extension of pre-mix cans.
Growth Britain, Benelux, and Germany and gained in reserve was driven by the introduction share in the key gin market of Spain.
Guinness net sales declined 3%, In Western Europe, innovation plays an however in the last quarter Guinness increasingly important role.
Innovation is gained share as a result of increased focused on both sustaining prior year marketing investment.
launches, such as Captain Morgan in In Ireland, the beer market contracted Germany, and The Singleton in Northern across all channels due to the weak Europe, and on ensuring successful new economy, and Guinness declined 5%.
launches in this year, such as Pimms Limited However, as a result of increased Editions, Johnnie Walker Gold Label Reserve, investment, the brand has gained and Johnnie Walker Platinum Label.
share in the last quarter.
Net sales in Diageo Wines Europe declined Net sales in France declined 8% in a weak 10% in the financial year, mainly due to the trading environment and J&B lost share lapping of very strong En Primeur sales in the as promotional activity by competitors previous year, and the decision to exit from increased.
52 Diageo Annual Report 2013 Performance 2012 Acquisitions Reported and Organic 2013 Reported restated Exchange disposals movement Reported movement Key financials million million million million million % Net sales 2,345 36 1 90 2,220 5 Marketing spend 355 8 1 20 328 8 Operating profit before exceptional items 717 12 1 48 656 9 Exceptional items 43 31 Operating profit 760 625 18 Organic Organic Reported volume net sales net sales movement movement movement % % % Key market and categories: Western Europe 3 4 5 Spirits 2 3 4 Beer 6 5 7 Wine 13 7 7 Ready to drink 13 8 9 The strategic brands: Johnnie Walker 2 1 3 J&B 18 24 26 Smirnoff 2 1 2 Captain Morgan 17 15 13 Baileys 4 6 7 Guinness 5 3 4 Organic equals reported movement for volume except for spirits 1 % and ready to drink 14 %.
Business review 53 This year we are reporting Africa, Eastern Europe, and Turkey as 2013 a newly formed region, which is now Diageos second largest and Africa, Eastern Europe is the biggest contributor to net sales growth.
Net sales grew 10% andTurkey from strong performance of spirits and a robust performance of beer in Africa, where we grew net sales despite volume declines.
Our important spirits markets grew strongly responsibilities, driving down energy driven by Johnnie Walker in scotch and consumption, using local raw materials for Smirnoff in vodka.
Growing scotch is our beer production, and utilising returnable priority in spirits and I am pleased to see packaging.
Our marketing investment grew our strong share gains across the majority of 16% to support growth of well established our markets as we scaled up our marketing brands and bring new brands and variants to campaigns.
In Eastern Europe and Turkey emerging middle class consumers.
We have our focus is primarily on spirits, and Africa introduced innovation at scale delivering new remains the key opportunity for growing our packaging and fantastic products such as outstanding beer business, and expanding Ruut Extra in Ghana, which is Diageos first spirits.
In Africa, while the economic and beer brewed using cassava, Jebel grain spirit political situations vary and have impacted in Kenya, and Shark Tooth rum in Russia.
beer volume in certain markets, we are I am pleased with the progress we continue investing in beer capacity and building routes to make in building our brands and our to market to fuel long term growth.
We have organisation, and with these good results.
continued to invest in supply and production capacity in Nigeria, Kenya, Ghana, Cameroon, Nick Blazquez and the expansion of the Meta Abo Brewery President, Africa, Turkey, Russia, Central in Ethiopia.
We are also committed to our &Eastern Europe, Global Sales community and environmental Baileys increased visibility and promotions, Key highlights coupled with a new bottle launch.
Snapp, Africa, Eastern Europe and Turkey an apple flavoured ready to drink, targeting delivered 10% net sales growth, with spirits the female audience, performed well, net sales up 13% and beer net sales up 5% benefiting from marketing support, and therefore spirits have driven 59% of the strong distribution and launch events.
Volume in the East Africa delivered 10% net sales growth region was up 4% despite a challenging from 3% volume growth.
Beer net sales Africa beer market.
Ready to drink net sales increased by 9%, driven by beer brands in grew 32%, driven by Africa.
Guinness delivered 19% net sales Nigeria proved to be a challenging market driven by the Made of More advertising as consumer confidence was negatively campaign, and the Guinness Football impacted by low government spending Challenge promotion and grew margin as and the beer market continued to decline.
Tusker net sales Volume decreased 1%, however, net sales were up 13% largely because of favourable grew 5% as a result of 52% net sales growth price mix, and volume also grew due to in spirits and price mix in beer.
Beer volume strong marketing support through soccer decreased 4%, largely due to Harp and sponsorships and the Its Our Time Guinness, however Diageos beer business campaign.
Senator beer net sales grew 9% delivered net sales growth of 1% as the beer driven by growth of Senator Keg in Kenya, route to market was reinforced through and the introduction of Senator in Tanzania.
investment in Guinness distribution There was some weakness in local spirits, network and an increased sales force.
however, international spirits performed Malta Guinness delivered 15% net sales particularly well with Johnnie Walker growth following the introduction of Malta and Smirnoff delivering 22% and 24% Guinness Low Sugar last year, price increases, incremental net sales, respectively.
In spirits, Johnnie Walkers performance was delivered Walker net sales grew 63% and Baileys net through a mix of growth drivers, including sales were up 30%, as a result of increased building bar staff capability in premium distribution and marketing investment.
spirits, educational whisky events for Johnnie Walker spend was focused behind consumers, and on trade activations to outdoor advertising, the Keep Walking promote smaller-sized bottles.
Key drivers campaign, and event sponsorship while 54 Diageo Annual Report 2013 of Smirnoff growth were price increase and VAT 69 and J&B promotion campaigns.
The innovation, which is one of the key growth geographic mix.
Ready to drink net sales expansion of the Johnnie Walker Red Label drivers in the market.
Captain Morgan performed strongly with net sales growth were up 48% as Smirnoff Ice and Snapp Step Up campaign and the launch of the continued to grow.
Keep Walking campaign targeted at of over 30%, as did Bushmills.
emerging middle class consumers drove In Africa Regional Markets spirits growth Turkey net sales were up 8% while volume premiumisation.
As a result, Johnnie Walker was driven by Johnnie Walker which declined 4% driven by raki category, which net sales grew 31% and share increased.
delivered double digit increases in net was impacted by excise duty increases.
Yen In vodka, Smirnoff maintained last years salesacross all key markets.
Beer net sales Raki, which remains the most recognised performance trajectory and grew net sales were driven by price increases in Ghana, raki brand in Turkey, grew net sales 7% as 19%.
As pricing and value are key to growth Cameroon, and Seychelles.
In Ghana, beer aresult of price increases and better mix.
of spirits against local beer and brandy, benefited from the governments tax Johnnie Walker and Smirnoff grew net sales 500ml PET packaging was launched, concessions on products containing a double digit and gained share.
Johnnie following the successful introduction of majority of local raw materials.
This helped Walker Double Black, Johnnie Walker Gold the 200ml PET pack last year.
Smirnoff to offset supply constraints, such as water Label Reserve, Smirnoff Gold, and Croc introduced new flavours, Smirnoff Iced shortages and increased energy costs.
In were introduced to widen the range of Cake and Smirnoff Kissed Caramel.
Cameroon, growing competition from international brands.
Captain Morgan lagers and beer price increases impacted Russia and Eastern Europe delivered Spiced Gold was introduced to meet the volume.
Strong performance of Meta in 16% net sales growth.
Scotch contributed opportunity in cocktail consumption Ethiopia contributed to total beer net sales over half of this growth.
Marketing investment was focused maintained its leadership, posting its and supported new brand introductions, behind Johnnie Walker in spirits as well as biggest share gains in Poland, Bulgaria, as well as Johnnie Walker and Smirnoff.
Ruut Extra in Ghana, Malta Guinness in and Ukraine.
In the standard segment, Marketing investment in the region was up Cameroon, and Meta beer.
Bells and Black&White drove volume 16%, mainly driven by significant increases growth, recruiting emerging middle class South Africa delivered a strong on spirits brands, which were up 25% in consumers into the whisky category.
performance in spirits driving net sales Africa, 25% in Russia and Eastern Europe, Increased marketing investment was and 12% in Turkey.
In Africa marketing growth of 17%.
Scotch was the largest focused behind the strategic brands and contributor following national roll out of investment in beer grew 8%.
Performance 2012 Acquisitions Reported and Organic 2013 Reported restated Exchange disposals movement Reported movement Key financials million million million million million % Net sales 2,051 28 59 198 2,280 11 Marketing spend 232 6 3 36 265 14 Operating profit before exceptional items 575 12 31 60 654 14 Exceptional items 7 5 Operating profit 568 649 14 Organic Organic Reported volume net sales net sales movement movement movement % % % Key markets and categories: Africa, Eastern Europe and Turkey 4 10 11 Africa 3 9 8 Nigeria 1 5 6 East Africa 3 10 13 Africa Regional Markets 1 9 7 South Africa 14 17 5 Russia and Eastern Europe 14 16 14 Turkey 4 8 22 Spirits 8 13 14 Beer 1 5 6 Ready to drink 27 32 28 The strategic brands: Johnnie Walker 22 22 19 J&B 5 4 Smirnoff 8 19 11 Captain Morgan 17 19 12 Baileys 13 13 11 Guinness 2 2 1 Organic equals reported movement for volume except for: Africa, Eastern Europe and Turkey 7%, Africa 5%, Africa Regional Markets 5%, Turkey 9%, spirits 11%, beer 1%, reflecting the acquisition of Meta Abo and Mey Iki.
Business review 55 Our Latin America and Caribbean business has delivered another 2013 strong set of results.
Net sales grew 15%, driven by volume, price Latin America and and mix improvement.
Strong double digit growth in Venezuela, Caribbean Mexico, and West LAC offset a slowdown in Brazil, mostly due to destocking in the wholesale channel driven by a stricter enforcement of tax collections.
Scotch remains the growth engine of the region contributing 81% of overall net sales growth.
We have expanded our reach to emerging sales in the region.
Strong price mix enabled middle class consumers by investing strongly usto increase marketing investment and still in Johnnie Walker Red Label, Black&White and grow operating profit 26% with 300bpts of White Horse.
As we drive our premiumisation margin expansion.
Overall, despite some strategy, we have focused our marketing on headwinds in Brazil and volatility in Venezuela, super and ultra premium brands.
Our reserve these are long term, high-growth markets with brands grew net sales double digit, with favourable population demographics and we particularly strong performance of Johnnie are well positioned to capture these Walker Gold Label Reserve, Buchanans Special opportunities and consolidate our leadership Reserve, and Croc.
At the same time we have position in the region.
continued to invest in our route to market, particularly in Brazil and Mexico, and increased Randy Millian our focus on innovation which this year President, Diageo Latin America and Caribbean accounted for more than a tenth of the net in the premium segment, Old Parr grew Key highlights over20%.
In vodka, Diageo lost share to local Performance in Paraguay, Uruguay and competitors, however Smirnoff remains the Brazil PUB has been impacted by a category leader in Brazil.
slowdown in beverage alcohol in Brazil Performance in the Andean market was and declines in duty free in Paraguay and driven primarily by Venezuela where net sales Uruguay.
In Brazil, the government has increased 54% despite the political and made changes which have long term social economic instability which impacted the benefits, including the elimination of some availability of local brands, due to production tax incentives and increased enforcement of delays, and the restricted availability of inter-state taxes which led to destocking in imported products.
Scotch delivered over the wholesale channel, stricter enforcement 75% of Venezuelas growth mainly in the of drink driving laws, and the closure of outlets premium segment while double digit net due to the introduction of nightclub safety sales growth in rum, vodka, and gin also guidelines which impacted the on trade.
Three brands, Old Parr, In addition, Diageo has begun to implement Buchanans and Cacique delivered over two a dedicated distributor model, which will thirds of the net sales increase, growing 55%, reduce stock levels held by the distributors.
Gordons The realignment of distributors will continue Flavours, the first locally-produced gin flavour, into the next financial year which will also performed well.
The price of imported brands negatively impact sales.
The distributor increased by 80% to reflect the devaluation realignment led to improved distribution and high inflation.
Local products increased with an increase in the size of the sales teams 20%.
Despite these price increases, Diageo now focused on Diageos brands.
As a result, maintained its leading position in Venezuela, Diageos scotch brands outperformed the with a 57% share in scotch, 50% in rum, and category gaining 3.5ppts of share.
In standard 26% in imported vodka.
scotch, White Horse performed strongly and 56 Diageo Annual Report 2013 Diageo again delivered a strong strong performance.
Buchanans Master Old Parr and Johnnie Walker Black Label, performance in Mexico with volume up wasfocused on enhancing leadership in led the trend with 35% and 25% increases premium scotch.
Captain Morgan expanded in net sales, respectively.
The new Morning 14% and net sales up 18%.
Diageos strategy in Mexico is to grow the scotch category the reach to middle class consumers and Keep Walking campaign was launched where Diageo is the clear leader, drive Zacapa built Diageos position in rum.
with strong television communications premiumisation, and widen the reach to Implementation of an in-store execution throughout the region.
Additionally, the programme has increased share of shelf House of Walker Mentor programme was middle class consumers by expanding the portfolio through innovation and through anddisplay and the launch of a successful introduced and together with scotch festival increasing use of on trade platforms and strategic partnership programme with key activations drove the Johnnie Walker brand customer partnerships.
Diageos scotch wholesalers improved sales capabilities and performance.
In Argentina, government contributed to the stronggrowth.
restriction on imports resulted in low single brands grew 18% as Johnnie Walker Red Label grew share in standard scotch and digit top line growth during the year.
WestLAC is Diageos biggest market in the Johnnie Walker Black Label gained share in region and growth was driven by the strong premium scotch following the successful performance of scotch with a 17% net sales Keep Walking Mexico campaign.
Premium scotch, particularly Innovations were a key contributor to the Performance 2012 Acquisitions Reported and Organic 2013 Reported restated Exchange disposals movement Reported movement Key financials million million million million million % Net sales 1,239 26 62 182 1,457 18 Marketing spend 208 5 8 22 233 12 Operating profit before exceptional items 369 4 9 97 471 28 Exceptional items 2 Operating profit 367 471 28 Organic Organic Reported volume net sales net sales movement movement movement % % % Key markets and categories: Latin America and Caribbean 4 15 18 PUB 1 1 10 Andean 7 39 41 Mexico 14 18 21 WestLAC 2 12 10 Spirits 4 17 21 Beer 1 5 2 Wine 5 4 5 Ready to drink 6 4 The strategic brands: Johnnie Walker 6 11 9 Buchanans 10 26 27 Smirnoff 3 3 6 Baileys 8 1 1 Organic equals reported movement for volume except for: Latin America and Caribbean 35%, PUB 95%, spirits 39% reflecting the acquisition of Ypica: Andean 9%, beer 4% and ready to drink 0% reflecting restatements in the year.
Business review 57 Asia Pacific grew net sales 3% having faced a difficult trading 2013 environment in Korea and the duty free channel.
In Korea, the Asia Pacific traditional on trade channel has declined.
We have delivered a strong performance from Smirnoff and Guinness however these newer categories are not yet large enough to offset a 23% decline in Windsor and therefore net sales in Korea were down 17%.
Our travel retail business slowed due to softness in spend by Chinese travellers and destocking which will improve performance in the new fiscal year.
In the emerging markets of Asia, which now account for over 60% of net sales in the region, net sales were up 8%.
In South East Asia we continued to perform 2012 a new Johnnie Walker house opened in strongly with Johnnie Walker up 17% and Beijing, which at four times larger than the double digit growth of Guinness.
In China, Shanghai house is the worlds largest embassy despite weakness in the beverage alcohol for luxury scotch.
We also expanded our sector in the second half, we delivered 7% net regional footprint in the year with further sales growth with a very strong performance investment in Indonesia, Sri Lanka and Nepal.
from our super and ultra premium scotch The weakness in Korea and Asia duty free did brands which grew net sales 59% and gained have a negative impact on operating margin, 5ppts of share.
In Taiwan, Japan, Australia and however this was more than offset by the the Middle East we delivered good growth strong improvement in margin we achieved in mainly driven by the performance of our the emerging markets as we leveraged both scotch brands.
Scotch is the biggest category marketing and overheads, and in total in the region and the performance of our operating margin for the region improved scotch brands across the region accounted for by 60bpts.
more than 50% of our top line growth.
We have invested strongly behind our reserve Gilbert Ghostine brands which grew 17% and in December President, Diageo Asia Pacific Greater China delivered a solid performance Key highlights with volume up 1% and net sales up 8% South East Asia continued to deliver strong despite a difficult trading environment, and double digit net sales growth with 5% continued share gains across all markets.
volume growth and 9ppts of positive price Diageos China hub, which includes China, mix.
Johnnie Walker delivered a strong Hong Kong and Macau grew net sales 7% performance across all markets contributing with 8ppts of positive price mix largely due more than 60% of the top line growth.
Performance was particularly strong in Despite a slowdown in China in the second Thailand from both Johnnie Walker Red half, as a result of the anti-extravagance Label and Johnnie Walker Black Label and campaign launched by the government grew net sales 17%, gaining a further 1ppt in China, net sales in the super and ultra of share.
premium segments grew 44% driven by Guinness grew volume 8% and net sales Johnnie Walker and Windsor and share 13%.
Growth was particularly strong in increased by 5ppts in China.
Baileys net sales Indonesia with 19% net sales growth on the grew 30% and the Baileys Sisterhood back of successful marketing activities such campaign was launched in Shanghai, as Guinness Live Music, where consumers leveraging an existing local Sisterhood Day were offered the opportunity to vote for festival to create an off peak gifting occasion.
the best local band to represent Indonesia In Taiwan net sales grew 10% with 5ppts of in the global Guinness Arthurs Day positive price mix.
The strong momentum celebration in Dublin.
of The Singleton continued and with 37% net sales increase was the fastest growing single malt brand in the category, gaining 2ppts of share.
In the super premium segment Johnnie Walker Premier grew net sales 17% while Johnnie Walker XR 21 drove the 41% net sales growth in ultra premium.
58 Diageo Annual Report 2013 Indias net sales declined 2% and volume Australia grew net sales 3% despite a North Asia performance was impacted by 5% as stock in trade was reduced in the first volume decline of 4% mainly due to price the contraction of the traditional on trade increases across the core brands and a focus channel in Korea resulting in an overall quarter.
Diageos scotch brands grew net sales 3% helped by an increased investment on premiumisation.
The ultra premium 11%net sales decline.
While performance behind VAT 69 and Black & White which segment grew 22% overall with Croc and improved in the second half, net sales in Korea decreased 17% with Windsor losing delivered strong net sales and volume Ketel One vodka growing net sales 91% and 22%, respectively.
Net sales growth of 8% 3ppts of share due to price increases that growth and led to a 4ppts increase in the total Diageo scotch share.
In a declining was delivered in scotch, mainly driven by were not immediately followed in the vodka category, Smirnoff gained 0.5ppt of Dimple and Johnnie Walker Blue Label.
J&B, Guinness and Smirnoff grew net sales 30%.
Japan grew net sales 5% boosted share and grew net sales 1% with a volume Despite a volume decrease of 12% Smirnoff grew net sales 7% on the back of price by Johnnie Walker, which grew 34% helped decline of 6%.
The high stock in trade in the first quarter was the main driver for the 5% increases.
Increased marketing investment by the introduction of new variants such as decline of Johnnie Walkers net sales.
Despite behind Gordons and Tanqueray delivered Johnnie Walker Platinum Label, Johnnie Walker Gold Label Reserve, and Smirnoff Ice, these uncertainties depletions growth for solid growth in the gin category contributing 22% to the overall growth.
which grew net sales 30% and led the strong Johnnie Walker Black Label and Johnnie Walker Red Label was robust in the second Innovation launches of Bundaberg Select performance of the growing category of half of the year.
VAT and Master Distillers Collection ready to drink.
continued to play a key role in premiumising Global Travel Asia & Middle East net sales Marketing investment in the region the Bundaberg brand and contributing to declined 2%, mainly driven by the Asia duty decreased 1% mostly driven by a reduction 1% net sales growth.
Within the rum in spend in Korea.
Marketing on reserve free business where net sales declined 15% category Captain Morgan delivered with destocking among key customers.
brands increased 35% to drive excellent results growing net sales 85% Political tension between North and South premiumisation and it now accounts for by capitalising on the increasing popularity Korea negatively impacted passenger nearly 30% of the marketing investment in of spiced rums.
Ready to drink volume and the region.
In China marketing activities such trends in South Korea, the largest Johnnie net sales decreased 7% and 1% respectively Walker Blue Label market in travel retail and as Johnnie Walkers Blue Label 360 Tiger due to price increases taken during the year.
contributed to net sales declining 14% for aimed at highlighting brand rarity and the The higher duty compared to beer and cider the variant.
A strong performance from John Walker & Sons Odyssey launch on the continued to hinder the category and the Voyager yacht contributed to the net sales Croc and Ketel One vodka was unable to launch of new variants with lower ABV offset a decline in Smirnoff which resulted increase in the ultra premium segment.
helped to soften the decline.
Diageo ina decline of the vodka category of 1%.
Inthe faster growing markets such as Australia remains the category leader in Austerity measures implemented by the Southeast Asia, investment behind Johnnie scotch gaining a further 1.9ppts share during Walker grew 18% led by successful Chinese government led to a 33% net sales the year.
decline of Shui Jing Fang in duty free.
experiential marketing campaigns such MiddleEast grew net sales 10%.
The scotch asBlacklist and REDrevolution in Thailand, category delivered 15% net sales growth which saw Johnnie Walker Red Label sponsor the biggest music event in asJohnnie Walker Black Label and the expanded distribution of Johnnie Walker thecountry.
Double Black helped to deliver a combined net sales growth of 18% in the important premium segment.
Successful launches of Johnnie Walker XR 21, John Walker & Sons Odyssey and the Johnnie Walker Explorers Club Collection contributed to strengthen Diageo position in the ultra premium segment which grew net sales28%.
Business review 59 Performance 2012 Acquisitions Reported and Organic 2013 Reported restated Exchange disposals movement Reported movement Key financials million million million million million % Net sales 1,501 4 116 46 1,667 11 Marketing spend 343 5 27 5 370 8 Operating profit before exceptional items 342 11 40 21 414 21 Exceptional items 10 1 Operating profit 332 413 24 Organic Organic Reported volume net sales net sales movement movement movement % % % Key markets and categories: Asia Pacific 1 3 11 South East Asia 5 14 13 Greater China 1 8 75 India 5 2 7 Global Travel Asia and Middle East 1 2 2 Australia 4 3 4 North Asia 9 11 11 Spirits 1 3 14 Beer 3 9 7 Ready to drink 4 2 2 The strategic brands: Johnnie Walker 4 8 8 Windsor 20 21 19 Smirnoff 8 4 3 Baileys 3 8 9 Guinness 7 10 8 Organic equals reported movement for volume except for Asia Pacific 2%, Greater China 30% and spirits 1% due to the Shuijingfang acquisition and Australia 3 % due to the termination of the distribution contract for Jose Cuervo.
60 Diageo Annual Report 2013 Category review Organic Organic Reported volume net sales net sales movement movement movement Category performance % % % Spirits 2 7 9 Beer 2 2 1 Wine 9 Ready to drink 3 3 Total 1 5 6 Strategic brand performance Whisk e y: 5 10 9 Johnnie Walker 7 10 10 Crown Royal 14 17 17 J&B 12 15 17 Buchanans 11 25 26 Windsor 20 21 19 Bushmills 11 12 12 Vodka: 5 5 Smirnoff 1 4 3 Ketel One vodka 5 8 8 Croc 5 8 8 Rum: 1 5 5 Captain Morgan 5 7 7 Liqueurs: 1 2 Baileys 2 1 Tequila: 9 13 7 Gin: 3 8 7 Tanqueray 8 12 12 Beer: 2 2 1 Guinness 2 1 Organic equals reported movement for volume except for total 5%, spirits 7%, beer 1 %, wine 8 %, ready to drink 4 %, vodka 1%, tequila 6%, reflecting the Mey ki, Meta Abo, Ypica and Shuijingfang acquisitions and the termination of the distribution contract for Jose Cuervo and North American wine disposal.
Spirits represent 68% of Diageos net sales, and and super premium variants, namely investment of 8% was directed to the new generated 97% of the total net sales growth in Johnnie Walker Black Label, the roll out of Reign On consumer recruitment campaign, the year.
Johnnie Walker Platinum Label and Johnnie with significant media support across Walker Gold Label Reserve.
In Canada, Crown Royal is Whisk e y represents 36% of Diageos total net continues to be a key driver of growth.
growing share as it outpaces the Canadian sales and was up 10%, contributing 68% of Johnnie Walker Double Black is now sold whiskey category.
The launches of John J&B net sales declined 15% due to J&Bs contributed over half of total whiskey net sales.
Walker & Sons Odyssey and the Johnnie exposure to Southern Europe and the excise Scotch led whiskey growth, with net sales up Walker Explorers Club Collection have duty increases in France.
J&B delivered 13% 9% and volume up 4% driven by premium and received a strong positive response from net sales growth in South Africa, the brands super premium brands in faster growing markets.
Johnnie Walker third biggest market, with a strong on trade Johnnie Walker is now a 20 million 9 litre Red Label had strong momentum with promotional programme.
case brand, growing over 1 million cases this 8%net sales growth, as Africa continued Buchanans again delivered very strong year.
The emerging markets accounted for todeliver strong performance for the growth, with volume up 11% and net sales 80% of the total net sales growth.
In brandonthe back of investment and up 25% led by the Latin American markets.
developed markets, Johnnie Walker grew expanded distribution.
In North America it also delivered a strong net sales by 14% in the United States, while Crown Royal net sales grew 17% driven by performance, with volume up 13% targeting the economic challenges in Southern strong performance in its primary market, Latin American consumers.
In Latin America Europe continued to impact the brands North America.
Crown Royal Deluxe, and Caribbean Buchanans delivered 26% commercial performance in Western CrownRoyal Black, and Crown Royal Maple net sales growth: Venezuela and Mexico Europe.
From a variant perspective, the Finished, which was launched in the first drove this performance through the new brands performance is driven by premium half, all grew strongly.
Increased marketing Share Yourself campaign.
Another growth Business review 61 driver was Buchanans Master, which marketing investment.
In Western Europe, Zacapa delivered net sales growth in North performance was mixed by market.
In Great became the second largest scotch in America and Western Europe.
In emerging Venezuela and Mexico.
Buchanans Special Britain, Smirnoff benefited from Smirnoffs markets, the brand grew net sales double Reserve led the super premium segment in Worlds Best Drinks programme.
However, digit, driving the super premium and these key markets.
this was offset by destocking.
Ireland theultra premium segments of the rum remains tough due to the economic category.
Key growth drivers for the Windsor declined double digit both by environment, and in Germany, Smirnoff brandwere sampling, PR and consumer volume and net sales due to the downturn gained share.
In emerging markets, Smirnoff experiences along with bartender in the traditional on trade channel in Korea.
led the establishment of the vodka category programmes such as Diageo Reserve This was driven by a change in business with strong double digit net sales growth World Class.
entertainment activities, growing consumer inSouth Africa, Kenya and Ghana.
In Latin concerns over health and wellbeing, and Liqueurs, which represent 5% of Diageo net America and Caribbean, the brand was stronger local regulation of the whisky sales, grew 2% driven by growth in Baileys.
affected in Brazil by the economic industry.
Windsor has recovered share from Baileys delivered 2% net sales growth.
This slowdown, however, this was offset by the first half decline and remains the leading was driven by a global re-launch, supported strong performance in other Latin American scotch whisky in Korea.
by the new Cream with spirit campaign, countries.
In Asia Pacific, the brand also and the new pack, and retail design.
In the Bushmills grew volume 11% and net sales performed well in new vodka markets, United States, which accounts for more than 12%.
The brand grew in all regions with a particularly in Korea, Thailand, Indonesia a quarter of the brands net sales, Baileys particularly strong performance in Russia andJapan.
performed strongly with 9% net sales and Eastern Europe, growing 36%.
The Ketel One vodka had another good year, growth driven by the new advertising growth was driven by global and local growing both net sales and volume on the campaign and the launch of Baileys Bushmills Live marketing events and back of continued strong performance in Hazelnut.
In Western Europe Baileys expanded distribution.
Western Europe North America driven by pricing.
The brand declined 6%, driven by Great Britain, and continues to deliver single digit growth delivered double digit growth outside the Southern Europe: Germany and Austria, and inatough economic environment.
United States as distribution was expanded Ireland performed well and grew net sales Malts performed strongly, delivering 17% of to over 70 markets across the world.
Baileys continues net sales growth.
Talisker and The Singleton its growth trajectory in emerging markets, Croc sells over 2 million 9 litre cases.
In the grew net sales 30% and 36%, respectively with double digit net sales growth in Russia, United States growth was driven by Crocs with the launch of Talisker Storm and Africa and China.
base variant and the continued success of marketing investment in the impactful Croc Peach, the largest revenue generating Tequila, Don Julio, grew net sales 13% and Singleton Sensorium campaign.
innovation in the United States.
In its primary market, North Vodka delivered net sales growth of 5% and marketing investment increased double America, the brand maintained favourable constitutes 12% of total Diageo net sales.
Outside of the Unites States, Croc grew price mix and grew share.
The performance America, Diageos largest vodka market, strongly especially in Western Europe, Brazil, was driven by increased investment in remained flat by volume with net sales up 5%.
and in Global Travel Retail.
mentorship programmes, experiential Category performance was again driven by sampling in the on trade, public relations, and Rum grew 5%, with strong performances from super and ultra premium variants, with Croc above the line advertising.
Outside North Captain Morgan and Zacapa, and constitutes and Ketel One vodka leading the growth.
America, Don Julio continued to deliver strong 6% of total Diageo net sales.
Smirnoff net sales grew 4% building on last double digit net sales growth, especially in Asia Captain Morgan grew net sales 7% with years strength.
In North America, Smirnoff Pacific, and Africa, Eastern Europe and Turkey.
sales volume reaching 10 million cases this net sales were up 5%, driven by the United In these markets, the brand was driven by year.
The To Life, Love and Loot campaign States, the largest Smirnoff market, which experiential consumer events.
In Canada, inthe United States continued with new delivered 6% net sales growth.
Strong Western Europe, and Latin America, the key creative executions, featuring the legendary innovation launches including Smirnoff growth drivers were improved visibility, Captain Henry Morgan.
The brand also grew Confectionery and Smirnoff Sorbet Light mentorship and sampling programmes in the strongly in its newer markets of Western flavours added to the Smirnoff brand on trade, as well as strong execution of Don Europe, Eastern Europe, and Mexico, where performance, which was sustained by Julio in Diageo Reserve World Class.
the proven Keys to Adventure experiential events and Captain Morgan Starts the Party campaign, have continued to be key growth drivers.
62 Diageo Annual Report 2013 Gin grew net sales 8% and constitutes 3% of Wine net sales represent 4% of Diageos net Diageo total net sales.
sales and were flat following a decline of 7% of Tanqueray net sales increased 12%, with net sales in Western Europe and growth of 4% strong growth across all regions, driven by in North America.
the performance in the United States and continued growth in Western Europe.
Ready to drink represents 6% of Diageo net In the Unites States, Tanqueray returned sales, and were flat.
10% net sales decline in togrowth as the advertising campaign North America was offset by strong net sales Tonight We Tanqueray was amplified.
growth in Africa, which was driven by Increased marketing investment, combined innovations: Smirnoff Black Ice in Cameroon, with commercial focus and execution drove Smirnoff Double Black & Guarana in South strong brand awareness and sales.
An Africa, and Snapp in Kenya and Nigeria.
educational experience for bartenders was activated in 30 markets this financial year.
Outside the United States Tonight We Tanqueray campaign was rolled out supported by increased investment.
Gordons grew net sales 5% globally driven by growth in the emerging markets of Eastern Europe, Turkey, Latin America and Caribbean, and in South East Asia.
Beer represents 21% of Diageo net sales and delivered 2% net sales growth driven by emerging markets, which grew net sales 6%.
Volume declined 2%, principally in Western Europe.
Guinness net sales increased 1% while volume declined 2%.
Africa, the largest Guinness market by volume, delivered net sales growth of 2%, despite tough economic conditions in a number of African countries.
In Western Europe, net sales were down 3%driven by the beer market decline and economic uncertainty.
In Asia Pacific, Guinness delivered double digit growth, primarily in Indonesia, due to a combination of marketing, pricing, and strong commercial activations.
Marketing investment was focused behind the Made of More campaign in Western Europe and Africa, consumer participation programmes related to the Arthurs Day celebration in Dublin, rugby and football communication platforms, and the official broadcast partnership with the English Premier League in Africa.
