Year in review Once again, Diageo has emerged with distinction from a year marked by economic uncertainty and challenging trading conditions.
We have delivered good growth in sales and in profit.
The combined impact of these achievements allows us to increase our dividend and state with confidence that your business is in very robust health.
It is now clear that we are in an era of uneven performance, by geography and by category.
At the heart of this is the continuing fragility of consumer confidence in developed markets and its volatility in reaction to external events of our reserve brand collection which in the faster growing economies.
We been an honour to lead this wonderful should not be surprised by either of grew by 12%.
Much of the growth this year has these facts.
Our performance in North America particularly in US Spirits was been delivered by our increasingly well-honed ability to innovate through very good, reflecting the demonstrable signs of recovery in that economy.
the creation of new-to-world products and to renovate our existing brands.
However, that improvement does Paul S Walsh not apply to all sectors or in every part This was again a record year with 180 Advisor to the Chairman and the new product launches in more than of the continent.
In Western Europe, Chief Executive the position is even more polarised.
30 markets driving Diageo net sales growth of 671 million.
Although Western Europe continued to be a very challenging trading That ability to innovate and to do so speedily is a product of the agility and environment, we are able to offer consumers an affordable indulgence at reach we have built into the business in the past two or three years.
Our decision a time when they are deeply nervous about their present and their future.
to devolve increasing amounts of responsibility and decision making to In the faster growing economies, it was short term uncertainty which our 21 markets is crucial to this flexibility and to being increasingly fleet of foot.
Our Latin America region recorded excellent We will continue to push our organisation in that direction.
But some results, driven by a particularly strong performance in our Andean business.
elements are non-negotiable and that is most true of our commitment to the In Africa, growth markets were in East and South Africa, while in Asia Pacific highest standards of integrity and there was an excellent performance compliance with our global Code of Once again Diageo has by our operations in South East Asia.
In an increasingly carefully emerged with distinction Among our brands we saw the regulated market, these standards of from a year marked by continuing appeal of Johnnie Walker, integrity are critical to our ability to economic uncertainty now the worlds leading spirit marque do business.
and challenging trading as it grew double digit.
We also saw This is my last annual report, having conditions.
We have excellent growth in the wider whisk e y stepped down as Chief Executive on delivered good growth sector from Buchanans, Bushmills and 30 June 2013.
To my successor, Ivan in sales and in profit.
In addition, Tanqueray is Menezes, I wish the very best for the combined impact of these both leading, and benefiting from the future.
To my 28,000 colleagues around achievements allows us to global revival in gin and it is a particular the world, I can only express gratitude increase our dividend and pleasure for me to see this historic brand for the chance to learn from them and state with confidence that returning to success.
TEN work with them over the past 13 years.
your business is in very also contributed to the global success Finally, to you, our shareholders, it has robust health.
