Accessing new emerging middle class consumers is an exciting growth opportunity Our Master Brewers in Ghana created Ruut Extra Diageo has been experimenting technology enabled sons to this year, a refreshing beer made from cassava, with digital marketing for many create personalised video a local root.
This is Diageos first beer brewed years and it is our intent to be a messages for their fathers, using cassava and also holds the Diageo record pioneer in this area.
Fathers Day showing how much they cared for speed of development: eight weeks from is celebrated in many markets and putting Johnnie Walker at concept to commercialisation.
Its introduction around the world, but consumers the heart of a shared moment.
MORE Brazil heralded was made possible due to the Ghanaian spend 30% less on Fathers Day governments progressive policy on local raw than on Mothers Day.
a breakthrough in mobile materials, which has resulted in concessions Building on this opportunity, innovation that turns our on products containing a majority of local an innovative technology, MORE, products into a new, direct channel for communicating with ingredients.
This innovation is also supporting which transforms our bottles into Diageos ambition to increase the amount personalised, interactive digital our consumers.
It led to a 72% it sources locally in Africa, helping support media was introduced in Brazil this increase in sales in the two weeks agricultural development and benefiting year for Fathers Day.
Using a smart leading up to Fathers Day as the technology turned whisky into local smallholder farming communities.
phone and a unique QR code on each bottle of Johnnie Walker, the a cool and modern drink.
Mao Zedong acknowledged the power of growing consumer power.
Using an Asian saw Baileys collaborating with China Designer women when he said women hold up half edition of the global Cream with Spirit of the Year and founder of fashion brand the sky.
In China, a country dominated by advertisement, the Chinese campaign was Chictopia, Christine Lau, on a limited edition local Chinese white spirits, cognac and scotch, also brought to life using style experiences gift pack.
This was then amplified through no alcohol brand has previously marketed designed to drive trials of Baileys.
Sampling the line and endorsed by celebrities and key itself to the modern female consumer.
with Style featured a Drinkable Makeup influencers.
The results have been impressive With its delicious tasting liquid, aspirational concept that leveraged the beautiful and with Baileys net sales in Greater China up 30% empowered female positioning and success in aspirational design of cosmetics brands and for the year.
the more profitable off trade, Baileys is ideally used male models as ambassadors for the positioned to capitalise on Chinese womens brand.
Gifting with Flair for Sisterhood Day 18 Diageo Annual Report 2013 Thanks to our partnership with Live Nation, Madonna and Johnnie Walker came together in a unique and innovative marketing project to recognise and celebrate the economic progress of Brazil and the Brazilian people.
The project, which seeks to build brand awareness in Brazil, saw Johnnie Walker challenge street artists to create the cover design for a special edition Madonna single.
Finalists attended workshops with Madonnas creative team, where they produced their own record label covers.
37,000 people actively participated in the programme with 1.5 million fans voting for their favourite design.
Malta Guinness Low Sugar was A new Smirnoff bottle, launched developed this year in response in South Africa this year, has to the growing demand from helped the brand adapt to consumers across Nigeria for a great changing consumer lifestyles, tasting, lower sugar variant of the allowing people to enjoy Smirnoff nations number one malt drink to 1818 in a disposable, lightweight satisfy the desire to lead a healthier container.
Guinness Nigeria first innovation uses PET, a recyclable produced Malta Guinness in 1990 polyester based material used for and it is a purely Nigerian brand beverage, food and other liquid with over 80% of its raw materials containers.
Over the past 16 PET is an elegant premium looking years, it has grown to become the bottle that replaces the Smirnoff most loved and sought after malt 1818 200ml glass variant.
The Malta Guinness trademark achieved 5% volume growth globally and net work in tandem with Malta Jebel Special, a grain neutral spirit, sales growth of 16% this year.
Guinness in Nigeria and in Ghana, was launched in December 2012 As part of the launch of Malta in the Kenyan market, and Kenya, Cameroon, Uganda and Guinness Low Sugar, Guinness Tanzania.
Malta Guinness Low provides consumers with a high Nigeria agreed a three-year Sugar has also been sponsoring quality, affordable spirit brand.
partnership with Arsenal Football local marathons and other races, The brand is distributed through Club, to be the clubs Official Malt supporting the healthier lifestyle our Senator outlet network, and Drink in Nigeria.
The Gunners will focus of the malt drink.
in its first three months it achieved sales of 140,000 cases and a 6% volume share of spirits in Kenya.
Bringing a slightly smaller shot size to Nielsen, May 2013. male consumers in Brazil has created an accessible bridge between beer and the more status driven world of scotch.
By innovating with a more affordable 40ml shot size, the Cavalinho little horse in Portuguese, White Horse has become a successful complement to beer-related male camaraderie occasions.
A case of White Horse is now being sold monthly in beer taverns where previously no whisky had been sold at all.
This has led to volume growth of 83% year on year and White Horses market share has increased from 1 1% to 15%.
