Glossary of terms and US equivalents In this document the following words and expressions shall, unless the context otherwise requires, have the following meanings: GO ONLINE QUICK EFFICIENT Term used in UK annual report US equivalent or definition GREEN Associates Entities accounted for under the equity method American Depositary Receipt ADR Receipt evidencing ownership of an ADS American Depositary Share ADS Registered negotiable security, listed on the New York Stock Exchange, representing four Diageo plc ordinary shares of 101 28 pence each 108 Capital redemption reserve Other additional capital Company Diageo plc CPI Consumer price index Creditors Accounts payable and accrued liabilities View our 2013 Annual Report Debtors Accounts receivable and Sustainability & Employee share schemes Employee stock benefit plans Responsibility Report online at: Employment or staff costs Payroll costs www.
com Equivalent units An equivalent unit represents one nine-litre case of spirits, which is approximately 272 servings.
A serving comprises 33ml of spirits, 165ml of wine, or 330ml of ready to drink or beer.
Register to receive all To convert volume of products other than spirits to equivalent units: beer in hectolitres divide by 0.9, wine in nine-litre cases future shareholder divide by five, ready to drink in nine-litre cases divide by 10, and certain pre-mixed products classified as ready to drink in communications online: nine-litre cases divide by five.
com Exceptional items Items that, in managements judgement, need to be disclosed separately by virtue of their size or incidence 01 Excise duty Tax charged by a sovereign territory on the production, manufacture, sale or distribution of selected goods including 01 Annual Report imported goods within that territory.
It is generally based on the quantity or alcohol content of goods, rather than their value, 02 Sustainability & and is typically applied to alcohol products and fuels.
Responsibility Finance lease Capital lease Report Financial year Fiscal year Free cash flow Net cash flow from operating activities aggregated with net purchase and disposal of property, plant and equipment and computer software and with movements in loans Freehold Ownership with absolute rights in perpetuity GAAP Generally accepted accounting principles Group and Diageo Diageo plc and its consolidated subsidiaries IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted for use in the European Union and International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board Impact Databank An international data resource for the beverage alcohol industry that is independent from industry participants LIBOR London Interbank Offered Rate Net sales Sales after deducting excise duties Noon buying rate Buying rate at noon in New York City for cable transfers in pounds sterling as certified for customs purposes by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York Operating profit Net operating income Organic movement At level foreign exchange rates and after adjusting for exceptional items, acquisitions and disposals for continuing operations 02 Own shares Treasury stock Pound sterling, sterling, pence, p UK currency Price mix Price mix is the number of percentage points by which the organic movement in net sales exceeds the organic movement in Diageo plc is incorporated as a public limited This is the Annual Report of Diageo plc for the A glossary of terms used in this report is volume.
The difference arises because of changes in the composition of sales between higher and lower priced variants or as company in England and Wales.
Diageo was year ended 30 June 2013 and it is dated 30 July included at the end of the document.
Diageos price changes are implemented incorporated as Arthur Guinness Son & 2013.
It includes information that is required by consolidated financial statements have been Profit Earnings Company Limited on 21 October 1886.
The the US Securities and Exchange Commission prepared in accordance with International Profit for the year Net income Provisions Accruals for losses contingencies group was formed by the merger of Grand SEC for Diageos US filing of its Annual Report Financial Reporting standards IFRS as adopted Metropolitan Public Limited Company for use in the European Union EU and IFRS as Reserves Accumulated earnings, other comprehensive income and additional paid in capital on Form 20-F.
This information may be updated RPI Retail price index GrandMet and Guinness PLC the Guinness or supplemented at the time of the filing of that issued by the International Accounting RTD Ready to drink products.
Ready to drink also include ready to serve products, such as pre-mix cans in some markets, and Group in December 1997.
Diageo plcs principal document with the SEC or later amended if Standards Board IASB.
progressive adult beverages in the United States and certain markets supplied by the United States.
executive office is located at Lakeside Drive, necessary, although Diageo does not undertake SEC US Securities and Exchange Commission Park Royal, London NW10 7HQ and its References to IFRS hereafter should be to update any such information.
The Annual Share capital Common stock telephone number is 44 0 20 8978 6000.
Report is made available to all shareholders on construed as references to both IFRS as Share premium Additional paid in capital or paid in surplus Diageos website www.
The adopted by the EU and IFRS as issued by the Shareholders funds Shareholders equity content of the companys website, or any other IASB.
Unless otherwise indicated, all financial Shares Common stock information contained in this document has website referred to in this report, and the Shares and ordinary shares Diageo plcs ordinary shares Sustainability & Responsibility Report should been prepared in accordance with IFRS.
Shares in issue Shares issued and outstanding not be considered to form a part of or be Trade and other payables Accounts payable and accrued liabilities Designed by saslondon.
com incorporated into this document.
The brand ranking information presented in Trade and other receivables Accounts receivable Cover printed on Hello Silk and text printed on this report, when comparing volume US dollar, US$, $, US currency Munken Polar.
This report includes names of Diageos information with competitors, has been Both grades are from the FSC Mixed Credit group products, which constitute trademarks or trade sourced from data published by Impact ofmaterials and are manufactured at mills which are names which Diageo owns or which others own Databank, IWSR, IRI, Beverage Information certified to the ISO14001 and EMAS environmental Group or Plato Logic.
Market data information and license to Diageo for use.
In this report, the standards.
term company refers to Diageo plc and the and competitive set classifications are taken Printed by Fulmar Colour on behalf of RR Donnelley.
terms group and Diageo refer to the company from independent industry sources in the Fulmar Colour are ISO14001 certified, CarbonNeutral, and its consolidated subsidiaries, except as the markets in which Diageo operates.
Alcohol Free and FSC and PEFC Chain of Custody context otherwise requires.
The inks used are vegetable oil based.
Diageo plc 2013 Performance summary Diageo 2 Introduction 4 Performance overview Diageo is the worlds leading premium drinks business with an 6 Regional overview outstanding collection of beverage alcohol brands across spirits, 8 Chairmans statement beer and wine categories.
These brands include Johnnie Walker, 10 Year in review Crown Royal, J&B, Buchanans, Windsor and Bushmills whiskies, 11 Chief Executives statement Smirnoff, Croc and Ketel One vodkas, Captain Morgan, Baileys, 12 Strategic brands 14 Our brands: Breadth and depth Tanqueray and Guinness.
16 Marketing and innovation: Premium offer Diageo is a global company, with its products sold in more 18 Marketing and innovation: Emerging middle class than 180 countries around the world.
The management team expects 20 Marketing and innovation: Delighting luxury consumers to continue the strategy of investing behind our brands, launching 22 Historical information innovative new products and expanding through partnerships or acquisitions that add long term value for shareholders.
The company Business description is listed on both the London Stock Exchange DGE and the New York 25 Strategy Stock Exchange DEO.
26 Business overview 39 Risk factors For more information about Diageo, its people and its brands, 43 Cautionary statement concerning visit www.
For Diageos global resource that promotes forward-looking statements responsible drinking through the sharing of best practice tools, information and initiatives, visit www.
Business review 45 Introduction 45 Trend information 46 Operating results 2013 compared with 2012 64 Operating results 2012 compared with 2011 76 Liquidity and capital resources 78 Capital commitments 78 Other contractual obligations 79 Post balance sheet events 79 Off-balance sheet arrangements 79 Risk management 79 Critical accounting policies 80 New accounting standards 80 Definitions and reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to GAAP measures Essential reads Governance 89 Board of directors and executive committee 30.9 11,433 91 Directors remuneration report North America 33% 112 Corporate governance report 10,762 29.7 Western Europe 19% 122 Directors report 9,936 29.0 Africa, Eastern Europe and Turkey 20% Financial statements 125 Independent auditors report to the members Latin America and of Diageo plc consolidated Caribbean 13% 126 C onsolidated income statement Asia Paci c 15% 11 12 13 11 12 13 127 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Performance overview Regional overview 128 Consolidated balance sheet Page 4 Page 6 129 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 130 Consolidated statement of cash flows 131 Accounting policies of the group 135 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 183 Independent auditors report to the members of Diageo plc company 184 Company balance sheet 185 Accounting policies of the company 187 Notes to the company financial statements 190 Principal group companies Year in review Strategic brands Additional information for shareholders Page 10 Page 12 192 Legal proceedings 192 Related party transactions 192 Share capital 193 American depositary shares 194 Articles of association 197 Exchange controls 197 Documents on display 197 Taxation 199 Warning to shareholders share fraud 200 Independent Assurance Report of KPMG Audit Plc to Diageo plc Marketing and innovation Governance Page 16 Page 89 IBC Glossary of terms and US equivalents Performance summary 1
