Regional overview North America Western Europe 42% of Diageos business is 3,733m 2013 net sales 2,220m 2013 net sales now in faster growing markets 1% Volume 3 % Volume in Latin America, Africa, Asia, 5% Net sales 4 % Net sales Eastern Europe and Turkey.
10% Marketing spend 6 % Marketing spend This presence is balanced 9% Operating profit 7 % Operating profit through our strong business North America is the worlds most profitable In many ways Western Europe is the spiritual in the worlds most profitable beverage alcohol market and continues to be home of the company, as a number of our beverage market, the United our largest region by operating profit.
During great brands, including Baileys, Bushmills, the year we focused on several key growth Guinness and Johnnie Walker originate from States and an integrated areas in our core spirits business.
in our brands to support price increases and We operate in one of the toughest and improve margins, further progressed changes most sophisticated consumer goods to our distribution system, which have environments.
Our strategy in Western Europe delivered a number of benefits during the year, is focused on driving our core premium and continued to invest in our industry-leading brands, delivering outstanding innovation Total net sales breakdown by region m marketing and innovation.
and winning in the reserve category.
The Excluding corporate net sales of 76m Successful flavour innovations were a underlying performance in Western Europe North America 33% key driver of growth during the year, with remained challenging during the year, our expanded Smirnoff vodka flavour range particularly in Southern Europe where Western Europe 19% now representing 25% of the total flavoured consumer confidence has remained soft.
We continued to build on the We have, however, seen strong areas of strong trend to premiumisation, increasing our growth, for example in Germany, Austria and media investment by over 50% to support our Benelux, where net sales grew double digit.
Africa, Eastern Europe strategic and high growth brands.
Our supply During the year, our reserve brands have and Turkey 20% infrastructure was also enhanced through a gone from strength to strength, delivering $50 million investment in our Relay, Maryland double digit growth, driven by consumer Latin America and bottling facility, which we expect will become confidence in the luxury market and by Caribbean 13% our most efficient site in the world.
growth across Croc, Johnnie Walker super Asia Paci c 15% premium and the malts portfolio.
IRI, June 2013 This year we introduced the rare Bulleit 10.
Gordons Crisp Cucumber, Gordons biggest The innovation was a huge success and 100% ever innovation, is set to re-invigorate the of the limited stocks were shipped within the gin category.
6 Diageo Annual Report 2013 Africa, Eastern Europe Latin America and Asia Pacific and Turkey Caribbean 2,280m 2013 net sales 1,457m 2013 net sales 1,667m 2013 net sales 4% Volume 4% Volume 1 % Volume 10% Net sales 15% Net sales 3% Net sales 16% Marketing spend 11% Marketing spend 1 % Marketing spend 10% Operating profit 26% Operating profit 6% Operating profit Russia, Eastern Europe and Turkey are now In Latin America and Caribbean, our focus The number of emerging middle class consolidated into one region with Africa, as continues to be on leadership in the scotch consumers in Asia is forecast to double over these markets share similarities in terms of category, particularly through Johnnie Walker, the next decade.
In addition, GDP growth will growth profile and our strategic focus on the Buchanans and Old Parr, while increasingly drive significant increases in the number of emerging middle class consumer.
In Africa, our broadening our footprint in rum, vodka and high net worth consumers across the region.
strategy continues to be focused on building liqueurs.
Ketel One distribution expanded Our strategy is to grow leadership in scotch, capacity, investing behind our brands and across the region, Croc grew strongly in Brazil to drive premiumisation and to continue strengthening our route to consumer as and Captain Morgan made significant progress capturing emerging middle class consumer weselectively participate in beer and spirits in Mexico, where Diageo is now the number opportunities.
Scotch is the biggest categories.
We provide consumers with one spirits company by value generated.
international spirits category within the outstanding brands for every occasion and, Our performance during the year region and Diageo remains the market leader.
during the year, we continued to build on illustrated the strength of the business Over the year, we increased our share of the our beer platform and accelerate spirits.
We and ongoing opportunities in the region.
category in every market, except in North Asia.
experienced good momentum in reserve We completed the acquisition of Ypica, We opened another Johnnie Walker House in brands, strong performances in Johnnie continued to expand our routes to market and Beijing, incorporating a luxury retail store Walker, up 32%, and Smirnoff, up 20%, and distribution and to grow our marketing spend.
selling ultra premium special editions of rare great growth in Baileys and J&B.
Increased penetration among emerging malts.
This builds on the success of our reserve In Russia and Eastern Europe, our focus middle class consumers, who are increasingly business, which has doubled in value since on growing spirits through premiumisation able to purchase our brands, continues to be 2010 through a focus on innovation and and our routes to market contributed to a positive trend.
Likewise, as the number of premiumisation.
Our emerging middle class higher income consumers grows, our reserve continued leadership in the whisk e y category business is focused on South East Asia and and a strong performance in rums this year.
brands have continued to grow, and our vodka India: in July 2013, we completed the Our business in Turkey is well positioned to and rum reserve business, specifically Croc acquisition of a 25.02% equity interest in USL, capture the myriad opportunities presented and Zacapa, are complementing our ultra and the largest domestic spirits player in India.
In super premium scotch expansion.
by the growing number of middle class July 2013, we also received approval to acquire consumers, notwithstanding the introduction the remaining 47% stake in Sichuan Chengdu NISCAM, January February 2013 of new advertising regulations.
Shuijingfang Group Company Ltd. increasing our indirect interest in Sichuan Shuijingfang Co. Ltd. to 39.71%.
Tusker net sales were up 13%, contributing Very strong momentum in premium scotch led Johnnie Walker Blue Label introduced 12 to the robust performance of beer in Africa.
to 26% net sales growth in Buchanans.
remarkably crafted bottles, representing the animals of the Chinese Zodiac.
Organic movement unless stated otherwise.
For a definition of organic movement see page 80.
