Creative marketing and innovation continue tostrengthen our premium offer This year, Bundaberg released two highly anticipated Limited Editions from the Master Distillers Collective MDC : Dark Oak and Double Barrel rum.
For both releases, The Master Distillers Collective hand selected some of the distillerys finest aged rum reserves and continued their maturation using different finishing techniques.
MDC Dark Oak was finished in heavy, hand-charred American Oak barrels and MDC Double Barrel utilised a unique double barrel finishing process using port and sherry barrels.
Tanqueray tapped into this years global gin resurgence, re-launching bartenders favourite, Tanqueray Malacca Gin, as a limited edition.
Inspired by one of Charles Tanquerays original recipes from 1839, only 100,000 bottles of Malacca were made available exclusively to on trade customers worldwide.
The essence of the campaign was to use the re-launch of Tanqueray Malacca as a vehicle to drive bartender and trade influencer advocacy for the whole Tanqueray portfolio in the best bars in mature gin markets.
Exclusive launch events were held in London, San Francisco, New York and Chicago resulting in all of the 100,000 bottles selling in the first few weeks.
Guinness is one of the most distinctive and iconic beers in the world.
To reflect its stature and improve consumer interaction with the product, we continued to invest in the brands display in bars.
New Guinness glasses were rolled out to markets worldwide and new This year, Johnnie Walker became a 20 million nine litre case founts now present in over 10,000 outlets, brand, reflecting the global appetite for the brand.
During enhanced our bar presence in the draught the year, the Where Flavour is King advertising campaign markets of Europe and the United States.
was launched to support Johnnie Walkers ambition to be According to consumer research, the new accessible to a broader range of consumers.
The campaign fount makes Guinness the most eye-catching centres around a series of images, also available via a unique draught brand on the bar.
The use of the new Facebook app, that depict the array of rich and intense fount and the glass design have also positively flavours in each blend, taking consumers on an evocative impacted consumers perception of Guinness journey through the layers, flavour and wonderful ways quality, with a 9% increase in our consumers toenjoy Johnnie Walker.
It was launched this year in Africa, perception that Guinness delivers a Latin America, Eastern Europe and Asia as well as in more consistently high quality product.
mature developed markets like Western Europe, Australia Millward Brown, January 2012, and travel retail.
The new campaign is supported by digital IoI Island of Ireland.
content and marketing across outdoor, television and radio, as well as bespoke promotional materials across the on and off trade.
16 Diageo Annual Report 2013 This year, Captain Morgan rum achieved annual sales of 10 million nine litre cases, only the sixth premium spirit to pass this landmark in the spirits industry.
Central to Captain Morgans success is the brands strong and irreverent personality which encourages consumers to Party Like The Captain.
The new To Life, Love and Loot campaign is strengthening brand performance and equity in the United States, our biggest market.
In Canada, we have reached one million cases to become the number one rum.
This year we launched Captain Morgan in Australia and France and sales have also been driven by new markets, including Mexico and Germany.
Johnnie Walker has a long and rich history of travel moving beyond a small corner shop in 1820, to reach the four corners of the world.
Inspired by this heritage, we launched the Johnnie Walker Explorers Club Collection exclusive to travel retail.
Our Master Blender has created three unique blends in the premium and super premium categories capturing the flavours found on the great trade routes at the time of Johnnie Walkers global expansion.
Launched in November 2012, The Spice Road blend is inspired by the spice markets of Asia.
The Gold Route was launched globally in March 2013, and the Royal Route will be next.
The Johnnie Walker Explorers Club has transformed the travel retail experience, with large spaces dedicated to displaying the brand in key airports, bringing to life the romance of the journey.
It is on track to be the biggest ever spirits brand launch in travel retail by sales.
In Colombia, Old Parr achieved success by demonstrating its brand essence, life from a different angle, in new ways with consumers.
The Scotch whisky brand ran an engaging competition for its Facebook fans through which people could either win VIP tickets to two, sell-out concerts in Bogotas best Continued expansion of Smirnoffs bars or autographed bottles of Old confectionary flavours has been a key driver Parr.
To win, consumers recorded of Smirnoffs strengthening leadership in the themselves using a special app dynamic premium vodka segment.
With singing one of their favourite campaigns such as Flavoured Vodka never songs by two high-profile Felt so Good, backed by TV, featuring Roxanne Colombian artists.
McKee from the blockbuster TV show Game The competition achieved of Thrones, we achieved strong awareness for outstanding results, attracting the new flavour innovations, Iced Cake and more than one million fans in Kissed Caramel.
The launch of the new flavours record time, giving Old Parr the delivered strong incremental growth and highest number of Facebook fans attracted new consumers to the Smirnoff for any one alcoholic drinks brand brand.
Both flavour launches rank within the in the Andean region.
6,000 fans top 10 spirits launches of the past 12 months.
joined the concert online and over IRI, March 2013.
