The business is balanced having a strong Diageo is a global company with products sold Business description presence in the worlds largest and most in more than 180 countries around the world.
In the developed markets, primarily in North profitable beverage alcohol market, the United States, an integrated Western European America and Western Europe, Diageo has built business and a large and increasing presence scale and strong routes to market.
In the new Diageo is the worlds leading inthe new high growth markets of Africa, Latin high growth markets, Diageo is the number one international spirits company in Asia premium drinks business.
Its America, Asia Pacific, Central and Eastern Europe, Russia and Turkey.
Diageos strong Pacific and Latin America and the leading beer geographic breadth and range financial position has been built through and spirits company in Africa.
These rapidly of industry leading brands investing in the growth of its brands, through growing markets now contribute more than across categories and price 40% of Diageos net sales, up from a fifth in continuing to improve its routes to market and through expanding its presence in the new 2005.
These markets are expected to points is unparalleled.
high growth markets both organically and contribute 50%of Diageos net sales by the end through selective acquisitions.
Diageo of 2015 through double digit organic growth as international spirits penetration expands maintains the strength of its brands and enhances its position through world class andwith selective acquisitions.
marketing and industry leading innovation.
In the new high growth markets Diageo Diageo has scale but acts with agility to deliver expects to make acquisitions of companies top line growth, margin improvement and with both strong local routes to market and improved shareholder return.
Diageo is taking with brands that can be premiumised and action to ensure that every aspect of its appeal to the growing number of middle class product lifecycle is sustainable and is proud to consumers.
The acquisitions of Mey ki in lead the responsibility agenda in the beverage Turkey, Ypica in Brazil, the Serengeti and Meta alcohol industry.
Diageo is proud of the role its breweries in Africa, its major shareholding in brands play in the social life and celebrations of Shuijingfang in China, its investment in Halico consumers around the globe.
in Vietnam, and from July 2013 its major shareholding in United Spirits Limited USL in India, each demonstrate this strategy in action.
Strategy Diageo believes it leads the industry in Diageos strategy is to drive top line growth marketing, combining expertise and creative and margin expansion in a sustainable and alliances to engage consumers through responsible way and to deliver consistent value traditional and digital media channels.
This creation for its shareholders over the long term.
expertise and collaboration, combined with To do this Diageo will use its broad brand the benefits of global scale and consumer range, category depth and geographic reach insights, delivers world class marketing to deliver on consumer needs.
Key to achieving campaigns focusing on the range of price its strategy is the expertise of its people who points from luxury to more affordable brands: share the same values.
on new consumer groups, such as the Diageo has a broad range of leading emerging middle class, multicultural and brands across categories and price points.
female consumers: and on marketing Itowns six of the worlds top 20 spirit brands innovation.
Marketing spend is focused on the byretail sales, including Johnnie Walker, the strategic brands and the new high growth number one spirit brand by value and Smirnoff, markets.
Global campaigns are made locally the number one premium spirit brand by relevant with the use of local agencies.
For volume, making Diageo the leading premium example, the global Johnnie Walker Keep spirits business in the world by volume, net Walking campaign has been in place for over sales and operating profit.
In beer, Diageo 10 years and while the campaign is based on owns one of the truly global beer brands, the universal appeal of personal progress, each Guinness, the number one stout in the world.
market has local creative executions which Diageos wine brands are sold predominantly reflect local insights.
in North America and Great Britain where they Diageos industry leading innovation offer a route to market benefit.
Diageos global programme is making a significant brands are complemented by strong local contribution to Diageos net sales and brands to broaden the category range and operating profit growth by focusing not only tocreate category depth providing access on building a pipeline for the future, but also ataffordable price points to the increasing on sustaining past launches to drive long term number of middle class consumers aspiring value across the brand portfolio.
Recent totrade up in their drink of choice.
Diageos launches have focused on the consumers brands cover a range of price points, from desire for luxury, the tastes and increasing Diageos reserve brands, including Johnnie affluence of the emerging middle class Walker Blue Label, Croc and Ketel One vodka consumer and increasing the accessibility of to more affordable brands, such as VAT69 in spirits through flavour extensions and new India, White Horse in Russia and 20cl bottles A global re-launch of Baileys led to 9% net sales packaging and drink formats.
ofJohnnie Walker Red Label and local beers growth inthe United States, which accounts for more than a quarter of the brands net sales.
