Exceptional items Brands, goodwill and other intangibles Definitions and reconciliations These are items which, in managements Acquired intangible assets are held on the of non-GAAP measures to GAAP consolidated balance sheet at cost.
Where judgement, need to be disclosed by virtue of measures their size or incidence in order for the user to these assets are regarded as having indefinite obtain a proper understanding of the financial useful economic lives, they are not amortised.
Volume Volume is a non-GAAP measure that is information.
The determination of which items Assessment of the useful economic life of an asset, or that an asset has an indefinite life, measured on an equivalent units basis to are separately disclosed as exceptional items requires a significant degree of judgement.
An equivalent unit Impairment reviews are carried out to represents one nine-litre case of spirits, which isapproximately 272 servings.
A serving Taxation ensure that intangible assets, including brands, are not carried at above their recoverable comprises 33ml of spirits, 165ml of wine, or The group is required to estimate the corporate tax in each of the jurisdictions in which it amounts.
In particular, the group performs a 330ml of ready to drink or beer.
This requires an estimation of discounted cash flow analysis at least annually convert volume of products, other than spirits, to equivalent units, the following guide has thecurrent tax liability together with an to compare discounted estimated future operating cash flows to the carrying value of been used: beer in hectolitres divide by 0.9, assessment of the temporary differences which arise as a consequence of different each acquired brand.
The analysis is based on wine in nine-litre cases divide by five, ready to accounting and tax treatments.
These forecast cash flows with terminal values being drink in nine-litre cases divide by 10 and certain pre-mixed products that are classified as ready temporary differences result in deferred tax calculated using the long term growth rate the long term inflation rate of the country of the to drink in nine-litre cases divide by five.
assets or liabilities which are included within the balance sheet.
Deferred tax assets and principal markets in which the majority of the liabilities are calculated on the basis of taxation profits of each brand are or will be generated.
Organic movements Diageos strategic planning process is based on substantively enacted at the balance sheet The estimated cash flows are discounted at the date.
Deferred tax assets are not recognised weighted average cost of capital reflecting the organic movements in volume, sales, net sales, where it is more likely than not that the asset industry and country specific risks in the marketing spend, operating profit and operating margin, a ratio calculated by dividing will not be realised in the future.
organic operating profit by organic net sales requires judgements to be made including the In assessing whether goodwill is carried at forecast of future taxable income.
above its recoverable amount, a discounted and expressed as a percentage.
These Tax benefits are not recognised unless cash flow analysis is performed annually to non-GAAP measures are chosen for planning, reporting and incentive purposes since they it is probable that the tax positions are compare the discounted estimated future represent those measures which local sustainable.
Once considered to be probable, operating cash flows of cash generating units management reviews each material tax benefit of the group to the net assets attributable to managers are most directly able to influence to assess whether a provision should be taken the cash generating units including goodwill.
and they enable consideration of the underlying business performance without the against full recognition of the benefit on the The discounted cash flow review for goodwill isconsistent with the brand review in its use distortion caused by fluctuating exchange basis of potential settlement through negotiation and or litigation.
ofestimated future operating cash flows, rates, exceptional items and acquisitions and The group operates in many countries weighted average cost of capital for the cash disposals.
The groups management believes these measures provide valuable additional inthe world and is subject to many tax generating unit concerned and long term growth rates.
information for users of the financial jurisdictions and rules.
As a consequence the group is subject to tax audits, which by their The tests are dependent on statements in understanding the groups nature are often complex and can require managements estimates and judgements, in performance since they focus on that element of the core brand portfolio which is common several years to conclude.
Management particular in relation to the forecasting of future cash flows, the discount rates applied to those to both years.
They should be viewed as judgement is required to determine the total provision for income tax.
Amounts accrued are cash flows and the expected long term growth complementary to, and not replacements for, based on managements interpretation of rates.
Such estimates and judgements are the comparable GAAP measures and reported movements therein.
country specific tax law and the likelihood of subject to change as a result of changing economic conditions.
Management attempts In the discussion of the performance of settlement.
However the actual tax liabilities could differ from the provision and in such to make the most appropriate estimates, but the business, organic information is presented event the group would be required to make actual cash flows and rates may be different.
using pounds sterling amounts on a constant currency basis.
This retranslates prior year anadjustment in a subsequent period which See note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for the impact of a change in the reported numbers at current year exchange could have a material impact on the groups profit for the year and financial position.
key assumptions to the more sensitive brands.
rates and enables an understanding of the underlying performance of the market that is most closely influenced by the actions of that New accounting standards markets management.
Exchange impacts A number of accounting standards, inrespect of the external hedging of inter amendments and interpretations have group sales of products and the inter group recently been issued by the IASB or IFRIC.
recharging of third party services are allocated Those that are of relevance to the group are to the geographical segment to which they discussed in note 1 to the consolidated relate.
Residual exchange impacts are reported financial statements.
Acquisitions, disposals and exceptional items also impact the reported performance and therefore the reported movement in any year in which they arise.
Management adjusts 80 Diageo Annual Report 2013
