Introduction Trend information Business review The following discussion is based on Diageos The following comments were made by results for the year ended 30 June 2013 Ivan Menezes, Chief Executive of Diageo, compared with the year ended 30 June 2012, in Diageos preliminary announcement on and the year ended 30 June 2012 compared 31 July 2013: with the year ended 30 June 2011.
In addition These results reflect Diageos strengths.
We to describing the significant factors that have have delivered 5% net sales growth reflecting impacted the income statement for the years the strength of our US spirits business and ended 30 June 2013 and 30 June 2012, in continued double digit growth in the eachcase as compared to the immediately emerging markets, slightly below our original preceding year, additional information is also expectations for the year as a result of presented on the operating performance and weakness in some markets.
Price increases cash flows of the group.
in each region, positive mix in North America There are ten principal financial key and Latin America and the rigour we have performance indicators not specifically used in managing our cost of production and inthe consolidated financial statements controlling our overheads drove significant themselves non-GAAP measures that are expansion in operating margin.
used by the groups management to assess The effectiveness of our marketing theperformance of the group in addition to campaigns remains a competitive advantage income statement performance measures.
for us and this year we have seen these These are volume, organic movements in campaigns extend the leadership of our volume, sales, net sales, marketing spend, brands in many markets during the year.
operating profit and operating margin, return This has been a key driver of our performance on average total invested capital, economic in scotch, our biggest and most profitable profit and free cash flow.
These key category, especially for Johnnie Walker which performance indicators are described in is now a 20 million case brand.
Innovation Definitions and reconciliations of non-GAAP isdriving growth in every region with our measures to GAAP measures on page 80. biggest launches in US spirits where we continue to lead the innovation agenda in the Revised segmental information for prior industry.
Elsewhere, the investments we have reporting periods made to enhance our routes to market in In the year ended 30 June 2013, Diageo Africa, Latin America and Eastern Europe have changed its internal reporting structure to driven strong growth.
reflect changes made to management The breadth of our good performance is responsibilities.
As a result of this change, reflected in the strength of the cash flow, in our Diageo reports the following geographical double digit eps growth and a recommended segments both for management reporting 9% increase in the final dividend.
This year we purposes and in the external financial have again made a strong business stronger statements: North America: Western and we remain on track to deliver our medium Europe: Africa, Eastern Europe and Turkey: term guidance.
Latin America and Caribbean: Asia Pacific andCorporate.
Diageo has also made changes in respect of the allocation of specific corporate items and the allocation of the operating profit before exceptional items of Global Supply to better reflect the geographical segment to which the cost relates.
In addition, certain transaction exchange differences, previously included in Corporate, have been allocated to the geographical segments to better reflect which geographical segment the item is in respect of.
As a consequence of these changes, comparative prior period figures have been restated.
Restated segmental information for volume, sales, net sales, marketing spend and operating profit before exceptional items for prior periods with a reconciliation to previously reported figures are provided in Definitions and reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to GAAP measures on page 84. Business review 45
