Diageo has strong routes to market which planning with customers.
These tools enable Business overview Diageo to realise its ambition to become leverage local expertise.
In the United States, Market participation Diageo is required by law to operate through a an indispensable business partner to In the year ended 30 June 2013, Diageo three-tier distribution system which separates its customers.
managed its business through five regions: suppliers, distributors and retailers.
Diageo Diageo has a history of being a sustainable North America: Western Europe: Africa, Eastern and responsible company dating from Arthur works with distributors who provide a Europe and Turkey: Latin America and substantial dedicated sales team of nearly Guinness who undertook philanthropic Caribbean and Asia Pacific.
Outside of the United States, community programmes and through the the biggest region by net sales and operating Diageo owns and controls the route to market 1930s when its predecessor companies profit and Diageo is the number one spirits marketed their brands in a responsible manner.
in many countries, and in others the route to company in the region.
The main focus of the market is through joint ventures, associates and Diageo understands the social, environmental business in North America is to drive continued third party distributors.
The recent acquisitions and economic impact of its activities and has top line growth in the on trade, to deliver in the new high growth markets have helped adopted a structured approach to manage industry leading innovation and to broaden these impacts, to build engagement across to enhance Diageos routes to market with the itsreach to the multicultural consumer and to addition of the leading spirits company in stakeholders, to create value, especially in the improve its operating margin through pricing, Turkey, Mey ki: the second largest brewery in new high growth markets, and to protect premiumisation and by using its scale to drive Ethiopia, Meta Abo: the leader in the premium Diageos licence to operate.
Diageo is the largest premium Diageo and its employees are proud of cachaa segment in Brazil, Ypica: and with drinks company in Western Europe.
Western investments in a premium local spirit company the responsible manner in which its brands Europe is managed as a single market with the in China, Shuijingfang, the leading branded are marketed and the role that moderate country teams focusing on sales execution, spirit company in Vietnam, Halico and the consumption of its brands can play as part while marketing and back office functions leading beverage alcohol producer in of a balanced lifestyle for millions of people.
areintegrated at a Western Europe level to India, USL.
Diageo seeks to be at the forefront of industry drive flexibility and efficiency.
In the new high Diageo works in collaboration with its efforts to promote responsible drinking and growth markets Diageos strategy is based customers to drive profitable category growth, works with key stakeholders to address onthe increased spend by both affluent and by building partnerships with retailers and on alcohol misuse.
middle class consumers on premium beverage trade customers.
The Diageo Way of Selling Diageos supply organisation is alcohol.
In Africa the strategy is to grow orthe Platform for Growth programmes responsible for producing, distilling, brewing, Diageos leadership across beverage alcohol equipboth Diageo and its customers with the bottling, packaging and distributing its brands.
through focusing on the emerging middle tools to be the best sales force in the industry, It is committed to efficient, sustainable class consumer and providing a brand choice provide education to its partners and create production.
Investment in production facilities for every motivation, occasion and stage of commercial and strategic value for all parties.
is focused on building capacity for the consumer evolution.
Diageo is focused on The European Customer Collaboration Centre production of spirits and beer, with both high increasing its presence in spirits through provides a state of the art facility to bring speed and high volume, cost efficient continued investments behind its brands and consumer, shopper, retailer and distributor production lines and with flexible production infrastructure, through access pricing of the insights together to facilitate integrated facilities to create an industry leading supply premium international brands and through chain for innovation, especially in luxury building on its existing beer route to market.
Diageo deploys groundbreaking Diageo is increasing its presence in beer in new technology in its production sites in an Africa through investments in capacity effort to deliver cost savings, security of supply expansion and targeted acquisitions.
In Eastern and reduction of waste.
Diageo is constantly Europe Diageo is focused on the emerging looking at ways to improve water efficiency, middle class consumers and in Turkey the focus reduce water wastage, increase the use of is on growing local spirits and international sustainable packaging and reduce pollution, spirits.
In Latin America and Caribbean the carbon emissions and waste to landfill.
strategic priority is continued leadership in Diageo is committed to generating scotch, while broadening the category range broad-based prosperity through the value to include vodka, rum, liqueurs and local spirits.
chain and through direct investment in the Diageo continues to invest behind routes to communities in which it operates, especially in market, the range and depth of its portfolio the new high growth markets, by integrating of leading brands and is enhancing its supply its supply chain into the local community and footprint to enable the business to provide through direct initiatives such as the Learning the emerging middle class and an increasing for Life and Water of Life programmes in Latin number of wealthy consumers with the America and Caribbean and Africa.
premium brands they aspire to.
The strategy Diageo believes that industry leading in Asia Pacific which encompasses both performance will be delivered through a developed and new high growth markets is to talented and diverse workforce and great operate across categories with participation leadership.
The company has active in local spirits, international spirits and beer, programmes that ensure the development of focusing on the highest growth categories and its management and leaders.
Great leadership consumer opportunities, driving continued combined with a culture of good governance development of super and ultra premium and ethics protect Diageos reputation and scotch and leveraging the emerging middle support the sustainable efficient growth of George Dickel grew double digit this year, class consumer opportunity in the new high thebusiness.
contributing to the strong performance of the growth markets through a combination of American whisk e y category.
organic growth and selective acquisitions.
26 Diageo Annual Report 2013 Market leading brands In calendar year 2012, the Diageo brand range included six of the top 20 spirits brands worldwide by value as estimated by Impact Databank.
Diageo classifies its brands as spirits, beer, wine and ready to drink.
An analysis of the groups volume is as follows: 2013 2012 2011 Volume Volume Volume units million units million units million Spirits 130 121 113 Beer 27 27 26 Wine 3 3 3 Ready to drink 5 6 6 Total 165 157 148 Strategic brands In the year ended 30 June 2013, Diageo classified a group of brands as strategic brands worldwide.
Diageo considers that these brands have the greatest current and future earnings potential.
Figures for strategic brands exclude related ready to drink products.
Strategic brands accounted for 57% of volume and net sales.
71% of the groups marketing spend supported these brands.
2013 Volume # Brand units million Johnnie Walker Scotch whisky 20 The number one Scotch whisky in the world Crown Royal Canadian whisky 6 The number one Canadian whisky in the world J&B Scotch whisky 4 The number five Scotch whisky in the world Buchanans Scotch whisky 2 The number two premium Scotch whisky in Latin America and Caribbean Windsor Premier Scotch whisky 1 The number one super premium Scotch whisky in Asia Pacific Bushmills Irish whiskey 1 Distilled at Irelands oldest working distillery Smirnoff vodka 26 The number one premium vodka in the world Ketel One vodka exclusive worldwide distribution rights 2 The number two super premium vodka in the United States Croc vodka 2 The number two ultra premium vodka in the United States Captain Morgan rum and rum based products 10 The number two brand in the rum category in the world Baileys Irish Cream liqueur 7 The number one liqueur in the world Tanqueray gin 2 The number one imported gin in the United States Guinness stout 11 The number one stout in the world Source: IWSR 2012: Source: Impact Databank 2012: Source: IRI: Source: Beverage Information Group: Source: Plato Logic.
# Portfolio of premium drinks comprises brands owned by the company as a principal and some brands held by the company under agency or distribution agreements.
The distribution agreements entered into among Diageo and certain affiliates of Casa Cuervo SA fide C. V collectively Cuervo for the distribution of Cuervo products in the United States and other territories around the world, expired on 30 June 2013.
Except in those territories, such as the United States, where Cuervo opted to buy the inventory held by Diageo at the time of the expiration of the corresponding distribution agreements, Diageo is able to continue selling such inventory until early November 2013.
The distribution of Cuervo products contributed net sales of 308 million and operating profit of 76 million in the year ended 30 June 2013 2012 304 million and 67 million, respectively.
Other brands Other spirits brands include Other beer brands include Wine brands include Ready to drink brands include Gordons gin and Gordon's vodka Malta Guinness non-alcoholic malt Blossom Hill Smirnoff Ice Old Parr Scotch whisky Harp lager Sterling Vineyards Smirnoff cocktails Bundaberg rum Tusker lager Beaulieu Vineyard Bundaberg ready to drink Seagrams 7 Crown whiskey Senator lager Bells Scotch whisky Red Stripe lager The Classic Malts Scotch whiskies Yen Raki Diageo also brews and sells other companies beer brands under licence, including Budweiser and Carlsberg lagers in Ireland, Heineken lager in Jamaica and Tiger beer in Malaysia.
There can be no assurance that Diageo will be able to prevent termination of distribution, manufacturing or licence agreements or to renegotiate distribution, manufacturing or licence agreements on favourable terms when they expire.
Diageo produces Smirnoff substantially increase the capacity of the Diageo owns manufacturing production internationally.
Ketel One vodka is purchased Mortlach distillery at Dufftown and asfinished product from The Nolet Group.
construction of a new plant at Glendullan to facilities across the globe, including maltings, distilleries, breweries, packaging plants, Gindistilleries are located in both the United produce biogas which will be used to power maturation warehouses, cooperages, Kingdom and the United States.
Elsewhere in Scotland, the vineyards, wineries and distribution produced in the Republic of Ireland and company is progressing plans for a major Northern Ireland.
Rum is blended and bottled expansion of the Glen Ord Distillery, near Muir warehouses.
Diageos brands are also produced at plants owned and operated by in the United States, Canada, Italy and the of Ord and is progressing with construction third parties and joint ventures at a number United Kingdom, and is distilled, blended of new warehousing at Cluny near Kirkcaldy.
andbottled in the US Virgin Islands, Australia, These activities are part of a five-year Venezuela and Guatemala.
Raki is produced investment plan launched in June 2012 where During the year ended 30 June 2013, approximately 77% of total manufacturing inTurkey, while Chinese white spirits are the group plans to lay down maturing scotch was undertaken by Global Supply organised produced in Chengdu, in the Sichuan province inventory over five years at a cost of over 500 million in order to be able to meet into four production centres: Europe Supply, of China.
In August 2012, Diageo acquired 100% of Ypica Bebidas S. A. which owns a future demand.
Americas Supply, Global Beer Supply and Asia Pacific Supply.
The remaining production farmand a distillery in Cear State in Brazil and In May 2011, Diageo announced the activities of the group are integrated into produces cachaa.
The company also owns closure of the Menlo Park bottling plant in California and the specialty product building thedistribution organisation of the group, apackaging plant in Fortaleza in northern principally in Africa.
As of 1 July 2013, supply Brazil and a warehouse in So Paulo.
Diageos atthe Relay plant in Maryland, in the United operations have been fully integrated into maturing Scotch whisky is located in States.
New investment has been made in the demand markets while the supply operations warehouses in Scotland primarily at North American spirits supply chain principally in the packaging plants at Plainfield in Illinois in the United Kingdom, Ireland and Italy, which Blackgrange, its maturing Canadian whisky in supply multiple international markets, are La Salle and Gimli in Canada and its maturing and Relay in Maryland.
This investment has operated as the International Supply Centre.
American whiskey in Kentucky and Tennessee delivered cost savings, modernised the US The locations, principal activities, products, in the United States.
bottling manufacturing footprint and created a platform for higher quality, more flexible, packaging production capacity and packaging In April 2013, it was announced that production volume of Diageos principal Teaninich in Scotland would be the location for more productive and sustainable operations production centres in the year ended 30 June a new malt whisky distillery and a new in both Plainfield and Relay.
2013 are set out in the table below.
bioenergy plant that will power the distillery A distillery was opened in November 2010 in St. Croix as a result of a public private and the capacity of the existing Teaninich Spirits distillery will be increased.
The construction of initiative formed by Diageo and the Spirits are produced in distilleries located the new distillery is expected to commence in government of the US Virgin Islands.
The group owns 29 Scotch whisky July 2014 and production is expected to start in facility has the capacity to distil up to 13 million equivalent units annually and supplies all rum distilleries in Scotland, an Irish whiskey distillery January 2016.
Diageo also announced a major in Northern Ireland, two whisky distilleries expansion of its Scotch whisky production used to produce Captain Morgan and other inCanada and a whiskey distillery in the inthe Speyside area, including a project to branded products for the United States.
Production Production volume in capacity in 2013 in millions of millions of equivalents equivalent Production centre Location Principal products units units Scotch whisky, Irish whiskey, gin, vodka, rum, Europe Supply United Kingdom ready to drink 80 54 Ireland Baileys Irish cream liqueur 12 7 Italy Santa Vittoria Vodka, wine, rum, ready to drink 10 6 Turkey Raki, vodka, gin, liqueur, wine 8 6 Americas Supply United States, Canada, US Virgin Islands Vodka, gin, tequila, rum, wine, Canadian whisky, American whiskey, progressive adult beverages, ready to drink 44 38 United States Wine 2 1 Brazil Cachaa 7 5 Global Beer Supply Ireland Guinness Beer 9 8 Jamaica Beer 1 1 Asia Pacific Supply Australia Rum, vodka, ready to drink 4 3 Singapore Finishing centre 4 3 Africa Supply Nigeria Beer 6 5 South Africa Beer and spirits 3 3 East Africa Uganda, Kenya, Tanzania Beer and spirits 10 9 Africa Regional Markets Ethiopia, Cameroon, Ghana, Seychelles Beer 3 3 Capacity represents ongoing production capacity at any production centre.
The production capacities quoted in the table are based on actual production levels for the year ended 30 June 2013 adjusted for the elimination of unplanned losses and inefficiencies, and taking into account planned manning levels for the coming year.
28 Diageo Annual Report 2013 A restructuring of the groups supply largest individual facilities, in terms of book Diageo makes extensive use of a diverse range of new and traditional media from operations in Scotland was announced in value, are the Leven bottling and blending facility in Scotland and StJamess Gate brewery print, digital, mobile, point of sale and outdoor July2009.
This resulted in the consolidation ofproduction activities into fewer sites.
Of the book value of Diageos lands advertising, and uses radio, cinema, television Kilmarnock packaging plant ceased operations and buildings approximately 37% are advertising and other engagement platforms, where appropriate and permitted by law, in March 2012 after production was moved properties located in Great Britain, 17% in Ireland and 14% in the United States.
to engage with consumers and customers.
tothe newly expanded packaging facility at Leven in Fife.
During the years ended 30 June 2011 Sponsorship also plays an important role and30June 2010 anumber of vineyards and in Diageos brand marketing and commercial profile.
Beer facilities located in Napa Valley, California were sold and leased back to Diageo under a20-year Diageos principal brewing facilities are at the StJamess Gate brewery in Dublin, Ireland and lease, with Diageo holding options to extend in Nigeria, Kenya, Ghana, Cameroon, Ethiopia, the lease at fair value for up to 80years in total.
Tanzania, Uganda, Seychelles, Malaysia and Diageo remains the operator of the properties under the lease agreement and retains Jamaica.
In addition, Diageo also owns a25% equity interest in Sedibeng brewery in South ownership of the brands, vines and grapes, Africa.
Additionally, Guinness is brewed by which remain a strategic part of Diageos more than 35 third parties around the world winebusiness.
Guinness flavour extract is shipped from Ireland to all overseas Raw materials and supply agreements Guinness brewing operations.
The group has a number of long term All Guinness Draught production in the contracts in place for the purchase of Republic of Ireland is at the StJamess Gate significant raw materials including glass, other brewery in Dublin.
Guinness Draught in cans packaging, spirit, cream, rum and grapes.
and bottles is packaged at Runcorn and Belfast Forward contracts are in place for the purchase in the United Kingdom.
TheRuncorn facility of raw materials including cereals to minimise performs the kegging of Guinness Draught, the effects of short term pricefluctuations.
transported to Great Britain in bulk.
Cream is the principal raw material used In January 2012, Diageo announced that inthe production of Irish cream liqueur and is its Irish breweries will be centralised in Dublins sourced from Ireland.
Grapes are used in the St Jamess Gate site as part of an investment production of wine and raki and are sourced project at a cost of 153 million 123 million.
from suppliers in the United States, Argentina The brewing activities at Dundalk, Kilkenny and and Turkey.
Other raw materials purchased in significant quantities for the production of Waterford are expected to cease by the end of calendar year 2013. spirits and beer are molasses, cereals, sugar and a number of flavours such as juniper berries, Wine agave, aniseed, chocolate and herbs.
These are sourced from suppliers around the world.
Diageos principal wineries are in the United States, Argentina and Turkey.
For European The majority of products are supplied to markets, wines are mainly bottled in Diageos customers in glass bottles.
Glass is purchased facilities inItaly.
Wines are sold both in their from suppliers located around the world, theprincipal supplier being the Owens local markets and overseas.
Ready to drink Diageo produces a range of ready to drink Marketing and innovation Diageo is committed to investing in its brands products mainly in the United Kingdom, Italy, SouthAfrica, Australia, the United States to drive growth and make its brands even andCanada.
In the year ended 30June 2013, 1,787 million was spent globally on marketing with a focus on its strategic brands that Property, plant and equipment Diageo owns approximately 91% of the accounted for 71% of total marketing spend.
manufacturing, distilling, brewing, bottling Diageos marketing strategy is to and administration facilities it uses across anticipate and respond to the rapidly changing dynamics across all the markets in which it thegroups worldwide operations.
It holds approximately 4% of properties on leases in operates, with particular focus on four key excess of 50 years.
The principal production areas: price points, consumer groups, cutting facilities are described above.
As at 30 June edge marketing and geography both developed and new high growth markets.
2013, Diageos land and buildings are included in the groups consolidated balance sheet at Diageo builds its brands through a anet book value of 945 million.
Diageos two combination of best in class marketing programs and strategic innovation and views this as a continued source of Johnnie Walker is now a 20 million 9 litre competitive advantage.
Over the last 10 years, we have added nearly 10 million cases and over 1 billion of net sales.
Business description 29 2012 2013 restated Operating Operating profit loss profit loss before before exceptional Operating exceptional Operating Net sales items profit loss Net sales items profit loss million million million million million million North America 3,733 1,484 1,484 3,556 1,360 1,349 Western Europe 2,220 656 625 2,345 717 760 Africa, Eastern Europe and Turkey 2,280 654 649 2,051 575 568 Latin America and Caribbean 1,457 471 471 1,239 369 367 Asia Pacific 1,667 414 413 1,501 342 332 Global Supply 62 40 Corporate 76 149 149 70 165 178 Total 11,433 3,530 3,431 10,762 3,198 3,158 Restated for changes in reporting segments and allocation of specific Corporate and Global Supply items, see page 45. Business analysis National brand strategy and strategic accounts of the distributors dedicated sales forces In the year ended 30 June 2013, North America: marketing are managed at the North America and creating a more efficient and effective Western Europe: Africa, Eastern Europe and level.
The US Spirits and Wine divisions market value chain.
Diageos collection of spirits and wine brands Turkey: Latin America and Caribbean and Asia Pacific contributed 40%, 18%, 18%, 13% and across the United States.
Western Europe 11%, respectively, of the groups operating Diageo Guinness USA markets Diageos Western Europe comprises Great Britain, profit before exceptional items and US beer brands nationally as well as the groups Ireland, Iberia, France, Germany, Benelux, Italy, progressive adult beverages.
Nordics, Greece, Switzerland, Austria, the An analysis of net sales and operating generally follows the three-tier open state Western European reserve brands, Diageo profit by operating segment for the year ended regulations across the United States.
Guinness Continental Europe, European wines 30 June 2013 is set out in the table above.
Diageo Chateau & Estate Wines owns, and the Western European operations of leases and operates wineries in California.
North America United States, the majority of the wine is sold In Great Britain, Diageo sells and markets North America is the largest market for Diageo through the US Spirits and Wine divisions with its products via three business units: Diageo GB in terms of net sales and operating profit and the remainder sold through the winery visitors spirits, beer and ready to drink, Percy Fox & Co centres and club sales.
the largest market for premium drinks in the wines and Justerini & Brooks Retail private world.
Diageo sells and markets its products The Canada business unit distributes client wines.
Products are distributed both through five operating units: US Spirits and the groups collection of spirits, beer and through independent wholesalers and directly Wine, Diageo Guinness USA, Diageo Chateau wine brands across all Canadian territories.
to the major grocers, convenience and In Canada, spirits and beer distribution laws & Estate Wines, Diageo Canada and the North specialist stores.
In the on trade for example, American operations of Global Travel.
are generally consistent and similar to those licensed bars and restaurants, products are The US Spirits and Wine business, while of control states in the United States.
Diageo, sold through the major brewers, multiple retail managed as a single business unit, executes however, has some licences to deliver keg beer groups and smaller regional independent sales and marketing activities through seven directly to licensed accounts, which account brewers and wholesalers.
Within the United States, there for approximately 21% of Diageos beer Ireland comprises the Republic of Ireland aregenerally two types of regulatory business in Canada.
Inboth territories, environments for spirits and wine: open states Across the United States, Diageos Diageo sells and distributes directly to both the and control states.
In open states, companies distributors and brokers have nearly 3,000 on trade and the off trade for example, retail are permitted to sell spirits directly to dedicated sales people focused on selling its shops and wholesalers through a telesales independent distributors.
In these open states, spirits and wine brands.
Diageo has pursued a operation, extensive sales calls to outlets and Diageo generally trades through a three-tier distribution strategy centred on consolidating third party logistics providers.
distribution system, where the product is the distribution of its spirits and wine brands Across the remainder of Western Europe, initially sold to distributors, who then sell it to into a single distributor or broker in each state Diageo distributes its spirits brands primarily on and off trade retailers.
In most control states, where possible.
The strategy is designed to through its own distribution companies, Diageo sells its spirits products to state liquor provide a consolidated distribution network, except for France where products are sold control boards through the bailment which will limit the duplication of activities through a joint arrangement with Mot warehousing system, and from there to state between Diageo and the distributor, improve Hennessy.
In the Nordic countries Diageo has oragency liquor stores.
There are variations selling capabilities and enable a number of sales offices in Sweden, Norway and Denmark.
for example, certain states control distribution alternative approaches to optimise product In these countries, except for Denmark, off but not retail sales.
Generally, wines are treated distribution.
To date, Diageo has consolidated trade sales are controlled by state monopolies, in the same way as spirits, although most its business in 41 markets 40 states plus with alcohol tax rates among the highest in the statesthat are control states for spirits are open Washington DC, representing over 80% of world and border trade and duty free being Diageos US spirits and wine volume.
Five of the US Spirits and Wine important sources of sales.
Smirnoff Ice is sold divisions conduct activities in open states and remaining markets will be consolidated as in Nordic countries through Carlsberg.
two conduct activities in control states.
Diageo continues to focus A specialist unit, Diageo Guinness on building the capabilities and selling tools Continental Europe, has been established for 30 Diageo Annual Report 2013 the distribution of Diageos beer brands in Beverages Pty Ltd brandhouse.
Brandhouse company manages approximately half of the sales in the market with the other half mainland Europe inorder to achieve synergies is a cost sharing joint venture owned equally between DSA and DHN.
Diageo also owns managed through wholesalers.
in the marketing and distribution of the Guinness and Kilkenny brands.
NBL is the producer of In Andean, all products in Venezuela are of these brands is managed by this specialist Windhoek lager which is sold mainly in sold through dedicated third party distributors.
In Colombia, Diageo sells directly to major unit with particular focus on Germany, Russia Namibia and through DHN in South Africa.
In June 2013, Diageo completed the grocers, serving all other accounts and and France, which are the largest mainland European beer markets by size for Diageo.
acquisition of a 50% equity interest in United channels through distributors.
National Breweries UNB, a traditional In Mexico, distribution of Smirnoff is managed by Casa Cuervo SA.
All other brands Africa, Eastern Europe and Turkey sorghum beer business in South Africa.
The other 50% equityinterest is owned bythe UB are sold directly by Diageo, either through Africa, Eastern Europe and Turkey comprises Nigeria, East Africa Kenya, Tanzania, Uganda, Group andDiageo accounts for its equity direct sales to international accounts or Burundi, Rwanda and South Sudan, Africa holding inUNB as an associate.
In selected markets in WestLAC such as Regional Markets including Ghana, Cameroon, Diageo has brewing arrangements with the Castel Group to license brew and distribute the Free Trade Zone, Bolivia and Ecuador, sales Ethiopia, Angola, Mozambique and Democratic Republic of Congo, South Africa, Guinness in the Democratic Republic of are managed directly by Diageo.
In key markets Russia, Central and Eastern Europe, Turkey and Congo, Gambia, Gabon, Ivory Coast, Togo, such as Costa Rica and the Dominican Republic sales are made via exclusive distributors, the African and Eastern European operations of Benin, Burkina Faso, Chad, Mali and Guinea.
Diageo sells spirits through distributors in most whilein Puerto Rico, Trinidad, Guatemala and Global Travel.
Diageo has 14 breweries in Africa other sub-Saharan countries.
Panama, third party distributors purchase including Sedibeng in South Africa which is Russia and Eastern Europe comprises directly from Diageo and sell on to the Russia, Poland and 32 distributor serviced localtrade.
In Chile, Diageo sells directly to 25% owned by Diageo.
In addition, Diageos beer and spirits brands are produced by third countries in Central and Eastern Europe.
In international retailers, partnering with an parties in 20 other African countries.
Diageo Russia and Poland Diageo operates through exclusive distributor for other channels.
In Argentina, Diageos business is managed also owns six other manufacturing facilities wholly owned subsidiaries.
Throughout the whole of the former Soviet Union and Eastern through a combination of wholesalers and including glass manufacturing, blending, malting and cider plants.
Block excluding Russia and Poland plus distributors outside of major grocers, to whom In Nigeria, Guinness, Harp and Malta are Iceland, Finland, Malta, Cyprus and Israel, Diageo sells directly.
Diageo Argentina also owns and operates the Navarro Correas the principal brands that are brewed and Diageo sells and markets its brands via local distributors.
In Hungary, Diageo sells its brands winery in Mendoza, Argentina.
The winery distributed by Guinness Nigeria plc.
Diageo owns 54.3% of the company, which has been through its associate company, Zwack.
Jamaica sells brewing Guinness locally since 1962.
Diageos In Turkey, Diageo sells its products via towholesalers and directly to retail trade accounts on the island.
spirits brands are distributed by a wholly thedistribution network of its wholly owned subsidiary, Mey ki.
Mey ki distributes both owned subsidiary.
East African Breweries Limited EABL is local brands raki, other spirits and wine which Asia Pacific the leading premium drinks business in East are produced in its distilleries and wineries Asia Pacific comprises South East Asia Vietnam, Thailand, Philippines, Indonesia, Africa and produces and distributes beer and andDiageos global spirits brands.
Sales to traditional on and off trade outlets are made Malaysia and Singapore, Greater China China, spirits brands to a range of consumers.
Diageo owns 50.03% of EABL which in turn owns 100% through Mey kis exclusive distributors and Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macau, India, of Kenya Breweries Limited, 98% of Uganda sales to some large store chains are made Australia, North Asia Korea and Japan and Global Travel Asia and Middle East.
Diageo Breweries Limited and 51% of Serengeti directly by Mey ki.
operates through a combination of Diageo Breweries Limited in Tanzania.
South Sudan, Rwanda and Burundi are serviced through Latin America and Caribbean companies, joint ventures and third party third party arrangements.
EABL also owns a Latin America and Caribbean LAC comprises distributors in the region.
In South East Asia, Diageo distributes glass manufacturer and a malting business.
PUB Paraguay, Uruguay and Brazil, Andean Venezuela and Colombia, WestLAC Central itsspirits brands through joint venture Within Africa Regional Markets, Diageo has wholly owned subsidiaries in Cameroon, America and Caribbean, Argentina, Chile, arrangements with MotHennessy in Ethiopia and Reunion and majority owned Peru, Ecuador and Bolivia, Mexico and the Thailand, Malaysia and Singapore and through its own company in the Philippines and subsidiaries in Ghana and the Seychelles.
operations of Global Travel in Latin America and Caribbean.
In Indonesia, Guinness is brewed by Angola and Mozambique are currently supplied by third party arrangements.
Diageo In Latin America and Caribbean, PT Multi Bintang Indonesia, and is distributed also owns 100% of the equity of Meta Abo distribution is achieved through a mixture of through a distribution agreement with PT Dima Indonesia while spirits brands are Brewery in Ethiopia, of which Meta beer is the Diageo companies and third party distributors.
In addition, Diageo owns a controlling interest distributed by government licensed principal brand.
In South Africa, Diageos business consists in Desnoes & Geddes Limited, the Jamaican distributors.
In Malaysia, Diageos own and third of its spirits business through its wholly owned brewer of Red Stripe lager.
party beers are brewed and distributed by a listed business Guinness Anchor Berhad in subsidiary Diageo South Africa Limited DSA : In PUB, sales are made directly to international retailers and through distributors which Diageo and its partner, Asia Pacific a42.25% share in DHN Drinks Pty Ltd DHN, ajoint venture with Heineken International and wholesalers for the remainder of the Breweries, have a majority share through a Heineken and Namibia Breweries Ltd NBL in business in Brazil.
In addition to Diageo Brazil, jointly controlled entity.
In Singapore, Diageos beer brands are brewed and distributed by respect of beer, cider and ready to drink brands: the group also owns 100% of Ypica, a leading cachaa producer and distributor.
In Paraguay, Asia Pacific Breweries.
In Vietnam, Diageo also and a 25% interest in Sedibeng Brewery Pty Ltd, the remainder being owned by Heineken.
the majority of customers are served by Diageo has a 45.5% equity stake in Hanoi Liquor Joint The route to market for DSA and DHNs brands with a portion of sales completed through Stock Company.
in South Africa is managed by brandhouse wholesalers.
In Uruguay, Diageos distribution Business description 31 In Greater China, a significant part of Diageos for providing logistics, customer service and Diageo is proud of its broad range of initiatives other technical support through the global spirits business is conducted through a joint designed to create a working environment that venture arrangement with Mot Hennessy in technical function.
is welcoming but also challenging, stimulating China, Hong Kong and Macau.
Diageos wholly Global procurement has responsibility for and inspiring.
It is pleased to have been owned subsidiary in China distributes brands sourcing goods and services on behalf of the recognised in the Great Place to Work Institutes Diageo group.
A global network of suppliers not included in the joint venture such as prestigious 25 Best Multinational Workplaces Smirnoff, Windsor and Baileys.
Diageos beer provides for a wide range of raw materials and achieving 9th place, reinforcing its position as a brands are sold through a distribution packaging items that are necessary to ensure leading global employer.
Diageo has also been agreement with Carlsberg in China and Hong consistency of quality to support the brands.
recognised as a great employer in Argentina, For commodities, for example cereals, hops Kong.
Through Sichuan Chengdu Shuijingfang Germany, Greece, Ireland, Kenya, Mexico, Iberia Group Co. Ltd. SJF Holdco formerly Sichuan and sugar, forward-buying takes place to and Canada.
These are achievements which Chengdu Quanxing Group Company Ltd., minimise value at risk.
In marketing, global have only been possible through the Diageo has a controlling equity interest in procurement supports the business in commitment of thousands of talented and sourcing creative media solutions, sponsorship Sichuan Shuijingfang Co. Ltd. Shuijingfang, a inspirational employees who together make super premium Chinese white spirits company.
and point of sale activities.
Global procurement Diageo a great place to work.
Diageo is the sole distributor of Shuijingfangs also supports business services, facilities and A key element of Diageos people Chinese white spirits outside of China.
An annual June 2013, Diageo acquired an additional 40% In March 2013, Diageo announced that its values-based survey has been conducted with equity stake in SJF Holdco which brought its Global Supply and procurement operation will employees for the past 10 years running, equity shareholding to 93%and increased its be refocused to enhance alignment between providing them with the opportunity to supply operations and Diageos markets.
effective interest in Shuijingfang to 37%.
In provide direct feedback on the organisation Taiwan, Diageo has itsown distribution From 1 July 2013, responsibility for a number and what its like to be a part of it.
The survey company for spirits.
of local operations was transferred to the allows Diageo at group, regional, functional In India, Diageo has its own spirits markets and regional structures are being and team levels, to assess how well the reduced.
The Global Supply function will distribution company.
In May and July 2013, business is bringing its values to life and the Diageo completed the acquisition of a 25.02% remain responsible for ensuring excellence level of engagement among employees.
equity interest in United Spirits Limited USL, across all supply operations.
Inthe 2013 survey, 92% of employees the leading spirits company in India.
USL has participated, with employees from Diageos Corporate astrong distribution network and point of newly acquired Mey ki, Ypica and Meta Abo salecoverage in India, with sales offices in Corporate costs which cannot be directly businesses all taking part for the first time.
keyIndian state capitals and established allocated to the business areas are reported Diageo achieved an overall employee manufacturing and bottling plants in all major separately within Corporate in the analysis engagement score of 85%, which reflects ofbusiness performance.
Also included in Indian states.
strong alignment to the organisations strategy, In Australia, Diageo has its own Corporate are the income and costs related to goals and values.
production and distribution company and in rents receivable in respect of properties not Diageo also measures superNew Zealand operates through third party used by Diageo in the manufacture, sale or engagement, a more stretching measure, distribution of premium drink products and distributors.
A licensed brewing arrangement requiring employees to assign the highest is in place in both countries with Lion Nathan.
the results of Gleneagles Hotel.
possible ranking to all six of the core In North Asia, Diageo has its own engagement questions.
The aim is to achieve distribution company in Korea.
In Japan, the Seasonal impacts a global super-engagement score of 50% and Approximately 40% of annual net sales occur in joint venture with Mot Hennessy distributes good progress is being made towards this the majority of super premium brands, while the last four months of each calendar year.
In the 2013 survey 41% of all employees the joint venture with Kirin distributes Diageos were measured as being super-engaged, an other super premium and premium spirits Employees increase of 1ppt since 2012.
Diageos people are at the heart of its global such as Johnnie Walker Platinum, Gold Reserve During the year Diageo announced and Black Label as well as Smirnoff, Smirnoff Ice strategy, and its leaders know that its people, changes to the structure of its Global Supply and Guinness.
Other spirits brands, which are culture and the companys values are what operation.
As with any change programme, not distributed by either Mot Hennessy give Diageo its competitive edge.
Helping this has represented a period of uncertainty for people reach their potential strengthens the ortheKirin joint venture, are distributed by those in supply and procurement.
companys ability to achieve its own ambitions.
always committed to providing its employees Airport shops and airline customers in Development whether part of a graduate or with regular updates and appropriate support Asia Pacific are serviced through a dedicated apprenticeship scheme, management training, during any transition period.
a functional skills programme or Diageos Diageo sales and marketing organisation.
Diversity is an important area of focus Inthe Middle East, distribution is achieved senior leadership intervention is an important for Diageo and the year ending 30 June 2013 through third party distributors.
Lebanon factor in Diageos success.
A broad range of has been particularly significant.
In March isanexception, where a Diageo subsidiary programmes are available to support people at 2013, Diageo became the first beverage all levels and in all functions and locations, and distributes the majority of the Diageo brands alcohol company to sign up to the Womens sold there.
are delivered in person or through Diageos Empowerment Principles.
The principles, a online training tool, the Diageo Academy.
joint initiative between the UN Women and Global Supply The Diageo Sales University, for example, is the UN Global Compact, set a blueprint for the now available to commercial teams across the Global Supply was responsible for the business in advancing the equality of men and production of approximately 73% of Diageos globe in nine languages.
women in business generally, the market place products sold globally, for sourcing materials and communities.
This is aligned with Diageos and services through global procurement and target to have 30% of its senior leadership roles filled by women by the end of the year ending 32 Diageo Annual Report 2013 Average number of employees Finally it was evident that further efforts 2012 2011 toempower certain stakeholder groups 2013 restated restated inDiageos value chain through skills North America 1,157 1,105 1,229 andempowerment were an important Western Europe 2,323 2,280 2,397 opportunity.
These three areas have been Africa, Eastern Europe and Turkey 7,240 6,638 4,769 prioritised in Diageos Sustainability and Responsibility Strategy together with its Latin America and Caribbean 2,556 1,631 1,413 continued commitment to people, broader Asia Pacific 4,269 2,902 2,639 environmental sustainability, governance Global Supply 7,853 8,120 8,202 andethics.
Corporate and other 3,012 3,022 3,137 Below is a summary of each impact area, 28,410 25,698 23,786 with the exception of people, which is Restated for changes in reporting segments, see page 45. reported under Employees, and governance and ethics, which is primarily reported in the Executive direction and control, The average number of employees in the year ended 30 June 2013, for developed markets has Internal control and risk management and decreased by 285 from 15,591 to 15,306 and has increased for new high growth markets by 2,997 Compliance and ethics programme sections from 10,107 to 13,104. of the Corporate Governance Report.
A separate Sustainability & Responsibility Report with full details of each impact area is available Sustainability & Responsibility 30 June 2014, and the coming year will see on the Diageo website.
further initiatives aimed at encouraging more Diageo realises that it is increasingly important women to develop their careers with Diageo.
for stakeholders to understand not only its Alcohol in society Diageo aims to support and provide financial performance, but also the manner Drinking alcohol has been part of the social in which it manages its social, environmental opportunities for a wide range of people and cultural life of communities throughout including those with disabilities and caring and economic impacts.
This is integral to the the world for centuries.
It can play a positive responsibilities and is taking action to make companys business strategy and supports role in social occasions and celebrations for working for the business compatible with a the purpose: Celebrating life every day, those who choose to drink.
Where possible, the recognises that the misuse of alcohol can company encourages a flexible approach to Diageos global Sustainability and cause serious problems for individuals, working, consistent with its inclusion and Responsibility Strategy aims to address the communities and society.
As such Diageo diversity ambitions.
Diageo emphasises the companys key impacts at every stage of the works to market its brands responsibly to value chain.
This is driven by the needs and importance of treating individuals justly and adults, and supports programmes and policies in a non-discriminatory manner throughout concerns of Diageos business partners and that create a more positive role for alcohol the employment relationship, including other stakeholders, including employees, insociety.
Through its Alcohol in Society recruitment, compensation, training, regulators, customers, non-governmental Executive Working Group, Diageo sets global organisations NGOs, as well as the promotion and transfers.
Factors that are policy and strategy to maintain a consistent not relevant to any role, such as race, religion, investment community.
or marital status will not be taken into The particular impacts Diageo has As the worlds leading premium drinks consideration, ensuring that no one focused on to date are alcohol in society, water business, Diageo wants to play an active part in and the environment, local socio-economic is disadvantaged.
tackling alcohol misuse and focuses on areas Diageo believes strongly in the value of its development, people and governance and where resources and expertise can be used employees sharing in the companys success ethics.
In addition to its own operations, most effectively.
Diageo works with the and actively encourages employees to Diageo has worked on these five impact beverage alcohol industry, governments and become shareholders.
The group seeks out areas with others in the value chain: suppliers, other groups to establish high company and opportunities to extend employee share customers and consumers.
Given the changes industry standards on responsible marketing ownership around the world and both in 2012 to the business over the past few years, and selling: providing information to help and 2013, 34 of its local markets operated an Diageo reviewed its approach to sustainability consumers make informed and responsible employee share plan.
This, combined with and responsibility.
This process included choices about when, whether and how they existing employee share plans, will further interviewing more than 40 external drink: investing in programmes that aim to extend the opportunity to the majority of stakeholders to understand their social, minimise alcohol misuse: and promoting employees across a significant number of environmental and economic concerns for effective government alcohol policies and Diageos markets to share in the companys the company and the industry.
debate about the role of alcohol in society.
As at 30 June 2013, 16,788 Overall the research confirmed that In this context, in October 2012, Diageo past and present employees held 1.27% 2012 the focus of Diageos sustainability and became one of 13 leading global producers of 1.27% of Diageos ordinary issued share responsibility programme was broadly in line beer, wine and spirits taking action through capital excluding treasury shares.
It affirmed the new commitments to reduce harmful drinking.
companys belief that it should play a leading role in communicating about alcohol responsibly and tackling alcohol misuse.
It underscored the importance of water stewardship, particularly in communities where access to clean water is limited.
Diageo was again selected as a member of the World and Europe Dow Jones Sustainability Indices DJSI one of only four beverage companies.
Business description 33 These CEO Commitments, announced at the date of 2015 with most measured against a and sanitation Millennium Development Goals baseline year of 2007.
The exception is the International Center for Alcohol Policies ICAP through working with other organisations in conference in Washington DC, build on long groups sustainable packaging targets, which accordance with the UN Global Compact CEO standing efforts by the industry and provide are measured against a baseline year of 2009.
aco-ordinated response to support member The Diageo Environmental Executive Working Diageo collects and reviews water data Group is responsible for setting environmental states in implementing the World Health from across the markets where it operates Organizations Global Strategy to Reduce the policy and strategy.
The policy is supported and the production sites over which it has Harmful Use of Alcohol.
The commitments will by Diageos environmental management operational control using internally developed cover the following areas: reducing underage framework, which sets implementation guidelines.
Particular attention is being criteria and provides a mechanism for drinking: strengthening and expanding devoted to the 12 production sites designated marketing codes of practice: providing monitoring compliance.
As stated in Diageos as being located in water-stressed areas where consumer information and responsible environmental policy, the company supports Diageo has made additional investment in product innovation: reducing drinking and a precautionary approach based on water treatment and water recovery systems.
In the year driving: and enlisting the support of retailers Diageo has set targets to improve water toreduce harmful drinking.
ended 30 June 2013, Diageos operational efficiency against a baseline set in the year The conference presented the first environmental metrics for carbon emissions, ended 30 June 2007 and a target year of 2015. comprehensive report on industry initiatives water, wastewater discharge BOD under During the year absolute water use was direct control and waste to landfill were tocombat alcohol misuse.
The ICAPs initiatives reduced by 4% or 994,000 cubic metres and report demonstrates the serious role of alcohol independently assured.
water efficiencies improved by 1.5% compared producers in working to prevent and reduce to the prior year.
Diageos operations across harmful drinking some 3,600 initiatives over Water Africa have cumulatively delivered a 32% A reliable supply of good quality water is the past few decades.
improvement in water efficiency, exceeding In the year ended 30 June 2013, Diageo essential to Diageos business because water is the 2015 target of 30% two years ahead of directly or indirectly supported more than 300 the main ingredient in almost all of Diageos schedule, an important achievement for programmes in over 40 countries to address products and influences brand integrity as a region with significant water challenges.
wellas being used for cleaning and cooling alcohol misuse with a focus on preventing While some savings are the result of major drink driving, underage drinking and excessive atproduction sites.
Water resources are under investments, most come from significant drinking.
In order to maintain high standards in pressure from development in many parts of operational improvements relating to its own marketing campaigns, Diageo has two the world and from climate change that may equipment, processes, culture and behaviour.
codes governing its marketing standards: the restrict availability in the future.
The brewery in Lagos, Nigeria is a key example Diageo Marketing Code and the Digital Code In the year ended 30 June 2013, 12 of of where water efficiencies have improved of Practice, which together cover all media, Diageos 119 production sites are designated as by 18% through a focused programme of being located in areas which are watertraditional, mobile and digital.
In addition, the continuous improvement initiatives.
Similar company works with others in the industry to stressed, identifying them as higher risk in programmes at Diageos brewery in Kaase, establish strong alcohol marketing codes in terms of having a sustainable water supply in Ghana, improved efficiencies by 25% over the countries where it operates.
All of these are in Africa, past year.
In Nairobi, the location of three of where the UN predicts that nearly 50% of the Diageos water-stressed sites, our malting and Water and the environment population will face water scarcity by 2025. glass production facilities have reduced the Diageo uses a wide range of resources in its As such, water challenges in these areas in absolute volume of water withdrawal by 60% business.
Some, like fuel, are finite: others, like particular will affect not only Diageos business and 24% respectively, reflecting the impact of a but also its business partners and the local cereals, are more vulnerable to the effects of sustained focus on water conservation.
To reduce the risks to the communities who rely on water for their the year Diageo committed to further water business and position itself for future success, livelihoods.
conservation programmes at its Nairobi Diageos environmental strategy seeks to Diageos Blueprint Water Framework, brewery, to continue to drive efficiencies and launched in 2010, guides the groups approach achieve and maintain environmental conservation.
This programme is expected sustainability so that its business neither to managing water and protecting water to be a key contributor to the water targets, causes long term critical depletion of natural sources in the regions where Diageo operates.
including reducing the volume of water resources nor lasting damage to species, The framework aims to improve water discharge in water-stressed sites by 50%, efficiency, and reduce the wastewater impacts habitats, biodiversity or the climate.
becomes ever more important as Diageo of Diageos direct operations.
It also seeks to The amount of water used in each of the expands in new high growth markets, where reduce water scarcity problems that affect last three years ended 30 June is set out in the the demands made on such resources are local watersheds and contribute to the water table below.
Diageos overall environmental strategy Year ended 30 June, focuses on direct environmental impacts and 2013 2012 2011 prioritises water efficiency, the reduction of 3 Total water used thousand metres 23,751 24,745 25,761 greenhouse gases, the polluting power of Water efficiency litres per litre of product 6.6 6.7 7.1 wastewater, reducing manufacturing waste sent to landfill, and the sustainability of its 2007 baseline data and data for each of the years in the five year period ended 30 June 2012 has been packaging.
Increasingly Diageo is looking restated in accordance with Diageos environmental reporting methodologies, available at http: toengage with its supply chain to address srreport2013.
In accordance with Diageos environmental reporting methodologies, total water used excludes irrigation indirect environmental impacts across the water for agricultural purposes on land under the operational control of the company.
Data included in this table in respect of the year ended 30 June 2013 is covered by KPMGs independent Diageo has set stretching targets across assurance report see Independent Assurance Report of KPMG Audit Plc to Diageo plc under Additional each of these priorities driving towards a target information for shareholders section.
34 Diageo Annual Report 2013 In addition to water efficiency, Diageo aims Greenhouse gases In the year ended 30 June 2013, Diageos toreduce the polluting power of its effluent The release of greenhouse gases GHG, greenhouse gas emissions decreased by 4% compared to the prior year.
This reduction measured in Biochemical Oxygen Demand notably carbon dioxide generated by burning BOD per gram of litre of product packaged.
fossil fuels, has an impact on climate change inabsolute terms has been achieved while The majority of Diageos BOD in discharge which, either directly or indirectly, presents production volume has grown, with growth water comes from Diageos Cameronbridge considerable risks both to the business and particularly strong in the most energydistillery in Scotland, where anew bioenergy intensive area of the business, malt and grain theplanet.
This facility generates These risks include impacts on agriculture whisky distilling.
Cumulatively Diageo has renewable energy while also reducing BOD on which the company depends for raw reduced absolute tonnes of greenhouse gas load.
In the year ended 30 June 2013, BOD load materials: disruption to the companys emissions by 26% since 2007. increased by 9.8% attributable to increased These results represent the sum of many operations or those of commercial partners: grain and malt whisky distillation, coupled with and changes to the nature or distribution of small improvements and the application of the commissioning of the bioenergy facility in consumer demand.
Diageo assumes that the new technology.
During the year, Diageo the latter part of the financial year.
The full year risks from climate change could be mitigated implemented over 170 energy-efficiency and impact of the Cameronbridge bioenergy greenhouse gas emission-reduction initiatives ifthe releases of greenhouse gases were facility on total BOD, together with effluent sufficiently diminished and, as such, has across the business, including projects aimed treatment plant refurbishments and upgrades worked for many years to reduce direct CO at improving insulation on cookers and stills, 2 at Diageos brewing sites in Africa are expected emissions from fuels and indirect CO the installation of variable speed drives and low 2 to significantly reduce BOD load to the energy lighting systems, and improvements emissions from electricity.
Accordingly, environment in subsequent years.
Diageo has set targets to reduce greenhouse to air condensers and boilers.
Diageo has also The amount of BOD in each of the last gas emissions against a baseline set in the year been investing in the bioenergy potential of three years ended 30 June is set out in the ended 30 June 2007 and a target year of 2015. its breweries and distilleries.
a 6million anaerobic digestion plant has The amount of CO generated by Diageos 2 Complementing the work to reduce the production activities in the last three years been built at the Dailuaine distillery in water impact of its direct operations, Diageos ended 30 June is as in the table below.
Diageo Scotland which generates biogas from draff: Water of Life programme invests in many applies the World Resources Institute World commissioning is complete and this is projects aimed at providing local communities expected to supply 40% of the sites electrical Business Council for Sustainable Development with access to safe water.
During the year Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate demand and to reduce site emissions by 5%.
Diageos Water of Life programme provided Accounting and Reporting Standard, Revised Additionally, at the brewery in Cameroon, access to safe water for approximately one Edition, as a basis for reporting its emissions natural gas fuelled boilers replaced heavy million people, and since June 2006, has fuel oils during the year which are expected and includes the facilities over which it has launched over 200 Water of Life projects in 18 operational control.
Additional information to reduce the sites emissions by 30%, while countries, mainly in Africa.
These programmes onthe calculations with respect to Diageos Diageos Valleyfield distillery in Canada switched its primary fuel source to support a range of initiatives including greenhouse gas footprint is detailed in boreholes, hand-dug wells, rainwater biomethane, contributing to further Diageos Sustainability & Responsibility Report harvesting and domestic filtration devices.
The amount of carbon emissions in each of the last three years ended June 30 Year ended 30 June is set out in the table below.
2013 2012 2011 Total BOD direct control thousand tonnes 40.4 36.6 40.9 Waste Total BOD third party treated thousand tonnes 0.1 0.3 0.3 Another focus of Diageos environmental Total BOD thousand tonnes 40.5 36.9 41.2 programme is reducing the amount of BOD efficiency grams per litre of packaged product 11.3 10.0 11.4 wasteDiageo sends to landfill.
In addition to minimising Diageos environmental footprint, 2007 baseline data and data for each of the years in the five year period ended 30 June 2012 has been this has a cost benefit through reducing waste restated in accordance with Diageos environmental reporting methodologies, available at distribution expenses and saving on material http: srreport2013.
Data included in this table in respect of total BOD direct control for the year ended 30 June 2013 is covered by inputs.
In the year ended 30 June 2013, the KPMGs independent assurance report see Independent Assurance Report of KPMG Audit Plc to Diageo plc volume of manufacturing waste sent to under Additional information for shareholders section.
landfill was reduced by 53% compared to the prior year.
Some examples of the solutions Year ended 30 June, implemented included diverting sugar cane 2013 2012 2011 waste, a by-product from rum distillation, to Scope 1 Direct CO emissions thousand tonnes CO 616 633 683 2 2 animal feed: supplying the aniseed and other Scope 2 Indirect CO2 emissions thousand tonnes CO2 85 99 116 residues from raki distillation to local farmers Total emissions thousand tonnes CO2 701 732 799 in Turkey: and introducing new membrane CO2 ratio gCO2 per litre of product packaged 196 198 221 filtration technology to the brewery in Benin, Nigeria to replace kieselguhr, a filter aid in GHG figures are calculated using the kWh CO2 conversion factor provided by energy suppliers, the relevant brewing, which was previously diverted to factors to the country of operation or the International Energy Agency, as applicable.
2007 baseline data and data for each of the years in the five year period ended 30 June 2012 has been restated in accordance with WRI WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Reporting Protocol and Diageos environmental reporting methodologies.
Diageos environmental reporting methodologies available at http: srreport2013.
Data included in this table in respect of total emissions and CO2 ratio for the year ended 30 June 2013 is covered by KPMGs independent assurance report see Independent Assurance Report of KPMG Audit Plc to Diageo plc under Additional information for shareholders section.
Business description 35 Year ended 30 June screening and auditing process.
Diageos expectations of business ethics and 2013 2012 2011 sustainability are made clear to suppliers.
Total waste to landfill thousand tonnes 23 49 58 Minimum compliance and ethics standards Waste efficiency grams per litre of product 6 13 16 aswell as aspirational goals are set out in Diageos Partnering with Suppliers standard.
2007 baseline data and data for each of the years in the five year period ended 30 June 2012 has been restated in accordance with Diageos environmental reporting methodologies, available at http: Additionally, during the past year a srreport2013.
representative of Diageo chaired AIMData included in this table in respect of total waste to landfill for the year ended 30 June 2013 is covered by PROGRESS, the collaborative consumer goods KPMGs independent assurance report see Independent Assurance Report of KPMG Audit Plc to Diageo plc under Additional information for shareholders section.
sector forum, working to improve processes and standards in a more effective way through The amount of waste to landfill in each of the The group also provides payments to the member organisations supply chains.
last three years ended 30 June is set out in the Thalidomide Trust in the United Kingdom and The raw materials needed to create table above.
the Thalidomide Foundation Ltd in Australia Diageos products require resources Complementing the companys focus on insupport of a legacy commitment.
Diageos increasingly at risk from competition for arable its own waste is its aim to design packaging investment comes from its businesses around land, water scarcity, unsustainable farming that has the lowest possible environmental the world in the form of cash, in-kind donations practices and climate change.
Diageo and volunteer time, together with grants from footprint while still fulfilling the functional recognises that its ability to create sustainable, requirements to protect, deliver and present the Diageo Foundation.
secure, and mutually beneficial partnerships its products and brands.
This aspiration is set Diageos largest community programme relies in part on the future prosperity of farmers out in the Sustainable Packaging Guidelines, in Africa is Water of Life, explained above.
As such, Diageo promotes Other significant programmes include published in 2012, which are used across all sustainable sourcing and, where appropriate, markets.
Among the initiatives are light Learning for Life, which provides education local sourcing of raw materials which meet its weighting, or reducing the weight of and vocational training in Latin America and quality standards.
For example, in partnership packaging: removing materials that cannot Caribbean to help people find or sustain with the Ethiopian Governments Agricultural economic opportunities such as employment be or are difficult to recycle, including PVC, foil, Transformation Agency and 764 smallholders mixed plastics, ceramics and some laminates: in the hospitality industry or progressing their in Ethiopia, Diageo has designed a programme and, where viable alternatives exist, removing own business.
Since 2008, Diageo has trained to build a sustainable source of barley for our materials from the packaging, such as inks close to 90,000 students through this operations in Ethiopia.
Diageo also continued programme with more than 25,000 this year.
and heavy metals that may pose a risk to to run a number of other programmes across the environment.
Using a similar model, Diageo has also Africa that aim to develop partnerships with launched a community investment farming communities, governments and NGOs Local socio-economic development programme in Asia Pacific with a particular to fuel growth through sustainable cultivation focus on providing learning opportunities to Diageo recognises that its success in the future of local crops.
will depend in part on the prosperity of the women.
Aligned with this growing focus on Increasingly, Diageo is looking at alternative communities in which it operates and the female empowerment, and reflecting its own raw materials such as sorghum and cassava, strength of its relationships with those value for workplace diversity, Diageo signed which are resilient and adapted to their local the Womens Empowerment Principles during communities.
First and foremost, Diageos environment.
In the year ended 30 June 2013 commercial performance can drive economic the year, a joint initiative between UN Women Diageo launched Ruut Extra Premium beer, development through increased local and the UN Global Compact.
brewed from locally sourced cassava which employment, wages, taxes and investment.
In addition to community programmes, isamainstay of Ghanaian agriculture.
Diageo supports involvement by its Diageo is also committed to contributing to local communities by encouraging local employees to benefit local communities, Value chain customers and consumers sourcing of raw materials, engaging local forexample taking proactive measures to Sustainability performance is becoming stakeholders and investing in initiatives that reactrapidly to natural disasters affecting increasingly important in the consumer communities in the countries in which it address local needs.
Diageo believes that product marketplace.
supporting long term sustainable initiatives operates.
During the year, Diageo employees Driven in part by consumer demand, inthe communities where it does business, supported victims of natural disasters in North aswell as regulatory and commercial trends, advances the development of those America, Jamaica, Australia and China.
customers are beginning to demonstrate communities, engages employees, builds interest in Diageos sustainability programmes.
Diageos reputation and enhances its Value chain suppliers As a result, Diageo is further integrating relationships with governments and other Diageo buys a range of raw materials, products sustainability objectives into its commercial stakeholders.
and services from people and organisations strategies, such as developing sustainable allover the world, creating value for the Community investment in the year ended packaging solutions that help to reduce its 30 June 2013 amounted to 0.9% of Diageos communities and economies in which it customers environmental footprint, for operating profit before exceptional items.
operates, and gaining commercial value in example Diageo redesigned its Baileys bottle Investment is focused on projects that support return.
How the company works with suppliers saving over 1,000 tonnes of packaging weight, is therefore fundamental to the sustainable sustainable development by providing access utilising up to 60% recycled materials and to clean water for local communities: providing management of the business.
creating a pack which is fully recyclable.
Diageo skills training for disadvantaged people to Responsible sourcing is critical to also actively works with its customers in helpthem find employment in the industry: maintaining Diageos reputation and meeting consumer-facing campaigns, primarily around customers and consumers demands.
To this and encouraging enterprise as a means of promoting responsible drinking.
improving social mobility, particularly in end, Diageo manages social and ethical risk, Additionally, Diageos brands reach newhigh growth markets and increasingly ranging from labour and human rights to consumers directly through responsible among women.
commercial integrity, through a four-stage drinking and cause-related marketing 36 Diageo Annual Report 2013 campaigns.
In the year ended 30 June 2013, Trademarks messages used.
In a number of countries, television is a prohibited medium for spirits many brands launched social and Diageo produces, sells and distributes branded goods and is therefore substantially brands and in other countries, television environmental projects around the world.
Forexample, Johnnie Walker continued its dependent on the maintenance and advertising, while permitted, is carefully sponsorship of the Vodafone McLaren protection of its trademarks.
Many countries also regulate the useof internet-based advertising and social Mercedes Formula 1 team to promote the mentioned in this document are trademarks.
The group also holds numerous licences and media in connection with alcohol sales.
dont drink and drive message for the sixth year running: Croc partnered with Esquire magazine trade secrets, as well as having substantial Spirits, beer and wine are also regulated to launch a contest to make a responsible trade knowledge related to its products.
In many countries, alcohol may only be sold through licensed outlets, both drinking advert which aired on US national group believes that its significant trademarks are registered and or otherwise protected onand off trade, varying from government or television on New Years Eve: and Captain Morgan, in partnership with Facebook, insofar as legal protection is available in all state operated monopoly outlets for example, launched a new responsible drinking material respects in its most important Canada, Norway and certain US states to the common system of licensed on trade outlets ambassador, Cinnamon the Ships Cat, markets.
Diageo also owns valuable patents and trade secrets for technology and takes all for example, licensed bars and restaurants targeting users during the Christmas period with responsible drinking messages.
Diageo reasonable steps to protect these rights.
which prevails in much of the Western world believes that, when these sustainability activities for example, most US states and the European Union.
In about one-third of the states in the are done well, they engage consumers to Regulations and taxes become partners, and thus build its brands and Diageos worldwide operations are subject to United States, price changes must be filed or contribute to business performance.
extensive regulatory requirements regarding published 30 days to three months, depending production, product liability, distribution, on the state, before they become effective.
Labelling of beverage alcohol products Competition importation, marketing, promotion, sales, Diageos brands compete on the basis of pricing, labelling, packaging, advertising, isalso regulated in many markets, varying consumer loyalty, quality and price.
labour, pensions, compliance and control fromhealth warning labels to importer identification, alcohol strength and other In spirits, Diageos major global systems and environmental issues.
In the United States, the beverage alcohol industry is consumer information.
As well as producer, competitors are Pernod Ricard, Beam, Bacardi and Brown Forman, each of which has several subject to strict federal and state government importer or bottler identification, specific brands that compete directly with Diageos regulations covering virtually every aspect of warning statements related to the risks of drinking beverage alcohol products are brands.
In addition, Diageo faces competition its operations, including production, distribution, marketing, promotion, sales, required to be included on all beverage from local and regional companies in the countries in which it operates.
pricing, labelling, packaging and advertising.
alcohol products sold in the United States and In beer, Diageo competes globally as well Spirits, beer and wine are subject to in other countries where Diageo operates.
Expressions of political concern signify the as on a regional and local basis with the profile national import and excise duties in many markets around the world.
Most countries uncertain future of beverage alcohol products varying between regions with several competitors, including AB InBev, Heineken, impose excise duties on beverage alcohol advertising on network television in the United SABMiller, Molson Coors and Carlsberg.
products, although the form of such taxation States.
Any prohibitions on advertising or marketing could have an adverse impact on In wine, the market is fragmented with varies significantly from a simple application to units of alcohol by volume, toadvanced sales of the group.
systems based on imported orwholesale Regulatory decisions and changes in Research and development value of the product.
Several countries impose thelegal and regulatory environment could increase Diageos costs and liabilities or impact Innovation forms an important part of Diageos additional import duty on distilled spirits, often discriminating between categories such as on its business activities.
growth strategy, playing a key role in positioning its brands for continued growth in both the Scotch whisky or bourbon in the rate of such developed and new high growth markets.
Within the European Union, such Business services Diageo continues to standardise its key strength and depth of Diageos brand range products are subject to different rates of excise duty in each country, but within an overall business activities with customers, consumers, provides a solid platform from which to drive innovation.
Diageo continuously invests to European Union framework, there are suppliers and the processes that summarise deepen its understanding of shopper trends minimum rates of excise duties that can and report financial performance.
In that regard, global processes have been designed, and changing consumer habits to inform beapplied.
Import and excise duties can have a built and implemented across a number of product and packaging development.
Supporting this, the group has ongoing significant impact on the final pricing of markets and operational entities.
programmes to develop new products across Diageos products to consumers.
These duties Diageo uses shared services operations todeliver transaction processing and certain beverage alcohol categories which are have an impact on the competitive position as compared to other brands.
The group devotes central finance activities, using captive and managed internally by the innovation and research and development function, which resources to encouraging the equitable outsourced centres.
Captive business service also takes advantage of a substantial open taxation treatment of all beverage alcohol centres in Budapest, Hungary: Nairobi, Kenya and Bogot, Colombia perform various process innovation network.
categories and to reducing governmentimposed barriers to fair trading.
tasks for markets and operational entities.
In the year ended 30 June 2013, the groups research and development Advertising, marketing and sales of Certain central finance activities, including expenditure amounted to 21 million alcohol are subject to various restrictions in elements of financial planning and reporting and treasury, are also performed in the 2012 18 million: 2011 17 million, markets around the world.
These range from acomplete prohibition of alcohol in certain business service centre inBudapest.
Diageo representing principally the cost of developing new products, from idea generation through countries and cultures, through the prohibition also uses third party service centres in Manila, to full product development.
Research and of the import of spirits, wine and beer, to Shanghai, Bucharest, Nairobi, Bogot and Delhi to perform tasks for basic processes.
In the year development expenditure is generally restrictions on the advertising style, media and written off in the year in which it is incurred.
Business description 37 ended 30 June 2013, Diageo announced its Mercier, all of which are included in the top 10 Bangalore Stock Exchange, the Bombay Stock plans to expand the current arrangement with champagne brands worldwide by volume.
Exchange and the National Stock Exchange ofIndia.
USL possesses an unparalleled brand its business process outsourcing partner in Mot Hennessy also owns Hennessy, which is respect of the business service centre in Manila.
the top cognac brand worldwide by volume, portfolio in India with strong customer This centre will grow to include a number of and Glenmorangie, a malt whisky.
recognition and range of brands across Diageo employees, giving broader oversight A number of joint distribution categories and price points.
It also has a strong distribution network and retail coverage, with and management of financial transactions for arrangements have been established with the Asia Pacific region.
LVMH, principally covering distribution of sales offices in key Indian state capitals and Diageos premium brands of Scotch whisky established manufacturing and bottling plants Associates and gin and Mot Hennessys premium in all major Indian states.
USLs principal brands include the McDowells No.
1 family, one of the Diageos principal associate is Mot Hennessy.
champagne and cognac brands in the Asia It also owns shares in a number of other Pacific region and France.
Diageo and LVMH largest spirits brand in the world by volume associates.
In the year ended 30 June 2013, the have each undertaken not to engage in any consisting whisky, brandy and rum products, share of profits of associates after tax was 199 champagne or cognac activities competing as well as a selection of other spirits brands such as Bagpiper, Old Tavern, Haywards and million 2012 213 million: 2011 176million, with those of MotHennessy.
The of which Mot Hennessy accounted for 230 arrangements also contain certain provisions Honey Bee which are also in the top 100 spirits million 2012 205 million: 2011 179million.
for the protection of Diageo as a minority brands in the world by volume.
The financial Diageo owns 34% of Mot Hennessy, the shareholder in Mot Hennessy.
The operations statements of USL, prepared under Indian of Mot Hennessy in France are conducted GAAP, for the year ended31 March 2013 spirits and wine subsidiary of LVMH Mot Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA LVMH.
LVMH is through a partnership in which Diageo has disclosed net sales of INR 106.0 billion 1,173 based in France and is listed on the Paris Stock a34% interest and, as a partner, Diageo pays million and operating profit of INR 10.6 billion Exchange.
Mot Hennessy is also based in anytax due on its share of the results of the 117 million.
Total assets disclosedas at France and is a producer and exporter of a partnership to the tax authorities.
31 March 2013 were INR 163.8 billion number of brands in its main business areas of In May and July 2013 Diageo completed 1,813 million and total liabilities were champagne and cognac.
Its principal the acquisition of a 25.02% equity interest in INR 115.9 billion 1,282 million.
champagne brands are Mot & Chandon USL, the leading spirits company in India.
USL including Dom Prignon, Veuve Clicquot and is based in Bangalore, India and listed on the Acquisitions and disposals Diageo has made a number of acquisitions of brands, distribution rights and equity interests in premium drinks businesses.
Since 1 July 2010 the following acquisitions and disposals have been made: Acquisitions Date Consideration Principal acquired million Location brands acquired Status United Spirits 13 May 4 July 2013 594 India McDowell's Nr 1. family Acquisition of 25.02% equity interest in Limited and other Indian whisky, United Spirits Limited brandy and rum products United National 27 June 2013 23 South Africa Chibuku, Leopard Special Acquisition of 50% equity interest in Breweries and Ijuba sorghum beer United National Breweries traditional products sorghum beer business SJF Holdco and 27 January 2007 267 China Shui Jing Fang Chinese Acquisition of 93% equity stake in SJF Shuijingfang 7 June 2013 white spirit Holdco which owns a 39.7% controlling control of Shuijingfang equity interest in Shuijingfang from 29 June 2012 Ypica 9 August 2012 284 Brazil Ypica cachaa Acquisition of 100% of the equity share capital of Ypica Bebidas S. A. Meta 9 January 2012 153 Ethiopia Meta beer Acquisition of 100% of the equity share capital of Meta Abo Brewery Share Company SC Philippines 14 December 2011 15 Philippines Distribution company Acquisition of 49% of Diageo Philippines Inc not already owned by the group Kenya Breweries 25 November 2011 134 Kenya Producer of Tusker and Acquisition of 20% of Kenya Breweries other beer products Ltd not already owned by the group Halico 13 May 2011 60 Vietnam Vodka Hanoi Acquisition of 45.5% of the equity share 24 June 2012 capital of Hanoi Joint Stock Company Halico Mey ki 23 August 2011 1,260 Turkey Yen Raki, Terkirda Raki Acquisition of 100% of the equity share and Istanblue vodka capital of Mey ki Sanayi five Ticaret A.. Zacapa 5 July 2011 148 Guatemala Zacapa rum Acquisition of a 50% controlling equity stake in Rum Creation and Products Inc Serengeti 22 October 2010 60 Tanzania Serengeti lager Acquisition of a 51% equity stake in Serengeti Breweries Limited via a 50.03% equity owned subsidiary 22 Marquis 30 September 2010 6 United States 22 Marquis sparkling Acquisition of a 20% equity stake in liqueur LNJ Group Includes net borrowings acquired but excludes the value of put options and transaction costs.
Excludes cash acquired in Shuijingfang when first consolidated.
