Dignity plc 68 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Directors report for the 52 week period ended 27 December 2013 The Directors present their report and the audited consolidated Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on financial statements for Dignity plc and its subsidiaries for the page 44 and 45 of the Annual Report, confirm that, to the best 52 week period ended 27 December 2013. of their knowledge and belief: The company registration number of Dignity plc is 4569346.
The Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and Statement of Directors responsibilities fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, of the Group: and the Report on Directors Remuneration and the financial The Strategic report on pages 4 to 41 of the Annual Report statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors it faces.
have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as Principal risks and uncertainties adopted by the European Union and the parent company Operational risks are considered on page 33. financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom An assessment of the Groups exposure to financial risks Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law and a description of how these risks are managed are included the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or Capital Reorganisation loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial On 30 July 2013 Dignity Finance PLC, a subsidiary of the statements, the Directors are required to: Group, issued 50.25 million Class A Secured 6.31 per cent Notes due 2023 and 40.75 million Class B Secured 8.151per Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them cent Notes due 2031.
This raised a total 93.2 million after consistently: expenses.
The Company returned 61.9 million 1.08 per Make judgements and accounting estimates that are Ordinary Share to shareholders through the issue and reasonable and prudent: and redemption of B or C Share for each existing Ordinary Share.
This was approved at an Extraordinary General Meeting on State whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union 8 August 2013.
The Company also completed, in August 2013, and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, a consolidation of its share capital on the basis of 13 new subject to any material departures disclosed and explained Ordinary Shares of 11 4 13 pence for every 14 existing in the Group and parent Company financial statements Ordinary Shares of 10.5 pence each.
Share capital The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting During the period, the Group issued 2,536,863 Ordinary records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys Shares of 10.5 pence: 2,283,019 were issued at 10.60 transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time each, raising 24.2 million, partly to fund the acquisition of the financial position of the Company and the Group and Yew Holdings Limited for a total consideration of 58.3 million enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the and 253,844 were issued to satisfy Long-Term Incentive Plan Report on Directors Remuneration comply with the Companies share awards vesting in the period.
Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for Following the share consolidation referred to above, the issued safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and share capital of Dignity plc at 27 December 2013 consisted hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and of 53,343,871 Ordinary Shares of 11 4 13 pence each.
All the detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Ordinary Shares carry the same rights and obligations.
There are no other class or type of share in issue.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Groups websites and legislation in the United Kingdom Subsequent to the share consolidation a further 141,981 governing the preparation and dissemination of financial Ordinary Shares were issued to satisfy options exercised statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
under the 2010 Save As You Earn Scheme which ended during the period.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information D Diig gn niit ty y p pllc c 2 69 9 A An nn nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t & & A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 013 13 A special resolution passed at the last Annual General Meeting During the period, the Company maintained liability on 6 June 2013 gives Dignity plc the authority to purchase up insurance for its Directors and Officers.
The Directors of to 5,704,050 Ordinary Shares of 10.5 pence each at not less each of the Companys subsidiaries have the benefit of an than nominal value and not more than five per cent above indemnity provision in the Companys Articles of Association.
the average middle market quotation for the preceding five The indemnity provision, which is a qualifying third party business days.
At the same meeting the Company was also indemnity provision as defined by Section 234 of the given authority to allot Ordinary Shares up to an aggregate Companies Act 2006, was in force throughout the period nominal value of 3,992,835 of which up to 299,463 may be and is currently in force.
These authorities will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting on 5 June 2014.
It is the intention Health and safety policy of the Directors to seek renewal of these authorities at that The Groups operations are designed at all times in such a Annual General Meeting.
There are no restrictions at the period way as to ensure, so far as reasonably practicable, the health, end on the transfer of securities.
safety and welfare of all of our employees and all other persons who may be attending our premises.
This is discussed in the Results Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on page 39.
The results for the period are set out in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 74.
The Groups profit before tax Corporate Social Responsibility amounted to 49.6 million 2012: 45.4 million.
Maintaining the quality of the environment in which we all live is an important concern for the Group.
This is discussed Dividends in the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on page 40 No interim dividend was paid in October 2013 as a capital alongside other social and ethical considerations.
return to shareholders was made in August 2013.
The Board has proposed a final dividend of 11.83 pence 2012: 10.75 Carbon Reporting pence per share, which, subject to approval at the Annual The Group reports its Greenhouse Gas to the Carbon Disclosure General Meeting, will be paid on 27 June 2014 to shareholders Project on an annual basis in tonnes of carbon dioxide on the register at close of business on 23 May 2014. equivalent resulting from the combustion of fuel direct Scope 1 Emissions and that resulting from the purchase of electricity Employment policies indirect Scope 2 Emissions.
The emissions for the last five During the period, the Group has maintained its obligations years are as follows: to develop and improve arrangements aimed at involving 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 employees in its affairs.
Methods of communication used include an in house newsletter, an employee website, bulletins Scope 1 15,077 15,097 15,202 16,798 15,005 and management briefings.
Per FTE Employee 8.14 9.03 9.12 9.62 9.52 Employment policies are designed to provide equal The Greenhouse Gas emissions have been shown as a per opportunities irrespective of age, sexuality, colour, ethnic full time equivalent employee ratio.
The rationale for the choice or national origin, religion, nationality, sex or marital status.
of ratio is that it is the best measure available to the Group Full consideration is given to the employment, training and given the diversity of the property portfolio, the three separate career development of disabled persons, subject only to divisions of the business and the absence of a similar business their aptitudes and abilities.
The Group endeavours, as far as to benchmark against.
is practicable, to treat disabled persons equally with others and will also endeavour to help and accommodate persons Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions information is derived from who become disabled whilst working for Dignity.
accurate consumption information on utility bills, smart meter readings and fuel card data.
These are then multiplied by the Directors and their interests appropriate emission factor from Defra DECC and certified Details of the Directors of the Company who were in office by the Carbon Trust.
Standard and accepted methods of during the period and up to the date of signing the financial calculation have been used to derive the emissions information.
statements are shown in the Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 59 and 65.
In accordance with the Articles of The Group does not collect or report Scope 3 emissions Association and the UK Corporate Governance Code, at the principally because of the difficulty of collating accurate Annual General Meeting, all Directors will retire as Directors information and the deemed value of that information.
of the Company and, being eligible, offer themselves for reelection at the Annual General Meeting on 5 June 2014.
Dignity plc 70 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Directors report continued for the 52 week period ended 27 December 2013 Going concern The Directors receive and review regularly management accounts, cash balances, forecasts and the annual budget together with covenant reporting.
After careful consideration, and mindful of the current market conditions, the Directors confirm they are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis for preparing the financial statements.
The Directors formally considered this matter at the Board meeting held on 28 February 2014.
Post balance sheet events Please refer to note 32 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further details.
Independent Auditors and disclosure of information to Auditors A resolution for the reappointment of  LLP will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
In the case of each of the persons who are Directors at the time when the report is approved, the following applies: So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and The Directors have taken appropriate steps to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Corporate Governance Statement The information that fulfils the requirements of a corporate governance statement in accordance with rule 7.2 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules can be found in this Directors Report and in the Directors Statement on Corporate Governance on pages 46 to 49, which is incorporated by reference.
Strategic report The Strategic report on pages 4 to 41 has been approved by the Board.
By order of the Board Richard Portman Company Secretary 5 March 2014
