Dignity plc 06 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Market overview The industry we operate in Overview these estimates from time to time.
As in The funeral market as a whole does not previous years, the Group does not restate any change rapidly year on year, but the effect over of its key performance indicators when these a number of years is noticeable, whether it is figures are restated in the following year.
The Group monitors the number of deaths per year, or the number and responds to the of funeral or crematoria locations within the Although annual deaths have declined environment it industry.
The Group monitors and responds significantly since the early 1990s from to the environment it operates in, seeking to 640,000 to a low of 539,000 in 2011, the operates in.
understand the implications for the short, last five years have seen a more stable number medium and long-term.
of reported deaths between 539,000 and 560,000 per annum.
The UK funeral market today Key points The funeral director market is very Stable industry fragmented, with approximately two thirds The number of deaths in the UK is stable and The funeral director market is very fragmented.
of funeral directors being small owner predictable.
Annual variations are relatively managed businesses.
In the last 30 years, the year on year Approximately 70 per cent variation has always been less than five per of crematoria are owned There are approximately 270 crematoria cent, with most years below two per cent.
in the UK, with approximately 70 per cent Annual variations in the owned by local authorities.
Competition number of deaths are Whilst a precise list of all funeral directors relatively small.
Regulation is not available, data from Matter The provision of funeral services is not Communications and Yell suggest that the There is not currently any regulated.
Trade organisations such as the number of funeral directors in the UK has regulation pending that National Association of Funeral Directors increased from approximately 4,300 in would materially affect the NAFD provide training and qualifications, 1998 to 5,500 in 2013. funeral industry.
although they are not mandatory.
Dignity would welcome further regulation of the Although competition is increasing, the nature funeral industry setting out minimum of a service business is that the quality of standards for core aspects, such as the service being provided is not known in advance.
Consequently, reputation and recommendation remain a key driver in someones choice of Crematoria are subject to environmental funeral director.
regulation, with emission levels being monitored by environmental health officers.
With crematoria, amongst other things, Recent changes for the abatement of planning laws require there to be a need for a mercury emissions have improved the new crematorium in a particular area.
be difficult to prove and can be an emotive subject for local residents.
This, combined with Pre-arranged funeral plans are regulated by availability of land and the high capital cost the Finance Services and Markets Act, which of construction has limited the growth in the requires customers money to be held in an number of crematoria in the UK.
independent trust or an insurance policy.
Pre-arranged funeral plans allows the Group Office for National Statistics data the opportunity to gain incremental funerals.
Some of the Groups key performance Our national network allows us to work with indicators rely on the total number of national partners offering a funeral plan estimated deaths for each period.
information is obtained from the Office for National Statistics ONS.
Forward look There is not currently any regulation The initial publication of recorded total pending that would materially affect the estimated deaths in Britain for the 52 weeks funeral industry.
The ONS expects the number in 2013 was 560,000 compared to 551,000 of deaths per annum to start to increase at for 2012.
Historically, the ONS has updated some point before 2020.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc 07 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 From the Chairman Source of business % 100 90 80 70 72% 60 50 40 30 20 1% 14% 13% 0 Reputation, Closest location Pre-arranged Other recommendation & funeral plans previous experience Source: Dignity client survey Mike McCollum, Chief Executive Dignitys strong position within the industry Forward look In the last 10 years, Dignity has strengthened Funeral services its position in each of the markets that it Dignity has approximately 12 per cent of the operates, doing so in a way that provides In the last10 funeral market.
This gives the Group sufficient excellent customer service whilst delivering years, Dignity has consistent returns to its shareholders.
size to operate its locations efficiently in a strengthened its way that shares expensive resources such as mortuaries and specialist vehicles, whilst Whilst past performance is not necessarily position in each of providing very high levels of service to each a guide to the future, the Group believes the markets that it that its strategy is still appropriate for the family it looks after.
This size still gives the Group good scope to acquire owner managed businesses in areas where it is not well represented.
This was demonstrated well with the acquisition of Key points Yew in 2013.
11.9% Crematoria With 39 crematoria, Dignity is the largest single Dignitys funeral market operator in the UK.
cent of the crematoria market, this still gives it significant scope to expand through acquisition 9.9% or new builds where possible.
Pre-arranged funeral plans Dignitys national network of funeral locations 323,000 and strong relationships with many different The number of unfulfilled affinity partners has allowed it to sell pre-arranged funeral plans.
significant volumes of pre-arranged funerals that should represent incremental activity for the funeral division.
98.1% In 2013, 98.1 per cent of Quality and consistency of service respondents to our client Excellent customer service is critical to survey said that they would the success of the Group.
As explained on recommend us.
page 19, this is monitored closely with results demonstrating consistent levels of outstanding See Our strategy and business service.
A recent report by YouGov indicated model: p. 08 and p. 09 that 88 per cent of people were either very See KPIs: p. 18 pleased, fairly pleased or were neither pleased nor displeased with the funeral they had See Client survey: p. 19 organised.
In 2013 by contrast, 99.2 per cent of families said that Dignity met or exceeded See Operating review: p. 22 to p. 27 their expectations.
Dignity plc 08 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Our strategy and business model Our strategy defines the direction for Dignity and our key objectives for delivering against it.
Through our clear and consistent strategy and resilient business model, Dignity is well positioned to continue to create value and deliver long-term sustainable growth.
Our Strategy Our Key Objectives Key Points Ensuring the highest levels ofclient We plan to grow the profitability 1 98.1% service excellence: of our business by: High levels of client service demonstrably In the 2013 client survey affect clients willingness to recommend our 98.1 per cent of respondents Operating in a traditional market would recommend us.
Recommendations and our reputation where people use our services generate approximately 72 per cent ofour See Client survey: p. 19 funeral business.
based on our reputation and through recommendations, Recruiting, developing and retaining the where we believe our continued 2 29% best people: The percentage of Dignity Our employees are central to the success of commitment to excellent service employees who have over the business.
We seek to recruit and retain the for our clients will generate 10 years service.
best people through appropriate remuneration a high level of referral and and ongoing training.
See CSR: p. 34 to p. 41 organic growth: Continued investment: 78.9 million 3 Continuing to control our We invest significantly in our existing 18.2 million invested businesses to ensure it is of the highest operating costs: in capital expenditure and standard, both in client facing areas and 60.7 million in acquiring behind the scenes.
We also seek to invest in Developing or acquiring additional new locations.
new businesses that will help Dignity grow funeral locations: and create value for shareholders.
See Operating review: p. 22 to p. 27 Developing, managing oracquiring Growing our business responsibly: FTSE4Good 4 additional crematoria: As an industry leader, we aim to be both successful and good corporate citizens.
Dignity is identified as a company that meets globally National marketing of pre-arranged recognised standards of funeral plans, principally through corporate responsibility.
affinity partners: and See CSR: p. 34 to p. 41 Efficient use of our balance sheet Delivering long-term shareholder returns: to enhance shareholder returns.
261 million 5 Our business is driven by relatively predictable Since flotation, 261million factors over long periods of time.
This allows has been returned to us to operate and fund our business in a way shareholders.
that generates value over the long-term.
See Financial review: p. 28 to p. 31 Find out more about how we are delivering on our strategy: p. 10 to p. 17 Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc 09 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 h How we align remuneration to strategy The majority of Executive Directors remuneration is conditional on achieving short and long-term financial performance targets.
Find out more in the Report on Directors remuneration: p. 54 to p. 67 Developing and Growing Our Business What We Believe In Our core business What we are here to do: Funeral services To help people at one of the most Each year we invest in the refurbishment of our funeral difficult times in their lives.
properties, the renewal of our fleet and staff training initiatives enabling our people to provide the highest standards of client service.
How we do this: With compassion, respect, openness Crematoria and care.
We continue to invest in our crematoria facilities to provide peaceful gardens of remembrance and chapels for our clients.
What we want to be: Pre-arranged funeral plans The company that everyone knows they We continue to work closely with our affinity partners and can trust in their time of need.
funeral locations for the sale of pre-arranged funeral plans.
Other growth opportunities We also develop and grow our business through: the acquisition of well established and well respected funeral businesses: the opening of new satellite funeral locations: the construction of new crematoria: management of local authority owned crematoria: and developing new affinity partner relationships for the sale of pre-arranged funeral plans.
Find out more about our business operations, actions and progress: p. 22 to p. 27
