Dignity plc 10 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Delivering on our strategy Ensuring the highest levels of client service We continue to prioritise service and care.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc 11 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Serving the people in our local communities at one of the most difficult times in their lives remains at the heart of everything we do and we are committed to providing the highest standards of service and care and to helping our clients every step of the way when they need us.
Why service quality is important to our business We are focused on service because our clients do not use us by chance.
Three quarters have used us before or choose us because of recommendation and reputation.
They return and recommend us because of the quality and consistency of service we provide.
We continue to prioritise service and care.
The responses we receive to our client surveys demonstrate our ongoing commitment to this.
The results of our client surveys for 2013 continue to be at exceptionally high levels, with 99.2 per cent of respondents saying that we met or exceeded their expectations.
99.2% In the 2013 client survey 99.2 per cent of respondents said that we met or exceeded See Client survey: p. 19 and Operating review: p. 22 to p. 27 their expectations.
Dignity plc 12 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Delivering on our strategy continued Recruiting, developing and retaining the best people Our people continue to be integral to our success.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc 13 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 We have over 2,700 experienced and dedicated people from the communities they serve or from families that have been in the funeral profession for generations.
We value our people, promote diversity and recognise achievement and long service.
Why our people are so important to our business The performance we achieve is a result of the hard work, dedication, and diligence of all our people.
We continue to focus on ongoing training and development of our staff to enable them to fulfil their potential, giving them the skills to be able to meet our clients expectations.
Recruiting, developing and retaining our best people enables us to continue to improve our operations and the quality of the service we provide to our clients.
29% 29 per cent of our staff See more about our people in CSR: p. 36 to p. 38 have over 10 years service.
Dignity plc 14 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Delivering on our strategy continued Continued investment We continue to develop and invest in our business.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc 15 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 One of Dignitys strengths is that we continually invest in our established funeral businesses, crematoria, fleet and staff so that our clients experience the very best service and facilities.
We also seek new businesses that will help Dignity grow.
Why continued investment is important to our business Ongoing investment in client facing areas and behind the scenes is critical to ensuring the greatest care possible can be given to families and their loved ones.
Investment in our crematoria helps our facilities to provide the best possible service to the families and funeral directors that use them.
In January 2013, Dignity expanded its presence in the North of England by acquiring 40 funeral locations and two crematoria the Yew Acquisition at a cost of 58.3 million.
An additional 1.6 million has been invested in these businesses with a further 2 million 2.5 million earmarked for 2014 to further enhance the services they provide to their clients.
Ongoing investment in our business ensures that we continue 14.2 million to lead the funeral profession for client service and care.
The amount Dignity has invested in 2013 on new fleet See Operating review: p. 22 to p. 27 and improving locations.
Dignity plc 16 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Delivering on our strategy continued Growing our business responsibly We are wellpositioned tocontinueto deliver sustainable growth.
Overview Strategic Report Governance Financial Statements Other Information Dignity plc 17 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 As one of the leaders in the funeral profession we aim to be both successful and good corporate citizens.
We aim to achieve our business objectives in a caring manner, acting responsibly in all our relationships and playing a positive role in the communities we serve.
Why growing our business responsibly is important At Dignity we understand that how we perform and take care of our reputation, our clients, our people, the environment and the local communities we serve, as well as how we plan for the future needs of our business are of critical importance to us having a sustainable and ethical business that continues to deliver long-term value for all our stakeholders.
In turn, through our clear and consistent strategy and resilient business model, we believe that Dignity is well positioned to continue to deliver long-term sustainable growth.
83,000 Dignity raised approximately 83,000 for its corporate charity, Marie Curie Cancer See more about community initiatives in CSR: p. 41 Care, in 2013.
