Financial Statements 67 Directors Report This section contains information which the Directors are required by law and regulation to include within the Annual Report & Accounts.
Shareholders The Company is not aware of any agreements between Incorporation and principal activity shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfers Diploma PLC is domiciled in England and registered in England of securities and or voting rights, other than those relating to & Wales under Company Number 3899848.
At the date of this the Companys Share Matching Plan, described further below.
Report there were 113,239,555 ordinary shares of 5p each in No person holds securities in the Company carrying special issue, all of which are fully paid up and quoted on the London rights with regard to control of the Company.
Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
The principal activity of the Group is the supply of specialised technical products and services.
A description and review of In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct the activities of the Group during the financial year and an Authority, all employees are required to seek approval of the indication of future developments is set out on pages 4 to 37: Company before dealing in its shares.
the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 37 incorporates the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
Restrictions on transfer of shares The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated Annual General Meeting share that is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not The Annual General Meeting will be held at midday on prevent dealings in shares in the Company from taking place Wednesday, 15 January 2014 in the Brewers Hall, on an open and proper basis, or where the Company has Aldermanbury Square, London EC2V 7HR.
A Circular setting lien over that share.
The Directors may also refuse to register out the proposed resolutions, including a resolution to a transfer of a certificated share, unless the instrument of reappoint Deloitte LLP as the auditor, will be set out in the transfer is: i lodged, duly stamped if necessary, at the Notice of Annual General Meeting which is a separate registered office of the Company or any other place as the document which will be sent to all shareholders and published Board may decide accompanied by the certificate for the on the Groups website.
share s to be transferred and or such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to show the right of the Substantial shareholdings transferor to make the transfer: ii in respect of only one class At 15 November 2013 the Company had been notified of the of shares: iii in favour of a person who is not a minor, infant, following interests amounting to 3% or more of the voting bankrupt or a person of unsound mind: or iv in favour of not rights in its ordinary share capital: more than four persons jointly.
Percentage Transfers of certificated shares must be carried out using of ordinary share capital CREST and the Directors can refuse to register a transfer of an Mondrian Investment Partners Ltd 8.49% uncertified share in accordance with the regulations governing F&C Asset Management plc 5.04% the operation of CREST.
Standard Life Investments Ltd 4.41% Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd 4.06% Participants in the Companys Share Matching Plan pledge Fidelity Management & Research Co 4.00% investment shares to a nominee for a period of three years, Power Financial Corporation 3.95% during which period these shares cannot be transferred.
There Baillie Gifford & Co. 3.95% are no other restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in Royal London Asset Management Ltd 3.47% the Company except certain restrictions which may from time Blackrock Inc. 3.24% to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example Schroders PLC 3.21% insider trading laws : or where a shareholder with at least a Legal & General Investment Management Limited 3.06% 0.25% interest in the Companys certified shares has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the As far as the Directors are aware there were no other interests Company with information concerning interests in those above 3% of the issued ordinary share capital.
Other than shares held by participants of the Companys Share Matching Plan, the Directors are not aware Share capital of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares The rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, as well that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on as the powers of the Companys Directors, are set out in the voting rights.
Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from the Group Company Secretary and are Shares held by the Diploma Employee Benefit Trust available on the Companys website.
While ordinary shares are held within the Diploma Employee Benefit Trust, the voting rights in respect of those shares are exercisable by the Trustees in accordance with their fiduciary duties.
The Trustees of the Diploma Employee Benefit Trust also waive dividends on all shares held for the purposes of the Companys long term incentive arrangements.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Diploma PLC 68 Directors Report continued Share allotment Directors assessment of going concern A general allotment power and a limited power to allot shares The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely in specific circumstances for cash, otherwise than pro rata to to affect its future development, performance and position are existing shareholders, were given to the Directors by set out in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 37.
The financial resolutions approved at the Annual General Meeting of the position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and Company held on 16 January 2013.
In the year ended 30 borrowing facilities are described in the Finance Review on September 2013, the Company has not allotted any shares.
In addition, pages 82 to 84 of the Annual These powers will expire at the conclusion of the 2014 Annual Report & Accounts include the Groups objectives, policies General Meeting and resolutions to renew the Directors and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk powers are therefore included within the Notice of the Annual management objectives: details of its financial instruments General Meeting 2014. and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
Authority to make market purchases of own shares An authority to make market purchases of shares was given The Group has considerable financial resources, together with to the Directors by a special resolution at the Annual General a broad spread of customers and suppliers across different Meeting of the Company held on 16 January 2013.
In the year geographic areas and sectors, often secured with longer term to 30 September 2013 the Company has not acquired any of agreements.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the its own shares.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
the 2014 Annual General Meeting and a resolution to renew the authority is therefore included within the Notice of the The Group also has a committed revolving bank facility of Annual General Meeting in 2014.
The Directors are confident that this facility will be successfully renegotiated Greenhouse Gas Emissions prior to expiry on 30 June 2014.
At 30 September 2013, the During the year, the UK Government introduced a requirement Group had cash funds of 19.3m and had no borrowings.
that UK listed companies should report their global levels of Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions in their Annual Report After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable and Accounts.
The mandatory requirement is for disclosure expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate of scope 1 and 2 only direct emissions, e. g. heating, cooling, resources to continue in operational existence for the transport fuel and indirect emissions, e. g. from purchased foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the electricity and only to the extent that such emissions are the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report & Accounts.
Statement of disclosure The Company has not in the past collected the data necessary Each of the Directors has reviewed this Annual Report & to meet these GHG emissions reporting requirements and Accounts and confirmed that so far as he is aware, there is no therefore is not able to comply with these new reporting relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is requirements at 30 September 2013.
A task force has been unaware and that he has taken all the steps that he ought to set up to establish the scope of information required and the have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any processes required to collect the relevant data.
The Company relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys should therefore be able to meet these disclosure auditor is aware of that information.
requirements when it reports to shareholders for the year ending 30 September 2014.
Statement of Directors responsibilities for preparing the financial statements Financial The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Results and dividends & Accounts, including the Group and Parent Company The profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders financial statements, in accordance with applicable law was 34.5m 2012: 31.3m.
The Directors recommend a final and regulations.
dividend of 10.7p per ordinary share 2012: 10.2p, to be paid, if approved, on 22 January 2014.
This, together with the interim Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and dividend of 5.0p per ordinary share paid on 19 June 2013 Parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by The results are shown more fully in the consolidated financial the European Union EU and Article 4 of the IAS Regulations statements on pages 70 to 97 and summarised in the Finance and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial Review on pages 16 to 18. statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Standards UK Accounting Standards.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Financial Statements 69 The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs Directors Responsibility Statement as adopted by the EU, to present fairly the financial position The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: and the performance of the Group: the Companies Act 2006 The Groups consolidated financial statements, provides in relation to such financial statements, that prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the references in the relevant part of that Act to financial EU, and the Parent Company financial statements, statements giving a true and fair view, are references prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards, to their achieving a fair presentation.
give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and Parent Company In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial and the undertakings included in the consolidation statements, the Directors are required to: taken as a whole: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: The Annual Report & Accounts includes a fair review of Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable the development and performance of the business and and prudent: the position of the Group and the undertakings For the Group financial statements, state whether they included in the consolidation taken as a whole, have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs, as adopted together with a description of the principal risks and by the EU: uncertainties faced by the Group: and For the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been The Annual Report & Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and balanced and understandable and provides the explained in the Parent Company financial statements: information necessary for shareholders to assess the Prepare the financial statements on the going concern Companys performance, business model and strategy.
basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business.
This responsibility statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 18 November 2013 and is signed on its The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting behalf by: records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable BM Thompson them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Chief Executive Officer Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard NP Lingwood the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and Group Finance Director other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and Registered office: integrity of the corporate and financial information included 12 Charterhouse Square on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing London the preparation and dissemination of financial statements EC1M 6AX may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013
