Diploma PLC 38 Directors and Advisors 1, 3 1,2, 3 John Rennocks Bruce Thompson MarieLouise Clayton Nigel Lingwood Chairman Chief Executive Officer NonExecutive Director Group Finance Director Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Appointed: Joined the Board in July Joined the Board in Joined the Boardin Joined the Company 2002 and appointed 1994 as a Group Director November 2012 and in June 2001 and Chairman in January and appointed Chief appointed Chairman, appointed Group Finance 2004.
Audit Committee Director in July 2001.
Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: John is a Chartered Brucestarted his career in MarieLouise is a Chartered Priortojoining the Company, Accountant with over the automotive industry, first Certified Accountant with Nigel was the Group Financial 41 years of experience as a design engineer and some 30 years experience in Controller at Unigate PLC incommerce and industry, then in product marketing.
commerce and industry, who where he gained experience including nearly 20 years as He then spent three years has held senior positions in of working in a large multi the Finance Director of FTSE in international marketing Alstom formerly, Alsthom national environment and on 100 companies.
He has been with a construction materials GEC and was previously a number of large corporate a nonExecutive Director company, developing new Group Finance Director transactions.
Nigelqualified of many companies in the markets in Europe, the Middle of Venture Production as a Chartered Accountant past 18 years, including as East and North Africa.
She has also been with Price Waterhouse, Chairman of six other public to joining Diploma, he was a anonExecutive Director of London.
or private companies across Director with Arthur D Little Forth Ports PLC and Ocean several industrial or support Inc. the technology and Rig ASA.
management consulting firm, initially in the UK and then asDirector of the firms Technology Management Practice based in Cambridge, Massachusetts.
External appointments: External appointments: External appointments: External appointments: John is currently None.
MarieLouise is Chairman of None.
nonExecutive Director the Audit Committee and a of GreenKo Group PLC, nonExecutive Director of Chairman of Bluefield Solar Zotefoams plc.
MarieLouise Income Fund Ltd and Deputy is also a nonExecutive Chairman ofInmarsat plc.
Director of Independent Oil and Gas plc and of two private companies.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Governance 39 1,2, 3 1,2, 3 Auditor John Nicholas Iain Henderson Charles Packshaw Deloitte LLP 2 New Street Square Senior Independent Chief Operating Officer NonExecutive Director London EC4A 3BZ NonExecutive Director Appointed: Appointed: Solicitors Appointed: Joined the Board as Joined the Board in June Ashurst LLP Broadwalk House Joined the Board in a Director in 1998 2013.
5 Appold Street June 2013 and appointed and appointed Chief London EC2A 2HA Chairman, Remuneration Operating Officer in 2005.
Bankers Barclays Bank PLC Skills and experience: Skills and experience: Skills and experience: 1 Churchill Place London E14 5HP A Chartered Certified Iain qualified as a Chartered Charles is Head of UK Accountant with a Masters Management Accountant and Advisory and Managing HSBC Bank plc degree in Business began his career in the food Director in HSBCs global City Corporate BankingCentre Administration from Kingston industry, progressing to be an banking business.
With 60 Queen Victoria Street London EC4N 4TR University.
John has a wealth operations general manager 30 years City experience, of business and commercial with H J Heinz.
Since 1988, including 18 years at Lazard Investment Bankers experience and spent Iain has specialised in the in London, where he was Lazard much of his early career acquisition and development Head of Corporate Finance, 50 Stratton Street in technologyfocused of small to medium sized prior to joining HSBC in 2002.
London W1J 8LL international manufacturing enterprises within group Charles has been a non Corporate Stockbrokers and service companies structures.
This was firstly Executive Director of two Numis Securities involved in analytical within the privately owned listed companies and he is 10 Paternoster Square instruments, fire protection Bricom MBO, where he ran also a Chartered Engineer.
ANC Holdings and from 1994in a public company He has been Group Finance environment as a Director Director of Kidde plc on ofGlenchewton plc.
its demerger from Williams Holdings and of Tate & Lyle PLC.
External appointments: External appointments: External appointments: John is currently non None.
Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committees of Mondi plc, Hunting PLC and Rotork plc.
John is also a member of the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
Member of: 1 the Remuneration Committee 2 the Audit Committee 3 the Nomination Committee Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013
