Diploma PLC 10 Our Year in Review Group Life Sciences Seals Major investment Strong growth across all Modest underlying programme to businesses after prior growth but against very establish firm year investments strong comparatives foundation for growth As part of our Acquire, Build, Grow strategy, we invest in the The main focus this year has businesses post acquisition to build a firm foundation to allow them to move to a new level of growth.
These acquisitions been theGroups Investment form a critical part of our Sector growth strategies and are designed to generate a pre-tax return on investment of at least for Growthprogramme.
20% and hence support our Group objective of consistently exceeding 20% return on trading capital employed ROTCE.
The Group has delivered another year of growth, albeit at a lower level than previous years.
The main focus this year has Business model and growth strategy been on the Investment for Growth programme to ensure that The Groups strategy is designed to generate strong, doublefollowing the strong growth in recent years, we continue to digit growth in earnings and value over the business cycle, by have the right platform in place to support the future growth building larger, broader-based businesses in the three Group of the business.
Whilst our pipeline of opportunities remains Sectors of Life Sciences, Seals and Controls.
promising, we have seen more modest acquisition activity this year as transaction processes have lengthened in the current Our businesses target organic revenue growth over the business macroeconomic environment.
cycle at the rate of 56% p. a. GDP plus growth.
Stable and resilient revenue growth is achieved through our focus on performance against Kpis essential products and services funded by customers operating Growth in the year against the principal corporate objectives rather than capital budgets and supplied across a range of of adjusted earnings per share EPS and total shareholder specialised industry segments.
By supplying essential solutions, return TSR has been 5% and 42% respectively.
Over a five not just products, we build strong long term relationships with year period, compound growth rates for EPS and TSR have our customers and suppliers, which support sustainable and been 17% p. a. and 39% p. a. respectively.
Finally we encourage an entrepreneurial culture in our businesses through our decentralised This year, the Group increased revenues by 10% over the prior management structure and these essential values ensure year with underlying revenue growth of 4% after adjusting for that decisions are made close to the customer and that the currency effects, acquisitions and a small divestment in 2012. businesses are agile and responsive to changes in the market Underlying growth rates strengthened from 2% in the first half and the competitive environment.
of the year to 6% in the second half, trending towards GDP plus levels of growth as prior year comparatives became less Overall growth is accelerated from the underlying GDP plus challenging.
The Group continues to benefit from its broad levels to the strong, double-digit level through carefully spread of businesses and geography, with the Life Sciences selected, value-enhancing acquisitions which fit the business businesses growing strongly and more than offsetting the small model and offer entry into new strategic markets.
Acquisitions decline in underlying revenues in Controls, largely caused by the are not made just to add revenue and profit, but rather we are challenging trading conditions in Europe.
The Seals businesses, looking for successful businesses which have growth potential, which in recent years have acted as the principal driver for the capable management and a good track record of profitable Groups growth, showed modest underlying growth this year growth and cash generation.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic Report 11 Controls Acquisitions Group Decline in underlying Uncertain economic Strong cash flow and revenues in face of environment slowing growth in value challenging trading transaction processes conditions in Europe Adjusted operating margins reduced to 19% this year from the investment for Growth record 20% plus levels of last year reflecting the impact on The Investment for Growth programme comprises a series operating costs of investing in the businesses.
There will be of specific investments designed to provide the foundation benefits resulting from these investments in terms of greater for the next phase of the Groups growth.
Major investments operating efficiencies and improved management of working are being made in modern and expanded facilities, powerful capital, which should start to make a positive impact in the and efficient new information technology IT systems and second half of 2014.
Against this, new acquisitions brought into additional senior management to strengthen corporate the Group are likely to join with initial operating margins below development resources.
By the end of the 2013 financial year, 4.4m of the programmes planned investment of 5.3m in new facilities The level of acquisition spend this year of 2.2m is well below and IT infrastructure had been invested, with ca.
0.9m still the five year average of ca.
15m p. a. and a current target of to be invested in 2014.
The benefits resulting from these 25m plus.
The uncertainty over future economic prospects investments in facilities and ERP systems should start to impact has made vendors very cautious and has resulted in in the second half of 2014, delivering greater operating lengthening transaction processes and delayed completions.
efficiencies and improved management of working capital.
With an improving acquisition environment and additional corporate development resources in place, prospects for 2014 To date, 3.4m has been invested in major facility moves.
2012, two of the Industrial OEM Seals businesses, RT Dygert and All Seals moved to new facilities.
This year the Vantage The Group continued to generate strong free cash flow, which business in Canada and the IS-Rayfast business in the UK at 31.6m was still close to last years level of 32.7m.
This was completed major relocations into new larger facilities in after an exceptional 4.7m cash contribution this year to fund Markham, Ontario in Canada and Swindon in the UK the Groups Employee Benefit Trust and 4.6m of capital respectively.
After the year end, the Hercules business in Barrie, expenditure, which was up 1.1m from the prior year.
Free Ontario completed a move to a new custom built facility.
cash flow as a percentage of adjusted profit after tax free cash All moves have been successfully completed with minimal flow conversion was 80% compared with the five year average disruption to the businesses.
The new facilities not only provide of ca.
Working capital as a percentage of revenue was an appropriate environment for modern, technically biased 16.7% compared with the five year average of 16.5%.
companies, but also substantial capacity for future growth.
Return on trading capital employed or ROTCE is the final A further 1.0m has been invested in powerful new ERP indicator of the overall performance of the Group and very systems to improve the IT infrastructure.
During the year, importantly its success in creating value for shareholders.
major new ERP systems were implemented by M Seals across ROTCE is measured as the pre-tax return on total Group its three locations in Denmark, Sweden and China, by Hawco investment excluding net cash funds, but including all goodwill in its principal UK operation and by a1-envirosciences in and acquired intangible assets.
ROTCE has exceeded the 20% Germany.
A major new ERP project has also been initiated by target in each of the last five years and this year was 25.8%.
the Healthcare businesses in Canada, with implementation starting in Somagen during the second half of 2013 and plans to roll out the system across the other businesses through the 2014 financial year.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Diploma PLC 12 Our Year in Review continued Investment has also been made in additional senior managers Life Sciences at the Groups Head Office and in the major businesses to strengthen corporate development resources.
These additional managers are all now in place and have added ca.
1.1m to annual operating costs this year.
33% Outside the Investment for Growth programme, there has Group revenues been further investment within the businesses to strengthen 2013 2012 sales and business development resources and in regional m m management.
These additional resources are designed to give Revenue 93.2 78.4 19% the strong leadership required to extend the businesses into Adjusted operating profit 20.9 18.0 16% new areas and develop acquisition opportunities.
Adjusted operating margin 22.4% 23.0% acquisitions Underlying revenue growth of 15% with strong growth Acquisitions remain an integral part of the Boards strategy, but this has been a frustrating year for completing acquisitions, as across all businesses the general economic uncertainty has contributed to increased Vantage completed integration programme with caution from vendors and lengthened transaction processes.
move to new facility: strong growth of new mi Surgery During the past ten years the Group has experienced similar business in amT challenging periods for completing acquisitions and therefore is prepared to wait until the environment improves, rather major supplier added at DSl giving step change in than compromise the quality of acquisitions and risk diluting revenues: australian management strengthened and shareholder value.
operations integrated As confidence builds and the prospects for the global major new ERp system initiated in Canada with roll-out economy improve, there are signs that the acquisition through 2014 environment is now improving.
With the investments made Strong growth in reshaped Environmental businesses this year in additional corporate development resources, the scope of the acquisition programme has broadened and the acquisition pipeline has strengthened.
The Life Sciences businesses increased revenues by 19%, Following the year end, in early November contracts were which included a full year contribution from the DSL business signed for the acquisition of 80% of Kentek Oy for a maximum in Australia, acquired in June 2012.
After adjusting for this consideration of 11.2m 13.3m.
Kentek is a specialised acquisition, for currency effects and for a minor reshaping of distributor of filters and related products, used in heavy mobile the Environmental businesses, underlying revenues in Life machinery and industrial equipment applications.
Kentek is Sciences increased by 15%.
based in Finland with operations in Russia and the Baltic States and will extend the reach of the Seals businesses into new and Adjusted operating profit increased by 16% and adjusted emerging markets.
operating margins reduced by 60bps to 22.4%.
In the Healthcare businesses, there was some weakening in gross This transaction is expected to close in January 2014 with margins towards the end of the year, caused by the weakening completion conditional upon certain conditions precedent.
of the Canadian and Australian exchange rates, relative to the These conditions include the approval of the Russian US dollar.
The implementation of the Investment for Growth competition authorities, no material adverse change and programme during the year also impacted Healthcare warranties to be repeated at closing.
operating margins but this was partly offset by an improvement in Environmental margins.
Sector developments Good progress was made in the year in further developing the The DHG group of Healthcare businesses in Canada and Groups strategy in each of the three business Sectors and the Australia account for ca.
key developments this year are summarised below.
The DHG business model is to build strong market positions in growing niche healthcare markets.
Products are sourced from high quality medical device manufacturers under the terms of long term exclusive distribution agreements.
Full service solutions are provided by highly qualified DHG technical sales and product application staff, working closely Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic Report 13 with the surgeons, operating room nurses and laboratory Seals technologists.
A large proportion of revenues ca.
70% are secured under multi-year customer contracts.
In Canada, the Somagen and AMT businesses continued to grow steadily in their core markets of Clinical Diagnostics 37% and Electrosurgery.
The principal drivers of growth this year Group revenues however, have been the two newer businesses, Vantage and 2013 2012 AMTs Minimally Invasive MI Surgery business.
Vantage has m m benefited from prior year investments to establish it as a strong Revenue 106.1 99.9 6% independent business within DHG, focused on the growing Adjusted operating profit 19.5 20.4 4% GI Endoscopy market.
Vantage started the current financial Adjusted operating margin 18.4% 20.4% year with a complete product range, an integrated and fully trained sales team and strengthened operational and service Underlying revenue growth of 2% against very strong management.
Vantage has performed strongly this year with prior year comparatives steadily growing sales of consumable and service products boosted by strong capital equipment sales and CPP cost per Continued development of aftermarket Webstore procedure based contracts.
application with online sales up by 30% this year investment in two new seal machining centres and AMTs new MI Surgery business also benefited from prior year investments in securing a strong portfolio of products, increased engineering resource to improve service negotiating long term supplier agreements and in building a offering and broaden product line focused sales team.
The business supplies products ranging investment in the industrial oEm businesses in new seal from surgical instruments used in standard laparoscopic compound certifications to move up the value chain procedures to leading edge interventional radiology and oncology products for use in the treatment of cancer and cancer Hercules Canada relocation completed after year end related conditions.
This year has seen a substantial increase in and new ERp system installed across the three m Seals revenues from this new business area.
businesses In Australia, DSL in its first full year in the Group, delivered a step change increase in revenues from the addition of a major The Seals businesses increased revenues by 6% including a full new supplier also a key supplier to Somagen shortly after year contribution from J Royal, which had been acquired in acquisition.
BGS also continued to penetrate the market with December 2011.
After adjusting for the additional contribution its smoke evacuation products while maintaining steady from this acquisition and for currency translation effects, growth in sales of its core electrosurgical grounding pads and underlying revenues increased by 2%.
During the year, senior management in Australia was strengthened at country level and the BGS Adjusted operating profits decreased by 4% and operating operations and back office functions were successfully margins reduced by 200bps to 18.4% of revenue, reflecting relocated and integrated into the DSL facility in Melbourne.
the impact of investment in the Seals businesses, including The DSL and BGS businesses continue to operate as clear the Groups Investment for Growth programme begun last separate sales and marketing businesses, but will now year.
Aftermarket gross margins continued to be resilient, benefit from the efficiencies and critical mass of a central underpinned by essential product availability and added services group.
value technical service, though overall, Seals gross margins weakened slightly with continued competition in the Industrial The remaining ca.
15% of Life Sciences revenues are generated OEM markets.
by the Groups Environmental businesses in Europe, which supply a range of products used in Environmental testing and The Aftermarket businesses account for ca.
55% of Seals Health & Safety applications.
Following various initiatives in revenues and supply own-branded sealing products used in recent years to reshape and refocus the businesses, both a broad range of heavy mobile machinery applications.
The a1-envirosciences and a1-CBISS delivered double digit growth products are generally supplied from inventory on a next day this year and an improvement in operating margins.
delivery basis and are used in the repair and maintenance of equipment after it has completed its initial warranty or lease term.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Diploma PLC 14 Our Year in Review continued The Industrial OEM businesses account for ca.
45% of Seals Good progress has been revenues and supply seals, O-rings and custom moulded and machined parts used in a range of specialised industrial made in the year in further equipment.
The businesses work closely with the Industrial OEM customers to specify the most appropriate sealing developing the Group in material, design and manufacturer for the application.
Once eachof the three business the product is designed in to the application, the businesses supply the sealing products and provide the necessary Sectors.
logistical and technical support, in most cases for the lifetime of the product.
In North America, the Industrial OEM businesses have continued to operate in an industrial economy which has shown slow steady growth since emerging from the 2009 recession.
The HFPG businesses have broadly grown with the market, with a stable level of demand from existing customers and a steady stream of new projects offsetting any business Seals continued lost.
In an increasingly competitive market for the more standard products, the RT Dygert business has enhanced its In North America, the Aftermarket businesses have product offering through new compound certifications for consistently out-performed the relevant construction indices a variety of applications, which allows it to meet the more and have posted strong growth rates since emerging from the stringent demands of customers and to move up the value 2009 downturn.
This year, the businesses have consolidated chain.
The J Royal and All Seals businesses have invested in their market share gains and are now moving to more normal additional technical sales resource and a new water jet gasket GDP plus growth rates.
Hercules Bulldog has made a number cutting machine to generate growth.
All Seals has also of investments during the year to reinforce its market leading obtained the AS9100 quality certification which strengthens levels of service.
During the year, over 3,000 new kit its position in the Aerospace and Medical products industries.
applications were developed and additional revenues were generated from sales of new parts.
In Europe, M Seals delivered good overall growth in its core Scandinavian markets which more than offset the slowing The business continued to develop its electronic trading demand for its wind turbine seals in China.
The new ERP capabilities Webstore with new search and find capabilities, system implemented this year will provide a solid platform for allowing the business to develop new sales channels to retail growth and more efficient management of inventory across customers, as well as converting existing customers to online the three country locations.
Online sales increased this year by over 30% and now represent 15% of revenues.
The business also installed its The acquisition of Kentek Oy will extend the reach of the third seal machining centre and added technical staff and Seals businesses into new and emerging markets.
Kentek development engineers to broaden the product range offered is a specialised distributor of filters and related products, to customers.
based in Finland, but with 75% of revenues generated by its operations in Russia and the Baltic States.
Kentek supplies its In Europe, FPE took operational responsibility for the Hercules products to similar heavy mobile machinery applications as Europe operation in the Netherlands, which will now provide the Aftermarket Seals businesses, but Kentek also has a good the impetus to develop a more substantial, unified European proportion of its revenues in the Oil & Gas and Mining sectors, Aftermarket group.
The FPE group delivered another year where the Seals businesses currently have limited involvement.
of good revenue growth and installed an additional seal machining centre to complement the two existing machines.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic Report 15 environments in industries including Aerospace, Defence, Controls Motorsport, Energy, Medical and Industrial.
In the first quarter of this year, IS-Rayfast completed its relocation from the site it had occupied since 1992 into a 30% newly refurbished 37,000 sq.
ft facility nearby in Swindon.
The Group revenues facility now accommodates the core IS-Rayfast business and acts as the central management and operational hub for the 2013 2012 IS-Group businesses in the UK.
m m Revenue 86.2 81.9 5% Amfast had an excellent first year in the Group and Adjusted operating profit 13.9 14.4 3% consolidated its position within the Civil Aerospace sector Adjusted operating margin 16.1% 17.6% as a leading supplier to the premium aircraft seating and cabin interior market.
Later in the year, Amfasts sales and customer Underlying revenues decreased by 3% in challenging service functions were fully integrated into Clarendons sales trading conditions in Europe operation in Leicester and warehousing operations were combined with those of Clarendon at the new Swindon site.
iS-Group relocated to new warehouse office facility Clarendon and Amfast together now form a single fastener amfast integrated into Clarendon: strong performance products group supplying principally to the Aerospace and in premium aircraft seats and interiors Motorsport markets in Europe, but also with potential to expand into other industrial sectors and geographies.
Rayquick acquisition strengthened Sommers position in Electrical Distribution in Germany Early in the year, the acquisition was completed of Rayquick, a small German distributor focused on the Energy market in New ERp system at Hawco: strengthened sales resource Germany.
Rayquick was successfully integrated into Sommer at abbeychart and has helped Sommer to secure its appointment as a German Master Distributor for its key energy products supplier.
Sommer and Rayquick are now well positioned to benefit The Controls businesses increased revenues in 2013 by 5%, when a more normal cycle resumes in the repair and benefiting from both the acquisition in November 2012 of a refurbishment of the local transmission networks.
small energy distributor based in Germany and from a full year contribution from Abbeychart and Amfast, acquired respectively The Fluid Control businesses account for ca.
30% of Controls in March and May 2012.
After adjusting for the additional revenues and supply a range of fluid control products used contribution from these acquisitions and for modest currency broadly in the Food and Beverage industry.
Products are translation effects, underlying revenues decreased by 3%.
used in a range of applications including food retailing and transportation, catering equipment, vending machines, Over 90% of Controls revenues are generated in Europe and coffee brewing, pure water and water cooling systems.
the background trading conditions during the year have been very challenging, reflecting the economies in the principal The Hawco group businesses faced significant headwinds this markets of the UK and Germany.
year in challenging market conditions in the UK.
Major food retailers continued to focus on smaller convenience stores Operating profits decreased by 3% and operating margins which require less Hawco equipment and commercial reduced by 150bps to 16.1%.
The reduced operating margins catering equipment customers were overstocked with surplus resulted from the reduction in underlying revenues, combined equipment after the Olympics in London.
There were also with increased costs following the major relocation of the slowdowns in demand from a number of Abbeycharts IS-Rayfast business in the UK and the ERP investment at vending, water filter and catering customers, but the coffee Hawco.
Overall gross margins in the Controls Sector remained brewing sector remained buoyant.
resilient as the businesses continued to focus on specialised markets and added value opportunities.
During the year, the Hawco group made a significant investment in a new ERP system, which was successfully The Interconnect businesses account for ca.
70% of Controls implemented at Hawcos operations in Guildford and Bolton revenues and supply high performance wiring, connectors and which will be rolled out to Abbeychart in 2014.
This and harness components, fasteners and control devices investment will provide the Fluid Controls businesses with along with a range of value-added services.
The products are a solid modern platform to support future growth.
used in technically demanding applications and often harsh Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013
