Diploma PLC 06 Our Business Model and Growth Strategy Our Business Model The Group comprises a number of high quality, specialised businesses which design their individual business models to make them essential to their customers.
Essential Essential Essential Products Solutions Values recurring income and s ustainable and agility and stable revenue growth attractive margins responsiveness Our businesses focus on supplying Our businesses design their individual We encourage an entrepreneurial essential products and services funded by business models to provide solutions cultureacross our businesses, through customers operating rather than capital which closely meet the requirements adecentralised management structure.
budgets and supplied across a range of oftheir customers.
We want the managers to feel that they Thesolutions can be in the form of: have the freedom to run their own The majority of the Groups revenues are Highly responsive customer service, businesses, while being able to draw upon generated from consumable products.
such as the next day delivery from stock the support and resources of a larger In many cases, the products will be used of essential, but low value items: group where this is beneficial.
in repair and maintenance applications Deep technical support, where we and refurbishment and upgrade work closely with our customers in Within our businesses we have strong, programmes, rather than supplied to designing our products into their self-standing management teams whoare original equipment manufacturers.
specific applications: committed to and rewarded according to Added value services which, if we did the success of their businesses.
This These characteristics all contribute to the not provide these services, customers ensures that decisions are made close to Groups record of stable revenue growth would have to pay others to provide the customer and that the businesses are over the business cycle.
themor would require them to invest in agile and responsive tochanges in the additional resources oftheir own.
market and the competitive environment.
By supplying solutions, not just products, we build strong long term relationships with our customers and suppliers, supporting sustainable and attractive margins.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic Report 07 The main focus this year has been on the Build phase of our growth strategy.
Our Growth Strategy Acquire investment in Facilities 3.6m of capital and revenue cost is being invested in modern and expanded facilities.
By the end of 2013, four of five planned business moves had been successfully completed in the US, UK and Canada with the final one completed in Canada in October 2013.
Build investment in iT Systems Grow 1.7m of capital and revenue cost is being invested in powerful and efficient new ERP systems.
By the end of 2013, three implementations had been successfully completed.
The final project will be rolled out to the Canadian Healthcare businesses through 2014.
The Groups Acquire, Build, Grow strategy is designed to deliver strong, double-digit growth by building larger, broader-based businesses in the three Group sectors.
The focus this year has been on the Build phase of the investment in management strategy through the Groups Investment for Growth Investment is being made in programme.
This comprises a series of specific investments additional senior managers at the designed to provide the foundation for the next phase of Groups Head Office and in the the Groups growth.
major businesses to strengthen the corporate development resources.
These additional managers are all now in place and add ca.
Diploma PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013
