Directors Report Corporate Governance Board of Directors Katie Bickerstaffe, Chief Executive UK & Ireland At 20 June 2013 Katie Bickerstaffe joined the Board on 20 February 2012.
Committee Membership She joined the Group as Director of Marketing, People and Audit Nominations Remuneration Property in June 2008.
In addition to her executive position John Allan she is also non-executive director of Scottish and Southern Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen Energy plc.
Previously, Katie was Managing Director of Kwik Save Ltd and Group Retail Director and Group HR Tim How Director at Somerfield plc.
Her earlier career included roles Andrea Gisle Joosen at Dyson Ltd, PepsiCo Inc. and Unilever PLC.
Jock Lennox Dharmash Mistry Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen, Independent Non-Executive Director Denotes the chair of the committee.
Utho Creusen joined the Board on 1 February 2010.
He is a member of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration John Allan CBE, Chairman Committees.
He is a member of the supervisory board of John Allan joined the Board on 23 June 2009 and was Praktiker AG, a German DIY retailer, and non-executive appointed chairman on 2 September 2009.
He is chairman director of Unternehmensgruppe Theo Muller.
He is owner of the Nominations Committee and a member of the of Positive Leadership a management consultancy and Remuneration Committee.
He is also chairman of WorldPay, co-owner of Grid-International, non-executive director of Care UK Health & Social Care Holdings Limited, the DHL M. Video the leading Russian electrical retailer, chairman UK Foundation, non-executive director of Royal Mail Group of the Jury of the European Retail Institute, vice-president and a senior advisor to Alix Partners.
He is a non-executive of Modern Market-Methods Association in Germany, and member of the Home Office Supervisory Board and a honorary professor at both Westflische Wilhelms-Universitt regent of the University of Edinburgh.
He was previously Mnster and the Catholic University, Eichsttt-Ingolstadt.
Chief Executive of Exel plc and, following its acquisition by He has extensive international retail experience and was Deutsche Post, a member of its management board and previously Human Resources Director of Media-Saturn subsequently Chief Financial Officer of Deutsche Post.
He Holding GmbH and co-owner of Alpha tecc the German has extensive board experience having been chairman consumer electronics chain.
He spent 22 years with OBI of Samsonite Corporation, a director of BET Plc and a AG, a leading European DIY retailer, where he rose to non-executive director of PHS Group plc, ISS A S, National become a member of its executive board and chairman of Grid plc, Wolseley plc, Hamleys plc, 3i plc and Connell OBI Franchise GmbH.
He has also served on the supervisory boards of both Lufthansa AG and Deutsche Postbank.
His early career was with Lever Brothers, Bristol-Myers Company Ltd and Fine Tim How, Senior Independent Director Fare Ltd. Tim How joined the Board on 8 September 2009.
He took on the role of Senior Independent Director on 9 May 2012 Sebastian James, Group Chief Executive and he is chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a Sebastian James joined the Board on 20 February 2012. member of both the Audit and Nominations Committees.
He Sebastian joined the Group in April 2008 and held various is chairman of Rayner and Keeler Limited, Downing Income roles before his appointment to the Board including Group VCT 4 plc, Enotria Wine Group Ltd and Woburn Enterprises Operations Director.
He is chairman of INK Publishing Limited: a non-executive director of Henderson Group plc, Holdings Limited and an advisor to the government on Peabody Capital plc and Wine and Spirit Education Trust: the building and maintenance of schools.
Prior to joining and a governor of the Peabody Trust.
He was formerly the Group he was Chief Executive of Synergy Insurance Chief Executive of Majestic Wine plc, where he led the Services Limited, a private equity backed insurance management buy-out of the business and subsequent company.
He has wide retail experience and was Strategy Alternative Investment Market AIM flotation.
Prior to this, he Director responsible for developing and implementing the was Managing Director of Bejam Group plc.
turnaround strategy at Mothercare plc in 2003.
He started his career at The Boston Consulting Group having completed an Andrea Gisle Joosen, Independent Non-Executive Director MBA at INSEAD and an MA at Oxford University.
Andrea Gisle Joosen joined the Board as a non-executive director on 1 March 2013.
Andrea is a member of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
She Humphrey Singer, Group Finance Director is currently Chief Executive of Boxer TV Access AB in Humphrey Singer joined the Board on 1 July 2011.
Sweden and is a non-executive director of ICA Gruppen Humphrey joined Dixons Retail in 2007 and has held AB and Neopitch AB.
She was formerly Managing Director a number of finance roles, namely Finance Director of Nordic Region of Panasonic, Chantelle AB and Twentieth Currys, Group Financial Controller and Finance Director Century Fox.
Her early career involved several senior of the UK & Ireland division.
Prior to joining Dixons Retail, marketing roles with Procter & Gamble and Johnson Humphrey was Finance Director of Coca Cola Enterprises & Johnson.
UK Ltd and prior to that also held a number of finance roles at Coca Cola Enterprises UK Ltd and Cadbury Schweppes plc.
Dixons Retail plc 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Directors Report Corporate Governance Board of Directors continued Jock Lennox, Independent Non-Executive Director Jock Lennox joined the Board on 10 January 2012.
He is chairman of the Audit Committee and is also a member of the Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Jock is a Chartered Accountant and has extensive accounting and finance experience having worked for over 30 years for Ernst & Young 20 years as a partner where he led a number of relationships with international clients and held a number of leadership positions in the UK and globally.
Jock retired from Ernst & Young in 2009 and subsequently has acted as a non-executive director of a number of companies and was formerly a council member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
He is currently a trustee of the Tall Ships Youth Trust and nonexecutive director and chairman of the Audit Committee of A&J Mucklow Group plc, Enquest plc, Hill and Smith Holdings plc and Oxford Instruments plc.
Dharmash Mistry, Independent Non-Executive Director Dharmash Mistry joined the Board on 27 September 2010.
He is a member of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees and is currently a nonexecutive director of Hargreaves Landsdown plc and MVF Global.
He was formerly a partner at Venture Capital firm Balderton Capital UK LLP and served on a number of boards including Lovefilm, Achica Limited, KupiVIP.
re, My-Wardrobe, Adjug, MOG and ewise.
Prior to joining Balderton Capital, he was part of the executive team at Emap plc, as Group Managing Director of Emap Consumer Media and Emap Performance, and has also been part of Boston Consulting Group.
He started his career as a brand manager at Procter & Gamble.
Dixons Retail plc 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13
