Directors Report Performance Review Divisional Summary UK & Ireland in Solihull which employs many of the learnings from our innovative Black trial store format, further improving the Underlying operating profit growth of 39% to store experience for customers and colleagues.
In the long 113.3 million term we envisage an estate of 380 - 400 stores in the UK, Strong market share gains however, customer shopping patterns continue to evolve and we will ensure that we actively manage our store portfolio so Total sales in the UK & Ireland division were up 7% to that we provide our customers with the right store formats in the right locations.
4,014.5 million 2011 12 3,751.3 million and like for like sales were also up 7%.
Underlying operating profits Our services operation of KNOWHOW continues to go from increased 39% to 113.3 million 2011 12 81.5 million.
Its new services of cloud, Fault & Fix, Installation, Showhow and white goods repair continue to The UK & Ireland division has performed strongly appeal to customers.
Further products and services will be throughout the year as improvements in stores, service, added to KNOWHOW in the year ahead strengthening the price and generating value through better supplier service offering as well as providing customers access to partnerships have borne fruit.
During the year the Group on-line and downloadable content.
estimates that the UK & Ireland business grew its market Dixons Travel continues to perform well.
The new format now share to approximately 21%, driven by our clear strategy rolled out across all of the Dixons Travel stores delivers a and accelerated by the closure of a number of competitors better range and store experience for customers, including a including our largest UK specialist electrical competitor focus on portable items and accessories.
This is a strong performance against a relatively in Brussels airport joining Copenhagen, Rome and Milan as weak market, underpinning our customer focused international operations of the Dixons Travel business, but approach.
The first half benefited from a number of events, marking a milestone as the first stores to be opened in a such as the European football championships, the Queens market where we have no retail operations.
Jubilee celebrations and the London Olympics.
A strong performance over the second half, driven by tablets, TVs and white goods, as well as market share gains enabled the business to deliver a positive like for like performance Northern Europe against increasingly tough comparables.
Northern Europe grew underlying operating profits by 6% The business made further progress with the Groups to 120.5 million sustainable business model and delivered the following benefits: Delivered a 4.2% return on sales, in line with the Groups objective Improving our value proposition versus our competitors.
Northern Europe, which comprises the Elkjp group Further reduction in costs with the cost to sales ratio and the Electroworld operations in the Czech Republic improving by 1.6 percentage points.
and Slovakia, continues to perform strongly.
Sales grew by 12% at constant exchange rates, while in sterling, Developing customer journeys for more categories such underlying sales grew by 10% to 2,876.3 million 2011 12 as laundry, refrigeration and computing.
Like for like sales were up 12%.
Working with suppliers to drive the Our Experts Love Underlying operating profits were 120.5 million 2011 12 model enabling our colleagues to help customers choose 113.7 million.
the best products for their needs.
Elkjp has had another very strong year, particularly in Denmark and Sweden where a number of competitors Customer satisfaction metrics continuing to improve with have exited the market enabling these businesses to grow 73% of customers very likely and 93% likely or very market share.
In Norway a smaller competitor is attempting likely to recommend our stores to friends and family.
to gain market share through promotional activity, impacting We have made further progress with our multi-channel gross margins in that market.
business during the year, particularly in the second half Elkjp operates a highly efficient low cost model with which saw growth of 25%.
During the year we introduced centralised operations and logistics infrastructure.
With pay&collect providing customers with access to our full range of products in their local store.
We also led the market by clear market leadership in each of its markets the Elkjp rewarding our store colleagues for on-line sales in their local group is well positioned to continue to deliver strong catchment.
We continue to improve the overall shopping trip for returns.
customers and in the year ahead we plan to move our last time KNOWHOW, the Groups services brand, is being rolled out for next day delivery to 10pm, providing customers with greater across the Elkjp business.
With the services market being choices as well as increasing our delivery densities.
relatively immature and under serviced in the Nordics, We now have 323 transformed stores which continue the Group believes that KNOWHOW will add to Elkjps to deliver an improved customer experience as well as competitive advantage and enable it to further improve the improved returns.
Our latest High Street format in Westfield, offer for customers as well as opening up attractive new Stratford was open in time for the London Olympics and revenue streams.
With the success of this new Elkjp now operates 32 Megastores and 49 reformatted format we believe that there are approximately 30 - 40 Superstores, which continue to perform particularly well.
locations across the UK & Ireland where this format will be successful.
We are making good progress right-sizing our The operations in the Czech Republic and Slovakia are High Street estate at a cost effective and responsible pace.
managed out of the Nordic infrastructure which improves Our 2-in-1 Megastore and Superstore formats continue to efficiency and, in some categories, buying power.
evolve and during the year we opened a new look store Dixons Retail plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Directors Report Performance Review Divisional Summary continued PIXmania Northern Europe continued During the year Jaan Ivar Semlitsch was appointed Successful restructuring to focus on key operations Managing Director of the Northern European operations.
Challenging market dynamics He has made a number of significant changes since his appointment, including reshaping the management Total sales were 357.5 million 2011 12 491.4 million structures and team, embedding systematic customer with like for like sales down 24%.
Underlying operating metrics into the business and, as a part of the Groups loss was 31.3 million 2011 12 loss of 15.2 million.
Management team, is working on ways to align the Groups PIXmania experienced another very difficult year as multioperating model and share best practices across our channel operators in its core markets improved their on-line businesses.
proposition, suppliers focused on attracting customers through multi-channel operators and the key markets in which PIXmania operates remained challenging.
Southern Europe The Groups focus is as a multi-channel specialist electrical Robust performances in difficult markets retailer and we continue the process of putting PIXmania in a firmer strategic position.
Work ongoing to improve financial and strategic footings Following the purchase of the 22% of PIXmania owned by This division comprises operations in Italy, Greece and the founding partners, PIXmania went through a significant Turkey.
Total sales were down 4% at constant exchange reorganisation under a new management team, further rates and down by 8% in sterling to 965.6 million 2011 12 impacting overall performance.
This restructuring included 1,048.2 million, with like for like sales down 8%, largely closing its 19 stores, exiting non-profitable categories as a result of the weak economic environments being and markets, and reducing headcount from 1,400 to 649 experienced in Greece and Italy.
Underlying operating loss in France and 149 in the Groups shared services centre was 24.4 million 2011 12 loss of 31.3 million.
As a result, PIXmania has been refocused on its core business and costs have been Greece significantly reduced.
On 22 April 2013 we announced The economic environment in Greece remains challenging.
the disposal of Webhallen for a cash consideration of 14 Kotsovolos is the market leader and is able to leverage million, followed by the disposal of PLS, further focusing its market position, a superior retail concept and strong PIXmania on its core business.
PIXmania continues to supplier relationships to grow its market share.
Kotsovolos operate a successful internet platform licensing business again showed robust cost management helping to improve and operates the websites for Carrefour non-food only profitability in the full year.
The outlook in Greece continues and Celio.
to look uncertain, but with a focus on customer service and cost management we believe Kotsovolos will continue to out-perform its competitors.
We recently launched three substantial implants in the Carrefour Marinopoulos supermarket stores which have got off to a very encouraging start, and it is possible that we will expand this programme during the year ahead.
Italy The consumer environment in Italy remains subdued.
However, with a focus on cost control and customer service, Unieuro has significantly improved profitability year on year.
With phones already the largest category in Italy, the market shifted further towards smart phones and tablets during the year.
By carefully managing stock, services and promotional activity, the business has improved margins.
The Italian specialist electrical retailing market is relatively fragmented.
With one market leader and several smaller specialists the market is likely to consolidate.
Turkey The Group now operates 32 stores in Turkey, including 18 franchise stores.
Turkey is a growing market, however there are a number of specialist electrical retailers now operating in that market and taking actions to grow share.
With retail space growth continuing to outstrip underlying market growth, like for like sales have been impacted across the market.
With a significant number of specialists in the market the Group continues to explore ways to put the Electroworld business in Turkey on a stronger strategic footing.
Dixons Retail plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13
