Directors Report Strategic Summary Our Resources get their products up and working, or keeping them working Customers as technology gets more and more embedded into daily People lives.
Suppliers Distribution and Logistics We made huge progress last year across every aspect Store Portfolio that we measured in the Shopping Trip.
However, we must never be satisfied and we can and must make further Intellectual Property improvements to delight customers and to outpace the Cash competition.
This year, the Customer Plan will remain our Energy vehicle for demonstrating to the team what needs to be delivered, building on last years successes, introducing Customers new work streams and sharing our practices across Europe.
To deliver on our strategies and to ensure we continue to respond to customers needs we must listen effectively to them.
Since 2008, and most significantly in the UK & We are focusing on building a career development framework that rewards customer centric behaviour and Ireland, we have invested in comprehensive customer instils a sense of pride in our colleagues.
We now provide research programmes spanning a variety of tools including tailor-made development programmes and support further exit surveys, mystery shops, focus groups and effective education qualifications for our colleagues throughout the data gathering.
Our development programmes use modules, training workshops and a dedicated e-learning intranet Through this research, managed by our in-house Customer Insight team, we have developed a clear and detailed service that helps provide the skills colleagues need to succeed at every level and career stage.
understanding of what we are doing well and more importantly of where we can target further improvements.
We operate sophisticated tracking and measuring Customers tell us that they need us to deliver a strong processes, including regular mystery shops and exit combination of Value, Choice and Service across all our surveys, to measure individuals and stores performance, shopping channels, and it is clear from their feedback that and to ensure we reward appropriate behaviours.
Each more and more they recognise that we are doing this.
We will continue to deliver easier, more exciting places to shop region within the Group defines its own reward system as is appropriate to local customers expectations and colleague for customers whether that be in store, on-line or a multibehaviours.
However, all these systems incentivise a channel combination of both.
combination of good customer service and contribution to a store or teams performance.
Listening to customers extends into how we approach the sales process in-store.
Our FIVES training programme is designed to ensure customers leave our stores with a Suppliers complete solution that is right for them.
Doing this is a key As we build our market-leading reputation and become part of our ongoing strategy and delivery of a sustainable known not just for Value, Choice and Service, but also business model, as well as enabling us to differentiate our as the go to location for all the latest technology, our offer from competitors.
relationship with suppliers becomes ever more important.
Product sourcing offices for each of the UK & Ireland By maintaining our absolute focus on the customer and division, Northern Europe, Italy, Greece, Turkey and delivering what they want in a retail environment that PIXmania continually monitor current and future product is constantly evolving, we will continue to attract new cycles with existing and potential suppliers.
customers and retain existing ones.
In the last 12 months our data shows that we have gained share in each of our In a complex multi-channel environment, suppliers trust us key markets reflecting our increasing attractiveness to with their new product releases and stock allocations, as customers.
they appreciate the superior service and advice offered by our stores and indeed our websites, as well as the exciting environments offered by our transformed stores in which People customers can experience their brands and products.
Dixons Retail is an organisation spanning much of Europe, with nearly 36,000 colleagues in over 1,100 stores, offices, We work closely with suppliers of all sizes to help them call centres and distribution centres.
For our colleagues, we deliver the right product for customers, through the believe there are four core values that constitute who we are, as individuals and as a team: forecasting and planning stages to ensure we deliver the right levels of stock for customers at the right time.
The electrical and computing industry is characterised by a We love to make our customers happy.
number of large global manufacturers, who account for We know our stuff.
a large proportion of our sales.
However, we also source product from a large number of smaller suppliers.
We seek We love to work here.
to maintain strong relationships with all of these suppliers, We deliver.
not just to source the right product for customers, but also to ensure the Group can purchase the appropriate level of In 2009, in the UK, we launched a comprehensive stock on favourable terms.
While we leverage the Groups Customer Plan in collaboration with our colleagues.
The scale and buying power through an International Buying Customer Plan involves improving every possible aspect team, we also maintain strong relationships at a local level.
of the shopping trip for customers, whether that be in our exciting new stores, better ranges at great value, untangling the shopping trip for customers, helping them Dixons Retail plc 9 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Directors Report Strategic Summary Our Resources continued Intellectual Property Our in-house design team continues to work closely with suppliers to develop exciting environments in store for Dixons Retail is one of the largest electrical and computing colleagues to demonstrate brands and products and ensure specialist groups in Europe, and leads the market in a number of its operations, in the UK & Ireland through customers leave with the right products for them.
Currys and PC World, in the Nordics through its Elkjp We also continue to refine our own-brand ranges to suit brands, in Greece through Kotsovolos, in Italy through all budgets and tastes.
Our most notable successes have Unieuro and in a number of countries on-line through been the launch of our own Sandstrm cables brand and PIXmania.
These brands are extremely well-established the unveiling of a Goji headphone range fronted by Tinchy and respected in their markets.
The Group is also building Stryder.
We also continue to embed our Currys and PC a strong service business branded KNOWHOW in the UK, aiming to delight customers while generating significant World Essentials ranges as key entry level products in our good, better, best line-up.
These products are sourced new business opportunities.
by the Groups teams based in the UK and Hong Kong in collaboration with manufacturers in, for example, Asia.
As well as our retail and service brands outlined above, we also sell a range of own brand products such as Sandstrm, Goji, Essentials and Advent.
Each of these Distribution and Logistics brands have specific target markets defined in conjunction The Group sees distribution as one of the keys to the with our customer research findings.
success of the Group in maintaining highly competitive margins and delivering outstanding, market-beating service to customers.
We operate a centralised system of Cash distribution centres in all the countries in which we operate.
It remains the Groups policy to maintain a strong capital This delivers significant competitive advantages, including base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market reduced operating costs, reduced supplier delivery costs, confidence and to sustain the future development of reduced stock volumes in store, increased flexibility as the business.
This approach has never been more to where to deliver and when, and a more efficient home important than during the economic downturn, with reducing costs having been one of the five key corporate delivery network for both us and our customers.
priorities highlighted at the launch of the Renewal and While continuing to reduce costs, we are also constantly Transformation plan in 2008. raising the bar, both in terms of successful delivery and installation rates, but also the range and quality of services As we move forward under a new Group Chief Executive, we offer customers nationwide.
In our Nordic operations our targets in the short term for the Group have been Jnkping, Sweden and the UK, Newark, we operate two clearly laid out emphasising a delivery of a suitable and sustainable return on EBIT as well as generating cash.
of the largest distribution centres of their kind in Europe.
In the UK alone we now make some 2.5 million deliveries, including some 500,000 installations per year.
As a Group we need to make the right choices as to how each division utilises or preserves cash, whether it be in determining ranges and stock held in store or managing Store Portfolio returns and related processes.
This focus has enabled We operate a wide variety of stores to suit the local the Group to be cash generative in each of the last customer demographics.
We operate small, very popular three financial years.
During the year the Group issued outlets in airport locations up to Megastores in out-of-town new 2017 bonds, redeemed its remaining 160 million locations, up to 60,000 square feet.
2012 bonds and 49 million of its 2015 bonds.
The Group has also been able to reduce the size of the Revolving We constantly review our store portfolio to ensure we Credit Facility RCF to 225 million leaving the Group have the right store for customers in the most competitive with a suitable maturity profile on its debt facilities.
As part of this ongoing review in the UK, we are strengthening cash position of the Group has meant that currently reducing our exposure to the High Street, only the RCF has remained undrawn through the financial year.
maintaining a presence in the most profitable locations.
We are also transitioning a number of stores, where appropriate, to a 2-in-1 format.
These stores allow us to Energy offer the best of both worlds to customers, attracting new Saving energy is good for the business, good for customers and of course good for the environment.
We take energy footfall and often at a lower cost.
efficiency extremely seriously and whilst we have already Throughout Europe, we have replicated the success of the made progress in a number of areas, we are investing store refits first trialled in the UK and Nordics, delivering in a wider range of initiatives to significantly reduce our exciting, easy to shop stores offering the latest technology consumption going forward.
We also refine our Group portfolio strategy to suit local market conditions.
In the Nordics, for example, Over the past three years we have developed an ongoing programme to reduce energy consumption throughout we have opened a number of Elkjp Express High Street shops, clearly establishing ourselves as the Norwegian our estate through, for example, low energy lighting and market leader in mobile communication sales.
In the Nordic region, Italy, Greece and Turkey we also operate a number of franchise stores.
This arrangement allows our brands to be present in a wider range of catchments, while increasing the volume of purchases and therefore buying power of the Group.
Dixons Retail plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13
