Directors Report Strategic Summary Strategy and Business Model Strategy iii.
Drive our service proposition: We need to be able to The Renewal and Transformation plan continues to stand shoulder to shoulder with our customers and make significant improvements to our business.
With for them to know they can come to our stores and get knowledgeable advice and great service to help them Sebastian James appointment as Group Chief Executive in buy the right product.
They need to be confident February 2012, we set out three strategic priorities that will that we will solve their problem for them quickly build on that work and improve our business for customers.
If we get this right we believe that These will, we believe, deliver improving returns for customers will be prepared to pay us for this service.
shareholders through a focus on improving Free Cash Flow generation and EBIT margins of the Group: iv.
Reduce costs: The scale of our operations across stores, ranges, logistics, distribution, repairs and 1.
Drive a successful and sustainable business model in a services means that we can continually improve multi-channel world.
Over the last six financial 2.
Be a leader in each of the markets in which the Group years the Group has removed a total of 330 million operates.
of costs and we are targeting a further 45 million of costs to be removed over the new financial year.
Align the Group to leverage consistently pan-European scale and knowhow.
Be a leader in each of the markets in which the 1.
Drive a successful and sustainable business model Group operates in a multi-channel world We have strong market positions in the UK & Ireland, The way in which a customer shops is fundamentally Northern Europe and in Greece.
In each of these changing.
Our customers tell us that they want advice, markets we have seen consolidation amongst to experience products and to ensure they are making competitors and we see opportunities to improve these the right choices, particularly as these are often major positions further.
Across the Southern European division purchases that they will own for several years.
The and in PIXmania we need to set these businesses internet empowers customers with lots of information on paths that will make them strategically strong and including product knowledge and price transparency.
profitable, and drive solutions that will put them on Single channel internet operators have structurally firmer footings.
lower costs to sell products and have historically been While the economic environment in Greece is very able to offer highly competitive prices versus store tough, Kotsovolos is a strong brand and has a based operators.
Over recent years we have reduced leading market share.
It has managed costs carefully, our costs significantly and in more recent times have minimising losses through a very difficult economic been able to significantly reduce, and in many cases environment, but has continued to grow market share virtually eliminate, the price gap through a focus on four as both customers and suppliers recognise the strength distinct activities that we believe are the key strengths of its brand.
of our multi-channel service based model and will support our competitive advantage going forward: In Italy our business has been stabilised, although the economic environment remains challenging.
Work closely with suppliers to harness benefits The Italian market however is characterised by a available to our business model: Suppliers want number of specialist electrical retailers and we believe to ensure that customers not only choose their consolidation is likely to occur.
brands, but also experience the benefits of the latest products they have developed to meet customers PIXmania has experienced extremely tough conditions needs.
As a multi-channel operator we work with our over the last two years.
It has been impacted by suppliers to ensure we can explain the benefits of shifts in the market towards multi-channel retailers, these products and demonstrate them to customers increased competition in France and weak consumer in our stores and our suppliers support us in this environments in many of its major markets.
In August work in a number of ways.
2012 we took full control of the business, put in place new management and embarked on a restructuring ii.
Focus on complete solutions for customers: programme.
We have closed its pick-up stores, ceased Customers buy products in order to achieve trading in 12 countries and reduced the range of something, such as watching movies, or to categories it offers.
These actions will offset some of entertain the children.
This does not just mean the pressures it has seen, but it is likely further action buying the hardware, but increasingly includes will be required to put the business on a firmer financial delivery, explanation and peace of mind through footing.
product support and after sales services, as well as accessories and recycling.
Align the Group to leverage consistently panour colleagues have in store with customers gives European scale and knowhow us an opportunity to explain the benefits of these The Group has many best practices in each of its solutions.
KNOWHOW in the UK offers customers business divisions.
Some work has taken place to one cohesive services brand that can help them align these and share them across the Group, such as with their product throughout its life from purchase, the new store formats, supplier relationships and, to help and support, repair and through to disposal.
We a limited degree, own brands.
However, there remain are confident that there are increasing opportunities many opportunities to share knowledge, expertise and emerging in the added value services market as best practice across the Group.
Some of these will customers become more reliant on content, cloud, take time, but we must exploit further the benefits of services and technical support that enable them to being a pan-European operator.
We have had some get the most out of the products they buy.
initial success with some pan-European deals bought for the important Christmas period selling well in all of Dixons Retail plc 7 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Directors Report Strategic Summary Strategy and Business Model continued Our training programmes combined with our Product our markets.
In addition Our Experts Love model that aligns recommendations for customers with suppliers Learning Centres provide our colleagues with the right tools new technology operates in some form in each of to really understand customers needs and to provide them our key markets.
We have also started to roll out our with the complete solution to properly meet those needs.
KNOWHOW services into Italy, Greece and Denmark.
We will continue to improve the training of our colleagues and the ways in which we can really make them experts in Our UK & Ireland and Northern Europe divisions together the products we sell.
delivered a 2.9% EBIT return after associated central costs in the 2012 13 financial year.
We believe that a 3-4% EBIT Products return for these businesses is certainly achievable.
In the Combining our customer insight with our market strength other businesses, returns have been disappointing and across Europe we can make sure we have the right range we need to focus on reducing the losses to support an of products in our stores to suit customers needs.
Our improvement in the Groups EBIT return.
scale and relationships with suppliers means that we can work with them to showcase the latest technology Cash is an important part of this and the Group has been and products in our stores with areas dedicated to key cash generative in each of the last three financial years suppliers products.
which has enabled us to turn our net debt position into net cash of 42.1 million.
As a Group we need to make Own brand products enable us to offer customers greater the right choices as to how each of our divisions utilise or choice and access to a range of products at competitive preserve cash, whether it be determining ranges and stock prices.
We have defined a clear good, better, best brand held in store, managing returns and related processes or range of: Currys and PC World Essentials: Logik: iWantit: improving working capital and stock turn.
Advent: Goji: and Sandstrm brands.
We see particular opportunities in the area of accessories and essentials Business Model with, for example, our own range of Sandstrm cables and Our business model driven by customer insight, comprises Essentials ink.
three key pillars of an integrated multi-channel offering, a wide range of products and after sales service and support, After Sales Services and Support underpinned by a low cost operating model.
Our customers need help with their products, whether it be delivery and installation, help keeping their products up Customer Insight and running or repair when things go wrong.
Our business In order to ensure we understand what products and in the UK & Ireland sets the benchmark for our services services our customers want, how they use the products infrastructure under our KNOWHOW brand.
they buy from us and what they think of the service they get from us, we use extensive customer insight.
This includes We operate the largest network of two man deliveries in the discussions at customer panels, interviews, home visits UK with an average of 50,000 deliveries per week enabling and detailed surveys.
We use this information to build us to provide customers with the convenience of next day our ranges, improve our stores and services and other delivery in a three hour time slot or the value of a free business decisions.
This is supported by mystery shops in delivery later.
our own and competitor stores, exit surveys and customer feedback.
During the year our UK businesses made Our KNOWHOW teams in stores, in our call centre and considerable progress in customer satisfaction metrics as field technicians can provide set up and upgrade services we continue to improve the business.
as well as on-line fix and back up services.
Our market leading range of help and support services ensure a Taking each of the three pillars in turn, our model can be customer has the backing of expertise and support that described as follows: keeps their technology up and running.
In the event that a customer has a problem with their product, we can fix it.
Multi-channel For example, our state of the art repair facility in Newark The shopping trip for customers is constantly evolving.
is able to repair and return a laptop in seven days.
During Our objective is to provide our customers with a seamless the year we introduced our white goods repair network experience where convenience, ease of navigation and enabling us to access a market we estimate is worth simplicity are key in attracting customers to shop with us around 500 million.
We provide customers with a choice whether it is on-line, in-store or a combination of both.
of support agreements such as Premier services which We are improving our stores making them easier to shop provide customers with a loan TV, for example, if theirs with, for example, improved navigation, better signage, needs to be taken away for repair.
playtables to allow customers to interact with products before they buy, as well as good advice on features and Through ownership of the service infrastructure we can benefits from our colleagues.
Our websites are an integral ensure the quality of service delivered to customers.
This, part of the way in which customers choose products and we believe, provides us with a significant competitive we have carried out a wide range of improvements to them advantage in meeting the needs of our customers, as well during the year.
In recognition of how customer trends as a revenue stream not readily available to single channel are evolving we have made it easier for our colleagues to on-line and mass market competitors.
access products and extended ranges in store.
For example, our store colleagues are rewarded for all sales in their While much of the improvement work has been focused catchment, whether it be on-line or in store.
We have also on the UK, core elements of the business model exist in introduced pay&collect, alongside our existing collect@store our businesses in the Northern and Southern European service, where customers can buy products not immediately divisions and we see more potential to develop this area.
available in their local store for collection later.
Dixons Retail plc 8 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13
