Directors Report Strategic Summary Our Markets Specialist electrical retailers are the predominant our pay&collect service, where customers can access a destination for customers in the European market.
Buying wider range of products than is typically available in their groups, general merchants and independents also have local store for either home delivery or later collection from a retail presence through stores and or on-line in most the store, are both proving to be increasingly popular.
The market is served by a relatively small number of global manufacturers supplying goods to Innovation brings new products and products with improved local, regional, national and international electrical retailers.
functionality, such as 3D and Smart TVs, Ultrabooks, Apples iPad, and other tablets in turn driving sales growth.
The electrical retail market can be split between specialist New content, such as social media, apps, digital media and electrical retailers, such as Dixons Retail, and general cloud computing, also help to drive hardware innovation retailers which sell certain electrical goods as part of a and replacement.
Product sales are also driven by wider offering, such as catalogue retailers, department structural shifts, such as analogue to digital and standard stores, large supermarket chains and single channel format to HD television.
In addition, innovation drives new internet retailers.
The market can also be broken down service requirements, such as TV installation, data backup into two distinct distribution channels: assisted and and computer set up.
In this increasingly complex world unassisted.
In the assisted channel, specialist retailers we believe our assisted sales model is best placed to help such as us help customers through the buying process in customers navigate the products available and to help them the form of product advice, add-on services, delivery and choose a complete solution that best meets their needs.
The unassisted channel, which includes single channel internet retailers as well as general retailers, tend Electrical products, and in particular brown goods, not to offer all of these services.
However, increasing penetration of digital technology in the home We are one of the largest specialist electrical retailing and drives replacement cycles as these products become less services companies in Europe and with leading market discretionary.
The economic backdrop also determines shares in the UK, Ireland, the Nordic region and Greece whether customers buy up or down price points.
we benefit from long established and widely recognised Accordingly, the electrical market tends to grow at a rate brands.
In each of our markets there are varying numbers which is at or exceeding the economy during boom years.
of specialist retailers who compete in the assisted market.
While the opposite can be true during a downturn, this may While we do compete against general retailers, this be influenced by new innovation and products.
is generally limited to certain lower unit price product categories as these operators do not offer the full range of The rapid innovation cycle leads to price deflation in products, assisted sale or associated ancillary services we brown goods and computing, but also drives volume as are able to provide.
products become more affordable and replacement cycles accelerate.
For larger ticket items, the low frequency of We do maintain a presence in the unassisted channel purchases limits the impact of price deflation on total through our pure play internet business of PIXmania, market sales as consumers typically trade up to higher although this business has been going through significant specification products.
The sale of white goods is underpinned by the replacement We have seen some significant shifts in capacity in many of cycle.
Due to higher costs of repair, it often makes better our markets over the last 12 to 24 months with some mass economic sense for consumers to replace white goods merchandisers reducing space for electrical products, some outright rather than to arrange for their repair.
The sale of single channel internet operators exiting our markets, as white goods is also driven by the dynamics of the housing well as some specialists exiting the market, for example market as new construction, house sales and refurbishment Comet in the UK and Expert in Sweden.
While these shifts trigger new purchases.
have helped us gain market share it does underpin our view that a strong service led multi-channel operation The UK and Nordic markets have high broadband satisfies both customer and supplier needs while delivering penetration and a maturing on-line sales platform.
The a sustainable business as customer shopping habits increase in on-line penetration provides us with the continue to evolve.
We believe further consolidation will opportunity to increase both the range of goods on offer occur in some of our markets going forward.
and the availability of product information.
Our multichannel approach is well placed to exploit synergies The internet delivers enhanced product information and between our internet sites and stores.
facilitates price comparability for consumers.
Whilst this creates new challenges, it also provides a significant Technology and the digitised world increasingly embed opportunity.
We believe that, over time, internet demand themselves into our customers lives, whether it be will polarise towards the larger retailers with scalable keeping up with friends and family through social media, distribution and systems, together with proven after sales on-line gaming, watching movies on the move, sharing service and support.
In particular, customers are showing pictures with others or across different technologies in an increasing propensity to combine the internet with stores the home, backing up precious memories in the cloud or as they consider their purchase.
We know that a significant through energy efficiency.
The latest technology allows proportion of customers spend part of their shopping trip our customers to do all this and more with tablets, Smart on-line as much as they spend time in store.
Services that TVs and apps.
The ecosystems behind the current digital combine the benefits of both the store and the internet are revolution are simplifying our customers lives.
Customers increasingly attractive to customers.
Our collect@store come to us not just for the enabling technology, but to find service, where customers can order on the internet and a solution.
collect from a convenient store at a time to suit them, and Dixons Retail plc 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13
