26 Key performance indicators The Board monitors how effectively Group strategies are implemented with reference to five key financial indicators and two non-financial indicators.
Sales growth Gross margin Key financial indicators Our goal is growth in sales revenues at Gross margin rate is the percentage of w Sales growth above global GDP levels, confirming the gross profit before exceptional one-off effectiveness of our product strategy and items compared to total sales.
Our goal is w Gross margin rate the development of our channels to market.
to maintain a rate in the range of 46 to 50 w Underlying operating return on sales Sales growth is a function of new equipment per cent through appropriate pricing and w Operating cash flow installations plus recurring revenues from cost actions.
The Group operates in global w Return on capital employed consumables, spares and services.
New markets, responding to local conditions, equipment installations include replacement making sales in local currencies and sourcing as well as new manufacturing capacity.
components and sub-assemblies in three New equipment volumes do vary to some continents.
Gross margin rate is influenced Non-financial indicators extent year-to-year based upon customer by selling prices, input costs, absorption of investment cycles and general economic overheads as a result of sales volumes, sales w Health and safety of staff outlook.
Recurring aftermarket revenues mix and movements in currency rates.
accident rates are typically stable, increasing each year as w Environmental impact the installed base of equipment grows.
Our gross margin in 2013 was 48.1 per cent, carbon emissions 1.6 points below prior year.
The adverse In 2013, sales revenues increased by movement was a result of additional fixed 8 per cent on prior year.
New equipment cost incurred in the digital print business revenues increased by 8 per cent and to increase capacity in advance of sales and aftermarket revenues by 7 per cent.
reduction in average selling prices in Asia which were, on average, below those in 2012.
Underlying operating return on sales Underlying operating return on sales operating returns is the ratio of operating profit before amortisation of acquired intangible assets, reassessment of contingent consideration and exceptional one-off items 8% as a percentage of sales.
Our goal is to increase operating returns in the mediumSales revenue term with an aspirational target of 18 to 20 per cent.
The long-term trend in operating increase returns provides us with a measure of business efficiency and is an indicator of the effectiveness of resource allocation and direction.
The gross margin rate of the Group, at approximately 50 per cent, means there is high operational leverage in the business and our aim is to use that leverage to deliver strong profits from incremental sales growth.
20% Underlying operating returns were 15.8 per Our goal is to increase cent in 2013, 1.4 per cent below prior year reflecting the increased investment we have operating returns in made to develop our digital printing business.
the medium-term Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 27 Strategic report Operating cash flow as a percentage Group accident gures Greenhouse gas emissions at baseline sites of operating profit Operating cash flow is net cash inflow from Scope 2 operating activities before exceptional one- 8000 200 off items and taxation.
This is measured Scope 1 7000 as a percentage of operating profit before 6000 exceptional one-off items.
Our target is to 150 achieve a minimum of 100 per cent each year.
5000 The Group has a track record of strong cash 4000 100 flow and we monitor carefully the rate at 3000 which we convert operating profit into cash.
2000 The key determinant of operating cash flow is 50 working capital use, specifically inventory and 1000 receivables.
In 2013, operating cash flow as a percentage of operating profit was 107%.
Return on capital employed Return on capital employed is measured as Accident rates Carbon emissions the percentage of operating profit before As an indicator of our commitment to staff The Group is committed to the improvement reassessment of contingent consideration safety and a safe working environment, of our environment and reduction in and exceptional one-off items compared to the Group reports on all accidents and use of valuable natural resources.
We average total assets less current liabilities incidents however minor.
As a result, these continue to improve our recording of before deferred and contingent consideration figures represent a high level of work emissions arising from energy and vehicle on acquisitions.
Deferred consideration place hazard awareness and control.
The use and in 2013, 22 out of a total of 25 relates to future performance.
Our target fluctuations between reports year-onoperating sites have reported progress.
is to exceed 20 per cent per annum.
Our year is relatively low.
Accidents have been At our baseline sites emissions have seen measure of the use of capital in the business reduced in each of the last two years.
a 11 per cent increase during 2013 as a focuses on the operating return generated Our target is to continue to reduce the result of an increase in production.
from the total assets and current liabilities number of accidents across the Group.
Cash and short-term debt or Cambridge, UK head office and manufacturing site: overdrafts are included in assets.
In 2013, Liverpool, UK fluids plant: Shanghai site: and Gurnee, USA fluids plant.
return on capital employed was 22.2 per cent.
Scope 1 direct emissions from fuel combustion and industrial processes.
At these sites this takes the form of gas for heating, diesel and petrol for the fleet and diesel for generators.
Scope 2 indirect emissions form the generation of purchased electricity.
22.2% Return on capital employed Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 2010 116 2011 149 2012 133 2013 104 Tonnes of CO equivalent 2 2011 2012 2013
