11 Strategic report Strategies Our strategies supporting the delivery of these objectives are summarised: 1 T o build long-term customer relationships through providing unparalleled expertise Where business continuity is important, parts and service.
For the Group, longdeveloping long-term customer relationships term relationships provide opportunity to is essential to ensure efficient business progressively satisfy the broader coding models for customers and suppliers and marking needs of our customers from alike.
Long-term relationships mean our simple codes on the primary package, to customers benefit from: tailored solutions graphics and bar codes on the secondary to meet their specific needs, added value outer case and full label printing, increasing from our broad expertise in delivering the installed base of our equipment and efficient coding solutions and a secure providing a sustained revenue stream ongoing supply of consumables, spare long after the original capital sale.
Case study: Hangzhou Wahaha Group In 2013, Hangzhou Wahaha Group, contrast ink for the coding of the bottles the largest beverage company in China which could be applied at high speed.
set out to develop a non-alcoholic In partnership with Wahaha, we alternative to beer, branded as Gwas and developed an effective solution which utilising an innovative dark bottle design.
was subsequently used as the coding The packaging necessitated a high equipment of choice in production.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 12 Strategies continued 2 To maintain product leadership through superiorinnovation It is our long held belief that product performance is a key differentiator for our customers.
Demanding operating conditions coupled with ever increasing performance targets for operational effectiveness OEE means customers are continually testing our product performance against their own manufacturing process goals.
While reliability in operation remains the number one priority for our customers, throughput rates, code quality, code application across an increasing range of substrates, automation of coding and data management are areas where customers continue to demand innovation and enhanced product performance.
Our approach to product leadership is based on using our 35 year industry experience and global network to identify target markets and applications and to then develop or acquire products that can excel in meeting the demands of both manufacturing process and printed substrate.
Case study: Wells & Young Brewery Investment in Dominos latest A-Series The UK based business, which was i-Tech continuous ink jet printer founded in 1876 and produces a range of technology has enabled the UKs largest cask beers and lagers, turned to Domino private brewery, Wells & Youngs, to boost after deciding to replace its existing productivity and reduce costs with the coding and marking machines.
Domino company set to almost fully recoup its solutions are now deployed to code investment after just one year.
bottles, cans, trays and cardboard boxes.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 13 Strategic report 5% of revenues are invested 3 in Research and To deliver service excellence through Development each year.
a responsive organisation Failure to place a code on their products the delivery of services, our strategy of can be very costly for manufacturers.
service excellence is aimed at keeping Production down time or spoiled product customers operational while reinforcing the is an expensive waste of resource.
A central important role we play in their business.
part of our business model is the ability to meet the maintenance, service and support Field service engineers represent the largest needs of our customers wherever they body of employees within the Group and our may be in the world and at a consistently management systems and training programmes high standard.
Whether that be in the ensure we develop our competence and supply of printers and consumables or maintain a strong global capability Case study: Adelholzener The mineral water company Adelholzener Engineering commented... For over 14 Alpenquellen, based in Germany produces years we have established a trusting and a variety of non-alcoholic beverages under reliable partnership.
We also value our the brand names Adelholzener and Active relationship with the service technician O2.
Commenting on the relationship with who looks after us, and represents an Domino, Rudolf Kroof, Head of Electrical excellent point of contact.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 14 Strategies continued 4 To make strategic investments that capitalise on future market drivers Our mission tightly defines our purpose to consumers but operational imperatives and enables us to focus on the wealth of driving efficiency and eliminating waste also opportunities there are to develop or play their part in creating opportunities for enhance the information applied to products coding, marking or printing of variable data.
or packaging, informing, attracting and For digital printing, the growing requirement protecting consumers.
Legislation plays a key for faster and short run production of high role in defining the data that manufacturers resolution print necessitates innovation to or service providers must make available address the need for improved productivity.
10 N600i presses installed in the year Dominos new N610i full colour digital label press installed in the new demonstration facility in Cambridge, UK Case study: Investing in digital printing Digital printing, using ink jet technology, owners and label printers.
As a is an area of significant growth in the consequence, we have made a number printing industry.
Strategically, the sector of key investments to support our provides the opportunity for us to utilise growth in this industry in 2013.
See our ink jet core competency and leverage Development and Performance of the our market experience with brand business Research and Development Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 15 Strategic report 5 To ensure business sustainability Increasing focus on the worlds finite natural resources is a priority for all companies across all industries.
As a key supplier to many of the worlds largest and most influential manufacturers, and with a concern for the environment in which we operate, we have made sustainability an imperative for our business.
Our approach extends from the products we develop to help customers respond to changes they must make in their use of packaging or in their processes, through to working with our own suppliers covering both working standards and environmental awareness.
This enables early anticipation of, and response to, legislative trends combined with effective overall business processes for sustainable supply chains.
Sustainability also means driving efficiency, eliminating waste and improving financial returns through careful management of resource.
Case study: Environmentally friendly inks In 2013, we developed ink technology based on vegetable oil for outer case coding.
In anticipation of increasingly stringent regulation, the ink allows for recyclability of foodstuffs packaging whilst improving overall product performance.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
