6 Group Managing Directors overview The momentum from sales growth in 2013 coupled with the investments we have made in support of key strategies, places the Group in a strong position to maintain performance improvements in 2014 and beyond.
My aspiration is to see sustained growth but have established a number of platforms of our business several percentage points from which we will benefit in the future.
I believe this can be achieved by capitalising on new market The major disappointment of the year has and sector opportunities, by introducing new been the absence of revenue and profits products to retain and attract customers and from TEN Media, a significant investment by taking advantage of legislation requiring for the Group in 2011, which was expected Nigel Bond increased variable data solutions on packaging.
to generate positive returns during 2013.
Group Managing Director These drivers will vary year on year but, in However, ongoing delays and now a combination with growing output levels as shortage of funds in TEN Media have global consumption increases, my belief is frustrated progress in that business.
This has that this should position the Group to deliver held back our profit growth.
Uncertainty sales growth in excess of global GDP growth.
around the future of the business has also caused us to consider the value of the For the year to 31 October 2013 the business investment the Group holds in TEN Media grew by 8 per cent.
We experienced difficult to be permanently impaired, and we have economic conditions in our core sectors written down the value of that investment across Europe for most of the year, although to nil.
The potential for the TEN Media as we closed the year short-term order intake business in the future remains uncertain.
was beginning to show more encouraging signs.
In Asia, it was pleasing to see improving During 2013, we maintained a high level of economic data emerging from China where Research and Development expenditure in our sales increased by 11 per cent over our core business, continuing our programme the year as a whole.
Our recent trend of of product harmonisation and development improving results in the USA continued of common platforms.
The goal is to build with another year of double digit growth.
our product range on a common platform, delivering a consistently high user experience Evidence suggests that there are signs of across the range while helping reduce improvement in many world economies, and complexity in the business, simplifying confidence is starting to pick up.
While some and streamlining our manufacturing and customers remain cautious, we are optimistic marketing operations.
This is a key item that we go into 2014 with a more positive in our strategy to sustain gross margins.
economic outlook than in the past two years.
In addition to the platform work in Our profit in the year to 31 October Research and Development we invested in 2013 was broadly at the same level as development of new products to meet the the previous year.
We have executed our Falsified Medicines Directive, which is likely plans to invest in a number of business to be the most significant legislation driver initiatives, building a greater portfolio requiring coding in the next three years of opportunities to help drive growth.
and a significant growth opportunity for In combination, these investments have the Group.
We identified the need to build absorbed the additional gross margin additional capability into our printers and generated from sales growth in the year to develop new inks to meet the mandated Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 7 Strategic report requirements and I am pleased that we although not yet complete, has yielded then ahead of the 19 per cent we achieved have completed the necessary work.
We have indicated over the past In combination with this, we have made two years that investment was needed to For a number of years we have been excellent progress in our efforts to achieve this and this would erode the return developing our digital label press business.
consolidate our global supply network.
in the short-term, but once we start to see This enables our expansion into a new and sustained economic improvement, I am fast growing market as high-speed digital I am pleased with the progress we made confident we are now in a position to start ink jet is adopted for the production of full with the execution of our strategy in 2013 in to move forwards on an upward trajectory.
colour labels applied to product packaging.
We end the year with a broad This is adjacent to our core business and, and strong product range, able to meet the we believe, will eventually overlap with it.
opportunities available to us and an expanded sales and marketing network, with next In 2013, we accelerated investment to steps defined to develop the infrastructure Nigel Bond build our digital print capability.
Following and operational performance of the Group.
Group Managing Director on from the launch of the N600i full I am disappointed with the progress made 11 December 2013 colour digital press in October 2012, we in TEN Media and while I am satisfied that introduced the N610i in September 2013.
Domino has done all it can to support the This product introduces a wider colour programme, matters beyond our control range including white and significantly have continued to frustrate progress.
increases the size of available market.
Our goal in 2013 was to install ten full colour In addition to our revenue growth aspirations, presses.
This was achieved nine recognised our goal is to further improve the bottom in revenue in the year and we hope to line return on sales of the business with a follow this up in 2014 with a further 25 longer-term target of getting back to and digital press installations.
Each digital press attracts considerable fluids revenues.
In addition to the investment made in technology and product development in the year, we also expanded our sales and marketing resources across Europe and North America and have built a strong team through which we expect to deliver our 2014 goals.
In November 2013, we launched our new F-series fibre laser to complement our industry leading successful range of CO 2 lasers.
This is an example of an investment we made to expand our product portfolio to both retain our position with existing customers in new applications and to position ourselves to attract new customers who have requirements we could not previously meet.
We have made Over the past five years we have undertaken excellent progress in a major programme in our manufacturing our efforts to operations to improve productivity and efficiency in the Group.
This has included consolidate our global investment in IT systems to build out a supply network more integrated global network, which Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
