8 Market context Brand owners and manufacturers are demanding more sophisticated coding solutions, capable of providing value beyond traditional product codes and legislative driven mandates for sell by and best before dates.
i-Tech Our next generation of primary coders deploy our unique intelligent Technology system, i-Tech.
Our aim was to make production lines lower maintenance, lower cost and more efficient.
i-Tech has helped us to achieve that aim.
Drivers Key supply and demand driven factors helping to drive the growth of coding The demands on manufacturers and Globalisation and marking.
This need applies across the importance to them of coding, marking Globalisation is a feature of many of the whole value chain including manufacturers, and variable printing onto both consumer markets we serve.
Multinational corporations retailers and end consumers.
Manufacturers and industrial products continue to across a range of market sectors are seeking are looking for coding equipment which increase.
Today coding solutions are to exploit their global footprint through is simple to use, support and integrate required to satisfy a diverse range of needs simplified and consistent manufacturing into their production facilities.
Retailers from decoration to machine readable processes.
We are responding to this have sought to simplify logistics through traceability codes.
Typical examples of challenge by deploying common products automated barcoding systems and shelfincreasing market demands include: available worldwide and by building ready packaging, whilst consumers are our capability to provide manufacturing seeking convenience through single portion w Governments and brand owners, connectivity within and across plants.
products and easy to use packaging.
All these driving traceability and product and demands have created greater opportunity brand protection from counterfeiting Emerging market growth for coding and marking solutions.
and product diversion As consumer wealth and desire for choice has increased, the emerging markets such Responding to these trends, we have w Manufacturers maximising productivity as South East Asia, the Indian subcontinent, developed a full technology portfolio, capable from existing production equipment the Middle East and South America of offering simplicity in use, the flexibility to and retailers accelerating innovation have experienced double digit growth print new code formats such as QR codes of shelf-ready packaging and efficient in consumption of many products.
Our and bar codes, and compatibility with the automated warehousing and supply chains direct representation and distribution diversity of packaging available.
For example, w Rising consumer demand for more network has enabled rapid penetration our V-Series i-Tech TTO range is typically choice and, increasingly, more and growth within these regions, providing used within form fill and seal flexible information printed on products the opportunity to grow our revenues.
packaging applications: a key growth area w Brand owners increasingly using both in developed and emerging markets.
packaging to differentiate their Changing market needs products from the competition, Consumer requirements are increasingly Improved productivity and performance including exploiting the promotional sophisticated as people become more time In an increasingly competitive environment, potential of coding and printing.
poor and discerning: this has accelerated FMCG producers are becoming more the demand for convenience and single demanding in their coding and marking serve portions.
All of these factors are requirements.
Total cost effectiveness, Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 9 Strategic report covering capital equipment purchase as well taking action to eliminate waste and focus The rise of digital printing as aftermarket costs has equal importance on efficiency improvement, both in the The market trend for the printing of packaging to reliability and maximum production line interests of corporate sustainability and and labels is moving towards ever shorter print uptime.
Production line automation is driving longer-term competitive advantage.
This means increased demand a need for machine readable codes which in response, we have strived to improve our for digital print over alternative, conventional turn means improved code quality.
In response business sustainability performance through print technology such as flexography, we have developed proprietary i-Tech green teams, community interaction and exploiting the ability of digital printing to service free technology solutions, producing careful supply chain management, together offer quicker job changes and lower job set higher quality coding and capable of reducing with reporting data within the Carbon up costs.
Ink jet is a recent digital technology total cost, maximising production uptime Disclosure Project CDP for the third entrant and offers key productivity advantages and simplifying manufacturing operations.
year running, registered with SEDEX.
Our over the existing toner based digital systems, latest coding and marking solutions offer making it suitable for a wider range of Increased product traceability equipment with energy saving and ink production runs.
Digital ink jet is expected The ability to track and identify products systems that are compatible with lightweight to grow strongly over the next decade as throughout the value chain is increasing in plastic packaging.
We have also introduced it replaces traditional printing techniques.
Regional and Life Cycle Analysis LCA as a part of global manufacturers are taking measures our development programmes to ensure Our range of digital printing systems uses the to maintain the integrity of their products future products are based on sustainable very latest ink jet printing technology for both and supply chain, protect brand value and materials and production processes.
monochrome Domino K600i printing as well remove the potential for counterfeiting.
as full colour Domino N610i digital label printing.
The K600i monochrome product We work closely with brand owners and was launched in 2011.
The full colour product relevant legislative bodies to develop coding was launched at the end of 2012 and first sales systems capable of producing serialised and installations have been made during 2013. and other security based solutions.
In the European pharmaceutical sector, for example, we are providing full portfolio solutions directly suited to the need of the EU Falsified Medicines Directive and leveraging strong industry partnerships to facilitate simplified and accelerated legislative compliance.
Sustainability Growing consumer and investor pressure for environmentally friendly products and packaging has resulted in manufacturers Case study: Addressing market trends within the beverage sector.
As one of our priorities we are responding been working with Infusion GB, a leading We werent very clear on what we needed to market changes and opportunity within tea packaging manufacturer to specifically at the beginning of the process, but the growing beverage sector.
Speaking on the Dominos team was willing to take the time are looking for greater convenience and recent collaboration, Peter Barry, Technical to listen to our needs and tailor a solution.
packaging is increasingly moving toward Director at Infusion GB, commented With Dominos help we have found a individual serving sizes, while Domino definitely had the edge in solution that the tea market has been manufacturers are seeking greater supply terms of the capability of its engineers, struggling with for some time.
In the UK, Domino has who were able to adapt their printers.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
