67 Corporate governance Report of the Directors For the year ended 31 October 2013 During the period commencing on 1 November 2013 and ending on The Directors present their annual report and the audited financial 11 December 2013 the Company has not received any notifications of statements for the year ended 31 October 2013. significant holdings.
Research and development Authority of the Directors to issue shares The Group remains firmly committed to research and development to At the last Annual General Meeting on 19 March 2013, the Directors maintain its position as a market leader in the design, manufacture and were given authority to allot up to 1,675,609 in nominal value of sale of a wide range of printing equipment and associated consumables relevant securities.
This figure represented approximately 30 per cent and support services that encompass ink jet, thermal and laser of the Companys total issued ordinary share capital at that time.
During the year, the Group spent 19.5 million 2012: 16.7 million on research and development.
Also at the last Annual General Meeting the Directors were given authority to allot shares in the Company for cash without regard Results and dividends to the pre-emption provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
This The results of the Group are set out on page 74.
The Directors authority expires on the date of the Annual General Meeting to be recommend a final dividend of 14.06 pence per share for the year held on 19 March 2014 and the Directors will seek to renew this ended 31 October 2013.
This, together with the interim dividend of authority for the following year under the Companies Act 2006.
7.60 pence per share paid on 16 August 2013, amounts to 21.66 pence per share 2012: 20.63 pence.
Subject to approval at the Annual Purchase of own shares General Meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 11 April 2014 to At the last Annual General Meeting, shareholders authorised the shareholders appearing on the register at the close of business on Company to make market purchases on the London Stock Exchange 7 March 2014. of up to 16,197,554 ordinary shares, representing approximately 14.5per cent of its issued share capital at that time.
This authority Directors will expire at the end of the next Annual General Meeting of the The Directors who were in office at the end of the year and their Company unless renewed at that meeting.
interests in the shares of the Company are shown in note 7 to the financial statements.
All the Directors listed in note 7 held office Amendment to articles of association throughout the financial year.
As previously announced, Garry Havens The Articles of Association the Articles may be amended by special will retire from the Board on 31 December 2013 and Phil Ruffles has resolution of the shareholders.
stated that he does not intend to stand for re-election at the next Annual General Meeting.
Appointment of Directors The Articles give the Directors the power to appoint additional or Other than Phil Ruffles, all of the Directors then in office will retire at replacement Directors.
The Articles also require Directors to retire the next Annual General Meeting and offer themselves for re-election.
and submit themselves for election at the first Annual General Meeting following appointment and for one third of the Directors to All the Executive Directors have service contracts with the Company retire by rotation at each Annual General Meeting.
The Board has that are terminable on 12 months notice.
The Chairman and Nondecided that each Director will retire at each Annual General Meeting.
Executive Directors do not have service contracts with the Company.
The appointments of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are The Non-Executive Directors were appointed for specific terms terminable on six months notice.
subject to re-election and to the Companies Act provisions relating to the removal of a Director.
The terms of appointment of the No Director was interested during or at the end of the year in any Non-Executive Directors are available on the Companys website contract that was significant in relation to the Groups business.
or can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
Substantial shareholdings Power of Directors As at 31 October 2013, the Company had been notified, in accordance The Directors may exercise all powers of the Company subject to with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the relevant statutes, any directions given by shareholder resolution and following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares: the Memorandum and Articles.
The Articles, for example, contain specific provisions relating to the Companys power to borrow money.
Percentage of The Articles also contain powers relating to the issue of shares and the voting rights Number and issued of ordinary Nature of purchase of the Companys own shares.
Name of holder share capital shares Holding Independent legal advice Schroders PLC 9.7 10,842,799 Indirect There is a procedure in place for Directors to take independent Blackrock Inc. 8.5 9,560,385 Indirect professional advice at the Companys expense if this is necessary in Ameriprise Financial Inc. 5.2 5,861,969 Direct & Indirect connection with their duties.
Heronbridge Investment 5.0 5,660,205 Indirect Management LLP Mondrian Investment Partners Ltd 5.0 5,640,561 Indirect Montanaro Asset Management 4.7 5,331,451 Direct Norges Bank 4.0 4,527,407 Direct Legal & General Group plc 3.8 4,322,528 Direct Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 68 Report of the Directors continued Directors insurance and indemnity arrangements Share schemes voting rights regarding control of The Company has purchased and maintained throughout the year theCompany Directors and Officers liability insurance.
The Directors also have the The trustees of the qualifying employee share trust have the discretion benefit of the indemnity provision contained in the Companys Articles to sell the shares held in the trust or to consent to the acquisition of of Association.
The Company has made qualifying third party control of the Company by another party.
The trustees of the Share indemnity provisions for the benefit of its Directors.
Incentive Plan have the discretion to seek direction from participants as to how to exercise the voting rights attaching to the shares held in Significant agreements and other arrangements the trust.
If no direction is given the trustees are prohibited from The Company has various contractual arrangements for the supply of exercising the voting rights.
It also has contractual arrangements in place for the distribution of its products by third For shares held in trust under the Long-Term Incentive Plan, the party distributors and also for the distribution of third party products trustee has discretion as to the exercise of voting rights in respect of by the Domino Group.
The Company has a borrowing facility agreement which includes Environmental, social and ethical issues change of control provisions.
On a change in control of the Company The Board takes account of the significance of environmental, social this facility could be withdrawn or renegotiated.
and ethical matters to the business of the Group and a separate Corporate responsibility report is set out on pages 31 to 37.
This There are a number of other agreements that may be terminated on a report contains disclosures of the Groups greenhouse gas emissions.
None is considered to be significant in terms of the Nigel Bond is the Director responsible for environmental, social and potential impact on the Group.
Capital structure Political donations Details of share capital are shown in note 25.
The Company has one No political donations were made 2012: nil.
class of ordinary shares which carry no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
People with disabilities Applications for employment made by disabled persons are given full There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the and fair consideration, having regard to the abilities and aptitudes of transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions the candidates.
If existing employees become disabled, every effort is of the Articles and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware made to accommodate them within their existing jobs or, if this proves of any agreements between holders of the Companys shares that may to be impossible, to find them suitable alternative employment.
result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Opportunities for development and promotion are open to all employees.
No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Employee involvement Employee communication is organised both centrally and locally.
Share schemes waiver of dividends Centrally organised communication deals with the affairs of the Group The trustees of the Companys employee benefit trust and the as a whole and the media used for this purpose include the annual qualifying employee share trust the Trusts have agreed to waive report and accounts, information circulars and meetings.
New dividends payable on the Companys shares held by the Trusts, except arrangements have been put in place for the current year under which for the shares relating to the Share Incentive Plan.
As at 11 December Directors and other senior managers will provide regular briefings by 2013 the number of shares over which a dividend waiver was in place Webinar to managers throughout the Group.
Operating units organise was 245,813 representing 0.22 per cent of issued shares.
local presentations by Directors or managers and hold briefings to pass on information to employees and to ascertain their views.
Regular employee engagement surveys are also used.
Corporate governance Reports on corporate governance are set out on pages 38 to 66.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 69 Corporate governance Going concern The Groups business activities together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are described within the Strategic Report pages 1 to 37.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are also described on pages 28 to 30.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with a broad spread of customers across different geographic areas and industries.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
The Directors have also considered the Groups forecasts and projections.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
Auditors A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as the Companys auditor will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Disclosure of information to auditor The following applies to each of those persons who were Directors at the time this report was approved: w so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware, and w he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf of the Board.
Richard Pryn Company Secretary 11 December 2013 Registered Office: Bar Hill, Cambridge, CB23 8TU Registered Number: 1363137 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
