2 Our business what we do The Group operates in global markets, providing manufacturers and printers with the ability to code, mark or print data, information or graphical images on to their products or packaging at high speed, typically in line in the manufacturing or printing process.
We design, manufacture and sell a wide range of printing equipment and associated consumables and support services that encompass ink jet, thermal and laser technologies.
Our products are capable of printing on a broad spectrum of materials and substrates and offer full variability for personalisation, customisation or unique identification of products.
Our complete solutions approach is based upon expert applications knowledge and, where required, innovative coding automation software for effective manufacturing line integration.
Demand for our products and services is Our products are designed to support Typical customers are manufacturers including, created through legislation and mandate, our make to order manufacturing multinational, regional and national companies, strategy.
Typical lead times for the spread across a wide range of market sectors.
typically meeting the need to inform equipment we sell are less than four We also supply printers of labels, mail and consumers, and through providing weeks.
Fluids and other consumables are other web based materials to meet their manufacturers and printers with an economic often supplied to customers next day.
short run and variable printing needs.
means of decorating, identifying, tracing, protecting or authenticating their products We support a global customer base through Food, beverage, pharmaceutical and for commercial or regulatory purposes.
an extensive sales channel network comprised commercial printing are the largest of directly held sales subsidiaries and third sectors: combined they represent party distributors.
Every sales channel is approximately 67 per cent of total sales.
trained and equipped to provide professional Our breadth of industry coverage and sales advice, installation, service and support.
lack of reliance on any one or small group In combination with our distributor partners of customers provides a natural hedge we estimate that there are in excess of against sector specific market risk.
5,000 representatives of the Group across all the industrial economies of the world.
In 2013, our revenue split by location of customers was 25 per cent in the Americas, 41 per cent in Europe and 34 per cent in Asia Rest of World.
We have an installed base well in excess of 200,000 printers operating worldwide.
Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 3 Strategic report Global presence, regional sales by location of customer per cent of total Western North United South Europe America Kingdom America 29% 27% 21% 7% 7% 5% 4% Asia Middle East Central & Pacific & Africa Eastern Europe Key markets: u Developed u Developing Sector coverage In depth sector expertise and market based solutions enable us to differentiate and rapidly respond to the diverse needs of our chosen markets.
Our breadth of industry coverage 1 reduces our risk or dependency on individual sectors.
1 Food and Beverages 43% 2 2 Pharmaceutical and Healthcare 14% 3 3 Printing 10% 4 4 Industrial 10% 5 Electronic Components 6% 6 Construction and Chemicals 5% 7 Others 12% Note: estimated split of Group revenue.
5 6 7 Domino Printing Sciences plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
