Market overview Dominos sits in a highly competitive marketplace that combines international national and independent chains with a diverse food offering.
We consistently perform with strength and clear vision that differentiates us from many of our competitors.
We keep our customers needs front and centre in all of our thinking and this gives us a clear edge over the competition.
The delivery takeaway meal sector is a competitive and fragmented commodities chicken 15%, wheat 20% and tomato paste marketplace.
Alongside pizza it includes options ranging from 10% we were able to hold the prices of all of these products sandwiches, burgers, chicken and fish & chips to ethnic food flat to franchisees on the back of forward buying and long options such as Chinese and Indian.
The market is served by term contracts.
national international chains and also by local independents.
In 2013 food inflation generally ran well above Macroeconomic environment 4%, however: Dominos average store food Following some very tough economic times, we and our franchisees basket only saw a year-on-year increase of 2.5%.
are cautiously optimistic about the economic outlook.
Consumer confidence is rising, domestic output is increasing and Customers want value for money unemployment rates are falling.
However, real disposable income Commentators have been quick to correlate our strong performance has declined over the longer term as the cost of living has increased, and growth with the recession, stating that Dominos is a recessiondespite interest rates staying at historically low levels.
But at Dominos we are anything but complacent about It took some time for the impact of the recession to be really felt our growth and recognise that, in this economic environment, our in our customers pockets.
We think it is likely to take some time customers are looking for real value for money.
Customers claim before customer spending returns to pre-recessionary levels, hence to be eating out less frequently and spending less than they used to our cautious optimism.
on delivery takeaway food and they are typically choosing to spend their hard-earned money on more traditional takeaway delivery Food commodity prices occasions, like evenings and weekends.
They are savvier than ever, claiming to shop on deal more than they used to and looking 2013 was another challenging year on food commodities with UK for offers tailored to their needs, whether that means family meals, Food Inflation running well above 4% for the majority of the year.
social snacking or eating on the go.
Consequently, the more Milk price inflation, impacting the price of cheese, was our biggest expensive delivery takeaway options have suffered, whilst the concern, driven by poor weather in the spring, reduced production pizza delivery takeaway sector has been more resilient.
levels and increased demand from China, forcing us to pass price increases to franchisees in the latter part of 2013.
More than 70% of takeaway users look out However, the Group was able to avoid many other areas of food for special offers.
commodity inflation due to the strong, long term relationships we have with our suppliers.
Despite spikes in the prices of core Dual screening UK consumer confidence 88% 85% 82% 75% 72% -7 -10 60% -11 -12 -13 -13 -16 38% 32% -21 -22 -22 21% 19% -26 -26 -26 4% -27 13% -28 -29 -29 -29 -29 -29 -29 -30 -31 -31 Individuals 16-24 25-34 35-44 45-54 55 Age On a computer or laptop TV On a mobile device or smartphone eg iPad TV Jan 12 Jul 12 Jan 13 Jul 13 Jan 14 Source: Thinkbox Survey Source: GFL NOP 08 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements 2013: 7.0 1 2012 : 5.2 UK stores like-for-like 2011: 3.7 sales growth 7.0% 1 2012 : 5.2% Theres a focus on quality and service Getting social and personal with customers Recent food scares have focused consumers attention on the The digitalisation of the market has spawned a number of quality and provenance of prepared foods and ingredients.
Our aggregator sites offering independent takeaway delivery chains customers tell us that they would rather spend a little bit more on an e-commerce platform for a hefty commission.
However, whilst a hot, fresh meal made with superior ingredients, be that our fresh this gives these providers access to a sales channel, here at Dominos dough, our mozzarella, our unique recipe tomato sauce or our we think the digital landscape offers much wider opportunities thicker cut pepperoni.
They trust us to deliver a high-quality for customer engagement.
It is a complex, exciting and rapidly product on time, rather than opting for a cheaper alternative developing environment, which offers not only new platforms that means they end up with something cold, late and made to trade from, but also: from inferior ingredients.
access to our own media channels that allow us to communicate more effectively with customers: Quality is a key driver of purchase for 65% the ability to target specific customers more efficiently at of pizza buyers.
different stages of their purchase decision and personalise our communications with them: and And innovation is important too scope to develop more event-driven, seasonal and local Customers, though, are increasingly willing to shop around and content that can be used to connect with existing and their loyalty is harder than ever to earn.
Whilst value and quality prospective customers.
are important, consumers are also increasingly adventurous in their food preferences.
They want to be enticed with new flavour Consumer brands now need a strong social media presence, as choices and experiences, not just in core pizza offerings but across customers spend more time communicating within social channels, a range of supporting side dishes and desserts that can turn a meal making recommendations to each other and using social sites as into an occasion.
Theres an increasing appetite for us to ring the customer service tools.
Where brand communications used to be changes with limited edition ranges and new product formats broadcasts, they are now conversations.
Content is created and that give customers new reasons to keep coming back.
shared not just by brand owners but by consumers too and increasingly it is about entertainment as well as information.
44% of pizza buyers are interested in pizza The Dominos brand has always been about fun and sharing, so this plays to our strengths.
Digital has created new opportunities recipes influenced by other types of cuisine.
for us to use media as a way of delivering more engaging brand messages to customers, as well as providing them with a fast, Our marketplace has become digital secure, convenient way to order.
We used to say that the TV was our point of sale.
However, TV We recognise the importance of digital and have worked hard screens today are just one of media through which consumers see to digitalise the business.
Digital or not, though, our real challenge advertising and other forms of communications.
Rapid growth in is to keep customers needs and preferences front and centre in the use of smartphones and other internet-enabled devices means our thinking.
We have more opportunities to engage, entertain and that todays customers are spending the majority of their daily educate them about Dominos through multiple touch points.
media time online and multi screening is on the increase as they use smartphones, tablets or laptops whilst watching TV.
More than ever before, customers are using the internet to research before they buy, to communicate with each other and, of course, to shop.
This is particularly true amongst our younger adult audience and, if this is where our customers are, we need to be there with them.
53% of our UK sales are online.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 09
