Our business model We typically take a head lease with the landlord for a store and Our franchised business model has proven grant a sub lease to the franchisee.
Each Dominos Pizza store to be successful in the UK over many years.
buys all its dough, most other ingredients and many other supplies We manufacture fresh dough and supply directly from our Supply Chain Centres or, in some cases, through approved suppliers.
Our Supply Chain Centres offer stores quality ingredients and offer support to all everything from dough and menu ingredients through to uniforms of our stores in a variety of ways, from local and equipment.
Stores then sell directly to customers, paying the Group royalties and making contributions to a national advertising store marketing support, centralised IT systems fund, based on a percentage of sales.
and software and Group services, right through to business partners that work with each franchisee to target growth opportunities.
Dominos Pizza International Franchising Inc. DPIF Licence of rights, Royalties IP and knowhow Master Franchise Agreements MFAs : UK & Ireland 1993 Germany 2011 Switzerland 2012 The Groups main operating subsidiary companies for each Payment for territory: Standard third-party Licence of rights and products Franchise Agreement transfer of knowhow SFA Advertising levy, royalties, training, IT support Third-party suppliers costs Manufacture ingredients, supplies, Supply Chain Centres of dough to Landlord special products recipe Rent Franchisees buy food, dough, Head lease entered equipment and into between the supplies from Group and the landlord Dedicated Group Supply Chain Centres property companies The Group enters Each franchisee into a sub-lease enters into an SFA with the franchisee Rent for each store Franchisees Stores Income Each store sells pizza and from associated products to sales customers in its territory The Group has no franchisees in Switzerland as at Customers 29 December 2013 and all stores in Switzerland are Movement of monies corporately run.
Similarly, Germany comprises a Contractual relationships mix of franchised, joint venture and corporate stores.
06 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements Dominos Pizza International Franchising Inc. Franchisees One of the Groups key relationships is with DPIF, the master franchisor The Group has a committed and entrepreneurial group of franchisees of Dominos Pizza across the globe.
We have three MFAs in place with and actively seeks to recruit new franchisees to the business.
The DPIF, relating to the territories in which the Group sub-franchises in 1 growth of existing franchisees is critical to the continued growth of the UK and Republic of Ireland: 2 Germany: and 3 Switzerland, Group.
Whilst nearly all of the stores in the UK and ROI are franchised, Liechtenstein and Luxembourg.
The Company has also purchased the Group operates some corporate stores in Germany and all of the from DPIF the option to acquire the Master Franchise rights in relation stores in Switzerland are corporate stores.
to Austria on or before 31 December 2014.
Franchisees enter into a Standard Franchise Agreement in respect of each store for an initial term of ten years with an option to renew for afurther ten years.
Dough, third-party suppliers, distribution Innovation and new product development We manufacture all the dough for our pizzas in our Supply Chain Innovation is at the heart of our success, including: Centres and supply all our stores with fresh, tasty dough and most new products to keep our offering fresh: other food products three times a week.
innovative use of social media and other digital marketing tools We have an extensive network of trusted third-party suppliers.
In the toextend our reach: and UK and Ireland we operate our own distribution but in Germany and Switzerland this is outsourced to local logistics providers, with whom the use of technology to streamline ordering and reduce costs we are building long-term relationships and aim to get the best commercial terms possible.
Customers People Our goal is to be the leading provider of freshly made great-tasting Most of the employees that work in Dominos Pizza stores are pizza for each territory in which we operate.
Customers can order employees of the franchisee that owns and operates that store.
online, by phone or in store.
The Group employs staff at its Support Centres in Milton Keynes, Dsseldorf and Zurich and Supply Chain Centres in the United Kingdom, Ireland, Germany and Switzerland.
We recognise the importance of a happy workplace and believe our employees are one of the main champions of the brand, so we place significant emphasis on how we recruit and how we develop them.
Revenue & cash ow We put safeguards in place to ensure our franchisees treat their staff We generate most of our revenues from three main streams, as follows: with respect and in accordance with brand standards and we continuously strive to update and train all staff on a regular basis.
i Royalties, sales to franchisees and corporate store sales This includes revenue from pizza sales in our corporate stores as well as revenue from sales of food, equipment and delivery charges to our franchisees.
It also includes royalties generated from store sales to customers referred to as system sales, which our franchisees pay to us.
Shareholders ii Rental income This arises from leasehold properties, for which the Group holds the The cash generated by the Group allows us to sustain a generous head lease, that are sub-let to franchisees.
shareholder return in the form of a progressive dividend policy as well iii Finance lease income as share buybacks, whilst also investing in the future of the business.
Interest income from nancing provided to franchisees associates and joint ventures in the form of finance leases for assets in new stores.
These revenue streams generate cash for the Group which iscollected on a regular basis from franchisees.
The cash received isused to pay for the main costs to the Group, including food, salaries, rental and What makes us different royalty payments.
We invest in assets such as plant, property, equipment and IT systems.
Our dedication to Product, Service and Image, endeavours tomakeDominos our customers first choice for home delivery andtakeaway pizza.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 07
