Directors report Dominos Pizza Group plc Company number 03853545 The Directors have pleasure in presenting their statutory financial Share capital statements for the Group for the 52 weeks ended 29 December 2013.
As at 29 December 2013, the Companys Dominos Pizza Group plc authorised share capital was 4,000,000 divided into a single The sections that are required to be included in this Annual Report class of 256,000,000 ordinary shares of 1.5625 pence each and there and Accounts in accordance with Companies Act 2006 section were 164,500,133 ordinary shares in issue.
The ordinary shares are 414 C 11 are set out below.
listed on the London Stock Exchange and can be held in certificated The Company has chosen in accordance with the Companies Act or uncertificated form.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to section 414 C 11 to include the disclosure of likely future attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint developments in the Strategic report.
one or more proxies and, if they are corporations, corporate representatives are entitled to attend general meetings and to Our strategy on page 12 exercise voting rights.
All issued ordinary shares are fully paid up.
Chairmans statement on pages 4 to 5 Chief Executive Officers review on pages 12 to 22 On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every Chief Financial Officers review on pages 27 to 31 holder of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled Corporate governance report on pages 44 to 55 to vote shall have one vote unless the proxy is appointed by more Risk management on pages 23 to 26 than one shareholder and has been instructed by one or more Corporate social responsibility report on pages 32 to 41 shareholders to vote for the resolution and by one or more shareholders to vote against the resolution, in which case the Together, this information is intended to provide a fair, balanced proxy has one vote for and one vote against.
This is to reflect the and comprehensive analysis of the development and performance of Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 which have amended the the Groups business, its strategy going forward, its performance 2006 Act.
On a poll, every member present in person or by proxy during the year, likely developments and any principal risks and and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share uncertainties associated with the Groups business.
None of the ordinary shares carry any special voting rights Details of the Groups policy on addressing financial risks is given with regard to control of the Company.
The Notice of Annual in Risk management and details about financial instruments General Meeting AGM specifies deadlines for exercising are shown in note 30 to the Group financial statements at page 117. voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the AGM.
The relevant proxy votes Pages 72 to 74 inclusive together with sections of the Annual are counted and the number for, against or withheld in relation Report incorporated by reference consist of the Directors report to each resolution are announced at the AGM and published on that has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in the Companys website after the meeting.
reliance upon applicable English company law and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report shall be subject There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Company other than certain restrictions that may be imposed from time to time by laws and regulations and pursuant to the Results and dividends Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby certain Directors, officers and employees of the Group require the approval Group results of the Group to deal in ordinary shares of the Group.
The Group is The Group profit for the period after taxation was 12,123,000 not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may 2012: 30,307,000.
This is after a taxation charge of 9,467,000 result in restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares.
The financial statements setting out the results Shares held by employee share trusts of the Group for the period ended 29 December 2013 are shown The Group has had an employee benefit trust EBT for a number on pages 76 to 132. of years, the trustee of which is Ogier Employee Benefit Trust Limited Ogier.
As at 29 December 2013, the EBT held 56,252 Dividends shares, which are used to satisfy reversionary awards.
The voting The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 8.80p rights in relation to these shares are exercisable by the trustee, per ordinary share, to be paid on 4 April 2014 to members on the however in accordance with investor protection guidelines, the Register at the close of business on 14 March 2014 ex dividend date trustee abstains from voting.
During the year the Company set up a 12 March 2014, subject to shareholder approval.
Together with the new employee benefit trust with Ogier to satisfy awards made under interim dividend of 7.10p per ordinary share paid on 6 September the Companys share schemes.
The trustee currently holds no 2013, the total dividend in respect of the period will be 15.90p shares but when it does hold shares the trustee will abstain from compared with 14.50p for the previous year, an increase of 9.7%.
voting in accordance with best practice.
Dividends are recognised in the accounts in the year in which they are paid, or, in the case of the final dividend, when approved by Purchase of own shares shareholders, such that the amount recognised in the 2013 accounts, At the 2013 AGM, a special resolution was passed to authorise the as described in note 14, comprises last years final dividend and this Company to make purchases on the London Stock Exchange of years interim dividend.
up to 10% of its ordinary shares.
However during 2013 up to and including 29 December 2013 the Company did not make any purchases of its ordinary shares.
72 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements Taking into account all of the buybacks since 2004, 16.6% of the Directors indemnities Companys issued ordinary share capital has been purchased.
The Directors have the benefit of an indemnity provision contained Shareholders will be requested to renew this authority at the in the Articles of Association.
The provision, which is a qualifying forthcoming AGM of shareholders, to be held on 2 April 2014 third-party indemnity provision as defined by section 234 of the 2014 AGM.
It has been the Companys policy to cancel any 2006 Act, was in force during the year ended 29 December 2013 ordinary shares it buys back, rather than hold them in treasury and remains in force and relates to certain losses and liabilities but this policy may be revisited in 2014. which the Directors may incur to third parties in the course of acting as Directors or employees of the Company.
Substantial shareholdings The Group maintained a directors and officers liability insurance As at 29 December 2013, the Company has been notified of policy throughout the financial year, although no cover exists in the the following interests in 3% or more of the issued share capital event Directors or officers are found to have acted fraudulently or of the Company: dishonestly.
No indemnity is provided for the Groups auditors.
% of share capital Oppenheimer Funds, Inc 11.00 Employees MFS Investment Management 9.54 United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland Vontobel Asset Management 6.50 In the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland, the Group BlackRock, Inc 5.19 employed an average of 491 people in 2013 up to and including Montanaro Asset Management Ltd 4.99 29 December 2013 2012: 495.
Standard Life Investments 4.67 The Capital Group Companies Inc. 3.22 Head Ofce United Kingdom 240 Old Mutual Asset Managers 3.09 Milton Keynes Supply Chain Centre 159 Penrith Supply Chain Centre 62 Using the total voting rights gure applicable at 29 December 2013 of 164,500,133.
Naas Supply Chain Centre 30 Except for the above, the Group is not aware of any ordinary shareholders with interests of 3% or more in the issued share Germany capital of the Company.
The Company has not been notified In Germany, the Group employed an average of 382 people in 2013 of any other changes to the notifiable voting rights in its shares up to and including 29 December 2013 2012: 160. up to 21 February 2014.
German Head Ofce 27 Directors and their interests German Supply Chain Centre 6 The Directors who served during the year were: Stephen Hemsley, German corporate stores 349 Lance Batchelor, Lee Ginsberg, Sean Wilkins, Colin Halpern, Nigel Wray, Michael Shallow, John Hodson, Syl Saller, Helen Keays and The majority of German corporate store employees will transfer David Wild.
On 31 January 2014 Ebbe Jacobsen was appointed as over to franchisees during 2014 as corporate store sales complete.
The biographical details of the present Directors are set out on pages 42 to 43 of this Annual Report.
Switzerland In Switzerland, the Group employed an average of 212 people The appointment and replacement of Directors is governed by the in 2013 up to and including 29 December 2013 2012: 229.
Companys Articles of Association the Articles of Association, the UK Corporate Governance Code, the 2006 Act and related Swiss Head Ofce 11 legislation.
Subject to the Articles of Association, the 2006 Act Swiss corporate stores 201 and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers For further details please refer to note 9 on page 97. of the Company.
Employment policies The interests of Directors and their immediate families in The Group is committed to the principle of equal opportunity the shares of the Company, along with details of the long-term in employment.
The Group recruits and selects applicants for incentives awarded to Executive Directors are contained in employment based solely on a persons qualifications and suitability the Directors remuneration report set out on pages 56 to 71. for the position, whilst bearing in mind equality and diversity.
It is the Groups policy to recruit the most capable person available for No Directors have a beneficial interest in the shares of any each position.
The Group recognises the need to treat all employees subsidiary.
Should any ordinary shares be requested to satisfy honestly and fairly.
The Group is committed to ensuring that awards of reversionary interests, these may be provided by the EBT.
its employees feel respected, valued and are able to fulfil their Further details relating to the rewards of reversionary interests, the potential and recognises that the success of the business relies EBT and the current LTIP can be found on pages 68 to 69 of this on their skill and dedication.
There have been no changes in the interests of the Directors, The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for including share options and reversionary interest awards, employment from disabled persons, with regard to their particular in the share capital of the Company as at 21 February 2014. aptitudes and abilities.
Efforts are made to continue the employment of those who become disabled during their employment.
In line with the 2006 Act, the Board has clear procedures for Directors to formally disclose any actual or potential conflicts to For more information on the Companys employment practices the whole Board for authorisation as necessary.
All new conflicts are please see page 37. required to be disclosed as and when they arise.
There is an annual review of conflicts disclosed and authorisations given.
The register of Directors conflicts is maintained by the Company Secretary.
ch Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 73 Directors report continued Auditors General information Ernst & Young LLP have signified their willingness to continue Annual General Meeting in office as auditors to the Company and the Group is satisfied The Notice convening the 2014 AGM to be held at 1 p. m. on that Ernst & Young LLP is independent and there are adequate Wednesday 2 April 2014 at Dominos Pizza Head Office, Supply safeguards in place to safeguard its objectivity.
A resolution to Chain Centre, 1 Thornbury, West Ashland, Milton Keynes reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditors will MK6 4BB is contained in a circular sent to all shareholders.
Full details of all resolutions to be proposed are provided in this shareholder circular.
The Directors consider that all of the Directors statement of disclosure of information resolutions set out in the notice of 2014 AGM are in the best to auditors interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The Having made the requisite enquiries, the Directors in office at the Directors will be voting in favour of them and unanimously date of this Annual Report and Accounts have each confirmed that, recommend that shareholders vote in favour of each of them.
so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors are unaware and each Director has Significant agreements and change of control provisions taken all the steps he she ought to have taken as a Director to make The most significant agreements to the Groups business are as himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to follows: UK and ROI Master Franchise Agreement UK MFA : establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
Know How Licence Agreement: Germany Master Franchise Agreement German MFA : and Switzerland, Luxembourg and Going concern Liechtenstein Master Franchise Agreement Swiss MFA, pursuant The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to which certain of the Groups companies are granted the right to to affect its future development, performance and position are set franchise stores and operate commissaries in the territories by out in the Strategic review on pages 2 to 43.
The financial position Dominos Pizza International Franchising Inc. of the Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Chief Financial Officers review on The Groups most significant agreements listed above do not pages 27 to 31.
In addition, notes 29 and 30 to the Group financial terminate on a change of control.
The Group does not have statements include the Companys objectives, policies and processes agreements with any Director or employee that would provide for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a details of its financial instruments and hedging activities and its takeover except that provisions of the Groups share schemes exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
and plans may cause options and awards granted to employees and Directors under such schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company The Groups banking arrangements do contain change of control has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for provisions which, if triggered, could limit future utilisations, the foreseeable future and have therefore continued to adopt require the repayment of existing utilisations or lead to a the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Events after the balance sheet date Articles of Association There have been no significant events since the balance sheet date The Companys Articles remained unchanged during the 2013 which would have a material effect on the financial statements other financial year and may only be amended by special resolution than the Companys acquisition of the minority shareholding in our at a general meeting of the shareholders.
German business, as more fully set out at note 37 on page 124.
Branches Cautionary statement Dominos Pizza Germany Limited a subsidiary company of the This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements.
Company continued to operate via a branch in Germany, Dominos These forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future Pizza Deutschland, during 2013. performance, rather they are based on current views and assumptions as at the date of this Annual Report and are made by Environmental and social responsibility and greenhouse the Directors in good faith based on the information available to gas emissions them at the time of their approval of this report.
These statements The Group acknowledges that it is part of a wider community and should be treated with caution due to the inherent risks and recognises that it has a responsibility to act in ways that respect uncertainties underlying any such forward-looking information.
the environment and the social wellbeing of others.
Details of the The Group undertakes no obligation to update these forwardGroups approach to these issues and emissions attributable to all looking statements.
activities are set out in the Corporate social responsibility report at pages 32 to 41.
By order of the Board Political donations Mark Millar The Company makes no political donations 2013: nil.
Company Secretary 28 February 2014 Key performance indicators KPIs Details of the Groups KPIs can be found on pages 10 to 11.
74 Dominos Pizza Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic review Corporate governance Directors report Financial statements Financial statements Financial statements for Dominos Pizza Group plc for the 52 weeks ended 29 December 2013.
76 Statement of Directors responsibilities 77 Independent auditors report Group 79 Group income statement 80 Group statement of comprehensive income 81 Group balance sheet 82 Group statement of changes in equity 83 Group cash flow statement 84 No tes to the group financial statements 125 Independent auditors report Parent 126 Parent company financial statements
