Drax Group plc 59 Annual report and accounts 2013 Directors biographies Dorothy Thompson CBE Charles Berry Tony Quinlan Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director As Chief Executive, Dorothy is As Chairman, Charles is responsible As Finance Director, Tony is responsible responsible for all aspects of the for the leadership of an effective for the financial management of stewardship of the Group and its Board ensuring cohesion between theGroup, and for relationships with business, including developing an the executive and non-executive the Groups bankers and financial appropriate business strategy for Board directors.
He liaises closely with advisers.
In addition to the Finance approval and securing its timely and the Chief Executive in order to fully function, he has the Investor Relations, effective implementation.
She provides understand the business challenges Risk Management, IT, Facilities, and leadership to the executive team and facing the executive directors and the Procurement functions reporting to him.
takes responsibility for the important senior management team and in turn external relationships with customers, he ensures that matters laid before the suppliers, regulatory agencies and non-executive directors are challenged government bodies.
and tested in a robust manner.
Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: 15 December 2005 and was appointed 20 October 2005, having joined Drax 1 September 2008.
Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Executive.
Tony is also on the Board of Nominations Chairman and Remuneration.
the Groups US subsidiary, Drax Biomass International Inc.
External appointments: External appointments: A non-executive director and Chairman of A non-executive director of Johnson External appointments: Senior plc and TheWeir Group PLC.
A non-executive director of the Port ofLondon Authority, where he chairs the Audit Committee.
Previous experience: Previous experience: Charles has extensive experience within the Dorothy was previously the head of the Previous experience: UK power sector.
He joined ScottishPower European business of InterGen NV, the power Tony qualified as a Chartered Accountant with in 1991 and was appointed to the Board in generation subsidiary of Shell NV and Bechtel Coopers & Lybrand and subsequently joined 1999.
From 2000 to 2005, Charles was Chief Inc. responsible for the management and Marks & Spencer where he went on to hold Executive of the companys UK operations, operation of four gas-fired power plants, a number of senior positions within Internal withresponsibility for over 6,200MW of totalling some 3,160MW of capacity across Audit, Corporate Finance, Investor Relations generating capacity as well as the trading the UK and the Netherlands.
Prior to joining and Financial Control.
From 2005, he was business, energy retailing and strategic InterGen NV in 1998, Dorothy was initially in Director of Finance, the deputy to the Group transactions, such as renewables development.
banking and subsequently was assistant group Finance Director.
Charles is also a former non-executive treasurer for Powergen plc.
Qualifications: Chairmanof Eaga plc, Impax Environmental Qualifications: BSc Hons in Chemistry with Business Studies Markets, Securities Trust of Scotland and of BSc Hons and MSc in Economics.
and an Associate of the Institute of Chartered THUS Group plc.
Accountants in England and Wales ACA.
Qualifications: BSc Hons in Electrical Engineering andMScin Management.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc 60 Annual report and accounts 2013 Directors biographies Peter Emery Paul Taylor Tim Cobbold Production Director Retail and Trading Director Independent non-executive director As Production Director, Peter is As Retail and Trading Director, Paul Tims blend of financial and engineering responsible for the operation of has responsibility for the trading of experience means that he is well the Groups plant and equipment.
power, other associated commodities placed to contribute significantly to the This includes all aspects of safety and freight and logistics.
He isalso Board and its Committees.
His role as management, plant integrity, plant responsible for the retail division, a serving Chief Executive in a different operations, engineering support, Haven Power, which sells electricity sector provides an added dimension maintenance and plant design.
to customers in the industrial and tohis contribution.
Peter also has responsibility for leading commercial and small and medium the Companys carbon capture and enterprises markets.
Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: 20 October 2005, having joined Drax 1 September 2011, having joined Drax in 27 September 2010. in June 2004.
Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: Audit, Nominations and Remuneration.
Paul is also Chairman of the Groups External appointments: retail subsidiary, Haven Power Limited.
External appointments: Chief Executive and an executive director A non-executive director of NG Bailey Limited.
External appointments: of fide La Rue Plc.
A member of The Energy Research Partnership.
Previous experience: Previous experience: Previous experience: Tim was previously the Chief Executive Officer Peter joined Esso Petroleum upon leaving Paul has more than 15 years experience in of Chloride Group plc, the leading international university and held a number of analyst and energy trading previously working for TXU provider of secure power solutions having managerial roles in the UK before moving to Europe and Powergen E. ON UK.
At TXU Europe joined them in 2007 as Chief Operating Officer.
Essos parent, Exxon in the US to co-ordinate Paul led the UK electricity trading function Following Emerson Electrics takeover of its downstream marketing and distribution responsible for trading a combined portfolio Chloride he held a senior position in Emerson, investments outside North America and ofover 7GW of power plant and a retail position responsible for the Chloride Group of companies.
Peter returned to Essos Fawley Oil ofmore than 50TWh.
Before energy trading He trained as a Mechanical Engineer and Refinery in 1992 as plant technical services Paulworked in operational research.
qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1987 manager.
In 1997 he became refinery andjoined Smiths Group plc formerly TI Group Qualifications: maintenance manager, and in 2002 he was plc in 1989 where he held a number of senior BSc Hons in Business Operation and Control.
appointed operations manager with full financial and operational management positions management and operational responsibility for over an 18 year period.
Fawley Oil Refinery, the UKs largest refinery.
Qualifications: He was also a member of ExxonMobils BSc Hons in Mechanical Engineering and a European leadership team for refining.
Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Qualifications: in England and Wales FCA.
BSc Hons in Mining Engineering, Fellow of the Institute of Materials, Minerals and Mining FMIMM and completed the Advanced Management Programme at INSEAD in 2007.
Drax Group plc 61 Annual report and accounts 2013 Melanie Gee David Lindsell Tony Thorne Independent non-executive director Senior independent Independent non-executive director non-executive director Melanies blend of financial and Tonys experience of operating in corporate experience means that she Davids recent and relevant experience different geographical territories is of is well placed to contribute significantly in the areas of finance and audit are a great importance as Drax undertakes to the Board and its Committees.
significant asset to the Board and his role expansion into global markets.
Her advisory role in a City firm brings as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
added insight to the Board.
Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: 1 January 2013.
Audit Chairman, Nominations Remuneration Chairman, and Remuneration.
External appointments: A senior adviser to Lazard & Co. Limited and a External appointments: External appointments: non-executive director of The Weir Group PLC.
A non-executive director of Premier Oil plc Chairman of the South East Coast andHellermannTyton Group PLC.
Previous experience: Melanie joined Lazard & Co. Limited in 2008 as a Previous experience: Previous experience: Managing Director and became a Senior Adviser David was a partner at Ernst & Young for nearly Tony was Chief Executive of DS Smith plc, the at the end of 2012.
Prior to that, she was at UBS 30 years.
He specialised in audit and assurance international packaging and office products Investment Bank 1982 to 2007, where she services and has extensive experience across group, from 2001 until his retirement from held a number of senior positions inCorporate a range of industry sectors.
He was Deputy theBoard in May 2010.
Melanie was an alternate member of Chairman of the Financial Reporting Review President of SCAs corrugated packaging The Takeover Panel between 2006 and 2013.
Panel from 2008 to 2012 and has served on business.
Prior to this he spent 20 years with a number of professional bodies relating to Shell International, working throughout the Qualifications: financial reporting, including the IFRS Advisory world in senior management roles, including MA in Mathematics.
Council, the Auditing Practices Board, the strategic planning and President of the Turnbull Committee and the European Financial Shellcompanies in Mexico.
Qualifications: Qualifications: BSc Hons in Agricultural Economics.
Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales FCA.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview
