Drax Group plc 58 Annual report and accounts 2013 The Board of directors Membership and process Role of the Board Composition All of the directors listed below served throughout the year and continued The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for to be directors as at 18 February 2014.
Their biographical details appear on its decision and formal terms of reference for its committees pages 59 to 61.
Tim Barker formerly Senior Independent Director served which are available to view on the Groups website at until his retirement on 24 April 2013. www.
The Board determines: the Groups strategy: the Groups appetite for risk: the internal control and risk management policies: the Business Plan and principal performance Nonindicators: acquisitions and disposals and other transactions Executive: executive: 4 outside delegated limits: material changes to accounting 4 policies or practices: significant financial decisions: capital structure and dividend policy: shareholder communications: prosecution, defence or settlement of material litigation: Group remuneration policy: the terms of reference and membership of Board Committees: and the Board structure, composition and succession.
Matters which are not specifically reserved to the Board and its committees under their terms of reference, or to Executive Chairman Independent shareholders in General Meeting, are delegated to the Chief directors non-executive Charles Berry Executive or otherwise delegated in accordance with a directors Dorothy Thompson schedule of delegated authorities approved by the Board.
Chief Executive Tim Cobbold Tony Quinlan Melanie Gee Finance Director David Lindsell Chairman Peter Emery Tony Thorne Charles Berry Production Director Paul Taylor Retail and Trading Director Attending by invitation Philip Hudson Number of meetings held in 2013 Company Secretary 73 1 Board diversity The Board has There are also three In addition, seven scheduled scheduled business the Board meets The following chart illustrates the proportion of female and meetings each updates for the at least annually to male directors.
year, and arranges Board by telephone consider strategy.
additional meetings conference call, if the need arises.
which are constituted as Board meetings held by telephone if required to address matters for formal decisions.
Male: Female: 77.8% 22.2% The schedule of matters reserved are reviewed annually by the Board and are available on the Groups website at www.
