Drax Group plc 16 Annual report and accounts 2013 Our business today The UKs electricity mix In 2012 latest figures available, generation from gas fell mainlydue to high gas prices, particularly relative to coal, aswellasgreater generation from renewables.
Contribution to the UKs electricity mix by fuel type Coal Gas Nuclear 39% 28% 19% Renewables Other 11.3% 2.5% Renewables breakdown 1 Bioenergy Wind Hydro Wave, tidal 2 and solar PV 67.8% 24.2% 6.5% 1.5% Notes: 1 Landfill gas, sewage sludge digestion, energy from waste combustion, animal biomass, plant biomass, anaerobic digestion, co-firing with fossil fuels.
Source: Digest of UK Energy Statistics, 2013.
Figures may not add up to 100 due to rounding.
Drax Group plc 17 Annual report and accounts 2013 Our business model Our overriding objective is to maximise the value of the Draxbusiness.
There are several steps in the Drax value chain, with each one providing incremental value to the business andultimately maximising that value anddelivering ourgrossmargin.
source generate supply Fuel Generation Trading How we maximise value How we maximise value How we maximise value k We burn sustainable biomass currently k Through our turbine upgrade project we k As the largest power station in the UK in one converted unit, which earns ROCs secured our position as the most efficient we areableto utilise economies of scale and LECs.
coal-fired power station in the UK, and with through, forexample, procuring fuel at it and our increasing use of biomass we are competitive prices.
k In our coal units we havethe ability delivering coalandCO2 savings.
to burn other fuels, such as petcoke k Weare always looking to increase the and pond fines, which can be k With leading operational performances trading options available to us, for example, economically advantageous.
across all aspects of the generation business, through our retail business.
from safety to maintenance, we are able to k By diversifying ourfuel sources not only k We benefit from having a physical asset deliver high availability andreliability.
are we less reliant on asingle fuel type, to trade around and through a seamless but we are also able to capture value from k Inaddition, the flexibility of our despatch interface with the operations side of the commodity market cycles, and in the case allows us to respond quickly to changes business, enabling us to extract value in all of biomass avoid the cost of carbon.
k Our investments in the US help secure the timely delivery of reliable wood pellet Environment Retail supplies to Drax Power Station, and How we maximise value How we maximise value consolidate third party and own supplies k Through burning increasing volumes of k We have already achieved significant tosecure more efficient and cost-effective sustainable biomass and our efficiency growth inacompetitive marketplace and delivery logistics.
improvements we are able to significantly have become established as a recognised reduce the amount of coal we burn, save on supplier to businesses across the UK.
carbon costs and reduce emissions of CO2.
k We have plans to grow further anddeliver k We generate additional revenue through our tailor-made supply contracts toeven sales of ourby-products, reducing more business customers.
disposal costs, and creating its own k Our retail business increases the trading revenuestream.
Byreducing emissions of options available for our power output, SO2, we produce gypsum which, like ash, providing an important, credit-efficient issold to the constructionindustry.
anddirect route to market, as well as a k We are investing to continue to route to market for our ROCs and LECs.
meet increasingly stringent emission control requirements.
Read more: Read more: Read more: Operational and financial performance Sustainable business review Marketplace 2845 5057 2627 Influenced by a number of risk factors: There are many external factors with the potential to have an impact on our business.
Read more: We aim to be alert to and manage all the identified principal risks and uncertainties.
Principal risks and uncertainties 4649 Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview Drax Group plc 18 Annual report and accounts 2013 Our business today Scale, efficiency and service Drax Group has three principal activities: sourcing fuel includingsustainable biomass : electricity production: andelectricity sales to the wholesale market and businesscustomers.
source generate supply Fuel Generation Trading We use a range of fuels, including coal, Drax Power Station is the largest power Through keeping a constant eye on sustainable biomass and others, for example, station in the UK, almost twice thesize the commodity marketswithin which petcoke and pond fines, which can be ofthenext largest power station.
we operate we are able to optimise economically advantageous.
As our business Through strong operational performance thecommercial despatch of our transformation takes shape we will burn we are able to deliver high availability power.
The growth of sales through predominantly sustainable biomass.
our retail business, Haven Power, US we are investing in wood pellet plants isbecoming increasingly important and a port facility to deliver a secure and toourtrading strategy.
3,960 MW connected capacity 26.2 atDraxPowerStation TWh net sales of power generated 1.6 million tonnes of biomass burnt Environment Retail We work hard towards reducing our 0.8 Our retail business, Haven Power, impact on the environment with a million tonnes of economically isfocusedon providing businesses policy of regarding compliance with advantageous fuelburnt withpower contracts that are simple, legislation as a minimum level of flexibleand designed to meet their achievement.
As weprogress our biomass specificrequirements.
Importantly, conversion project ourcarbon footprint thesecontracts are backed by an will reduce dramatically.
We sell the 8.5 excellentstandard of customer service.
by-products ofouroperations tothe million tonnes of coal burnt construction industry.
8.1 TWh net power supplied 2.7 million tonnes of CO2 saved through burning sustainable biomass in place of coal 59 % of sales growth by volume 0.7 million tonnes of gypsum sold Drax Group plc 19 Annual report and accounts 2013 Achieving our vision Our business is influenced by a number of factors, which we manage to the very best of our ability.
Through focusing on our sixkey priorities we aim to achieve our vision and maximise shareholder value.
our strategy... Wehave three key strategic initiatives our vision... to enable ustoachieve ourvision, namely: enabled by... 1 Our vision for Drax is to be a bold, Creating our biomass fuel supply business in the US.
customer orientedpower generation and retail business, driven 2 Our project to convert Drax Power Station intoa by biomass innovation.
3 Our programme for the expansion ofour retail business, Haven Power.
delivered through sixkey priorities...
Deliver excellent Deliver our Maintain operational Maximise Grow our Maintain an people biomass strategy excellence profitability from retail business optimalsupporting leadership across our coal generation capitalstructure our business capacity our performance... Total revenue Net cash Gross profit Load factor 2,062 71 445 80 m m m % 2012: 1,780 million 2012: 311 million 2012: 511 million 2012: 82% EBITDA Carbon dioxide emissions Underlying basic earnings Total recordable injury rate 230 725 35 0.29 m t GWh pence per share 2012: 298 million 2012: 784t GWh 2012: 52 pence per share 2012: 0.17 Read more: Read more: Operational and financial Principal performance performance indicators 2845 2425 Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview
