Drax Group plc 26 Annual report and accounts 2013 Marketplace Where we sell our power Complex arrangements and mechanisms govern the supply and demand of a product which is not stored, yet is vital to everyday life.
The structure of the The wholesale Wholesale prices electricitymarket electricitymarket Power prices are driven by a number offactors, such as underlying The electricity market in Great Britain Various mechanisms exist to allow commodity prices, the availability of is characterised by six large vertically powerto be traded at the wholesale generating capacity on the electricity integrated companies, withinterests level.
Trading can take place bilaterally system, andthe physical positions taken in both the generation and supply of or on exchanges, and contracts for byindividual market participants.
electricity, and a number ofsmaller electricity can be struck over timescales independent companies, some of ranging from several years ahead to The wholesale market operates on which are purely generation or supply on-the-day trading markets.
It can priceand the relative prices of gas companies and others which have an also be traded for specific periods, for and coal, along with the operating interest in both.
Drax is an independent example, specific half hours or specific efficiencies of the various power company, with interests in both seasons.
The wholesale electricity stations, will determine which of generation and supply in the market.
market trades across three sub-markets: gas-fired generation or coal-fired, long-term forward market allowing generation is the more expensive and Today, the energy mix benefits from contracts to be struck up to several sooperates at the margin.
If gas prices a diversity of fuel sources, including years ahead of delivery in response are high then gas-fired generation gas, coal, nuclear and renewables.
tomarket participants requirements: becomes themarginal plant.
This diversity is a key contributor to security of supply.
short-term bilateral market operated As well as selling power through through power exchanges which gives 1 thewholesale electricity market, In 2012 the latest figures available, market participants the opportunity to weareselling an increasing proportion the generating capacity of the UKs fine tune their contractual positions: of our output directly to business major power producers was 81,742MW.
and customers through our retail company, The final consumption of electricity in, Balancing Mechanism real-time Haven Power.
This provides us with 2012 was approximately 318TWh.
market through which the System a credit-efficient route to market for Operator accepts offers and bids Drax has a 5% share in the generation power, as well as a good route to market for electricity to enable it to balance capacity market and typically meets for Renewables Obligation Certificates supply and demand on the system.
78% of the UKs electricity needs.
and Levy Exemption Certificates earned Through our retail company, Haven by our renewable power generation.
Power, we serve businesses of all sizes, together accounting for sales of over 8.1TWh of power in 2013.
Notes: 1 Digest of UK Energy Statistics, 2013.
Drax Group plc 27 Annual report and accounts 2013 Our role in the electricity supply chain Our interests in the electricity supply chain cover the generation, wholesale and retail markets.
generate supply Generation Retail Wholesale market Drax Power Station typically meets Haven Power is our retail company Various mechanisms exist to around 78% of the UKs electricity serving the electricity needs of allow our power to be traded at the needs.
There are two routes to business customers and providing wholesale level in Great Britain.
adirect route to market forourpower.
Supplying: SMEs Small and mediumForward contract market sized enterprises month to several years before I&C Industrial and commercial businesses Short-term market 78% 24 hours before Drax Power Station typically meets around 78% of the UKs electricity needs Balancing Mechanism one hour before Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview
