Drax Group plc 63 Annual report and accounts 2013 Executive Committee members biographies Philip Hudson Andrew Koss Matthew Rivers Director of Corporate Affairs Director of Strategy Director of Fuel andCompany Secretary Andrew has responsibility for regulatory Matthew is responsible for our biomass As Director of Corporate Affairs and issues, environmental strategy and and coal purchases.
Successful biomass Company Secretary, Philip is responsible business development.
Andrew joined sourcing is at the core of the realisation for the Groups legal and corporate Drax in 2005 to lead the refinancing of our strategy.
An important part of compliance and for the application as part of the initial public offering in Matthews biomass responsibilities is of good standards of corporate that year.
He has subsequently held that he has Group level responsibility governance.
He has the Company a number of positions, leading the forour upstream investment activities Secretariat, External Communications, corporate finance, investor relations and in the US.
These activities are growing Human Resources and Legal functions commodity riskmanagement functions.
rapidly as we move from theinitial reporting to him.
Philip is also Chair of development phaseinto commissioning Trustees for the Drax section of the pellet plants and running an Electricity Supply Pension Scheme.
Appointment to the Executive Committee: Appointment to the Executive Committee: Appointment to the Executive Committee: 8 May 2007 upon joining Drax.
1 November 2013, having joined Drax 1 November 2013, having joined Drax in June 2005. inNovember 2011.
Previous experience: Philip joined Drax as General Counsel and Previous experience: Previous experience: Company Secretary.
He was previously at Kelda Prior to joining Drax, Andrew was Deputy Group Matthew has previously been the Director Group plc owner of Yorkshire Water, where Treasurer at Provident Financial plc.
He has also Energy Biomass and then Director Overseas heheld the same role.
Philip has previously worked in investment banking managing middle Wood & Biomass Sourcing at UPM in Finland.
beena solicitor in private practice.
He also spent office functions for derivatives trading at UBS Prior to that, Matthew was Managing Director several years as a solicitor in the in-house legal and Dresdner Kleinwort Benson.
of Forestal Oriental Uruguay, responsible for department at Powergen.
plantation management and wood supply.
Qualifications: Matthew has also been Managing Director, Qualifications: BSc Hons Maths, Associate of the Institute UPM Tilhill, the UKs largest private sector forest LLB Hons, Solicitor.
of Chartered Accountants England and Wales management and timber harvesting business.
Member of the Association of Corporate Treasurers MCT.
Qualifications: BSc For Hons, MBA, FICFor, CEnv.
Financials Governance Sustainable business review Marketplace, performance and risk Overview
