Governance Governance Directors report easyJet plc is incorporated as a public limited attaching to the ordinary shares held by the trustee company and is registered in England with the on their behalf and or direct how the trustee shall act registered number 3959649. easyJet plcs registered in relation to those ordinary shares.
The trustee shall take no action in respect of ordinary shares for which ofce is Hangar 89, London Luton Airport, Luton, Bedfordshire, LU2 9PF.
it has received no direction to vote or ordinary shares which are unallocated.
Generally, on a poll the trustee The Directors present the Annual report and accounts shall vote in accordance with directions to vote given for the year ended 30 September 2013.
In the absence of directions or on a easyJet, the Group, and the Company, we or our show of hands the trustee shall not vote.
are to easyJet plc or to easyJet and its subsidiary The trustee of the easyJet plc Employee benefit companies where appropriate.
Trust the Trust, which is used to purchase shares Pages 1 to 90, inclusive, of this Annual report on behalf of the Company for the benefit of comprise the Directors report that has been drawn employees, including in connection with the easyJet up and presented in accordance with English Long Term Incentive Plan and the International company law and the liabilities of the directors in Share Incentive Plan, has the power to vote or not connection with that report shall be subject to the vote at its absolute discretion in respect of any limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
shares in the Company held unallocated in the Trust.
However, in accordance with good practice, the SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION trustee does not intend to vote on such shares.
Share Capital Substantial interests Details of the movements in authorised and issued In accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency share capital during the year are provided in note 17 Rules DTR 5, the Company as at 30 September 2013, to the accounts.
has been notied of the following disclosable interests in its issued ordinary shares: The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares are set out in its Articles of Association.
Number of shares as Percentage of Voting rights and restrictions on transfer notied to the current issued of shares Company share capital None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights easyGroup Holdings Ltd with regard to control of the Company.
There are holding vehicle for no restrictions on transfers of shares other than: Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou and Clelia Haji-Ioannou 102,753,438 25.91% certain restrictions which may from time to time be imposed by laws or regulations such as those Polys Haji-Ioannou relating to insider dealing: through his holding vehicle Polys Holding pursuant to the Companys Share Dealing Code Limited 43,758,360 11.04% whereby the Directors and designated employees require approval to deal in the Companys shares: Standard Life Investments Ltd in relation to shares where a person with an interest in the Companys held through Vidacos shares has been served with a disclosure notice Nominees 27,649,683 6.97% and has failed to provide the Company with Blackrock, Inc. 19,819,175 5.00% information concerning interests in those shares: where a proposed transferee of the Companys This position remains the same as at 15 November 2013. shares has failed to furnish to the Directors a declaration of nationality together with such Note: All interests disclosed to the Company in evidence as the Directors may require as required accordance with DTR 5 that have occurred since by the Companys Articles of Association:and 30 September 2013 can be found at our corporate website: http: corporate.
the powers given to the Directors by the Companys Articles of Association to limit the ownership of the Registered ofce Company registrar Companys shares by non-UK nationals and powers Hangar 89 Equiniti Limited to enforce this limitation including the right to force London Luton Airport Aspect House a sale of any affectedshares.
Luton Spencer Road Bedfordshire Lancing The Company is not aware of any arrangements LU2 9PF West Sussex between shareholders that may result in restrictions BN99 6DA on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
Company number Employee share schemes rights of control 3959649 The trustee of the easyJet UK Share Incentive Plan Auditors the Plan will, on receipt of any offer, compromise, arrangement or scheme which affects ordinary A resolution to reappoint  LLP shares held in the Plan, invite participants to direct as auditors of the Company will be put to shareholders the trustee on the exercise of any voting rights at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
