Strategic report Chief Executives review continued has recently acquired the remaining stake in Vueling.
The majority of these initiatives are at the early stages of development with lower levels of customer awareness of the new low-cost brands.
As these transformations progress, there is a trend towards the products converging: easyJet has introduced allocated seating which has broadened its customer appeal, whilst the legacies have started disaggregating charges with bag fees 25 being imposed and new lower fare bands being slot pairs at Gatwick introduced on a limited range of seats to try acquired from Flybe and improve their price perception.
There is evidence that the smaller legacy, regional and charter operator models are under significant pressure and this has led to new sources of funding and restructuring.
For example, Etihad has continued its investment in Europe by acquiring airberlins frequent yer programme and a stake in JAT Air Serbia and Korean Air has purchased a stake in CSA Czech Airlines.
In addition, Flybe has cut costs, restructured and sold its slots at Gatwick to easyJet, Thomas Cook has restructured its airline division, Alitalia is seeking investment and Aegean and Olympic are in the process of merging their businesses.
Further consolidation cannot be ruled out.
The smaller, emerging low-cost carriers have placed large fleet orders and have started to expand from their traditional bases: for example Norwegian has MARKET OVERVIEW started to expand out of Scandinavia and Vueling Competitive landscape out of Barcelona.
easyJet has a competitive Around half of capacity in the European short-haul advantage from its network driven by its portfolio market is own by the five largest carriers: the three of scarce, early slots at congested primary airports, largest legacy airlines Air France-KLM, Lufthansa which has taken a number of years to build up and and IAG: and the two largest low-cost carriers cannot be readily replicated.
In addition, easyJets easyJet and Ryanair.
In general, most of the profits pan-European brand enables it to ll the aircraft at generated in the European short-haul market come both origin and destination airports whilst other from the low-cost carriers, with the large legacy brands have lower levels of cross-European carriers profitability being created predominantly recognition and advocacy.
There are a few easyJet expects that legacy carriers will continue regional low-cost carriers, including Norwegian and to cut capacity from their unprofitable short-haul Wizz Air, with aggressive growth plans, whilst the operations but that there will be increased other, smaller network carriers tend to be loss competition from the new low-cost carriers looking making, restructuring and seeking external sources to expand.
Whilst the benign capacity environment of finance e. g. Alitalia.
is unlikely to continue in the short-term, there will In order to stem their short-haul losses, the larger continue to be retrenchment by less efficient airlines legacy carriers have been seeking to restructure and therefore opportunities for easyJet to continue their cost bases to become more competitive.
In to take profitable share in its core markets.
addition, larger legacy carriers have been seeking to transfer trafc to their lower cost subsidiary airlines.
Air France-KLM is transferring regional trafc towards HOP!
and Transavia: Lufthansa is using Germanwings and IAG launched Iberia Express and easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2013 10 Strategic report Where airports are monopolies, regulation is Regulatory environment the only effective answer.
Only in this way will The regulatory environment continues to have a passengers be protected from excessive airport significant impact on easyJet, with progress made charges and poor service.
easyJet has focused on in certain areas, but with continued unsustainable ensuring that there is effective regulation where it and uneconomic increases in prices by some is needed, but also that regulators understand the monopoly infrastructure providers.
needs of point-to-point airlines and their passengers.
easyJet has worked with national and European easyJet continues to work with regulators and regulatory authorities to increase competition and governments to show where increases are to provide easy and affordable travel for passengers unjustified, and while this work has led to airports on restricted routes.
During the year easyJet having to reduce their demands we have seen acquired the right to y between Moscow and unreasonable increases in Spain.
easyJet will London, won the right to y between Rome and continue to focus on providing technical input into Tel Aviv as part of the Italian Israeli bilateral regulatory reviews, and ensuring that easyJet is agreement and easyJet also acquired slots at Milan properly represented in discussions with regulators Linate airport to y to Rome after winning approval and governments.
At non-regulated airports, easyJet has worked There has been progress towards more efficient where possible to put in place long-term contracts airspace costs, with the EUs independent advisors that mitigate the risk of future cost increases and recommending cost targets for Europes airspace ensure that easyJet can build on a long-term providers that will lead to reduction in airspace sustainable platform.
The final targets will not be set for another 12 months, and easyJet will continue to place pressure on both the European Commission and key Member States to ensure that airspace becomes more cost efficient.
easyJet remains concerned with the continual increase in taxes on aviation across Europe, which is undermining European growth and ultimately jobs.
easyJet has undertaken work to demonstrate to governments that these taxes are not in their interest or those of consumers or people working within the sector.
easyJet is disappointed that the scope of aviations role in the European Unions Environmental Trading Scheme EU ETS has been reduced, and will continue to push for a scheme that incorporates as much of aviations emissions as possible.
The reform of the European regulations that govern passenger rights, EU 261, is continuing, with a new set of rules expected next year.
easyJet believes in the importance of providing passengers with the right level of protection, but also the protection passengers value and want to pay for.
The airports easyJet ies to are central to its business model.
easyJets network focuses on primary airports where people want to y to and this provides easyJet with access to important catchments and drives up unit revenues.
Primary airports tend to have pricing power and could engage in monopolistic behaviour if they are not regulated.
