STATUTORY DISCLOSURES PENSIONS Restrictions on voting No member is, unless the Board otherwise decides, The assets of the UK defined-benefit pension fund are entitled in respect of any share held by him to vote controlled by the Directors of Aggreko Pension Scheme either personally or by proxy or by a corporate Trustee Limited: they are held separately from the representative at any general meeting of the Company assets of the Company and invested by independent or at any separate general meeting of the holders of fund managers.
These segregated funds cannot be any class of shares in the Company if any calls or other invested directly in the Company.
Four trustees have sums presently payable by him in respect of that share been appointed by the Company and, in addition, two remain unpaid or if he is a person with a 0.25 per cent member-nominated trustees have been appointed.
This interest as defined in the Articles and he has been fund was closed to new employees joining the Group served with a restriction notice as defined in the after 1 April 2002: new UK employees are now offered Articles after failure to provide the Company with membership of a Group Personal Pension Plan.
information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
SHARE CAPITAL On 31 December 2013 the Company had in issue 549 The Company is not aware of any agreement between 269,029,545 ordinary shares of 13 775p each ordinary 1 holders of securities that may result in restrictions on shares, 18,352,057,648 deferred shares of 775 pence 18 voting rights.
each and 182,700,915 deferred shares of 6 25 pence each Deferred Shares comprising 74.66%, 0.48% Dividends and other distributions and 24.86% respectively of the Companys issued share Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, capital.
Details of the changes in issued share capital the Company may by ordinary resolution from time during the year are shown in Note 22 to the accounts to time declare dividends in accordance with the on page 136. respective rights of the members, but no dividend can exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS ATTACHED TO SHARES Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Subject to applicable statutes in this section referred Board may pay such interim dividends as appear to the to as the Companies Acts and to any rights conferred Board to be justified by the financial position of the on the holders of any other shares, any share may be Company and may also pay any dividend payable at issued with or have attached to it such rights and a fixed rate at intervals settled by the Board whenever restrictions as the Company may by ordinary the financial position of the Company, in the opinion resolution decide or, if no such resolution has been of the Board, justifies its payment.
If the Board acts passed or so far as the resolution does not make in good faith, it shall not incur any liability to the specific provision, as the Board may decide.
holders of any shares for any loss they may suffer in consequence of the payment of an interim or fixed Voting dividend on any other class of shares ranking pari Subject to any special terms as to voting upon which passu with or after those shares.
any shares may be issued or may for the time being be held and to any other provisions of the Articles, on a The Deferred Shares confer no right to participate show of hands every member who is present in person in the profits of the Company.
or by proxy or represented by a corporate representative at a general meeting of the Company has one vote.
On a return of capital on a winding-up excluding any On a poll every member who is present in person or intra-Group reorganisation on a solvent basis, holders by proxy or represented by a corporate representative of Deferred Shares are entitled to be paid the nominal has one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
capital paid up or credited as paid up on such Deferred In the case of joint holders of a share the vote of the Shares after paying to the holders of the ordinary shares senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by the nominal capital paid up or credited as paid up on proxy, is accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the the ordinary shares held by them respectively, together other joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority is with the sum of 100,000,000 on each ordinary share.
determined by the order in which the names stand in the register in respect of the joint holding.
The Board may deduct from any dividend or other moneys payable to a member by the Company on The holders of the Deferred Shares are not entitled to or in respect of any shares all sums of money if any receive notice of any general meeting of the Company presently payable by him to the Company on account or to attend, speak or vote at any such meeting.
of calls or otherwise in respect of shares of the Company.
The Board may also withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends or other moneys payable in respect of the Companys shares from a 102 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REPORT person with a 0.25 per cent interest as defined in AMENDMENT OF ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION the Articles if such a person has been served with Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the a restriction notice as defined in the Articles after Articles of the Company, the Articles may be amended failure to provide the Company with information by a special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
APPOINTMENT AND REPLACEMENT OF DIRECTORS The dividend recommended by the Board for the year Unless otherwise determined by ordinary resolution of as a whole is set out on page 4 of the Chairmans the Company, the number of Directors disregarding Statement.
alternate Directors is not less than two nor more than fifteen.
No shareholding qualification for Variation of rights Directors is required.
The Company or the Board may Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, appoint any person to be a Director.
Any Director so rights attached to any class of shares may be varied appointed by the Board shall hold office only until the either with the consent in writing of the holders of not next general meeting and shall then be eligible for less than three-fourths in nominal value of the issued election.
The Board or any committee authorised by shares of that class excluding any shares of that class the Board may appoint one or more Directors to hold held as treasury shares or with the sanction of a employment or executive office with the Company special resolution passed at a separate general meeting for such period subject to the Companies Acts and of the holders of those shares.
The necessary quorum on such other terms as the Board or Committee may applying to any such separate general meeting is two in its discretion decide and may revoke or terminate persons holding or representing by proxy not less than any appointment so made.
one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class excluding any shares of that class held as treasury The Articles state that each Director must retire from shares, but at any adjourned meeting one holder office at the third Annual General Meeting after the present in person or by proxy whatever the number Annual General Meeting at which he was last elected.
of shares held by him will constitute a quorum : However, it is a requirement of the Code that all every holder of shares of the class present in person Directors should be subject to annual election by or by proxy excluding any shares of that class held shareholders.
In addition to any power of removal as treasury shares is entitled on a poll to one vote for conferred by the Companies Acts, the Company may every share of the class held by him subject to any by special resolution remove any Director before the rights or restrictions attached to any class of shares expiration of his period of office.
The office of a and any holder of shares of the class present in person Director must be vacated if: i he resigns his office by or by proxy may demand a poll.
notice in writing delivered to the office or tendered at a meeting of the Board: or ii by notice in writing he RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER OF offers to resign and the Board resolves to accept such SECURITIES IN THE COMPANY offer: or iii his resignation is requested by all of the There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities other Directors and all of the other Directors are not in the Company, except that: less than three in number: or iv a registered medical practitioner who is treating that Director gives a certain restrictions may from time to time be written opinion to the Company stating that that imposed by laws and regulations for example, Director has become physically or mentally incapable insider trading laws : of acting as a Director and may remain so for more than three months: or v by reason of a Directors pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial mental health, a court makes an order which wholly Conduct Authority certain employees and Directors or partly prevents that Director from personally of the Company require the approval of the Company exercising any powers or rights which that Director to deal in the Companys ordinary shares: and would otherwise have: or vi he is absent without the permission of the Board from meetings of the Board the Deferred Shares are not transferable except in whether or not an alternate Director appointed by accordance with the paragraph headed Powers in him attends for six consecutive months and the relation to the Company issuing or buying back its Board resolves that his office is vacated: or vii he own shares below or with the written consent of becomes bankrupt or compounds with his creditors the Directors.
generally: or viii he is prohibited by law from being a Director: or ix he ceases to be a Director by virtue The Company is not aware of any agreements of the Companies Acts or is removed from office between holders of securities that may result in pursuant to the Articles.
restrictions on the transfer of securities.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 103 STATUTORY DISCLOSURES CONTINUED POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS purchased from him: and b cancel all or any of the Deferred Shares so purchased by the Company Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the in accordance with the Companies Acts.
Companys Articles and to any directions given by the Company in general meeting by special resolution, the SECURITIES CARRYING SPECIAL RIGHTS business of the Company is managed by the Board, No person holds securities in the Company carrying which may exercise all the powers of the Company special rights with regard to control of the Company.
whether relating to the management of the business of the Company or not.
In particular, the Board may RIGHTS UNDER THE EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEME exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow Appleby Trust Jersey Limited, as Trustee of the money and to mortgage or charge all or any part of Aggreko Employees Benefit Trust, holds 0.42% of the undertaking, property and assets present and the issued share capital of the Company as at 6 March future and uncalled capital of the Company and to 2014 on trust for the benefit of the employees and issue debentures and other securities, whether outright former employees of the Group and their dependents.
or as collateral security for any debt, liability or The voting rights in relation to these shares are obligation of the Company or any third party.
exercised by the Trustee and there are no restrictions POWERS IN RELATION TO THE COMPANY on the exercise of the voting of, or the acceptance of ISSUING OR BUYING BACK ITS OWN SHARES any offer relating to, the shares.
The Trustee is obliged The Directors were granted authority at the last to waive all dividends on the shares unless requested Annual General Meeting held in 2013 to allot to do otherwise by the Company in writing.
relevant securities up to a nominal amount of GOING CONCERN 12,271,057 in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue.
That authority will apply until the earlier The Directors, having made all the relevant enquiries, of 30 June 2014 and the conclusion of the Annual consider that the Group and the Company have General Meeting for 2014.
At this years Annual adequate resources at their disposal to continue their General Meeting shareholders will be asked to grant operations for the foreseeable future, and that it is an authority to allot relevant securities up to a therefore appropriate to prepare the accounts on a nominal amount of 12,291,627, such authority to going concern basis.
apply until the end of next years Annual General CHANGE OF CONTROL Meeting or, if earlier, until the close of business on 30 June 2015.
The Company has in place a number of agreements with advisers, financial institutions A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the and customers which contain certain termination Directors power to make non-pre-emptive issues for rights which would have effect on a change of cash in connection with rights issues and otherwise control.
The Directors believe these agreements to be up to a nominal amount of 1,843,928. commercially sensitive and that their disclosure would be seriously prejudicial to the Company: accordingly The Company was also authorised at the Annual they do not intend disclosing specific details of these.
General Meeting held in 2013 to make market In addition, all of the Companys share schemes purchases of up to 26,857,931 ordinary shares.
contain provisions which in the event of a change This authorisation will expire on the earlier of of control, would result in outstanding options and the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting awards becoming exercisable, subject to the rules of the Company for 2014 and 30 June 2014. of the relevant schemes.
A special resolution will also be proposed at this years There are no agreements between the Company and Annual General Meeting to renew the Directors its Directors or employees providing for compensation authority to repurchase the Companys ordinary shares for loss of office or employment that occurs because in the market.
The authority will be limited to a of a takeover bid.
maximum of 26,902,954 ordinary shares and sets the minimum and maximum prices which may be paid.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO THE COMPANYS AUDITOR The Company may at any time, without obtaining In accordance with section 418 of the Companies the sanction of the holders of the Deferred Shares: Act 2006 the Directors who held office at the date a appoint any person to execute on behalf of any of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so holder of Deferred Shares a transfer of all or any of far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit the Deferred Shares and or an agreement to transfer information as defined by section 418 3 of the the same to the Company or to such person as the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys Directors may determine, in any case for not more Auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all than 1 penny for all the Deferred Shares then being the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to 104 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REPORT make himself aware of any relevant audit information ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held of that information.
at 11.00 a. m. 24 April 2014 at the Grand Central Hotel, 99 Gordon Street, Glasgow G1 3SF.
The Notice of INDEMNITY OF OFFICERS Meeting is given together with explanatory notes, Under Article 154 of the Articles, the Company may in the booklet which accompanies this report.
indemnify any Director or other officer against any liability, subject to the provisions of the Companies AUDITOR Acts, and the Articles grant an indemnity to the Resolutions re-appointing  LLP Directors against any liability for the costs of legal as the Companys and Groups auditor and authorising proceedings where judgement is given in their favour.
the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Under the authority conferred by Article 154, the Company has granted indemnities to Directors and MATERIAL SHARE INTERESTS officers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The As at 31 December 2013 the Company had received indemnities do not apply to any claim which arises notifications of the following major shareholdings, out of fraud, default, negligence or breach of fiduciary representing 3% or more of the voting rights attached duty or trust by the indemnified person.
to the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: Number % of total In addition, the Company may purchase and maintain Name of shareholder of shares voting rights for any Director or other officer, insurance against 1 Prudential PLC 15,860,093 5.94 any liability.
The Company maintains appropriate 1 Baillie Gifford & Co 13,518,442 5.04 insurance cover against legal action brought against 2 A E H Salvesen 9,995,283 3.73 its Directors and officers and the Directors and officers of its subsidiaries.
1 Including direct and indirect subsidiary company interests.
2 Including immediate family and trustee interests.
POLITICAL DONATIONS No political donations were made during the financial Between 31 December 2013 and 6 March 2014, year 2012: nil.
the Company received the following notifications of major shareholdings: DISCLOSURES INCLUDED ELSEWHERE IN THE ANNUAL REPORT % of total Number voting In accordance with Section 414C 11 of the Companies Name of shareholder Date of shares rights Act 2006 we have chosen to set out certain information 1 UBS Investment Bank 06 02 2014 8,210,275 3.05 required by Schedule 7 to the Large and Medium 1 UBS Investment Bank 26 02 2014 Below notifiable Sized Companies and Groups Regulations 2008 in threshold the Strategic Report, rather than in the Directors 1 UBS Investment Bank 03 03 2014 8,739,059 3.25 Report.
To avoid duplication of information, the 1 Including direct and indirect subsidiary company interests.
page references for the disclosures are set out below: Disclosure Where The Directors are not aware of any other material interests amounting to 3% or more in the share Risk information about the use Note 1 to the capital of the Company.
of financial instruments accounts, page 1 19 Information on likely future Strategic Report, developments in the business pages 20 to 28 Peter Kennerley of Aggreko Group Legal Director & Company Secretary Information on our policy CSR Report, 6 March 2014 concerning employment of page 59 disabled persons The disclosures concerning CSR Report, greenhouse gas emissions pages 56 to 59 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 105 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the accounting records that are sufficient to show and Group and the Parent Company financial statements explain the Companys and Groups transactions and in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and Company law requires the Directors to prepare to enable them to ensure that the financial statements financial statements for each financial year.
Under and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with that law the Directors have prepared the Group the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements in accordance with International financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets by the European Union, and the Parent Company of the Company and the Group and hence for taking financial statements in accordance with United reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice fraud and other irregularities.
United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under Company law the Directors Each of the Directors, whose names and functions must not approve the financial statements unless are listed on pages 62 to 64 confirms that, to the best they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of their knowledge: of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the In preparing those financial statements, the Directors EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, are required to: financial position and profit of the Group: select suitable accounting policies and then apply the Strategic Report includes a fair review of the them consistently: development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of make judgements and estimates that are reasonable the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces: and and prudent: the annual report and accounts, taken as a whole, are state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European fair, balanced and understandable and provide the Union and applicable UK Accounting Standards information necessary for shareholders to assess the have been followed, subject to any material departures Companys performance, business model and strategy.
disclosed and explained in the Group and Parent Company financial statements respectively: and The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Group website www.
prepare the Group and Parent Company financial Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and statements on the going concern basis unless it dissemination of financial statements may differ from is inappropriate to presume that the Group will legislation in other jurisdictions.
By order of the Board Rupert Soames Angus Cockburn Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer 6 March 2014 106 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 ACCOUNTS ACCOUNTS Independent Auditors Report 108 Notes to the Group Accounts 117 Group Income Statement 112 Company Balance Sheet 152 Group Statement of Comprehensive Income 112 Company Statement of Total Recognised Gains and Losses 153 Group Balance Sheet 113 Notes to the Company Accounts 154 Group Cash Flow Statement 114 Reconciliation of net cash ow to movement in net debt 114 Group Statement of Changes in Equity 115 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 107
