STRATEGIC REPORT MANAGEMENT OF RESOURCES This section describes how we manage our key The Companys remuneration policy, which is resources to deliver the strategy outlined above.
described on pages 81 to 101, is aligned with the key objectives of growing earnings and delivering strong PEOPLE returns on capital.
To underline this point, the Groups Aggreko has around 6,000 permanent employees long term incentive scheme and many senior managers working around the world and they are united by annual bonuses are based on targets set against both a unique culture.
Phrases such as customer focused, earnings per share and returns on capital employed.
can-do, completely dependable capture part of the We have a policy of encouraging employees at all levels ethos of Aggreko employees.
We have captured our to own shares in the Company, and over 1,700 people culture in three words: performance, passion and pace.
participate in the Sharesave programme: around 160 This culture has developed through the years and participate in the Long-term Incentive Plan.
derives from the fact that, very often, Aggreko is PHYSICAL ASSETS helping people and businesses to recover from, or to avoid, emergencies or disruption.
Customers are often Many rental businesses provide standard products dependent on Aggreko people to keep things running, to their customers.
The car or hammer-drill you sometimes under very difficult circumstances.
Our rent is the same as the one you can buy.
Aggrekos people are highly skilled, and many of them have equipment is different: manufacturers of generators years of experience.
They are used to reacting quickly, and temperature control equipment generally design getting the job done professionally and safely, and their product to be installed and stay in the same they respond well in a crisis.
location for its working life.
For our business, however, this equipment has to be lifted and transported Taking into account the environment in which we hundreds of times during its working life.
It must operate, it is essential that our people are properly be able to work in extreme conditions the same trained, given the correct level of responsibility and generator might be working in 40C on an oil rig in accountability to make decisions on a timely basis, and Russia one week, and in 50C in the Saudi Arabian are remunerated and incentivised appropriately.
Designing and building equipment part of the business has training programmes in place that can do this, while remaining safe, quiet, reliable to ensure that our employees have the necessary skills and compliant with environmental and safety to perform their roles to a high level.
This training regulations, is a key skill of Aggreko.
Unusually for is a combination of on-the-job learning and specific a rental company, we design and manufacture most skill development through training courses.
A major of our equipment and our specialist in-house teams component of this training is related to Environmental based in Dumbarton, Scotland, understand intimately Health and Safety EH&S issues.
More detail of our the requirements of the environment in which the EH&S policies is given on pages 53 to 60. fleet operates.
Not only do we have industry-leading equipment, we also have a great deal of it 2.4 billion Aggreko continues to improve the capability of its worth at original cost as at 31 December 2013. people in line with the growth of the Group.
The talent management system and succession planning, Unlike most other rental businesses, we have a policy which was introduced six years ago now covers around of keeping equipment for its useful life.
This includes individual assessments of powerful incentive to maintain it well, which gives it our key staff resulting in individual development plans both longer life and better reliability.
We have a large to increase our internal talent.
In addition we have number of skilled engineers, well-equipped workshops developed a second Aggreko Leadership Programme and rigorous servicing regimes to ensure that our together with the IMD Business School in Lausanne, equipment is maintained to the highest standards.
which will be rolled out to our senior managers starting in 2014.
We implemented a Learning Management Taking well-judged fleet investment decisions is a Solution which will help us to improve, manage and key part of Aggrekos management task.
All material monitor technical, safety and management training investments are judged by reference to internal rates globally.
Since 2008, we have trained over 1,000 of return, and we monitor utilisation daily.
Fleet is people in continuous improvement techniques.
frequently moved between countries to optimise utilisation, and our ERP system gives us the ability Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 29 MANAGEMENT OF RESOURCES CONTINUED to manage our fleet on a real time basis across the world which, in turn, will enable us to optimise its deployment and returns.
One measure of how we are doing in terms of managing our physical assets is the return on average capital employed.
This measure is one of the key performance indicators laid out on page 32.
FINANCIAL RESOURCES The Group maintains sufficient facilities to meet its normal funding requirements over the medium term.
These facilities are in the form of private placement notes and committed bank facilities arranged on a bilateral basis with a number of international banks.
The financial covenants attached to these facilities are that EBITDA should be no less than 4 times interest, and net debt should be no more than 3 times EBITDA.
The Group does not consider that these covenants are restrictive to its operations.
SUPPLY CHAIN During 2013, Aggrekos capital expenditure totalled 228 million.
Of this, over 60% was assembled by our manufacturing facility which is based in Dumbarton, Scotland.
The remainder of the capital expenditure was either refurbishments or sourced direct from third party manufacturers to Aggreko specification and managed by our supply chain team in Dumbarton.
Aggrekos supply chain capability in managing suppliers of both finished product and components for assembly is a key part of our business capability.
We have long-standing relationships with many of our suppliers, notably Cummins which supplies a number of engine ranges and alternators.
We also have sourcing relationships in countries such as China and India where we work very closely with suppliers to ensure that the components produced comply with Aggrekos strict quality standards.
30 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
