BOARD OF DIRECTORS Ken Hanna, Chairman Rupert Soames OBE, Appointed: Non-executive Chief Executive Director in October 2010 until 24 April 2014 and Chairman in April 2012.
Experience: Ken has Experience: Rupert has international experience, leadership and international bringing financial and experience, combined with a leadership expertise to Aggreko.
He possesses knowledge keen customer focus, a hands-on approach and a proven of many different business sectors and is an experienced ability to build a large business.
As Chief Executive, senior executive and leader, promoting robust debate Rupert works with the Board to develop and implement and a culture of openness in the Boardroom.
Ken is also our strategy to maintain Aggrekos position as the global currently Chairman of Inchcape Plc, Non-executive leader in temporary power and temperature control Director and Audit Committee Chairman of Tesco Plc solutions.
After 11 successful years as Chief Executive, and Chairman of Shooting Star CHASE Charity.
Until Rupert will step down from the Board at the conclusion 2009, Ken spent five years as Chief Financial Officer of of our 2014 AGM.
Before joining Aggreko: Rupert was Cadbury Plc.
He has also held positions as Operating Chief Executive of the Banking and Securities Division Partner for Compass Partners, Group Chief Executive at for Misys Plc: and prior to that spent 15 years at GEC Dalgety Plc, Group Finance Director of United Distillers ultimately being appointed as Managing Director of Plc and Group Finance Director of Avis Europe Plc.
Avery Berkel, with responsibility for operations in Board committees: Ethics Chairman, Nomination the UK, India, Asia and Africa.
Rupert is also an Chairman, Remuneration.
experienced Non-executive Director, currently serving as Senior Independent Director and Remuneration Committee Chairman for Electrocomponents Plc.
Angus Cockburn, Board committees: Nomination.
Chief Financial Officer Interim Chief Executive from 24 April 2014 Debajit Das, Appointed: May 2000.
Regional Director Asia Pacific Experience: Angus will take Appointed: January 2013. up the role of Interim Chief Experience: Debajit brings Executive at the conclusion of our 2014 AGM.
Angus experience of the energy rental has served alongside Rupert Soames for 11 years and sector, particularly in the Asia has a deep knowledge of Aggreko, its culture and Pacific Market.
Angus also brings corporate finance and Aggreko in 2006 following the merger with GE Rentals accounting experience, gained across a variety of and has gained significant experience in a variety of sectors whilst working for highly competitive global senior management positions within the Group.
He has spent the last 14 years at Aggreko Debajit was responsible for our Major Events business, driving a programme of continuous improvement before being appointed as the Managing Director of the within the finance function, supporting Aggrekos Asia business unit in 2009.
In January 2013, Debajit strategic goals.
Prior to joining Aggreko, he spent three added the Australia Pacific business to his existing years as Managing Director of Pringle of Scotland, responsibilities and was appointed as Regional Director a division of Dawson International Plc: five years at for Asia Pacific.
Prior to joining Aggreko, Debajit spent PepsiCo Inc in a number of senior finance positions, nine years working for General Electric in a variety including Regional Finance Director for Central of leadership positions in their energy business.
Europe: and several years at KPMG working in the UK and USA.
Angus is also an experienced Non-executive Director, currently serving on the Board of GKN Plc.
BOARD DIVERSITY Executive Non-executive split Gender split 2 1 Executive 42% 1 Male 83% 2 Non-executive 58% 2 Female 17% 1 2 1 62 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REPORT Asterios Satrazemis, David Taylor-Smith MBE, Regional Director Regional Director Europe, The Americas Middle East & Africa Appointed: January 2013.
Experience: Asterios has Experience: David has experience of the rental sector international experience, for power, temperature control a proven ability in building and industrial equipment in a global business.
He and managing very large businesses and a thorough joined Aggreko in 2008 and has acquired considerable understanding of how to operate successfully in experience from senior leadership positions across the Northern Europe and Africa.
Prior to his appointment Group: initially as Vice-President of Aggreko North in March 2013, David spent 14 years at G4S Plc in Americas northern business unit: in 2010 he relocated a number of senior leadership roles, most recently as to Australia to take up the position of Managing Chief Operating Officer and Regional Chief Executive Director for Australia Pacific: and was most recently Officer for operations in the UK, Ireland and Africa.
appointed as Regional Director for the Americas in Before joining G4S Plc David held a number of senior January 2013.
Prior to Aggreko, Asterios spent ten management roles with Securicor Plc and Jardine years at United Rentals, in a range of senior roles Matheson in Hong Kong.
David also served as a including operations and mergers and acquisitions.
David Hamill, Russell King, Senior Independent Director Non-executive Director until 24 April 2014 Senior Independent Director Appointed: May 2007. from 24 April 2014 Experience: Our longest serving Appointed: February 2009.
Non-executive Director, David Experience: Russell brings will step down from the Board international experience, at the conclusion of our 2014 AGM and will therefore acquired across a number of sectors including mining and not be standing for re-election this year.
David has chemicals, together with strong experience in strategy.
international and global senior executive experience.
An experienced Non-executive Director, Russell He is currently Chairman and Chief Executive Officer currently sits on the Board of Spectris Plc and as of Ideal Standard International and pursues a number Chairman of GeoProMining.
He is also a senior adviser of personal business interests.
Until December 2007 he to Heidrick & Struggles and the founder of Sorrett was Chairman and Chief Executive of ICI Paints and Advisors.
Until October 2013, he was also a senior an Executive Director of ICI.
During the acquisition of adviser to RBC Capital Markets.
Russell spent eight ICI by Akzo Nobel, David led the integration process.
years as Chief Strategy Officer of Anglo American Plc, Board committees: Audit, Ethics, Nomination, having previously spent 20 years in senior roles at ICI.
Board committees: Audit, Nomination, Remuneration Chairman.
Experience Non-executive tenure 1 0-3 years 42% Energy 58% 3 2 3-6 years 29% Rental 42% 1 3 6-9 years 29% Finance 58% International 100% 2 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 63 BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED Diana Layfield, Robert MacLeod, Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed: May 2012.
Experience: Diana has Experience: Robert has international experience, corporate finance and particularly across Africa accounting experience acquired and Asia, and a thorough over a number of years in senior understanding of how to operate successfully in emerging financial roles across the international engineering and markets.
She also has a strong financial background chemicals sectors: he also has a detailed understanding and sales ethic.
Diana has spent ten years at Standard of strategy and business development.
Robert will be Chartered Plc, her current role is Chief Executive appointed as Chief Executive of Johnson Matthey Plc Officer, Africa Region.
Previous positions held at in June 2014, having served as Group Finance Director Standard Chartered Plc include: Chief Operating Officer for five years.
Prior to this, Robert served five years as for the Wholesale Bank: Group Head of Strategy & Group Finance Director for WS Atkins Plc and two Corporate Development and Global Head of Corporate years as Group Financial Controller, having previously Clients.
Prior to Standard Chartered, Diana was Chief worked in a variety of senior financial roles at Executive Officer of a technology venture and spent Enterprise Oil Plc.
Robert is also a chartered five years as a consultant at McKinsey & Co. accountant, having trained at KPMG.
Board committees: Audit, Ethics Nomination Board committees: Audit Chairman, Nomination, with effect from 2014 AGM.
Ian Marchant, Rebecca McDonald, Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointed: November 2013.
Experience: Ian brings Experience: Rebecca has knowledge of the domestic and knowledge of the international international energy markets, energy markets and brings along with a substantial business development expertise, understanding of associated strategic, financial and with a strong customer focus.
Until his retirement in June 2013 executive Director, Rebecca currently sits on the board Ian spent 21 years at SSE Plc, most recently as Chief of Veresen Inc and Granite Construction Inc and Executive, and prior to that as Finance Director.
Ian previously for BOC Group Plc.
Rebecca has held a is an experienced Non-executive Director, currently variety of senior executive roles across a number of serving on the Board of John Wood Group Plc as relevant industries, most recently as Chief Executive Senior Independent Director and Audit Committee Officer of Laurus Energy Inc. Other past appointments Chairman he will be appointed as Chairman in May include President Gas and Power for BHP Billiton 2014 and as Chairman of Infinis Energy Plc.
He is Plc, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer for Enron also Chairman of Scotlands 2020 Climate Group, Global Assets and Chief Executive Officer for Amoco President of the UKs Energy Institute, Chairman Energy Development Company.
of Maggies Cancer Charity and a Member of the Board committees: Remuneration.
Princes Council of the Duchy of Cornwall.
Board committees: Audit Ethics with effect from Peter Kennerley, 2014 AGM.
Experience: In addition to his role as Company Secretary, Peter is Group Legal Director and also has responsibility for our compliance and commercial function.
He was formerly Company Secretary and General Counsel of Scottish & Newcastle Plc: prior to that Peter was a partner at Simmons & Simmons specialising in corporate law.
Peter also spent two years as Secretary to the Takeover Panel.
64 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
