OUR STRATEGY GROUP STRATEGY Aggreko Group The objective of our strategy is to deliver long-term 2013 2003 CAGR value to shareholders, outstanding service to customers 1 Revenue m 1,531 324 17% and rewarding careers to our employees by being the 1 Trading profit m 354 42 24% leading global provider of temporary power and 1 Trading margin 23% 13% temperature control.
Our strategy is founded on the Diluted earnings per belief that, in our market sector, it is possible to create share pence 92.03 10.14 25% competitive advantage by building a truly global Return on capital business: one which operates in the same way around 2 employed ROCE 21% 13% the world and can use the same fleet everywhere, Enterprise value at the same processes, the same skills and the same 3 year end m 4,961 514 25% infrastructure.
This homogeneity means that significant 1 Excluding pass-through fuel.
operating advantages and efficiencies accrue to those 2 Calculated by dividing operating profit for a period by the average who have global scale: the focus of our efforts, is net operating assets as at 1 January, 30 June and 31 December.
therefore directed towards building global scale and The Definition and calculation of Non GAAP measures section securing these advantages and efficiencies for ourselves.
on page 168 of the Annual Report explains this in more detail.
3 Enterprise value is defined as market value plus net debt.
The Definition and calculation of Non GAAP measures section Our current strategy was developed following an on page 169 of the Annual Report explains this in more detail.
in-depth review of Aggrekos business in 2003, and we have worked relentlessly to implement it, with the By the measure of delivering long-term growth, the occasional tweak on the tiller, for the last ten years.
performance of Aggreko over the last ten years has We believe that this consistency of purpose has been been exceptional: few businesses of our size have been a major contributor to our success and that the result able to deliver 25% compound growth in earnings 17% compound growth in revenues and 24% compound over a decade.
Whilst it is tempting to see this solely growth in trading profit over ten years is proof of the as the result of our own hard work, the fact is that we strategys success.
know we stand on the shoulders of giants.
Aggrekos success over the last decade has been made possible by the skilful and patient investment made over the previous forty years by our predecessors.
It was they who built a network of service centres in North America, Europe and Australia: understood that designing and building our own equipment had major advantages: created a hard-working, entrepreneurial and customer-focused culture: and built a brand.
The lesson we see every day is that it takes decades to achieve the sort of global scale which Aggreko now enjoys, and there are no short cuts.
20 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT We have a policy of thoroughly reviewing our strategy rate 5%.
In the event our Power Projects every five years, with interim updates every two years: revenue, excluding pass-through fuel, grew following the first strategy review being presented to at a compound rate of 29%.
investors in 2004, we completed major reviews and presented them to investors in 2008 and, most We said that we believed our anticipated growth recently, in 2013.
Aggrekos strategy is developed would require us to invest around 1 billion on new by the senior management team, led by the Chief fleet and that we would be able to do that without Executive, and involves internal and external recourse to shareholders.
Our growth was much research, much of it proprietary.
We seek to develop faster than we anticipated, and the required fleet a deep understanding of the drivers of demand, investment much larger, at 1.5 billion.
Not only changing customer requirements, and the competitive did we finance this all ourselves, we were able to environment as well as developments in technology return over 350 million to shareholders over the and regulation.
We look at our own strengths and period through ordinary dividends and in 2011 weaknesses, and at the opportunities and threats that a 149 million cash return to shareholders.
From this analysis, we develop a list of investment and operational options and analyse The net result of this for shareholders was that between their relative risks and rewards, bearing in mind the 2008 and 2012, Aggreko delivered a Total Shareholder capabilities and resources of the Group.
Return of 247%, which compared with the FTSE 100 return of 11% over the period.
However, just as pleasing In 2012 we completed our latest strategy review and to the managers of the business was the operational presented it to investors in March 2013.
We rapidly expanded the reach of the we first examined how we had performed against the business, opening or acquiring 73 new locations: we five-year targets we had set ourselves in 2008, as part of successfully completed and integrated five acquisitions: the previous Strategy Review.
The answer was pleasing: we invested millions of pounds in developing new engine technology which in 2013 allowed us to launch At the 2008 review, we said we would aim to grow our G3 and G3 HFO engines of which more anon.
revenues over the 5 years to 2012 at double-digit We grew our gas fleet to over 1,300MW of capacity, of rates: in the event, revenues increased 2.4 times which over 1,000MW was on rent by the end of 2012. over the period, and grew at a compound average And most important, despite having more than doubled rate of 20%.
revenues and nearly tripled profits, we did not irritate our customers while doing it.
To the contrary, over We said that we expected some margin dilution the period our Net Promoter Score, which measures as the volume of Military contracts reduced.
These customer satisfaction, increased by ten percentage contracts ran longer than we expected, and we points from an already extremely high level.
benefited from a major black swan event in the form of contracts arising from the Fukushima It was not all plain sailing, however.
We had thought disaster in Japan.
As a result trading margin there would be an opportunity to grow a business in increased by 4 percentage points: trading profit Europe providing balancing services, which would almost tripled, growing at a compound rate of 24%.
help national grids manage the expected rapid growth of wind-power: despite trying hard, we could not We said that we would focus investment in our figure out a way we could make money doing this, Local business on growing in emerging markets, so gave up on the idea.
We also wanted to grow our which we expected would allow us to grow faster temperature control business: we failed, and revenues than developed market growth of GDP 2-3%.
for this product line stayed stubbornly flat.
Finally, the During the period, Local business revenues grew results would have been even better if we had not had at a compound rate of 13%, excluding the impact to increase bad debt provisions in our Power Projects of major events, and 15% including major events.
business and thereby reduce profits by some $78 million over the period mainly due to our inability to persuade We said that we believed that the market for Power a few large customers to pay their bills on time.
Projects would grow at around 20% per annum, and that our business would grow its revenues at that Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 21 OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED The main focus of the Strategy Review was of course An important consideration on structure relates to planning for the next five years, and as part of every defining our business as having two lines: the Local five-year review we try to look at the business at a business, and the Power Projects business.
Are we in the right markets describe these two business lines in more detail below with the right products?
Do we have an appropriate and in the What We Do section, but in short, the structure and management team?
Once we have looked Local business handles day-to-day transactional rentals at these fundamental issues, we then go on to explore to industrial and commercial customers, whilst Power business line strategies.
Projects owns and operates temporary power plants, selling kilowatt-hours principally to utilities in On a fundamental level, our conclusions were: emerging markets.
The two businesses share fleet and resources, but the customer requirements tend to be Are we in the right markets with the right products?
different, and, historically these two business lines We are active in around 100 countries in the world, have operated in different geographies, with the Local so we do not think we are lacking reach.
In terms of business being focused on Europe and North America product offering, we concluded that our strategy of and other developed economies, whilst Power Projects remaining focused on two product ranges power operated almost exclusively in emerging markets.
and temperature control remains correct.
Whilst In our 2008 Strategy Review, we identified that we reserve the right to revisit this, and will stay alert we wanted to grow our Local business in emerging to new opportunities, we believe we have ample markets, and as we have executed on this plan the opportunities for growth within the existing portfolio, business segments began to cross paths more often: and suspect that trying to push new types of product both the Local business and the Power Projects sales through our channel would only create confusion and teams were coming across opportunities where the dilute focus.
However, within power and temperature question was asked is this a Power Project or a Local control, we have significantly improved our ability business contract?
From this we identified the need to to develop product and optimise it to our own focus during the next strategy cycle on mini-projects, requirements: we think this is a powerful differentiator, which we describe in more detail under the Local and intend to continue to invest heavily in this work.
We looked at our organisational structure as part of the At a Group level, the targets we have set ourselves for Strategy Review, and concluded that, after ten years the period 2013-2017 are that we expect to be able to our old structure of having three regions Europe, achieve, on average and with year-on-year variation, North America, and Aggreko International basically, underlying which in this case is adjusted for the everywhere else was no longer right.
Two thirds impact of the known decline in Military and Japanese of our profits came from Aggreko International, contracts, London Olympics, Poit Energia, pass-through and the management of that region were finding it fuel and currency revenue growth of over 10%, with increasingly hard to exercise the oversight and control trading margins and returns on capital employed of necessary when the region was so large and complex.
In 2013 underlying revenue growth was We therefore re-organised the business, keeping three below the target range at 6%, whilst margins at units, but having each responsible for a logical and 22% and return on capital employed at 21% were contiguous geography: Asia-Pacific, Europe Middle both within the range.
The principal reason for East & Africa, and the Americas.
This new structure is undershooting the revenue target was because of performing very well, specifically, we are getting much challenging conditions in the Power Projects market, better co-operation between Local and Power Projects as set out below and in the Trading Review.
We are operations within regions: oversight is stronger: and not inclined to change our revenue target, as we regard management are closer to their businesses and are not it as an average to be achieved over a five-year period, constantly jet-lagged as all their business is within and we would expect there to be year-on-year variation.
It is worth noting that at the start of our last strategy review period we were beset by the impact of the global financial crisis of 2008-2009, but managed to survive that and went on to beat our five-year targets.
22 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT Having looked at the fundamentals of our Group 3.
Offering superior service at competitive prices strategy, we then moved on to set out the strategies will allow us to increase market share and extend for both the Local and Power Projects business lines.
our global reach, delivering growing revenues at attractive margins.
In terms of markets we serve, LOCAL BUSINESS STRATEGY we will continue to be focused on expanding our The Local business serves customers from 202 service presence in countries that have high rates of GDP centres and offices in 49 countries in North and Latin growth, particularly emerging markets.
This enables America, Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia and us to obtain higher levels of growth, and increase Australasia, with eight net of closures new locations our scale and global reach.
This is a business with high transaction volumes: an average contract outside of Against the first objective to maintain a clear major events lasts for a few weeks and will be worth differentiation between our offering and that of our less than 20,000.
The Local business represents 59% competitors third-party research shows that Aggreko of Aggrekos revenues, excluding pass-through fuel, and is one of the worlds best-performing companies in 45% of trading profit.
Since our first strategy review in terms of customer satisfaction.
We are determined to 2003, revenues and trading profit have increased at a maintain this reputation for premium service and we compound growth rate of 13% and 19% respectively: do this through the attitude and expertise of our staff, the geographic reach of our operations, the design, Aggreko Local business availability and reliability of our equipment, and the % of Group ability to respond to our customers 24 hours a day, 2013 2003 CAGR 2013 2003 7 days a week.
Revenue m 904 258 13% 59% 80% Trading profit m 158 27 19% 45% 64% The claim to be one of the worlds best-performing Trading margin 18% 10% companies in terms of customer satisfaction is a big 2 ROCE 17% 11% one, but we think we have good reason to make it.
For each of the last five years we have been asking about 20,000 customers what they think of the service Following our Strategy Review, we believe that they have received from us, and we measure our our Local business will continue to offer attractive Net Promoter Score.
This is an objective measure opportunities for growth, particularly in emerging of customer satisfaction which reflects the balance markets.
We believe that the underlying market for between those who think we are wonderful and those power and temperature control rental tends to grow who think we are dreadful.
Happily, the former greatly at around 2 times GDP.
We have been investing in outnumber the latter.
Over the last five years our score expanding our Local business in emerging markets has improved by six percentage points and Satmetrix, because their GDP is growing faster, and markets a global leader in customer experience programmes who growing at twice GDP growth of 6% are more attractive manage over 21 million customer responses annually than markets growing twice GDP growth of 2%.
including Aggrekos, have confirmed that our Net Promoter Score in 2013 was amongst the top quartile There are three elements to our operational strategy of all the companies benchmarked worldwide in the for the Local business: business-to-business segment.
Maintain a clear differentiation between our We have also focused on improving the operational offering and that of our competitors by providing performance of equipment: one of the reasons why our outstanding customer service and a high-quality Net Promoter Score has increased so markedly is that rental fleet.
we have radically reduced the number of breakdowns our customers experience.
Use the benefits of global scale to be extremely always been widely regarded as the highest quality in efficient.
This should enable us to make attractive the industry, but in recent years we have worked hard returns whilst delivering a superior service at to improve this reputation further, and since 2007 competitive prices.
we have doubled the number of days a customer can expect to use one of our generators without a failure.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 23 OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED The second objective of our strategy for the Local and uncertainties on pages 34 to 39 we run in the business is to be extremely efficient in the way we run Local business are far lower than in Power Projects our operations.
This is essential if we are to provide and, therefore, the rewards are consequently and superior customer service at a competitive price and, properly lower.
at the same time, deliver to our shareholders an attractive return on capital.
In a business in which The third objective of our strategy for the Local lead-times are short, logistics are complex and we business is to deliver growth in revenues by increasing process a large number of low-value transactions, market share and global reach.
In our more mature a pre-condition of efficiency is having high-quality markets, such as North America and Europe, we know systems and robust processes.
that the most profitable businesses are those where we have dense networks of service centres which The operation of our Local businesses in most areas can share equipment, staff and customers, and benefit is based on a hub-and-spoke model which has two from the low transport costs that come from being types of service centre: hubs hold our larger items physically close to customers.
So, in these markets, of equipment as well as providing service and repair we focus on adding new service centres and upgrading facilities: spokes are smaller and act as logistics points existing centres to make them more capable.
In the from which equipment can be delivered quickly to a last 5 years, in our mature markets in Australia New customers site.
The hubs and spokes have been Zealand, North America and Europe, we have opened organised into areas in which a manager has or upgraded service centres and offices, including responsibility for the revenues, profitability and those acquired as part of an acquisition in: the return on capital employed within that area.
In this model, most administrative and call handling Americas mature markets: Edmonton, Fort functions are carried out in central rental centres.
McMurray, Ft St John, Gillette, Indianapolis, Long Island, Minneapolis St Paul, Minot, Odessa, Our Local business enjoys numerous advantages as Pittsburgh, Roosevelt, Saskatoon, Seattle, Three Rivers a result of its global scale.
Standardised operating processes and a world-class IT platform bring visibility EMEA mature markets: Padova, Staphorst and homogeneity.
Global utilisation statistics allow us to spot where equipment is under-utilised and where APAC mature markets: Christchurch, Geraldton, it can be moved to for the best return, and this is Gladstone, Muswellbrook, Mt Isa, New Plymouth, reflected in the increase in sales gross rental assets Surat Basin, Tauranga, Wellington, Wollongong which is a financial measure of utilisation: between 2003 and 2013, sales gross rental assets in the Local However, we know that our businesses grow fastest business increased from 62% to 72%.
Building our where there is strong growth in GDP.
So a core part own equipment allows us to stock our fleet with of our strategy has been expanding our Local business premium-quality equipment at a competitive cost.
in the faster-growing economies of Latin America, the Global reach allows us to deliver service to customers Middle East, Africa and Asia.
In the last 5 years, we such as major events customers wherever they go.
have opened or upgraded service centres and offices in: Global processes allow us to disseminate best practice quickly.
The benefits of our global scale accrue to Americas faster-growing economies: Belem, Ciudad del both customers and shareholders.
Our Net Promoter Carmen, Monterrey, Panama, Tampico, Villahermosa, Scores tell us that the model works well for customers Belo Horizonte, Boa Vista, Bogota, Brasilia, Buenos and, for our shareholders, the benefit has been a Aires, Camacari, Campo Grande, Concepcion, Copiapo, compound growth in trading profit of 19% over the Cordoba, Cuiaba, Florianopolis, Goiania, Guadalajara, last 10 years and a return on capital employed that Hermosillo, Lima, Neuquen, Parauapebas, Porto Alegre, has improved from 11% to 17% over the same period.
Recife, Sao Bernardo, Sao Luiz, Sao Matteus, Tucuman Some people ask us why the return on capital in the EMEA faster-growing economies: Baku, Bucharest, Local business is lower than in Power Projects: the Cape Town, Durban, Johannesburg, Istanbul, Jubail, answer to this is that, inherently, the risks political, Walvis Bay, Moscow, Nairobi, Port Elizabeth, economic and people-related refer to principal risks Riyadh, Warsaw 24 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT APAC faster-growing economies: Bangkok, LOCAL BUSINESS PERFORMANCE Chennai, Dalian, Foshan, Ho Chi Minh City, In terms of our expectation of the rates of growth the Hyderabab, Kolkata, Manila, New Delhi, Pune, Local business will deliver over the five years from 2013, Seoul, Tokyo, Vizag we expected underlying excluding London Olympics, Poit Energia acquisition and currency revenue growth The latest strategy review identified that as we of between 8% and 12%: margins of between 17% and expand the Local business into territories that were 20%: and a return on capital employed of between previously only served by Power Projects we are seeing 18% and 21%.
It should be emphasised that these are opportunities to perform smaller power projects through the averages we would expect over a five year period, the Local business.
This has numerous advantages: the and there will be years when we may be outside one logistics of selling and executing a 15MW project in, of these ranges with 2013 being an example of that.
say, Manaus, are significantly easier if managed from our Manaus service centre, rather than from the Power In 2013, our Local business performed well, albeit Projects hub in Panama or Dubai: it adds scale to the fractionally outside these ranges: on an underlying Local business: and it strengthens Local business basis revenues grew by 7%, against a target of 8-12%: capability and reputation.
Furthermore, it expands our trading margin was within our target range at 18%: addressable market: as discussed in the What We Do return on capital employed was just outside target section, utilities are frequently short of funds and are range at 17%, against a target of 18-21%.
sometimes neither motivated nor able to spend millions of pounds solving power shortages.
Industrial users, POWER PROJECTS STRATEGY however, feel the pain of power cuts very directly, This business serves the requirements of power utilities, and the cost of sourcing additional power to maintain governments, armed forces and major industrial users production can easily be justified.
In this respect, we for utility-quality, temporary power generation.
are excited by the opportunity to address the structural Whereas in the Local business we rent equipment to problem of power shortages in emerging markets from customers who operate it for themselves, in the Power two directions Power Projects addresses the largeProjects business we contract to provide electricity scale power provider i. e. utility market, whilst the generated by plants that we own, build, commission Local business addresses the problem from the power and operate.
We are seen as a power producer, not a users i. e. commercial and industrial point of view.
The power plants can range in We are therefore encouraging our Local businesses size from 10MW to 250MW on a single site.
in emerging markets to address this segment of the market, which we call mini-projects, and so far this Most often, the business operates in areas where we is showing excellent results.
As at the end of 2013, we do not have a large Local business.
The majority of the had over 260MW on rent in mini-projects defined customers are power utilities in Africa, Asia and Latin as contracts for over 12MW and for more than three America.
As described in the What We Do section, months duration in the Local business, which was the driver of demand in these markets is that our over 75% higher than at the end of 2012. customers economies are growing, with consequent increases in demand for additional power which The one disadvantage of this approach is that to cannot be met by the current generating capacity.
outside observers, comparing our performance with As a result, many of our customers face chronic competitors who only have Power Projects business, power shortages which damage their ability to support it may appear that our growth in power projects is economic growth and increased prosperity.
These slower than it is in fact, as contracts are increasingly shortages are often caused or exacerbated by the performed by the Local business.
We cannot see a variability of supply arising from the use of hydroclever way round this, other than letting the numbers electric power plants whose output is cyclical and speak for themselves.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 25 OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED Power Projects now represents 41% of Group revenues and Asia combined.
In the last couple of years, the and 55% of trading profit, excluding pass-through fuel.
position as measured by our fleet-on-rent has become Since 2003, Power Projects revenue excluding passmore balanced with the current weighting more through fuel and trading profit have grown at a towards Africa.
These shifts in demand were driven compound annual growth rate of 25% and 29% in part by rainfall patterns, which affects the output of respectively: hydro power plants, in part by the relationship between economic growth and investment in permanent power Power Projects generation and, in part, by geo-political and economic % of Group issues.
To be successful in the long-term, therefore, 2013 2003 CAGR 2013 2003 requires the ability to serve demand globally, and that 1 Revenue m 627 66 25% 41% 20% requires sales, marketing and operational infrastructure 1 Trading profit m 196 15 29% 55% 36% to be present in all major markets.
1 Trading margin 31% 23% 2 ROCE 27% 25% The reason we want to be big and bigger than any of our competitors is because we believe that, as in Note: pass-through fuel refers to revenues we generate from three the Local business, scale brings significant competitive customers for whom we have agreed to manage the provision of fuel on a pass-through basis.
This revenue stream fluctuates with the cost advantages in Power Projects.
There are numerous of fuel and the volumes taken, while having an immaterial impact on reasons for this: our profitability.
We therefore exclude pass-through fuel from most discussions of our business.
Being able to address demand on a worldwide basis means higher utilisation.
When fleet returns from Our Power Projects business is focused on emerging a customer at the end of a contract, the speed with markets where growth is driven by structural issues.
which it can be put back on contract again is a Demand for electricity in emerging markets is growing major determinant of profitability and returns on faster than GDP, and few countries have been able capital.
Fleet will find new work far more quickly to finance the additional permanent generating and if it can address the total pool of world demand transmission capacity needed to keep up with demand.
than if it is only able to operate in a single region.
Our review confirmed that these structural issues are likely to remain in place for the foreseeable future: By the time customers have decided they really do we believe that the shortfall between supply and have to spend money on temporary power, they demand will grow at about 13% CAGR for the five generally want it as fast as possible.
We think that this will translate into offer very fast delivery of large amounts of generating an increase in market demand for temporary power capacity is a significant competitive advantage.
Small in the range of 10-15% per annum, on average, and operators cannot afford to keep 250-300MW of depending on year-to-year variation.
capacity say, 30-40 million of capital sitting idle waiting for the next job.
Because the equipment used The strategy for the Power Projects business is in Power Projects is also used in the Local business straightforward, and remains as it has been for the last fleet, we manage our large generators as a common ten years: grow as fast as we prudently can, to secure global pool across all our regions.
Between the Local for ourselves the operating efficiencies and competitive business and Power Projects, we currently have a advantages which come from being the largest global fleet of over 7,100 of these large generators, and can operator.
So far, we have been successful in executing deploy hundreds of MW of capacity from our various this strategy and our Power Projects business is now businesses around the world on very short notice.
many times larger than its next largest competitor.
A good example of our speed of delivery would be the first phase of the power contract in Mozambique The reason why it is advantageous to be a global where, in response to a power shortage, we were able operator in Power Projects is because demand can shift to deliver and commission over 100MW within 18 rapidly between continents.
In 2003, Latin America weeks of contract signature despite the fact that this and Asia were probably the largest markets, and Africa involved us building a substation, transmission lines, was only a small proportion of global demand.
In 2009, gas pipeline and a road to access the site.
the market in Africa was larger than Latin America 26 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT The management of risk is a critical part of our cost of the equipment rental charge.
Historically, business: we place tens of millions of pounds worth temporary power plants have been fuelled by diesel, of capital assets in countries where the operational, which has the advantage of being readily available political and payment risks are high sometimes almost everywhere in the world.
However, it is very high refer to principal risks and uncertainties extremely expensive compared to the fuels permanent on pages 34 to 39.
While we take great care to power plants use typically coal, gas or HFO: dieselmitigate these risks, it is probable that sooner or fuelled temporary power might cost a utility $0.25 per later we will have a loss of either receivables or kilowatt hour, but of that amount only $0.03 might equipment, or both.
However, because of our scale, be the actual cost of the generation: the balance of such a loss would not imperil the Group as a whole.
Permanent plants running gas or We treat our risks in the same way investors do: we HFO would typically have a fuel-inclusive cost of minimise the risk of losses doing material damage $0.10-$0.15 per kilowatt hour, depending on fuel to the business by having a broad portfolio of type and plant efficiency.
We believe that if we can exposures, none of them correlated.
For smaller make temporary power cost-competitive with permanent companies, their portfolio of country risk is power, the market will expand considerably, particularly inevitably much more concentrated: the probability since temporary power plants are much more flexible of loss in any one country for smaller companies than permanent capacity, which typically has to be is no less than it is for us, but their ability to contracted for 20-year periods.
withstand the consequences of a large loss is.
Scale therefore allows us to deal in markets where We have therefore been investing heavily in the others might, with good reason, fear to tread.
development of temporary power generation that can use gas and Heavy Fuel Oil.
We were the first Returns from rental businesses are heavily company to develop and produce in volume 1MW dependent upon the underlying capital cost of the gas-fired generators in 20 foot containers, and we rental fleet.
Clearly, large buyers should get better now have over 900MW on rent in our Power Projects terms than small buyers and, since we are by far business far ahead of any competitor: in the second the largest purchaser of power generation for rental half of 2013, gas-fuelled plant generated 35% of our applications in the world, we believe that we are Power Projects rental revenue, having grown at a advantaged in this area, and we estimate that our compound growth rate of over 55% between 2007 and capital cost MW is typically 20-40% lower than 2013.
Utilities using our gas technology are enjoying competitors.
The fact that we have the scale to all-in costs per kilowatt-hour from our plants which is justify having our own manufacturing and design often cheaper than some of their permanent capacity, facilities also means that we can source equipment and far below diesel-fuelled power plants.
which is better suited to our precise requirements, and at lower cost, than smaller operators.
Gas rental revenues $m 350 322 In summary, a large operator will have lower volatility 300 of demand, better lifetime utilisation of equipment, 252 be better able to respond to customer requirements, 250 and will have a lower capital cost per MW of fleet.
In 200 Power Projects, bigger is better and Aggreko is now 139 150 much larger than any other competitor in this market.
100 80 69 To be able to sustain a position of being the largest 35 50 22 player in the market also requires us to have market- 0 leading products, and to be able to offer customers 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 the best value in the market.
Our strategy review highlighted the importance of cost to our customers: temporary power is widely regarded as being expensive, but that is almost exclusively a function of fuel cost, which can be as much as 10 times the Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 27 OUR STRATEGY CONTINUED Gas, however, has one major disadvantage, which is This puts us in a very strong position in the Power availability.
Gas supplies tend to be contracted years Projects market: we are by far the largest operator, ahead, and finding a combination of a customer with unmatched global scale and presence, as well who wants temporary power, who has gas supplies as the lowest capital and operating costs: we have available, and a pipeline that intersects the grid at a large Local business with whom resources can be a point we can interconnect is tricky.
Typically, the shared: and we are the only operator to be able to gestation period for gas-fuelled temporary power offer the choice of diesel, HFO and gas-fuelled plant.
contracts is much longer than for diesel contracts Importantly, we are also making good progress towards because of fuel availability.
being able to drive the costs of our temporary power down to match permanent power.
In 2010 we began to explore if we could find a middle POWER PROJECTS PERFORMANCE way: a fuel that was cheaper than diesel, but more easily available than gas.
The answer was HFO, which The targets we have set ourselves for the period is widely used for both power generation and shipping.
2013 2017 for the Power Projects business are The problem is that existing engines that run HFO for underlying revenue growth of between 10% and are completely unsuitable, for reason of their size and 15%: margins of between 27% and 32%: and a return weight, for temporary applications: they are designed on capital employed of between 25% and 30%.
As for permanent installation, and are very expensive to with the Local business, it should be emphasised that buy.
Undaunted, we asked the question: could we these are the averages we would expect over a five develop an engine which would be low cost, and which year period, and there will be years when we may would fit into a 20 foot container?
We then started a be outside one of these ranges.
Our reference to multi-million pound development programme to see underlying growth above means the growth we would if we could persuade our trusty Cummins G3 engines expect to achieve once we have adjusted for currency, to run HFO: this had never been done before, and pass through fuel and our contracts in Japan and with would have numerous advantages, particularly if we the US Military, which we expect to largely disappear could retrofit our existing engines to run the fuel.
The programme was very successful, and in 2013 we launched our new G3 HFO.
As set out in What In 2013 we missed our target for underlying revenue We Do, we had already developed a programme for growth by a wide margin, achieving 4% underlying recycling our engines at the end of their normal life to growth versus a target range of 10-15%.
Trading produce a brand new engine from the carcase of an old margin, at 31% was at the top end of the target range one, and have already recycled over 1,000 engines using of 27-32%: return on capital employed, at 27%, was in these techniques.
Now we can produce an engine at the middle of the target range of 25-30%.
There were re-build that will run either HFO or diesel.
two reasons that we missed the revenue growth target.
First, reduced levels of GDP growth and an uncertain We have so far produced over 260 new HFO-capable outlook in emerging markets reduced demand.
We generators, and initial customer reaction has been believe that in only one area North Africa did very favourable, as we are able to save them millions demand for Power Projects grow, and elsewhere of dollars in fuel cost.
In 2013 we signed contracts demand was flat or lower than in 2012.
Secondly, in with eight customers across the Group for this new Asia specifically there was intense competition between technology, and while we fully expect that it will take suppliers who had excess capacity, and as a result some time to establish the product in volume as it did rates, and our volumes, declined.
We are not inclined for gas we believe that this product will become a very to change our targets, as we regard them as averages important part of our portfolio over the next five years.
to be achieved over a five-year period, and we would expect there to be year-on-year variation.
It is worth noting that at the start of our last strategy review period we were beset by the impact of the so-called global financial crisis of 2008-2009, but managed to survive that and went on to beat our five-year targets.
28 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
