STRATEGIC REPORT KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The Group uses a large number of performance Further discussion of Health & Safety matters can indicators to measure day to day operational and be found in this report in the Principal Risks and financial activity in the business.
Most of these are Uncertainties section pages 34 to 39 and Corporate studied on a daily, weekly or monthly basis.
A wellSocial Responsibility section pages 53 to 60. developed management accounts pack, including profit and loss statements as well as key ratios related FAR was as follows: to capital productivity and customer satisfaction Frequency Accident Rating scores, are prepared for each profit centre monthly.
In addition, every general manager in the business 2013 0.68 receives a weekly and monthly pack of indicators 2012 0.94 which is the basis of regular operational meetings.
2011 0.98 There are five Key Performance Indicators KPIs 2010 0.71 which we use as measures of the longer-term health 2009 0.76 of the business and which we use to monitor progress in implementing the Groups strategic objectives.
They are: EARNINGS PER SHARE EPS Measuring the creation or destruction of shareholder Safety value is a complex and much-debated topic.
We Earnings per share believe that EPS, while not perfect, is an accessible Return on average capital employed measure of the returns we are generating as a Group Customer loyalty for our shareholders, and also has the merit of being Staff turnover auditable and well understood.
So, for the Group SAFETY as a whole, the key measure of short-term financial performance is diluted EPS, pre-exceptional items.
Our business involves the frequent movement of EPS is calculated based on profit attributable to equity heavy equipment which, in its operation, produces shareholders adjusted to exclude exceptional items lethal voltages and contains thousands of litres of fuel.
divided by the diluted weighted average number of Rigorous safety processes are absolutely essential if we ordinary shares ranking for dividend during the are to avoid accidents which could cause injury to relevant period refer to Note 11 of the Annual people and damage to property and reputation.
EPS for the year was 8% below the previous processes are also a basic benchmark of operational year.
Trading performance for the year is described discipline and there is, in our view, a close correlation in the Trading Review on pages 40 to 52. between a well-run business and a safe business.
Diluted EPS was as follows: The main KPI we use to measure safety performance is the internationally recognised Frequency Accident Diluted EPS Rating FAR which is calculated as the number of pence lost time accidents multiplied by 200,000 being the base for 100 employees working 40 hours per week, 2013 92.03 50 weeks per year divided by the total hours worked.
2012 100.40 A lost time accident is a work related injury illness 2011 86.76 that results in an employees inability to work the day after the initial injury illness.
This compares favourably to the benchmark of 1.9 reported for US rental and leasing industries published by the US Department of Labor in 2012, and is a noticeable improvement on the 0.94 FAR in 2012.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 31 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS CONTINUED RETURN ON AVERAGE CAPITAL EMPLOYED CUSTOMER LOYALTY ROCE The Group deals every year with thousands of customers In a business as capital intensive as Aggrekos, and we have developed a process by which we can profitability alone is a poor measure of performance: it objectively measure the performance of our business is perfectly possible to be generating good margins, but units, not only in financial terms but also the extent to poor value for shareholders, if assets and in particular, which they are making customers feel inclined to return fleet are being allocated incorrectly.
We believe that, to us the next time they need the services we provide.
by focusing on ROCE, we measure both margin We believe that near real-time measurement of our performance and capital productivity, and we make performance, as seen by our customers, gives us visibility sure that business unit managers are tending their of operational issues which might otherwise take balance sheets as well as their profit and loss accounts.
months to emerge through the profit and loss account.
We calculate ROCE by dividing operating profit for a Accordingly, we use the Satmetrix system whereby we period by the average of the net operating assets as at send customers an email immediately after a contract 1 January, 30 June and 31 December.
The Definition closes asking them to fill out a detailed questionnaire and calculation of Non GAAP measures section about how they thought we performed.
This data is on page 168 explains how the ROCE is calculated then collated to conform to the same management in more detail.
structure as our profit and loss accounts so that, in monthly management accounts, we see not only a ROCE was as follows: teams financial performance but also their operational performance as measured by how well their customers Return on average capital employed think they have done for the same period.
% These questionnaires generate enormous amounts 2013 21 of data about how customers view our processes and 2012 24 performance and, in order to distil this down into a 2011 28 single usable indicator, we track a ratio called the Net Promoter Score NPS.
Broadly speaking, the NPS 2010 32 measures the proportion of our customers who think 2009 29 we do an excellent job against those who think we are average or worse.
In 2013, approximately 22,000 questionnaires were sent out and we received around ROCE in 2013 was three percentage points lower 4,500 replies: we believe that the scale of the response than 2012 at 21%.
This reduction was driven by the we get enables us to have confidence in this KPI.
Power Projects business, mainly due to a lower level of diesel fleet utilisation and the anticipated reduction Across the Group, our NPS over the last five years was: in Japan and Military revenues as these contracts finished, partly offset by a movement in the provision Net Promoter Score for bad debts.
At 21%, ROCE is still at a high and, in our view, very attractive level.
The importance of 2013 64 ROCE as a measure for Aggreko is illustrated by the 2012 62 fact that it is included along with earnings per share 2011 60 as the basis for the Companys Long-term Incentive Plan details can be found on pages 93 to 96.
2010 60 2009 60 32 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT The increase in 2013 was driven by increases in our 88% found Aggreko an exciting place to work: APAC and EMEA businesses partially offset by a decrease in the Americas business, albeit our Americas 89% were proud to work for Aggreko: and business scores the strongest of the three regions.
Satmetrix, a global leader in customer experience 89% understood how the work they do contributes programmes who manages over 21 million customer to the achievement of Aggrekos strategic goals responses annually including Aggrekos, has confirmed and objectives.
that our Net Promoter Score in 2013 was amongst the top quartile of all the companies benchmarked worldwide in the business-to-business segment.
STAFF TURNOVER In a service business such as Aggreko, it is the attitude, skill and motivation of our staff which makes the difference between mediocre and excellent performance.
Staff retention therefore is a reasonable proxy for how employees feel about our Company.
We monitor staff turnover which is measured as the number of employees who left the Group other than through redundancy during the period as a proportion of the total average employees during the period.
Staff turnover has decreased this year and is at its lowest over the past five years, analysed as follows: Staff turnover % 2013 11.3 2012 11.5 2011 14.2 2010 13.4 2009 12.2 As well as measuring staff turnover, the Group carries out a regular global opinion survey, conducted by an independent third party, in which every employee is invited to say what they think about Aggreko.
The results from the last global opinion survey conducted in 2013 put Aggreko in the top quartile with peer group companies.
Despite over 1,300 new people coming into the business in the period between the surveys, the feedback from 5,100 responses 86% return rate was very positive and very much in line with the results compared to the previous survey.
Aggreko continues to have a strong culture with highly committed people, demonstrated by: Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 33
