Our business model STRATEGY Strategy will work across the business to develop, plan, support and drive the delivery of the Group strategy.
1 MARKETING 2 OFFER 3 SALES Creating an instinctive Offer will make more Our local sales teams will preference for our brands, products available to more focus on increasing the Marketing will improve customers whilst ensuring amount our existing our ability to reach, market to fast, reliable service levels customers spend with us and develop more customers are available globally all at and making them more than ever before.
the lowest total cost for pro table for us.
IT FINANCE HR IT is dedicated to ensuring the Finance will drive and support HR is focused on delivering an business has the right tools, our performance agenda whilst effective organisation structure technologies and infrastructure maintaining a robust control and ensuring we have the skills in place to support a global environment and managing and culture we need to deliver operating model.
fide VELOPING A GLOBAL MINDSET There are strong forces driving globalisation in our We have begun the transformation to become a industry.
We are embracing these and have, during truly global business by reorganising our structure the last year, begun to make signi cant changes to to a global operating model.
This comprises three the way we run the Group in order to become a truly operating functions, Marketing, Offer and Sales, global business.
This means more than making our which are outlined over the following pages.
They brand well known in markets across the world, or are supported by four enabling functions: Strategy, having distribution centres and employees on each IT, HR and Finance.
continent and spanning multiple time zones.
Being This business model is designed to deliver one thing global is about having a global mindset.
our global strategy faster and more ef ciently.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 20133 Our business model continued The Vision IMPROVED CUSTOMER ACQUISITION Global Marketing will transform the way we do business, creating an instinctive preference for our brands.
We will create demand through relevant customer touches, and channel the combined repower of our leading product offer and highly skilled sales force on our global marketplace.
As a result, our ability to reach, market to, and develop more customers will become greater than ever before, leading to a higher rate of customer acquisition.
c. 700m eCommerce business today MARKETING 1 How will we get there?
AN ECOMMERCE-LED APPROACH eCommerce will be at the heart of our approach to marketing.
We will invest in improving our eCommerce functionality, digital marketing and technical marketing to increase website traf c and improve the conversion of such site visits into sales.
Once new customers have been acquired, we will nurture and develop them to increase their frequency of spend with us, using improved insight capabilities to deploy our Global Sales team at the right time.
70% of sales from eCommerce medium-term target Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 20135 Our business model continued The Vision MORE PRODUCTS AVAILABLE TO MORE CUSTOMERS Global Offers vision is to make more products available to more customers by helping our customers nd and buy the products they need at the right price as well as ensuring the products are available and can be delivered when they need them all at the lowest total cost for our business.
We will do this whilst also keeping our employees safe, empowered and highly engaged.
550,000 stocked products from leading global brands available OFFER 2 How will we get there?
SINGLE GLOBAL OFFER We will build a global range, bringing together RS and Allied product ranges to make 75% to 85% of our range available everywhere.
Our global inventory will be visible to all customers with consistent content that is optimised for digital, and it will be managed globally to improve our return on stock.
We will build a global freight network to ensure fast, reliable service levels are available worldwide.
75- 85% of global range to be made available everywhere Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 20137 Our business model continued The Vision GROW EXISTING CUSTOMERS Recognising the importance of a local sales and customer service presence, Global Sales vision is to increase the amount our existing customers spend with us and make them more pro table for us.
Working together we will identify best practice, scale it up and roll it out across our global sales force, improving effectiveness and ef ciency.
We aim to build an empowered and innovative world-class sales organisation.
1 million customers worldwide SALES 3 How will we get there?
RE LEVANT SOLUTIONS We will improve our insight capabilities and work with Global Marketing to identify which customers, according to their growth potential, will bene t from contact with our highly skilled sales people.
Equipped with a global offer, our sales and customer service teams will work closely with our target customers to identify opportunities and provide relevant solutions that add value to their component purchasing.
This will provide a key differentiator to the competition.
c. 2,500 sales employees providing a great customer experience Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 20139
