Board of directors PETER JOHNSON IAN MASON Chairman Group Chief Executive Peter Johnson, 65, joined as Chairman in Ian Mason, 51, joined the Group in February October 2010.
He is also a Member of the 1995 as Director of Business Development.
Supervisory Board of Wienerberger AG.
He was appointed to the Board of Directors Previously, he was Chairman of DS Smith plc, in July 2000 as Chief Operating Of cer and a Non-Executive Director of SSL International was appointed Group Chief Executive in July plc, Chief Executive of George Wimpey plc 2001.
Previously he worked for The Boston and Chief Executive of The Rugby Group plc.
In November 2007 he was appointed as a Non-Executive Director Committee membership of The Sage Group plc.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee from November 2012 Committee membership Chairman of the Group Executive Committee and Member of the Treasury Committee SIMON BODDIE RUPERT SOAMES Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Simon Boddie, 53, joined as Group Finance Rupert Soames, 54, joined as a NonDirector in September 2005.
In September Executive Director in July 2007.
Rupert 2012 he was appointed as a Non-Executive is Group Chief Executive of Aggreko plc.
Previously he worked Previously he was Chief Executive of the for Diageo plc where he held a variety of Banking and Securities Division of Misys plc senior finance positions, latterly as Finance and a Non-Executive Director of Baggeridge Director of Key Markets.
Committee membership Committee membership Chairman of the Treasury Committee and Senior Independent Director and Chairman Member of the Group Executive Committee of the Remuneration Committee.
Member of the Nomination and Audit Committees 34 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report: Corporate governance PAUL HOLLINGWORTH ADRIAN AUER KAREN GUERRA Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Paul Hollingworth, 53, joined as a NonAdrian Auer, 64, joined as a Non-Executive Karen Guerra, 57, joined as a Non-Executive Executive Director in May 2008.
Adrian is Chairman Director in January 2013.
She is a Nonhe was Group Chief Financial Of cer of of Shanks Group plc and a Non-Executive Executive Director of Amcor Limited, Thomas Cook Group plc and prior to that he Director of AZ Electronic Materials S. A. Swedish Match AB and Davide Campariwas Chief Financial Of cer of Mondi Group He is also Chairman of Addaction, Britains Milano S. p. A.
Previously, she was a Nonand held positions as Group Finance Director largest specialist drug and alcohol treatment Executive Director at Inchcape plc, More of BPB plc, fide La Rue plc and Ransomes plc.
Adrian has also held the position Group plc and Samlerhuset Group BV.
and of Finance Director in a number of major held senior executive positions at ColgateCommittee membership companies and has extensive international Palmolive, including Managing Director Chairman of the Audit Committee.
and Chairman of both their UK and Member of the Nomination and French businesses.
Remuneration Committees Committee membership Member of the Audit, Nomination, Committee membership and Remuneration Committees Member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees JOHN PATTULLO IAN HASLEGRAVE Non-Executive Director General Counsel and Company Secretary John Pattullo, 61, joined as a Non-Executive Ian Haslegrave, 44, joined the Company Director in January 2013.
He recently retired in September 2006 from Viacom Outdoor as Chief Executive Of cer of CEVA Logistics Limited where he was International and continues to serve on the CEVA Board.
Previously he worked at Previously he was Chief Executive Of cer United Biscuits Limited and Fresh elds of the Europe, Middle East and Africa division Bruckhaus Deringer.
of Exel and when Exel was acquired by Deutsche Post DHL he went on to run the Committee membership combined Exel and DHL contract logistics Member of the Treasury Committee business in EMEA.
He spent most of his early career working in supply chain management roles with Procter & Gamble.
Committee membership Member of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 201335
