OUR sTRATEGY DESIGNED FOR GROWTH Our vision to be the Worlds Distributor of Choice has been consistent This global strategy comprises seven strategic priorities, with four key for many years.
Given the evolving structural trends in our industry we growth initiatives supported by three strategic enablers.
These seven have revisited our strategic initiatives to ensure we are focused on strategic priorities are described below, together with a summary the right priorities to turn our vision into reality.
of our priorities over the next 12 months for each element of the strategy and their link to the Groups key performance indicators Our new global operating model has enabled us to evolve the strategy KPIs and principal risks.
We believe that this new strategy will enable us to grow faster and more pro tably over the medium term.
OUR SEVEN STRATEGIC ONE GLOBAL OFFER PRIORITIES 1 3 We will use our industry-leading footprint to get more products to more customers by making 75% to 85% of our range available to all our customers across the world without compromising our reliable, high level of service.
We will be famous for electronics and automation & control and will focus on driving a higher return on stock.
Priorities for 2014 GROW TARGET ECOMMERCE WITH We will begin to level up the CUSTOMERS A HUMAN TOUCH global range across RS and Allied We will increase customer We will signi cantly develop and develop the global supply numbers and our sales to eCommerce to acquire routes necessary for a reliable, W E ARE CONFIDENT existing customers by focusing customers at a faster rate than high service level worldwide.
THAT OUR SEVEN on our four core customer before, and our medium-term Link to KPIs groups: Electronic Design target remains for 70% of our STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Group sales growth Engineers, Machine and Panel business to be transacted online WILL ENABLE US TO Builders, Maintainers and 2013: 56%.
For high-value Group return on sales GROW FASTER AND Buyers.
Our offer will be based customers we will deploy our MORE PROFITABLY OVER Headline return on capital on the needs of these groups, highly skilled sales people to THE MEDIUM TERM employed underpinned by our global nurture these opportunities.
Headline free cash ow as approach.
By allocating digital and human a % of sales resources more effectively we Priorities for 2014 will manage our customer base Link to Risks We will design and implement more pro tably.
Increasing competition business plans for each of our customer groups, aligning their Delivery of Group strategy Priorities for 2014 needs with the appropriate We will invest in a brand Effective range management channel and service levels in awareness and customer nursery Product data integrity an integrated contact strategy.
programme focused on our We will share and level up best growth markets.
We will increase practice across the Group to our investment in digital 2 improve our sales effectiveness.
marketing to drive more traf c to our websites, and increase Link to KPIs the conversion of visitors Group sales growth to customers through Link to Risks behavioural marketing.
Increasing competition Link to KPIs Customer acquisition, retention Group sales growth and frequency of spend Link to Risks Delivery of Group strategy Increasing competition Customer acquisition, retention and frequency of spend More information on our KPIs Delivery of Group strategy can be found on page 14.
Product data integrity More information on our risks can be found on pages 24 to 27.
16 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report: Business review Grow Target One global ecommerce value for with And Providing customers offer with a money human touch With a High Using BUSINESS And a world class performance INSIGHT systems and Team supply chain HIGH PERFORMANCE WORLD CLASS SYSTEMS 4 6 TEAM AND SUPPLY CHAIN Our people will ensure the We will create a world class successful delivery of our infrastructure and our systems strategy.
Our focus will be will be built on a single platform on driving a high performance to give us pace and agility.
culture that equips our people A globally-connected freight with the skills and capabilities network will deliver a fast, that they need to achieve our reliable service for customers.
Priorities for 2014 Priorities for 2014 We will continue to roll out a We are focused on building SAP-based system across Asia the change and programme Paci c, the last region in the VALUE FOR MONEY BUSINESS INSIGHT management capabilities and Group to move to a SAP-based We will transform our customers We will increase our capability identifying the future skills platform.
Having completed perceptions of the value we offer to turn data into insight and requirements to equip the the system implementation in them, through the consistent, understanding, through Group to deliver our strategy.
Australia, we will deliver it to global execution of our strategy.
consistent global data, improved We will act upon our first global South East Asia and begin the There will be a step change in data tools and a culture where employee engagement survey.
planning for implementation how we communicate our value we actively seek new insights.
Link to Risks and why this sets us apart from Priorities for 2014 Delivery of Group strategy Link to Risks the competition, supported by We will invest in a business Delivery of Group strategy dynamic pricing.
People risk intelligence system and establish Key infrastructure Priorities for 2014 the governance structures that dependencies We will roll out our price will make our product data differentiation strategy globally, readily available to users in one building on the successful place, supporting quicker and piloting of this strategy in more effective insight.
Europe, and make targeted Link to Risks margin investment to develop Delivery of Group strategy high-value customers.
There Product data integrity will be automated online price messaging to improve our service to customers and their price perception.
5 7 Link to KPIs Group sales growth Group return on sales Link to Risks Increasing competition Customer acquisition, retention and frequency of spend Delivery of Group strategy Pricing risk Product data integrity Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 201317
