Directors report: Corporate governance statement of directors responsibilities Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts Annual Report and Accounts The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on Accounts and the Group and Parent Company financial statements pages 34 to 35 of this document, con rms that to the best of in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
their knowledge: Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent The accounts, prepared in accordance with the applicable set Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in liabilities, financial position and pro t or loss of the Company and accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare and the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK The Directors report includes a fair review of the development and Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted performance of the business and the position of the Company and Accounting Practice.
the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial that they face.
statements unless they are satis ed that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and Parent Company and of By order of the Board their pro t or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and Ian Mason, Group Chief Executive Parent Company financial statements, the Directors are required to: Simon Boddie, Group Finance Director Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently 23 May 2013 Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent For the Group financial statements, state whether they have been The report and accounts contains certain statements, statistics and prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU projections that are or may be forward-looking.
The accuracy and completeness of all such statements including, without limitation, For the Parent Company financial statements, state whether statements regarding the future financial position, strategy, projected applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject costs, plans and objectives for the management of future operations to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent of Electrocomponents plc and its subsidiaries is not warranted Company financial statements or guaranteed.
These statements typically contain words such as Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless intends, expects, anticipates, estimates and words of similar it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent import.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk Company will continue in business and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting on circumstances that will occur in the future.
Although records that are suf cient to show and explain the Parent Companys Electrocomponents plc believes that the expectations re ected in transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the such statements are reasonable, no assurance can be given that such financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure expectations will prove to be correct.
There are a number of factors, that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006. which may be beyond the control of Electrocomponents plc, which They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Other than as required by applicable law or the applicable rules of any exchange on which our securities may be listed, Electrocomponents Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also plc has no intention or obligation to update forward-looking responsible for preparing a Directors report, Directors Remuneration statements contained herein.
report and Corporate Governance Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 201357
