Directors report: Corporate governance Other Disclosures Results and dividends Payment to suppliers Results for the year are set out in the Group income statement on The Group agrees terms and conditions for its business transactions page 59.
An analysis of revenue, pro t and net assets by region is with different suppliers.
Payment is then made according to these shown in note 2 on pages 68 to 70.
The Directors have declared terms, subject to the supplier ful lling its obligations.
The Company dividends as follows: has no trade creditors.
Supplier payment days for the continuing operations of the Group outstanding at 31 March 2013 represent Ordinary shares 39 days 2012: 42 days of average purchases.
Paid interim dividend of 5p per share 2012: 5p per share Political and charitable contributions 11 January 2013 The Group made no political contributions during the year.
Charitable Proposed final dividend of 6.75p per share 2012: 6.75p per share contributions within the UK amounted to 24,253 2012: 7,737 to be paid on 22 July 2013 and outside the UK amounted to 33,515 2012: 36,240.
Further Total ordinary dividend of 11.75p per share 2012: 11.75p per share information regarding charitable work and involvement in local for year ended 31 March 2013 community activities within the Group is given in the Corporate responsibility section of the Business review on page 31.
Share capital Full details of share options and awards and shares issued under the Annual General Meeting terms of the Companys share incentive plans can be found in note 6 The Notice of the Annual General Meeting, which will be held at to the accounts on pages 72 to 73.
12 noon on Wednesday, 17 July 2013 at the Companys premises: The International Management Centre, 8050 Oxford Business Park As at 31 March 2013, the Companys issued share capital comprised North, Oxford, OX4 2HW, is set out in a separate circular.
a single class of 438,124,179 ordinary shares of 10p each, totalling 43,812,417.90.
Dividends and distributions The Company was authorised by shareholders at the Annual General Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the Company may by Meeting held on 13 July 2012 to purchase up to 10% of its ordinary ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends not exceeding share capital in the market.
This authority will expire at the end of the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim the 2013 Annual General Meeting and the Company is proposing dividends whenever the financial position of the Company, in the a resolution to renew it for another year.
opinion of the Board, justi es such payment.
The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends or other monies payable in Directors indemnities respect of the Companys shares from a person with a 0.25% interest In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, the as fide ned in the Articles if such a person has been served with Company entered into a deed in 2007 to indemnify the Directors and a notice after failure to provide the Company with information Of cers from time to time of the Company to the extent permitted concerning interest in those shares required to be provided under by law.
A copy of this indemnity which remains in force as of the date the Companies Act.
on which this report was approved is available at the registered of ce of the Company.
Voting rights Subject to any special rights or restrictions attaching to any class of The Company purchased and maintained Directors and Of cers shares, at a general meeting, every member present in person and liability insurance throughout 2012, which was renewed for 2013. every duly appointed proxy has, upon a show of hands, one vote and Neither the indemnity nor insurance provide cover in the event that on a poll every member who is present in person or by proxy has one a Director or Of cer is proved to have acted fraudulently.
In the case of joint holders of a share the vote of the senior who tenders a vote whether in person or by proxy shall be Financial instruments accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and For information on the Groups use of financial instruments, including for this purpose seniority shall be determined by the order in which financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group, and the names stand in the Register of Members in respect of the shares.
exposure of the Group to certain financial risks, see note 20 on pages 84 to 91.
Substantial shareholders As at 22 May 2013, the Company has been noti ed, in accordance with the FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests in the voting rights of the Company: Nature of interest Number of shares Percentage held Silchester International Investors LLP Direct 83,089,855 19.05% Sprucegrove Investment Management Direct 33,046,296 7.58% Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its group Direct and Indirect 22,383,083 5.11% Majedie Asset Management Ltd Indirect 21,996,999 5.04% FIL Limited Indirect 21,547,083 4.92% Sanderson Asset Management Ltd Direct 18,240,445 4.18% Oppenheimer Funds Inc. and Baring Asset Management Ltd Indirect 17,649,626 4.05% Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 201355 Other Disclosures continued Restrictions on voting Powers of the Directors No member shall be entitled to vote either in person or by proxy at Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any directions given by any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any shares held special resolution, the business of the Company will be managed by by him if any call or other sum then payable by him in respect of the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
The that share remains unpaid.
In addition no member shall be entitled Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money to vote if he has been served with a notice after failure to provide and to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property and the Company with information concerning interests in those shares uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities, whether required to be provided under the Companies Act.
outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
Deadlines for exercising voting rights Voting rights may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to Signi cant agreements: change of control corporate members, by corporate representative.
The Articles provide All of the Companys share plans contain provisions relating to a a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not less than 48 hours change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the adjourned meeting.
satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
Variation of rights Amendment of Articles of Association Subject to the relevant law, the Articles specify that rights attached Any amendments to the Articles of the Company may be made in to any class of shares may be varied with the written consent of the accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act by way of holders of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the issued special resolution.
shares of that class, or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of those shares.
Disclosure of information to auditors The Directors who held of ce at the date of approval of this Directors Transfer of shares report each con rm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant All transfers of shares may be effected by transfer in writing in any audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to the Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors Directors.
The instrument of transfer shall be signed by or on behalf to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to of the transferor and except in the case of fully paid shares by or on establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Transfers of shares which are in uncerti cated form are effected by means of the CREST system.
The Directors may, Company number in the case of shares in certi cated form, in their absolute discretion Registered Number: 647788 and without assigning any reason, refuse to register any transfer of By order of the Board shares not being fully paid shares provided that such discretion may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings in the shares Ian Haslegrave, General Counsel and Company Secretary of that class from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The 23 May 2013 Directors may also refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares whether fully-paid or not in favour of more than four persons jointly.
If the Directors refuse to register an allotment or transfer they shall within two months after the date on which the letter of allotment or transfer was lodged with the Company send to the allottee or transferee a notice of the refusal.
Subject to statutes and applicable CREST rules, the Directors may determine that any class of shares may be held in uncerti cated form and that title to such shares may be transferred by means of the CREST system or that shares of any class should cease to be so held and transferred.
A shareholder does not need to obtain the approval of the Company, or of other shareholders of shares in the Company, for a transfer of shares to take place.
Appointment and replacement of Directors Directors shall be no less than three and no more than twelve in number.
A Director is not required to hold any shares of the Company by way of quali cation.
The Company may by ordinary resolution increase or reduce the maximum or minimum number of Directors.
Any Director who was elected or last re-elected a Director at or before the Annual General Meeting held in the third calendar year before the current calendar year shall retire by rotation.
In addition, each Director, other than the Chairman and any Director holding an executive of ce shall retire at each Annual General Meeting following the ninth anniversary of the date on which he was elected.
A retiring Director is eligible for re-election.
The Board may appoint any person to be a Director so long as the total number of Directors does not exceed the limit prescribed in the Articles.
Any such Director shall hold of ce only until the next Annual General Meeting and shall then be eligible for re-election.
56 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
