44 EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS DR JAMES BUCKEE AMJAD BSEISU Chairman Chief Executive Appointed:22 February 2010 Appointed:22 February 2010 Committees:Nomination Chairman Skills and experience:Amjad Bseisu holds a BSc Honours degree in Mechanical Engineering and an MSc and D. ENG degree in Aeronautical Skills and experience:James Buckee holds a BSc Honours degree in Physics Engineering.
From 1984 to 1998, Amjad worked for the Atlantic Richfield and a PhD in Astrophysics.
Between 1971 and 1987, James held various Company ARCO, eventually becoming president of ARCO Petroleum petroleum engineering positions with Shell International, Burma Oil and BP, Ventures and ARCO Crude Trading Inc.
In 1998 Amjad founded the London.
In 1987 James was appointed as operations manager for BP Norway, operations and investment business for Petrofac Limited and was the chief and thereafter vice-president, development programmes, for BP Alaska.
In executive officer of Petrofac Energy Developments International Limited.
1989 James returned to the UK as manager, planning, for BP Exploration.
In In 2010 Amjad formed EnQuest PLC having previously been a founding 1991 he was appointed president and chief operating officer of BP Canada non-executive director of Serica Energy plc and Stratic Energy Corporation.
Inc. and in 1993 as president and chief executive officer of Talisman Energy Inc. formerly BP Canada.
James retired from Talisman Energy Inc. in 2007.
Other principal external appointments:Non-executive chairman of Enviromena Power Systems, a private company and the leading developer Other principal external appointments:Non-executive director of Cairn of solar services in the Middle East.
Energy PLC, Rodinia Oil Corp. PetroFrontier Corp. Magma Global and Black Swan Energy.
James is also on the advisory board of KERN partners.
An experienced leadership team The balance of Executive and NonExecutive Directors brings a broad range of industry, commercial and other relevant experience to the JONATHAN SWINNEY Board, which is vital to the Chief Financial Officer Appointed:29 March 2010 management and governance Skills and experience:Jonathan Swinney qualified as a chartered accountant with Arthur Andersen in 1992 and is a member of the Institute of Chartered of EnQuests growing business.
Accountants of England and Wales.
Jonathan qualified as a solicitor in 1997 and trained at Cameron McKenna, joining the acquisition finance team upon qualification.
In 1998 Jonathan joined Credit Suisse First Boston working within the corporate broking team.
Jonathan later moved to Lehman Brothers advising on a wide range of transactions and in 2006 he became a managing director within the corporate broking team.
Jonathan joined Petrofac Limited in April 2008 as head of mergers and acquisitions for the Petrofac Group, and left in 2010 to join EnQuest PLC.
45 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 HELMUT LANGANGER DR PHILIP NOLAN Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Appointed:16 March 2010 Appointed:1 August 2012 Committees:Remuneration Chairman, Audit and Nomination Committees:Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Skills and experience:Helmut Langanger holds an MSc degree in Petroleum Skills and experience:Phil Nolan holds both a BSc and a PhD in Geology and Engineering and an MA in Economics.
Between 1974 and 2010, Helmut was has an MBA from the London Business School.
Phil has held a number of employed by OMV, Austria where he was a reservoir engineer until 1980. senior positions in the oil and gas sector including serving as an executive From 1981 to 1985, Helmut was an evaluation engineer for the technical and director of BG Group plc and as chief executive officer of Transco.
Prior to this economic assessment of international E&P ventures, and from 1985 to 1989 he Phil was head of acquisitions and disposals at BP Exploration and managing held the position of vice-president, planning and economics for E&P and director of Interconnector UK Ltd. Phil was CEO of Eircom, Irelands national natural gas projects.
In 1989 Helmut was appointed as senior vice-president telecommunications supplier from 2002 to 2006. of international E&P and in 1992 became senior vice-president of E&P for Other principal external appointments:Non-executive chairman of John OMVs global operations.
From 2002 Helmut had been the group executive Laing plc.
Phil also serves as chairman at Ulster Bank Ltd and at Affinity Water.
vice-president for E&P, OMV until he retired in 2010.
He is also a non-executive director of Providence Resources P. l. c. Other principal external appointments:Non-executive director of Schoeller Bleckmann Oilfield Equipment A. G. Austria, Serinus Energy Inc. formerly Kulczyk Oil Ventures Inc. Poland and Canada and MND Czech Republic.
JOCK LENNOX CLARE SPOTTISWOODE Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed:22 February 2010 Appointed:1 July 2011 Committees:Audit Chairman, Nomination and Remuneration Committees:Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Skills and experience:Jock Lennox holds a Law degree and in 1980 qualified Skills and experience:Clare Spottiswoode holds an M. Phil degree in as a chartered accountant with Ernst & Young LLP, Edinburgh and is a Economics and an MA in Mathematics and Economics.
Clare began her member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
In 1988 Jock career in the Treasury before starting her own software company.
Between became a partner at Ernst & Young LLP, London, and retired in 2009.
1993 and 1998 she was director general of Ofgas, the UK gas regulator.
From 2002 to 2007 Clare was a non-executive director of Tullow Oil plc.
Other principal external appointments:Non-executive director of Dixons Retail plc, Hill & Smith Holdings PLC, A&J Mucklow Group Plc, and Oxford Other principal external appointments:Non-executive chairman of Gas Instruments plc.
Jock is also a trustee of the Tall Ships Youth Trust.
Strategies Group Limited and Flow plc and non-executive director of G4S plc, Ilika plc, the Payments Council and The Royal Bank of Canada Europe.
For more information visit: www.
