46 EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 GOVERNANCE SENIOR MANAGEMENT RICHARD HALL NIGEL HARES Head of Major Projects Co-founder and Strategic Adviser Richard graduated from Leeds University with a BSc in Chemical Engineering From 1972 to 1994, Nigel worked for BP in the UK, Abu Dhabi, Norway and and spent the first 10 years of his career gaining experience with operating oil Alaska.
At BP, Nigels roles included those of drilling, petroleum, reservoir, companies Amoco, Hess and Murphy Petroleum as a supervisor in offshore well-site, and offshore production engineer.
Nigel also held positions of field operations, petroleum engineering, project management and execution, production and pipeline superintendent, manager of petroleum engineering, and commercial negotiations.
Richard was one of four founders and manager of reservoir studies for Middle East, Europe and Africa and business operations director of the service company UWG Ltd now known as Acteon advisor, developing global gas strategies for BP.
From 1994 to 2009 Nigel was Group which won the Institute of Petroleum Platinum award in 2001.
He executive vice-president, international operations for Talisman Energy Inc formed and led a team which won the prestigious Queens Award for Export.
based in Calgary, heading operations for the UK, Norway, Netherlands, He subsequently went on to join Petrofac as vice president of operations & Algeria, Sudan, Malaysia, Indonesia, Vietnam, Peru, Colombia and Trinidad: developments and, in addition, became general manager in Malaysia.
Before during this period international production grew from zero to 250,000 Boepd.
joining EnQuest Richard was CEO and co-founder of Nio Petroleum which In 2010 Nigel joined EnQuest PLC as COO, at the end of 2012 he adopted his was acquired by EnQuest in 2012 with Richard joining the senior management current role.
team as Head of Major Projects.
DAVID HESLOP ANDREW THOMSON Managing Director UKCS General Manager, Technical David graduated with a BSc in Aeronautical Engineering from Manchester Andrew has a Masters degree in Petroleum Engineering from Heriot-Watt University and subsequently gained an MSc in Petroleum Engineering from University and a wealth of experience working as a petroleum, reservoir and Imperial College.
David was initially a wireline engineer at Schlumberger, operations engineer.
Andrew first worked for Schlumberger and spent seven working in the Middle East, before moving to Mobil Oil where, amongst years working for Britoil and BP.
In 1990 Andrew co-founded RML where he other roles, he was the development manager responsible for exploration, was managing director, then Senergy in 2005, where he held roles as CFO development and reservoir management activities for over 50 fields in and then CEO of Senergy Investments.
Andrew is a Competent Person in Continental Europe.
Prior to joining EnQuest in June 2011, David was at reserves reporting and is a chartered engineer.
Andrew joined EnQuest in Talisman Energy where his roles included: vice president, wells: vice president October 2010, having supported the formation of EnQuest as a consultant.
of the Greater Fulmar area: and subsurface manager.
His primary responsibilities are technical quality assurance, reserves, exploration, pre-developments, business development and functional subsurface co-ordinator, reporting directly to the CEO.
47 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 FAYSAL HAMZA GRAHAM COOPER Head of International Head of Business Development Faysal has an MBA from Georgetown University in Washington and over 23 Graham graduated from Cambridge University with a Masters in Natural years of experience in oil and gas finance, business development and private Sciences and then worked as a wireline logging engineer before joining equity.
Faysal joined EnQuest in 2011 and prior to that was managing director, Conoco in 1982 as a geologist and petrophysicist.
During his time at Conoco, private equity at Swicorp, a financial firm operating in the Middle East and Graham held a number of technical roles, both in the UK and Dubai, before North Africa.
Faysal has also held roles as senior executive at Arab Petroleum moving into various commercial roles.
In 1999, Graham joined Shell UK as new Investment Corporation APICORP, group business development manager business development manager in Aberdeen and subsequently moved to with the Alturki Group in Saudi Arabia, and management positions at Arco The Hague in 2005 to take up the role of vice-president commercial for global International Oil & Gas Company ARCO in the US, Saudi International Bank exploration.
Graham latterly became head of Shells commercial academy, in London and the Saudi Arabian Oil Company Saudi Aramco.
before joining EnQuest in October 2010.
From 2011 to 2013 Graham was also a non-executive director of Ascent Resources PLC.
STEFAN RICKETTS GRAEME COOK General Counsel and Company Secretary Human Resources Director Stefan joined EnQuest in 2012 and is responsible for all legal and Company Graeme holds an MA in Accountancy and Economics from the University of secretarial matters.
Prior to joining EnQuest, Stefan was a partner at Fulbright Dundee and has over 20 years experience in both finance and HR leadership & Jaworski, LLP heading its energy and natural resources practice in the roles.
Graemes early career was spent predominantly with Schlumberger in Asia-Pacific region.
He had previously been general counsel at BG Group plc.
the UK, Africa, Middle East and Asia.
Graeme returned to the UK in 2004 and Stefan, who graduated from the University of Bristol with a degree in law, was appointed as HR director for BG Groups Mediterranean basin and Africa began his early career as a solicitor with Herbert Smith, has significant region.
Prior to joining EnQuest in April 2011, Graeme was group head of experience as a lawyer and in management working across the energy chain talent and leadership for Legal & General PLC, where he was accountable for and in all phases of project development and operations.
In previous roles he the resourcing, performance management, succession and development of has been based in London, Paris, Dubai, Jakarta, Singapore and Hong Kong.
the leadership group of this City institution.
For more information visit: www.
