10 EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 UNIQUELY POSITIONED DEVELOPMENTS REALISING UNTAPPED POTENTIAL Sustainable growth The Kraken development is a transformational one for EnQuest: one of the largest new developments in the UK North Seafor many years and a new production hub with a life span inexcess of 25years.
Current approximate gross reserve estimates for Kraken 9 3a 9 2d 9 2a 9 3d 9 1a 9 2b 9 3c 11 STRATEGIC FINANCIAL GOVERNANCE REPORT STATEMENTS EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 BRESSAY KRAKEN KRAKEN NORTH The Kraken Field Development Plan FDP was formally approved by the Department of Energy and Climate WESTERN Change DECC and sanctioned by EnQuest and its FEATURE partners in Q4 2013, with major supplier arrangements KRAKEN already in place, including those for the project vessel.
The approved FDP constituted the development of the Kraken and KrakenNorth fields and with it the allocation of two separate heavy oil tax allowances for the development.
The Kraken project exemplifies EnQuests ability to realise the potential of previously undeveloped oil fields through the combination of our uniquely integrated technical skills set, our core values and the commercial advantages inherent in both our operational scale and our financial strength.
In 2013, the sanction of Kraken drove an increase in EnQuests total net 2P reserves of over 60 million barrels of oil.
It is expected to yield gross peak production of over 50,000 barrels per day.
An oil tanker will undergo a conversion programme to become the floating, production, storage and offloading FPSO vessel for the Kraken project.
This vessel will be one of the largest assets of its kind operating in the North Sea, with an oil storage The pipeline end termination structures are utilised to connect capacity in excess of 600,000 barrels.
The field layout of the development the rigid flowlines to the risers at the FPSO and the manifolds at the wells.
will consist of 25 wells, tied back to the FPSO.
Kraken is located in the East Shetland basin, approximately 125km east of the Shetland Islands.
For more information visit: www.
