04 EnQuest PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 EnQuest intends to deliver sustainable growth OUR STRATEGY by focusing on exploiting its existing reserves, commercialising and developing discoveries, STRATEGIC converting contingent resources into reserves and pursuing selective acquisitions.
FRAMEWORK DELIVERING Exploiting our existing reserves SUSTAINABLE GROWTH DONS, THISTLE DEVERON, HEATHER BROOM, ALBA Making selective acquisitions Commercialising and In EnQuests first four years, EnQuest developing discoveries increased its net 2P reserves by 25.4 MMboe, as a result of revisions to reserve estimates, reflecting the benefits of our infill drilling programme and our increased reservoir knowledge.
See pages 08, 09, 16 et seq and 24 et seq ALBA, GREATER KITTIWAKE AREA, DIDON ZARAT ALMA GALIA In 2013, EnQuest increased its net 2P Through the successful commercialisation Converting contingent reserves by 5.5 MMboe, through of Alma Galia and the sanction of the acquisitions.
In 2014, it will increase them resources into reserves Alma Galia development, EnQuest and its further through the acquisition of GKA partner have been able to report a gross and the expected completion of the 34 MMboe of 2P reserves.
See pages 16, 17, 19, 25 and 29 See pages 12, 13, 16, 18, 19, 25 and 31 KRAKEN In 2013, through the sanction of the Kraken development, EnQuest has been able to report gross reserves of approximately 140 MMboe.
See pages 10, 11, 17, 19, 25 and 30 MARKET OPPORTUNITY EnQuest targets development and production opportunities in As a company of substantial size, with high levels of cash maturing basins, developments which are not large enough to be generated from operations, EnQuest has good access to capital of interest to the major global oil companies.
In-house EnQuest and has a strong balance sheet, providing capacity to acquire new has the full spectrum of integrated technical capabilities needed assets.
Sellers of oil field assets need buyers who not only have to successfully deliver new oil field developments: combining the required funding, but who have the necessary technical and subsurface, facilities planning and drilling.
EnQuest believes that operational capabilities, essential for the subsequent safe and these technical skills, combined with its operational scale and its effective management of the assets: EnQuest has all of these financial strength, leave EnQuest uniquely well positioned to capabilities.
Generally, the flow of assets available to EnQuest deliver its sustainable growth strategy.
for possible acquisition has increased, facilitating potential new acquisition projects, such as EnQuests recent acquisition of the Greater Kittiwake Area GKA assets.
