Award Winners Kevin and Michelle Abbott are enjoying their new career as Publicans and appear completely undaunted by this new challenge.
Both of them have customer service backgrounds and it shows.
Turnover has vastly improved since the Abbotts took over the The Anchor Inn, and Kevin appears to be on top of all the key metrics, as you would expect from a former banker.
The pub is in great condition, thanks to some serious elbow grease and smart prioritisation of investments.
Innovations have been cleverly targeted to attract the broadest possible customer base.
The pub is establishing itself as an arts centre, with regular mass-appeal music and fund-raising Great British Pub events.
Unused space is being brought back into clever usage, and money is being spent wisely, Awards 2013 not indiscriminately.
The outside area is being Best Newcomer transformed from a wilderness into an impressive pub garden with ptanque and bat & trap courts.
Kevin & Michelle Abbott of the Anchor Inn, Wingham Great British Pub Great British Pub Awards 2013 Awards 2013 Best Turnaround Pub Best Community Pub Zoe Rodgers of the George Payne, Jo & James Lowe of the Maypole Hove Inn, Thurloxton, pictured with awards presenter Greg Davies Zoe Rodgers has managed pubs in Brighton for At the end of 2006, Jo and James Lowe gave up several years and has a catering background, but their careers in restaurants and hotels and sold this is the first outlet she has run on her own.
everything to move to Somerset with their young The George Payne was a tired pub called the family to run the Maypole Inn.
The Lowes have Kendall Arms when Zoe took it on last May.
She opened up the Maypole to the local community renamed the pub the George Payne, after one of and made locals feel that its really their pub.
the men who developed the area in which the Theres always something going on to draw pub is located.
A 50,000 refurbishment was in more custom, and the Maypole is always undertaken to turn the site into a welcoming, giving something back, raising thousands of female-friendly, and family-focused community pounds for charity every year.
It hosts wedding pub, which has an eclectic, homely feel.
Zoe has receptions and parties as well as being home to positioned the George Payne at the heart of the a huge number of clubs.
Initiatives have included community, with family-focused events helping networking events for business women, a to establish the pubs reputation as a fantastic healthy eating club, a discount card for regulars, community outlet.
Planning permission has been a bartering system for local produce, an outdoor granted for nine en-suite bedrooms, which Zoe pizza oven, takeaway food, a fish and chip quiz aims to open early next year.
night, meet the brewer nights and live music, including an annual festival.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 07 for the year ended 30 September 2013 23069.04 10 December 2013 2:15 PM Proof 6 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.
indd 7 10 12 2013 14:19:40 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT
