Strategic Review Enterprise is the largest operator of leased and tenanted pubs in the UK, with 5,493 trading pubs under ownership at year end.
Our tied model is designed to align both the Company and our Publicans into sharing the benefits of success, since it is in both our interests to drive the sales and income of each pub.
Our commercial teams aim to deliver cost saving and business building opportunities to our Publicans, our property teams manage and invest in the fabric of the estate, and our operational teams work to recruit and retain the best Publicans, assisting them to deliver the best retail offer to local pub customers.
Robert Walker Chairman to aspiring Publicans working in partnership with the OUR BUSINESS MODEL resources of a major organisation, which were historically Enterprise Inns plc Enterprise operates a leased and breweries.
The tied business model changed in the late tenanted pub model within an overall market of some 1980s because the Government believed consumer choice 57,000 pubs in the UK.
As highlighted in the diagram was limited by the link to breweries, forcing the break-up below, we own the pub and the tenant or lessee, who we of the brewers estates and led to the formation of the call the Publican, is responsible for the management of independent pub companies.
All of the benefits of a lower the pub and usually contracts to purchase some or all of cost, lower risk business opportunity continued under the their drinks products from us.
This form of agreement is pub companies.
We at Enterprise are passionate about often referred to as a tied agreement.
our pubs and their role in the communities they serve and the benefits of the tied pub model.
The tied leased and tenanted pub sector was not invented by the pub companies.
It has been around for decades offering a lower cost, lower risk business opportunity Lease agreement Stability and low risk opportunity Resources and expertise Training and business support Beer supplies SCORFA Mutual interest in a successful pub Property Business Publican Enterprise Owner Owner Regular xed income Dry rent lower rental Variable income Higher sales Higher income Wet rent based on sales Originally dened by the EU Commission, Special Commercial or Financial Advantage reects countervailing benets such as management support and other services and cost savings provided by Enterprise.
04 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report enterpriseinns.
com Stock code: ETI for the year ended 30 September 2013 23069.04 10 December 2013 2:15 PM Proof 6 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.
indd 4 10 12 2013 14:19:25, n i m A d a & s P g F n i, t e t e c l, n l o a r i t l n R p m o e m c a c r o t s r k i u c d e p i t e t r i n r o n m C c g e u, o r n g F e i t n a i m a a t m e n p i n c n n t e u a d, , g r We and our Publicans have a shared interest in the pub OUR MARKET being successful.
In the equilibrium of trade, exactly in line with the expectations of both parties, the wet and dry rents will together represent a fair return and payment 57,000 for the use of the property.
If the Publican struggles and pubs in the UK less beer is sold, we, the landlord, will receive less wetrent and the Publican will enjoy a lower effective rent.
If everyone works together to drive beer sales, then both parties will be happy as a result of higher profits.
As a major buyer of beer, the pub company profits from the wholesaler margin, that element of cost saving which would not be available to an individual Publican.
It is this profit which allows us to offer to our Publicans SCORFA benefits Special Commercial or Financial Advantage, such as investment, training, business support and other 27,000 business building and cost saving opportunities.
leased and A major success of the model is the increase in Publicans tenanted pubs freedom of choice from a vast range of products.
Enterprise currently offers over 200 brands available from a full range of brewers from the international to the local.
We have helped SIBA build its Direct Delivery Scheme and in the Enterprise estate alone, cask ale sales have increased from around 14% of total beer sales in 2002 to around 20% today.
Cask ale has gone from strength to strength and is one of the few areas of growing beer 5,493 volumes in the UK.
Enterprise Enterprise puts Publicans at the heart of everything it does.
Estimated per the CGA Strategy Outlet Index at March 2013.
Enterprise trading pubs as at 30 September 2013.
Over the past six years the market has changed considerably, with the profitability of pubs significantly impacted by the smoking ban and the global recession as well as other factors such as the continuing demise of the high street, low alcohol prices in supermarkets and the financial effect of ever increasing business taxes, utility costs and other overheads.
Furthermore, consumers consistently raise their expectations and pubs have always had to offer a better experience than PUBLICAN Publican staying at home.
Nevertheless, great Publicans who are well qualified, committed, resourceful and supported by their pub companies, are still able to make successful businesses built around the quality of what they have to offer.
Throughout this period, Enterprise has worked hard at preserving the integrity of the model, through significant support for its Publicans, investment in the estate to maintain its quality, prudent management of its capital I structure and an investment in overhead to improve services to our Publicans.
Enterprise therefore puts Publicans at the heart of everything we do to help support and drive their businesses forward.
Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report 05 for the year ended 30 September 2013 23069.04 10 December 2013 2:15 PM Proof 6 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.
indd 5 10 12 2013 14:19:25 o T, t e r r r t c & G a a u i L i l e s e n s t g i t o a n a l p m n g d, e t r a r e s O d l e s e r s v i a c l e e s s y t r e p o r P SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT STRATEGIC REPORT Strategic Review for and how we behave with all our stakeholders, be they OUR STRATEGY customers, suppliers, investors or the communities in Given the nature of the pub market and dynamics of the which we operate.
These values are outlined on page 21. business model outlined above, Enterprise has a clear strategic objective of returning the business to EBITDA Property management growth.
This is, and will remain, a challenging objective Effective investment in and maintenance of our assets is to achieve given the economic environment, the national essential to the on-going success of the business.
Over decline in beer consumption, the consequent rate of the past few years, while we have been undertaking a business failure in pubs and Publican change.
However, disposal programme to enhance the quality of the estate we believe EBITDA growth can be achieved through the and generate cash to assist in managing the capital delivery of sustainable like-for-like net income growth structure, specifically to reduce our exposure to bank from our estate which will come from effective execution debt, we also recognised the need to actively manage of our pub operations and property management.
all the assets in the estate and ensure a significant level Whilst we strive to deliver our growth strategy we will of capital investment.
This includes encouraging and continue to ensure that our capital structure evolves to assisting Publicans to invest in their properties, either in offer the flexibility and certainty necessary to provide the line with their repairing obligations under their agreements foundations for business growth.
or additional investment on growth focused capital expenditure.
We have developed an effective property Pub operations team to identify a plan for each of our assets and respond to the operational team and Publicans by assessing and The pub operations strategy is dedicated to creating the investing the appropriate capital in the estate.
right environment for Publicans to build successful and sustainable businesses, with four key areas of focus, Capital structure as outlined in the diagram below.
The sustainability of Enterprise Publicans relies on quality Publicans wanting Given the general economic climate and the fundamental to join Enterprise, having agreements which support their shift in the global capital markets over the past six years, business and above all, a level of consistently brilliant Enterprise has been focused on ensuring that it operates service delivered to Publicans that allows them to focus with an efficient and manageable capital structure.
This is on managing their pub, its customers and its condition.
important to ensure long-term success for all of our key stakeholders: be they Publicans, employees, shareholders, Effective execution relies upon our Enterprise team, bondholders or suppliers.
It is also essential that the who have the essential skills necessary to deliver quality Group operates within the financial covenants required service to our Publicans.
We work hard to help Publicans by our debt instruments, which requires a clear financing build their business through locally based operational and strategy to provide the business with sufficient resources property teams, focused on partnering the Publican and and flexibility to invest in and grow the business.
Part of offering locally tailored support.
this strategy includes the consideration of new funding We believe that employees who are fully engaged in our sources as appropriate.
business, goals, values and strategy will ultimately deliver a better service and that our values define what we stand Quality Attract and of estate retain the right Publicans Refresh the Enterprise offer Invest 180m in 3 years Intensive focus on Agreement evolution property condition Service Selling Local smarter support Grow pub sales Invest in operational resources 2 Grow pub profit Geographic differentiation Grow together with Publicans Pubs are at the heart of our communities 06 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report enterpriseinns.
