Board of Directors Robert Walker Chairman Appointed to the Board 09 02 12 Robert, 68, spent over 30 years with Procter & Director of Tate & Lyle PLC.
He was previously Chairman Gamble, McKinsey and, finally, PepsiCo, where he was of W H Smith PLC, Williams Lea Group Limited and BCA responsible for the companys beverage operations Europe Limited.
He was also Group Chief Executive of in Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Asia.
He is Severn Trent Plc and has held a number of FTSE100 250 currently Chairman of Travis Perkins plc and Americana Board appointments with BAA, Severn Trent, Signet International Holdings Limited and Senior Independent Group, Thomson Travel and Wolseley.
Ted Tuppen Chief Executive Appointed to the Board 22 02 91 Ted, 61, led the management buy-in which resulted and acted as a consultant to, a variety of businesses.
in the formation of the Company in 1991.
He is a He is Vice President, and the former Chairman, of the chartered accountant and was in practice until 1980 BBPA, a trustee of Drinkaware and was awarded a with KPMG in London, North America and Europe.
He CBE in the 2006 New Years Honours List in respect then qualified with an MBA from the Cranfield School of his contribution to the hospitality industry.
Ted will of Management before becoming managing director of retire from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM on a privately owned international engineering company 6 February 2014. where he worked until 1989.
He has also worked in, Simon Townsend Chief Operating Officer Appointed to the Board 01 10 00 Simon, 51, joined the Company in February 1999, Domecq PLC, Rank Group Plc and Marston, Thompson and was appointed to the Board in October 2000.
He is currently Vice Chairman of the has worked in the pub and leisure industry for over BBPA.
Simon will assume the position of Chief Executive 20 years in various sales, marketing, commercial and of Enterprise following Ted Tuppens retirement at the operational roles, previously with Whitbread PLC, Allied conclusion of the AGM on 6 February 2014.
Neil Smith Chief Financial Officer Appointed to the Board 20 01 11 Neil, 48, a chartered accountant, joined the Company of Telewest Global Inc.
He has held senior finance in January 2011.
He was previously finance director of positions with Virgin Media and Somerfield plc.
Compass Group UK & Ireland and Chief Financial Officer Susan Murray Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Appointed to the Board 03 11 04 Susan, 56, is Chairman of Farrow & Ball Limited and a Management PLC, SSL International PLC and Wm non-executive director of Compass Group PLC, Imperial Morrison Supermarkets plc and was a member of the Tobacco PLC and PernodRicard.
She was previously Chief Independent Complaints Panel of the Portman Group Executive of Littlewoods Stores Limited and Worldwide and a director and council member of the Advertising President and Chief Executive of The Pierre Smirnoff Standards Authority.
Susan will retire from the Board at Company, a subsidiary of Diageo plc.
She has previously the conclusion of the AGM on 6 February 2014. held non-executive directorships with Aberdeen Asset David Maloney Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee Appointed to the Board 10 07 08 David, 58, is currently Chairman of Reed & Mackay included those as Chief Financial Officer of Le Meridien Travel Ltd and Brandon Hire Ltd, Deputy Chairman Hotels and Resorts, Thomson Travel Group and Preussag of Micro Focus International plc, senior independent Airlines and Group Finance Director of Avis Europe plc.
director of Stock Spirits Group PLC and of Cineworld He is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management plc.
He previously held non-executive directorships at Accountants and is also Chairman of the Board of Carillion plc and Virgin Mobile plc and was Chairman Trustees of the Make-A-Wish Foundation.
of Hoseasons Holidays Ltd. His executive roles have Peter Baguley Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board 31 01 13 Peter, 60, is an independent consultant providing was the leader of the Group property functions at both strategic property advice to retailers.
Peter has held J Sainsbury plc and Boots Plc and has most recently a number of senior management positions in the UK advised one of the largest global real estate services retail sector with a strong focus upon property.
He groups on retail corporate strategy.
34 Enterprise Inns plc Annual Report enterpriseinns.
com Stock code: ETI for the year ended 30 September 2013 23069.04 10 December 2013 2:19 PM Proof 6 Enterprise Inns Annual Report 2013-Proof 6-fix.
