Essar Energy plc 72 Governance Annual Report and accounts 2013 Directors report Principal activities Essar Energy plc is a holding company.
The principal activities of the Group of which it is the parent are those of an India-focused energy company with assets across the power and oil and gas industries.
The Group comprises four operating divisions: `` Refining and Marketing India `` Refining and Marketing UK `` Exploration and Production `` Power Generation and Transmission Business review The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to set out in this Report a fair review of the business of the Group during the year ended 31 March 2013 including an analysis of the position of the Group at the end of the financial year and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group known as the business review.
The business review set out on pages 8 to 27 provides a comprehensive review of the development and performance of Essar Energys operations for the year ended 31March 2013 and the likely future developments and expected results of those operations.
The information set out in the business review is incorporated by reference into this report and is deemed to form part of this Directors report.
A list of the main subsidiary undertakings and the joint ventures and their principal activities are given in Note 30 on page 128.
Pages 2 to 76 inclusive together with the sections of the Annual Report incorporated by reference consist of a Directors report that has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon applicable English company law and the liabilities of the Directors in connection with that report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Other information to be disclosed in the Directors report is given in this section.
Directors The names and biographies of each Director at the date of this Report appear on pages 52 to 53.
The Directors may from time-to-time appoint one or more Director s. Any such Director shall hold office only until the next AGM and shall then offer themselves for election by the Companys shareholders.
The Companys Articles of Association, require the Directors to retire and offer themselves for election by shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment.
Notwithstanding that the Articles of Association provide that one third of the Directors or the number nearest to one third are to retire by rotation at each AGM and offer themselves for re-election by the shareholders, all of the Directors seek re-election on an annual basis at each AGM, in compliance with the Code.
Directors indemnities and insurance The Company maintains Directors and officers liability insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against its Directors.
In addition, qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 were in force during the course of the year ended 31 March 2013 for the benefit of the then Directors and, at the date of this Report, are in force for the benefit of the Directors in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may incur or have incurred in connection with their duties, powers or office.
Dividends No final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2013 has been declared.
Relationship agreement Prior to listing in May 2010, Essar Energy was a wholly owned subsidiary of Essar Global Limited now known as Essar Global FundLimited Essar Global Fund.
On 30 April 2010, Essar Energy and Essar Global Fund entered into a Relationship Agreement toregulate the ongoing relationship between the Company and Essar Global Fund.
The principal purpose of the Relationship Agreement is to ensure that the Group is capable of carrying on its business independently of Essar Global Fund and its associates for the purpose of this summary, as defined in the Relationship Agreement and that transactions and relationships areat arms length and on normal commercial terms other than certain fide minimis transactions.
The Relationship Agreement will continue for so long as the ordinary shares are listed on the premium listing segment of the Official List and traded on the London Stock Exchange and Essar Global Fund, together with its associates, has an aggregate interest at least of 30% in the issued shares of Essar Energy.
The key terms of the Relationship Agreement are set out in Appendix 2 of this Report on page 139.
The Directors believe that the terms of the Relationship Agreement enable the Company to carry on its business independently from the Essar Global Fund and its associates.
Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 73 Annual Report and accounts 2013 Directors interests The number of ordinary shares of the Company in which the Directors or a person connected with a Director were interested, as at 31 March 2013, were as follows: 31 March 2013 As at 31 March 2012 Shares Share options Shares Share options 1 1 Mr Ravi Ruia See below See below 1 1 Mr Prashant Ruia See below See below Mr Naresh Nayyar 0 648,841 0 333,088 Mr Philip Aiken 24,285 14,285 Mr Sattar Hajee Abdoula 33,809 23,809 Mr Simon Murray 71,428 71,428 Mr Subhas Lallah 0 0 Mr Steve Lucas 0 0 1 Essar Global Fund, incorporated in the Cayman Islands, is the ultimate parent company of Essar Energy.
Essar Global Fund has beneficial interests in 1,000,000,000 ordinary shares 76.72% of the Company.
Essar Global Fund is owned in equal proportion i. e. 50% each by two Cayman companies, Kettle River Holdings Limited KR and Copper Canyon Holdings Limited CC.
The shares of KR and CC are owned entirely by two independent discretionary trusts respectively, together referred to hereinafter as the Trusts.
The beneficiaries of the Trusts include among others, companies whose 100% shareholders are Mr Prashant Ruia and Mr Ravikant Ruia.
Essar Global Fund also acquired an economic interest in up to a further 16,973,961 Ordinary Shares of the Company on 18 January 2011 pursuant to an equity swap transaction as part of the convertible bond arrangements.
As part of the equity swap transaction, Essar Global Fund has the option to settle the swap by acquiring these further 16,973,961 shares and therefore the beneficial interest in such shares.
There have been no changes to the Directors interests between 31 March 2013 to a date not more than one month prior to the date of the notice convening the AGM.
Share capital Details of the Companys share capital are set out in Note 23 to the financial statements.
The issued share capital of the Company as at 31March 2013 was 1,303,437,293 ordinary shares of 5 pence each.
The Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The rights and obligations attached to these shares are governed by English law and the Companys Articles of Association.
The Company also has a Sponsored Level 1 American Depository Receipts ADR programme.
Each ADR represents two of the Companys ordinary shares and is traded on the US over-the-counter market under the symbol ERERY.
This ADR programme has no impact on the overall share capital of the Company.
Repurchase of shares At the 2012 AGM, shareholders renewed the Companys authority to make market purchases of up to 130,343,729 ordinary shares representing 10% of the issued share capital of the Company.
This authority subsisted at 31 March 2013.
During the year ended 31 March 2013 and from that date up to the date of publication of this Annual Report, the Company did not make any purchases of its own shares or propose to purchase its own shares either through the market or by an offer made to all shareholders or otherwise, nor did the Company acquire any of its own shares other than by purchase.
Since the Companys IPO, no shares have been repurchased nor has the Company entered into any options to purchase its own shares or entered into any contracts to make such purchases including transactions made through the market or by an offer made to all shareholders orotherwise.
At the 2013 AGM the Board will again seek shareholders approval to renew the annual authority for the Company to make purchases of its own shares through the market.
Voting rights Ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive notice and to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company.
On a show of hands every shareholder present in person or by proxy or being a corporation present by a duly authorised representative shall have one vote, and on a poll every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy or in the case of a corporate member by a duly authorised representative shall have one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at a general meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and vote instead of him.
If a member appoints more than one proxy he must specify the number of shares which each proxy is entitled to exercise rights over.
Aproxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
Variation of rights Subject to the Companies Act 2006, whenever the share capital of the Company is divided into different classes of shares, the rights attaching to any class of shares may be varied with the consent in writing of the holders of three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of the class or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the shareholders.
Transfer of shares As at 31 March 2013, there are no restrictions on the transfer of the ordinary shares other than as set out in the Articles of Association and certain restrictions that may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations and pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority formerly the Financial Services Authority whereby certain Directors, officers and employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the ordinary shares.
Essar Energy plc 74 Governance Annual Report and accounts 2013 Directors report continued No shareholder holds securities carrying special rights as to the control of the Company.
There are no limitations on the holding of securities.
Other than those defined in the Relationship Agreement, there are no restrictions on voting rights or any arrangements by which, with the Companys cooperation, financial rights carried by securities are held by a person other than the holder of the securities.
There are no agreements between holders of securities that are known to the Company which may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or on voting rights.
Major interests in shares As at 31 March 2013, the Company had been notified, in accordance with DTR5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests of 3% or more whether directly or indirectly held in its voting rights: Name of shareholder Number of voting rights % 1 2 Essar Global Fund Limited 1,000,000,000 76.72% Capital Group of Companies Inc. 44,959,400 3.4493% Lloyds Banking Group plc 44,656,296 3.426% 1 Essar Global Fund, incorporated in the Cayman Islands, is the ultimate parent company of Essar Energy.
2 On 18 January 2011, Essar Global now Essar Global Fund acquired an economic interest in a further 16,973,961 shares pursuant to an equity swap transaction as part of the convertible bond arrangements see Convertible bond issue below.
As part of the equity swap transaction, Essar Global Fund has the option to settle the swap by acquiring these further 16,973,961 shares and therefore the voting rights attached to such shares.
No further DTR5 notifications had been received during the period 31 March 2013 to a date not more than one month prior to the date of the notice convening the AGM.
Employee share schemes and plans As at 31 March 2013 the following share-based plans in existence were as follows: Name of plan Who it covers Performance related Summary description Total outstanding awards Source of shares Essar Energy Chief Executive Yes Market price options to 1,495,472 To be determined Executive Share Officer and other acquire shares subject upon exercise of the Option Plan selected members to achievement of share options as per of the Senior performance targets over a the rules of the ESOP ESOP Scheme Management of the period of three years Scheme Company, subject to the eligibility conditions as set out in the ESOP Scheme Essar Oil UK All eligible employees No The scheme allows 3,034,144 Market purchase of Essar Oil UK employees the opportunity Essar Save As You subject to service to save money over a fixed Earn Share Option criteria contract period of three or Scheme five years with the purpose of purchasing shares in Essar Energy plc at a fixed price at the end of the contract period.
The fixed price is based upon the market price at the time ofgrant Essar Oil UK All eligible employees No The plan gives employees N A Market purchase of Essar Oil UK the opportunity to Essar All Employee subject to certain purchase Essar Energy plc Share Investment service criteria shares tax effectively from Plan gross monthly pay Employees can invest up to a maximum of 1,500 in a tax year and shares are purchased at market price each month Further details relating to the awards under the ESOP Scheme are set out in the Remuneration report on pages 65 to 71.
Shares intended to satisfy options granted and shares awards under the Share Save and Share Investment Plan schemes will be purchased in the market and held by the trustees of the Essar Energy Employee Benefit Trust.
Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 75 Annual Report and accounts 2013 Essential contracts Essar Oil Limited has entered into long-term refined petroleum product off-take agreements, which together accounted for 39% of the Groups net sales, with the following Indian national oil companies: a four year agreement with Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited effective from April 2012, a four year agreement with Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited effective from January 2008 extendable by one year which is currently being finalised, and a three year agreement with Indian Oil Corporation Limited effective from November 2011.
Under the terms of these agreements, the Company is not guaranteed any binding minimum off-take quantity from the Indian national oil companies, however, due to the pricing terms for sales to the Indian national oil companies, the Company is able to generate higher margins on sales to these customers than on export sales and the Company considers these arrangements are essential to the business of the Group within the meaning of section 417 5 c of the Companies Act 2006.
Amendments to the Articles of Association Any amendments to the Articles of Association of the Company may be made by special resolution of the shareholders.
TheCompanys Articles of Association are available on the Companys website www.
Significant agreements The Companies Act 2006 requires disclosure of significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate on a change of control of the Company.
These are as set out below: Convertible bond issue On 18 January 2011, Essar Energy launched an offering of US$500 million 4.25% guaranteed senior unsecured convertible bonds due 2016.
The bonds were successfully priced with a coupon of 4.25% payable semi-annually in arrears and a conversion price set at a premium of 30% to the reference price of US$8.5277 c. 5.37 per share.
The offering size was subsequently increased to US$550 million due to the exercise of an over-allotment option of US$50 million.
The convertible bonds were issued on 1 February 2011.
Pursuant to the final terms attaching to the bonds, the bondholders have the right to require the Group to redeem the bonds at a price equal to the principal amount, together with accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption or if there is a change of control of the Company in which any person or persons, acting together other than Essar Group or any person s controlled by or acting together with Essar Group acquires or becomes entitled to control more than 50% of the voting rights of the Company.
Essar Global Fund, the majority shareholder of Essar Energy, did not participate in the convertible bond transaction, but it did enter into an equity swap transaction with Standard Chartered Bank whereby Essar Global Fund acquired an additional economic interest in 16,973,961 of Essar Energys ordinary shares.
The swap will last for the life of the convertible bonds and may be settled by Essar Global Fund receiving cash or, at Essar Global Funds option, shares.
The result of the equity swap transaction is to increase Essar Global Funds economic interest in Essar Energy to 78.02% from 76.72%.
Relationship Agreement The Relationship Agreement between Essar Global now Essar Global Fund and the Company described in detail on page 139 will terminate should Essar Global Fund, together with its associates as defined in the Relationship Agreement, cease to have an aggregate interest in 30% or more of the issued share capital of the Company.
US$300 million secured term loan facility On 1 July 2011, the Company entered into a US$450 million secured bridge loan facility due December 2012.
The Company utilised this loan to enable Essar Oil UK to finance the acquisition of the Stanlow refinery and, amongst other things, for general corporate purposes.
On 15 May 2012, the Company refinanced this loan with a new US$300 million three-year secured loan facility and US$150 million of internal cash resources.
The new facility is being provided by a consortium of banks who were the lenders under the original US$450 million bridge loan.
Pursuant to the terms of the new facility, each lender has the right to terminate its respective participation in the facility should Essar Global Fund cease to have the power to direct the management and policies of the Company, or cease to own legally and beneficially directly or indirectly more than 50% of the total issued share capital of the Company.
Up to US$450 million facility In September 2012, the Company secured a US$150 million 4.5-year credit facility with Axis Bank with the ability, subject to successful syndication, to increase the facility size to US$450 million.
Pursuant to the terms of this facility, it will be an event of default, giving Axis Bank the right to require immediate repayment of the facility, if Essar Global Fund ceases to a have the power, subject to the terms of the Relationship Agreement, to appoint or remove all, or the majority of the Directors of the Company, to give directions with respect to the operating and financial policies of the Company with which the Directors or other equivalent officers of the Company are obliged to comply and to direct the management and policies of the Company: and b be the legal and beneficial owner of more than 50% of the total issued share capital of the Company.
Employees The average number of employees in the Group during the period is given in Note 5 to the Group financial statements on page 97.
Group companies operate within a framework of HR policies, practices and regulations appropriate to their market sector and country of operation.
Policies and procedures for recruitment, training and career development promote equality of opportunity regardless of gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, disability, race, religion or other beliefs and ethnic or national origin.
The aim is to encourage a culture in which all employees have the opportunity to develop fully according to their individual abilities and the needs of the Group.
The Group remains committed to the fair treatment of people with disabilities regarding applications, training, promotion and career development.
Essar Energy plc 76 Governance Annual Report and accounts 2013 Directors report continued Employee involvement and feedback is actively encouraged.
Avariety of ways are used to consult and inform employees including a Group-wide bulletin, email, intranet and local briefings.
These are designed to facilitate dialogue while enabling the development of a common awareness among employees of what affects business performance.
Further information relating to employees of the Group iscontained in the Sustainability Report on our website www.
Creditor payment policy The Groups policy follows the Department for Business, Innovation & Skills Prompt Payment Code, copies of which canbe obtained from the Prompt Payment Code website at www.
It is the Groups payment policy, in respect of all suppliers, to settle agreed outstanding accounts in accordance with terms and conditions agreed with suppliers when placing orders and suppliers are made aware ofthese payment conditions.
The Groups trade creditors asaproportion of amounts invoiced by suppliers during the financialyear represented 38 days at 31 March 2013 31 March 2012 58 days.
This is an arithmetical calculation based on the Companies Act regulations and does not necessarily reflect our practice, nor the experience of any individual creditor.
Subsequent events See Note 32 to the financial statements for full details of subsequent events.
Market value of land and buildings Land is carried at cost within the financial statements.
It is not practical to estimate the market value of land at each balance sheetdate.
Political and charitable donations The Group has made no political donations in the 12 months ended 31 March 2013 2012: nil.
During the year, through the Essar Foundation, Essar Energy contributed US$719,660 to community activities.
Further information in respect of the Groups community initiatives are set out in the Sustainability Report on pages 28 to 33.
Financial instruments Details of the Companys use of financial instruments, togetherwith objectives and policies on financial risk including information on the Companys exposures to foreign currency, credit, commodity, price, liquidity and interest rate risks can be found in Notes 24 and 25 to the financial statements.
Going concern Disclosures in respect of going concern are provided in the Financial review on page 49.
Audit information Each of the Directors at the date of the approval of this Report confirms that: `` so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and `` the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of such information.
The confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Auditor The Companys auditor, Deloitte LLP, has indicated its willingness to continue in office and resolutions seeking to reappoint them as the Companys auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Annual General Meeting The Companys AGM will be held at 11.00 am on Friday 30 August 2013 at Linklaters, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ.
Details of the meeting and the resolutions to be proposed are set out in a separate Notice of Meeting which accompanies this Annual Report.
By order of the Board Frances McCaw Company Secretary 23 June 2013
