Essar Energy plc 12 Business review Annual Report and accounts 2013 Our strategy Refining and Marketing India Essar Energys strategy remains clear: to create a world-class, low-cost integrated energy company, positioned to capitalise on Indias rapidly growing energy demand.
Mr Lalit Kumar Gupta Within this, our priorities over the next three years are Managing Director and Chief Executive Office asfollows: of Essar Oil PAGE 14 01 Complete the current capex programme We are approaching the end of a major capital investment programme.
We have completed our investments in our Refining businesses and are approaching the final stages ofour investments in Power and Exploration and Production.
As a result, construction risks are significantly reduced and our capital expenditure will fall over the next three years.
Progress `` At our fla ship Vadinar refinery, we 02 Optimise the performance of our operating assets have had a successful nine months As Essar Energy comes to the end of its major capital of operations following completion of expenditure programme our focus moves to business the expansion project in March 2012 and the further optimisation project optimisation.
Business optimisation looks to improve all in June 2012, totalling over US$2 aspects of the business: to maximise throughput, lower costs, billion of investment.
With this, we improve margins and provide more operating and financial have come to the end of the current flexibility.
The delivery of these programmes will ensure that the major capex cycle.
business is robust in bottom of the cycle conditions and able to `` We are now able to process a maximise cash flow and earnings at all other times.
greater percentage of lower cost heavy and ultra heavy crudes, but 03 Focus on cash generation and net debt reduction also increase production of high With the optimisation of our operating assets we will produce value middle distillate fuels, such asdiesel and jet fuel.
the cash flows which will allow us to reduce net debt and increase earnings.
We will seek to refinance debt, where `` In September 2012, we resolved the Gujarat sales tax repayment demand.
possible, to reduce interest costs, eliminate currency The Supreme Court ruled that we can mismatches and extend the maturity of our debt profile repay the amount owed over two tobringit more in line with the life of our assets.
years, starting in January 2013, and we have a bank facility with Indian 04 Be a good corporate citizen lenders to make repayments, We will achieve the above while continuing to act as a good asrequired.
corporate citizen with respect to the health and safety of our `` We continue to reduce financing employees and the communities in which we operate.
Our aim costs and, in April 2013, refinanced is to be recognised in India as a leader in the areas of health, US$481 million of Rupee loans into lower cost US dollars.
`` Essar Energy has made extensive efforts to make sustainable development an integral element of our refining business.
Refer to the Sustainability Report on our website www.
com for our progress in this area.
Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 13 Annual Report and accounts 2013 Refining and Exploration and Power Marketing UK Production Mr Volker Schultz Mr Iftikhar Nasir Mr KVB Reddy Chief Executive Office Chief Executive Office Executive Director of Essar Oil UK Exploration and of Essar Power Production PAGE 18 PAGE 22 PAGE 24 Progress Progress Progress `` We have optimised our crude oil `` We have expedited our drilling `` We have added 2,310 MW of new intake by introducing more than 15 process at Raniganj, our first CBM coal-fired generation capacity, opportunity crudes for blending with block under development.
We had comprising 1,200 MW at Salaya I, existing crudes, lowering our costs.
drilled 143 wells as at the end of 510 MW at Vadinar P2 and 600 MW March 2013 and received approvals to at Mahan I.
This takes our total `` We completed the installation of drill up to 650 wells over the life of the capacity to 3,910 MW from 1,600 natural gas into our Stanlow refinery to field.
Currently we are producing MW in March 2012. fuel the boilers which were previously 100,000 standard cubic metres per using fuel oil.
This is improving `` We continue to mitigate fuel price day scmd of gas, up from 25,000 environmental performance, reducing and delivery risk by either owning scmd last year.
the fuel source or by being able to `` The Raniganj CBM block covers a pass through fuel cost changes to `` We have ceased the production of wide area near to Durgapur in West customers under our power lubricants, which were only 2% of Bengal, and sustainable engagement purchase agreements.
refinery output, but which dictated with the local communities across this 25% of our crude intake, thus allowing `` At the end of October 2012, the region has been a key element of the further optimisation.
Indian Government granted us business strategy.
Activities have Stage1 forest clearance for our `` Essar Oil UK completed an innovative included healthcare, entrepreneurship Mahan coal block.
Once all inventory monetisation transaction and education.
approvals are received, this coal under which legal title for our crude `` Given the widespread nature of CBM block will provide long-term, low and product inventories are passed drilling and gas gathering activity at cost coal for our nearby 1,200 MW toBarclays Bank PLC.
This allowed Raniganj, a sustainable approach to Mahan power project.
usto repay our working capital facility, managing any environmental impact and reduce capital employed and `` In April 2013, we submitted a petition isof great importance.
to the Gujarat authorities seeking beena strong focus, in particular, on relief under our power purchase `` US$2.2 bbl of margin enhancement managing the large volume of water agreement with the Gujarat state benefits delivered at Stanlow refinery extracted from wells to allow it to be power utility at our Salaya I power US$1.9 bbl average over FY2013.
project for a change in law in `` Essar Oil UK is focused on building `` Across the portfolio, we continue to Indonesia which has impacted the sustainable relationships with all its evaluate ways of managing risk by cost of coal to the plant.
If successful, stakeholders, notably the communities bringing in strategic partners where this will improve the cash flow and around Stanlow.
In February 2013, we sold profitability of the Salaya I project.
Sustainability Report on our website 50% of our stake in Block 114 in www.
com for our Vietnam to ENI International B. V. progress in this area.
