Essar Energy plc 10 Business review Annual Report and accounts 2013 Business model Essar Energy is focused on delivering profits and growth by meeting Indias energy needs across its Oil and Gas and Power business.
Our aim is to: Meet Indias growing energy needs Indias need for energy with huge demand for more remains robust.
Petroleum low-cost power in India to product demand growth in serve the estimated 33% India is forecast to remain of the population who still buoyant at around 4% to have no electricity supply.
Gas demand With significant assets and growth is continuing to projects across the Oil and outpace domestic Indian Gas and Power sectors, production with the Essar Energy aims to focus increasing deficit met from on building and operating imports.
Meanwhile, the the energy assets that are peak power deficit continued critical to the economic at around 9% in FY2013 development of India.
Large-scale, high complexity rening capacity Build large, scalable and low-cost assets using proven technology Essar Energy aims to build power with suppliers.
In turn Exploration structurally large, scalable this unifi s operating and and Production and low cost assets using maintenance practices and proven technology.
We use reduces the average per with a focus on a modular approach in the unit cost of production.
In unconventional gas design, engineering and our refinery businesses, we construction of our power operate world-class assets plants to help in minimising benefiting from economies front end design time, of scale and high system Low cost power accelerate project schedules complexity.
generation with and give better negotiating fuel security Fuel security and long-term purchase agreements Essar Energy aims to secure delivery risks.
We also seek input fuels by owning the to contract the majority of underlying commodity, oursales under medium securing long-term purchase or long-term contracts to agreements or placing reduce risks and provide fuel risks with the product more secure and stable purchaser.
The results are revenues for the businesses.
reduced fuel price and Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 11 Annual Report and accounts 2013 Focus on business optimisation As Essar Energy comes to margins and provide more the end of its major capital operating and financial expenditure programme our flexibility.
The delivery of focus moves to business these programmes will optimisation.
Business ensure that the business optimisation looks to improve is robust in bottom of the all aspects of the business cycle conditions and able to maximise throughput, to maximise cash flow and lower costs, improve earnings at all other times.
Large-scale, high complexity rening capacity Balance sheet optimisation Essar Energy continues MarketingIndia with lower to explore a number of cost US dollar loans, given options to optimise its that Essar Oil India has Exploration balance sheet, to reduce enhanced dollar earnings and Production interest costs, reduce debt, from its expanded facilities, with a focus on enhance free cash fl w and and in Power, raising unconventional gas ensure adequate liquidity domestic Rupee bonds to throughout the businesses.
lower the cost and extend Key priorities in this area the maturity of our loan include refinancing high cost facilities.
Rupee debt in Refining and Low cost power generation with fuel security Commitment to health, safety and theenvironment Essar Energy has an overriding medical facilities, and basic commitment to health, facilities such as water safety and the environment provision for the general and the communities welfare and development of around its operations.
We continues to engage with have produced a separate local communities near its Sustainability Report to assets by focusing on health, highlight our progress in education, welfare and this area which can be infrastructure improvements.
accessed on our website Investments include schools, at www.
com adult education initiatives, sustainability.
