Essar Energy plc 08 Business review Annual Report and accounts 2013 Market overview Indian Government acts to support growth 6% to 7% 4% to 5% Annual increase in demand Annual increase in demand for ``GDP growth forecast by the for diesel in India gasoline in India Indian Government to return to above 6% in 201314: longterm target remains 8% ``Interest rate cuts to help stimulate economy Power demand rises steadily ``Electricity demand growth forecast by the Indian Government to be c. 6% per year ``Peak time power generation shortfall remains high at c. 9% in 201213, according to Ministry of Power Oil and gas consumption stays strong ``Petroleum product demand forecast to rise 4% to 5% per year through to 2017 ``Indian Government acts to remove diesel subsidy, helping private sector retailers Company overview Business review Governance Financial statements Essar Energy plc 09 Annual Report and accounts 2013 Business outlook much greater competition among retail The long-term outlook remains positive fuel suppliers.
As current subsidies are for energy demand in India.
Essar removed, and retail sales become Energys strategy to capitalise on Indias profitable, there will be an opportunity for growing requirements for energy remains Essar Oil to expand its franchise network intact and unchanged.
of around 1,400 retail fuel outlets.
The market for refined petroleum In January 2013, a committee chaired products in India is expected to remain byDr C Rangarajan, Chairman of the strong, with demand for diesel rising at Economic Advisory Council to the Prime arate of about 6% to 7% per year and Minister of India, published a report on gasoline 4% to 5%.
Meanwhile, Indias the Production Sharing Contract One of Essar Oils fuel retail stations near Hazira, in Gujarat.
per capita usage of oil products is easily Mechanism in the Petroleum Industry in the lowest of the BRIC economies and India.
This report recommended a stands at less than half that of China and change in pricing of gas produced in 11% than that of the EU.
India to one based on a basket of The recent steps international hub prices and average Given Asias high demand growth netback prices for LNG imports into takenby the Indian coupled with delays to new refining India.
The intention is to stimulate further Government toreduce capacity, we believe the outlook for investment in Indian gas production, margins at Vadinar is positive given its which fell 9% in 201112 according to the heavy subsidy of superior scale and complexity.
Indias annual economic survey in 2013.
If retail diesel prices are the pricing proposal is implemented, we In the UK, the ongoing margin believe this would significantly enhance encouraging.
enhancement projects underway at the the appetite of investors to become Stanlow refinery are widening the gap with involved in the Indian upstream gas rival refiners, leaving Stanlow increasingly sector, thus delivering greater growth.
A showed expectations for real GDP growth advantaged in a tough European refining change in the gas pricing structure would in FY2014 at 6.0% down from 6.5% in environment.
Stanlow has built-in be potentially positive for Essar Energys their previous survey in January 2013. advantages from its higher complexity, its CBM block at Raniganj in West Bengal, bias towards production of middle distillates and for future prospects at its four other As stated in Indias annual Economic and its location close to the demand CBM blocks in India.
Survey, published at the end of February, centres of Manchester and Liverpool.
the Government needs to pursue reforms Essar Energys long-term strategy is to to stimulate more corporate and In Power, the market fundamentals remain continue to grow the Company and infrastructure investment and to continue encouraging.
There is a considerable capitalise on Indias long-term need for to reduce the subsidy burden, particularly shortage of power generation in India energy.
However, given our current in petroleum products, through better relative to demand, with peak deficits of position in the investment cycle we are targeting towards those in real need.
These looking to consolidate our current shortages are expected to increase over position before we embark on the next This is critical if Indias fiscal deficit, which the next three to five years as supply phase of growth.
In this respect, our rose to 5.7% of GDP in FY2012 and continues to lag demand.
short to medium-term priorities will be to stood at 4.9% in FY2013 or c. US$90 complete our current capital expenditure billion, is to be brought down to a new Many power companies in India are programme, optimise the performance of target level of 4.8% of GDP for FY2014 experiencing ongoing difficulties in our assets to ensure they deliver the cash and 3% in FY2017.
obtaining the necessary consents and flow and earnings as originally envisaged, regulatory clearances to build generation and to focus on our balance sheet to However, the rate of inflation has fallen projects and to source adequate reduce interest costs, extend repayment more recently, with the wholesale price economic supplies of coal.
Therefore, profiles and reduce net debt.
index running 5.96% higher in March over time a clear advantage will exist for than a year earlier, against a 6.84% rise in those such as Essar Energy who already Economic outlook February.
The consumer price index has have assets in place with access to Indias potential for long-term economic been running at a much higher rate, economic coal through captive mines.
growth is clear and, with a general 10.39% in March against a year earlier, election due in 2014, the Government but this was also down on Februarys Given the importance of electricity to has started to implement some of the 10.91%.
This slowing inflation allowed the achieving Indias targeted economic structural changes which will be Reserve Bank of India to cut its repo growth, there remains a clear need for necessary if that potential is to be fulfilled.
lending rate by a quarter point to 7.25% the Indian Government to ensure a more The need for change was illustrated by a in May 2013, the third such reduction transparent and efficient regulatory GDP growth rate of just 4.8% in the since January.
framework covering project consents fourth quarter of FY2013, marginally up and clearances.
In particular, the low from 4.7% in the third quarter, and just Over the 12 month period, the Rupee availability of domestic Indian coal is a 5% for the year as a whole, compared remained relatively weak against the US problem that needs attention.
dollar, starting the period at Rs.
57.33 and closing The recent steps taken by the The Indian Ministry of Finance, alongside theperiod down 6.3% at Rs.
This Government of India to reduce the other external economic forecasters, is followed a decline during the previous heavysubsidy of retail diesel prices are predicting a modest recovery in FY2014, 15month period to 31 March 2012, when encouraging.
This will not only alleviate a with GDP growth rising to above 6%.
51.16 major burden on state funding but will Reserve Bank of Indias quarterly survey of against the dollar.
The Rupee has also encourage investment and facilitate professional forecasters in May 2013 recently traded at around Rs.
