Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 08 www.
com Strategic Report Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC is listed 1.
Strategy on the London Stock Exchange and a member The groups strategy is designed to build a of the FTSE 250 share index.
It is a leading growing, robust and tightly focused global international business-to-business media group information and events business.
To achieve this focused primarily on the international finance, strategy the four key objectives are: metals and commodities sectors.
It publishes more than 70 titles in both print and online, to drive organic growth: including Euromoney, Institutional Investor using a healthy balance sheet and strong and Metal Bulletin, and is a leading provider cash flows for selective acquisitions to of electronic research and data under the BCA accelerate growth and build market share: Research, Ned Davis Research and ISI Emerging to maintain focus on high margins and Markets brands.
It also runs an extensive tight cost control: and portfolio of conferences, seminars and training to retain and foster entrepreneurial culture.
courses for financial and other markets.
The groups main offices are in London, New York, Set out below is how the group intends to Montreal and Hong Kong and more than a achieve its objectives, the related risks and third of its revenues are derived from emerging key performance indicators.
Details of the groups legal entities can detailed explanation of the groups principal risks be found in note 13. and uncertainties and page 12 for the groups performance against its key performance The Strategic Report has been prepared for the indicators.
group as a whole and therefore gives greater emphasis to those matters which are significant to Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC and its subsidiary undertakings when viewed as a whole.
It has been prepared solely to provide additional information to shareholders to assess the companys strategy and the potential for that strategy to succeed, and the Strategic Report should not be relied upon by any other party for any other purpose.
22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 09 1.1 Drive organic growth BuilDinG ROBuSt SuBSCRiptiOn AnD RepeAt RevenueS AnD ReDuCinG tHe DepenDenCe On ADveRtiSinG The group has increased the proportion of revenues derived from subscription products to more than half of its total revenues and expects the proportion of revenues derived from subscriptions to remain between 50% and 60% for the foreseeable future.
Subscriptionbased products, particularly online have the advantage of premiumprices, high renewal rates and high margins.
Key RiSKS Key peRfORmAnCe inDiCAtORS Downturn in economy or market sector Subscription revenue growth Revenue mix percentage of revenues from subscriptions Product subscription retention rates DRivinG tOp-line Revenue GROwtH fROm BOtH new AnD exiStinG pRODuCtS Approximately two thirds of the groups revenues are derived from its information activities including print and online content, databases and research.
The other third is derived from events including training.
Growth from these activities remains an integral part of the groups overall strategy.
Since 2010, the group has been investing heavily in technology and content delivery platforms, particularly for the mobile user, and in new digital products as part of its transition to an online information business.
Key RiSKS Key peRfORmAnCe inDiCAtORS Downturn in economy or market sector Revenue growth Failure of online strategy Like-for-like change in profits Percentage of revenues delivered online uSinG teCHnOlOGy effiCiently tO ASSiSt tHe Online miGRAtiOn Of tHe GROupS pRint pRODuCtS AnD DevelOp new eleCtROniC infORmAtiOn SeRviCeS The group invests for the longterm in businesses and products that meet certain financial and strategic criteria.
The group is investing heavily in its program to migrate its print products online, develop new electronic information services, and to take advantage of mobile and cloud technology.
Key RiSKS KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Data integrity, availability and security Investment in technology and new products Failure of central back-office technology Online user engagement Failure of online strategy Product subscription retention rates StRenGtHeninG tHe GROupS mARKet pOSitiOn in Key AReAS wHiCH HAve tHe CApACity fOR ORGAniC GROwtH uSinG tHe exiStinG KnOwleDGe BASe Of tHe GROup The group has a global customer base with revenue derived from almost 200 countries, with approximately 60% from the US, Canada, UK and the rest of Europe and more than a third of its revenue from emerging markets.
Its customer base predominantly consists of financial institutions, governments, financial advisory firms, hedge fund organisations, law firms, commodity traders, other corporate organisations and, for the groups niche focused products, relevant corporate entities across the length of the respective supply chain.
The group has a sizeable and valuable marketing database allowing new and existing products to be matched with relevant companies and individuals.
Key RiSKS Key peRfORmAnCe inDiCAtORS Travel risk Revenue by customer location London, New York, Montreal or Hong Kong wide disaster Revenue by market sector Downturn in economy or market sector 22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Strategic Report Strategy and Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 10 www.
com Strategic Report continued 1.2 Using a healthy balance sheet and strong cash flows for selective acquisitions to accelerate growth and build market share mAKinG ACquiSitiOnS tHAt Supplement tHe GROupS exiStinG BuSineSSeS AnD DiSpOSAlS wHeRe tHey nO lOnGeR fit While the market for acquisitions of specialist online information businesses remains competitive and valuations challenging, the group continues to use its robust balance sheet and strong cash flows to pursue further transactions.
Equally, where businesses no longer fit, the group divests.
Key RiSKS Key peRfORmAnCe inDiCAtORS Acquisitions and disposal risk Cash consideration on acquisitions Acquisitions: TTI Vanguard: Insider Publishing: Centre for Investor Education and Quantitative Techniques mAnAGinG itS CASH flOwS tO Keep itS DeBt witHin A net DeBt tO eBitDA limit Of tHRee timeS The group has strong covenants and takes advantage of its ability to borrow money cheaply using these funds to invest in new products and fund acquisitions.
The groups subscription revenues are normally received in advance, at the beginning of the subscription service, and a typical subscription contract would be for a 12month period.
This helps provide the group with strong cash flows and normally leads to cash generated from operations being in excess of adjusted operating profit a cash conversion percentage in excess of 100%.
Key RiSKS Key peRfORmAnCe inDiCAtORS Treasury operations Net debt to EBITDA Cash conversion rate 1.3 Maintain focus on high margins and tight cost control impROvinG OpeRAtinG mARGinS tHROuGH tiGHt COSt COntROl The groups costs are tightly managed with a constant focus on margin control.
The group benefits from having a flexible cost base, outsourcing the printing of publications, hiring external venues for events, and choosing to engage freelancers, contributors, external trainers and speakers to help deliver its products.
Other than its main offices, the group avoids the fixed costs of offices in most of the markets in which it operates.
This allows the group to scale up resources or reduce overheads as the economic environment in which it operates demands.
The group continues to eliminate products with a low margin or too high a dependence on print advertising.
Key RiSKS Key peRfORmAnCe inDiCAtORS Downturn in economy or market sector Gross margin Adjusted operating margin 1.4 Retain and foster entrepreneurial culture pROviDinG inCentiveS tO fOSteR An entRepReneuRiAl CultuRe AnD RetAin Key peOple The board does not micromanage each business, instead devolving operating decisions to the local management of each business, while taking advantage of a strong central control environment for monitoring performance and underlying risk.
This encourages an entrepreneurial culture where businesses have the right kind of support and managers are motivated and rewarded for growth and initiative.
Key RiSKS Key peRfORmAnCe inDiCAtORS Loss of key staff Long-term incentives see section 3.3.
6 of the Strategic Report Variable pay as a percentage of total pay CAP profit and Adjusted PBT 22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 e c G i N v I r H e S s I L g g B n n U i i t P s e i L k t A r r I a C e N M v A d N I A F s w e N G N I W H s i S s I o L y r l B a k U s n i P n n A S o S g i E t N w a I p t S i i a t U r D B h c s o b v h u c e A S r r T a A e 3 D s e D R 0 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 11 Subscription revenues are the fees that Delegate revenues represent fees paid by 2. Business model customers pay to receive access to the groups customers to attend a conference, training The groups activities are categorised into information, through online access to various course or seminar.
Delegate revenues are five operating divisions: Financial Publishing: databases, through regular delivery of soft copy derived from the Conferences and Seminars and Business Publishing: Conferences and Seminars: research, publications and newsletters or hard Training divisions and from smaller events run by Training: and Research and Data see page 2 for copy magazines.
Subscriptions are also received the publishing businesses.
The group has many mutually from customers who belong to Institutional exclusive valuable brands see page 3 allowing Investors exclusive specialised membership Details of the groups revenues by revenue the directors to extend the value of existing groups.
Subscription revenue is primarily stream and by division are set out in note 3. products and to develop these in new areas generated from the Financial Publishing, both on a geographical basis and with new Business Publishing and Research and Data The groups costs are tightly managed with a products.
For example, publishing businesses divisions.
constant focus on margin control.
The group often run branded events and produce data benefits from having a flexible cost base, products covering their area of specialism.
The Sponsorship revenues represent fees paid by outsourcing the printing of publications, hiring group has a sizeable and valuable marketing customers to sponsor an event.
A payment external venues for events, and choosing to database allowing new and existing products of sponsorship can entitle the sponsor to engage freelancers, contributors, external to be matched with relevant companies and high-profile speaking opportunities at the trainers and speakers to help deliver its products.
conference, unique branding before, during and Other than its main offices, the group avoids the after the event and an unparalleled networking fixed costs of offices in most of the markets in The group primarily generates revenues from opportunity to meet the sponsors clients which it operates: this allows the group to scale four revenue streams: advertising: subscriptions: and representatives.
Sponsorship revenue is up resource or reduce overhead as the economic sponsorship and delegates.
generated from the Conferences and Seminars environment in which it operates demands.
division and the publishing businesses which Advertising revenues represent the fees that run smaller events.
customers pay to place an advertisement in one or more of the groups publications, either in print or online.
Advertising revenue is primarily generated from the Financial Publishing and Business Publishing divisions.
7 million contacts countries 180 22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 N A H b g C n u R i A s k i E r s S o n e E w e R t t s a e s g N c e G o l N e s I m t N D I n A m e R v u T E n i t n i S Strategic Report Strategy and Performance e o R i s A t N a I c M u E p d S i E D h N s s A r w o S E e s i C n v N t E o r R p e E p F S N x E O C s Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 12 www.
com Strategic Report continued 3. Business review 3.1 Key performance indicators The group monitors its performance against its strategy using the following key performance indicators: Revenue Mix Revenue Mix Revenue 2013 2013 2012 2012 growth m % m % % Revenue growth and mix Subscriptions 206.3 51% 199.7 51% 3% Advertising 57.6 14% 58.4 15% 1% Sponsorship 51.4 13% 47.6 12% 8% Delegates 77.8 19% 80.1 20% 3% Other closed 12.3 3% 9.7 2% 27% Foreign exchange losses on forward contracts 0.7 1.4 404.7 100% 394.1 100% 3% Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Year % % % % % Revenue growth by quarter Subscriptions 3% 3% 4% 9% 3% Advertising 10% 10% 9% 17% 1% Sponsorship 8% 3% 9% 17% 8% Delegates 1% 21% 1% 11% 3% Other closed 35% 21% 27% 25% 27% 1% 3% 2% 11% 3% Revenue by type Revenue by customer location Revenue by division Eastern Europe 4% Africa 3% ROW 1% Middle East 4% Latin America 4% US 42% Asia 13% Financial publishing 19% Training 7% Subscriptions 51% Delegates 19% UK 14% Other 16% Business publishing 17% Research Advertising 14% Other 3% & data 32% Western Europe 15% Conferences & seminars 25% Sponsorship 13% 2013 2012 Change 1 Gross margin 74.3% 75.1% 0.8% 2 Adjusted operating margin 29.9% 30.0% 0.1% 3 Like-for-like change in profits 2.7m 5.7m 4 Investment in technology and new products 12.3m 10.0m 2.3m 5 Headcount 2,142 2,133 9 6 Cash consideration on acquisitions 28.1m 6.5m 21.6m 7 Net debt to EBITDA 0.09:1 0.27:1 8 Cash conversion rate 88% 103% 9 Variable pay as a percentage of total pay 32% 39% 22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 13 10 11 CAP profit and Adjusted PBT 130 120 110 CAP profit 100 90 Adjusted PBT 80 70 CAP 2004 Original Target 60 50 CAP 2004 Revised Target 40 30 CAP 2010 Target 20 10 CAP 2010 Revised Target 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 1.
Gross margin: gross profit as a percentage of revenue.
Gross profit and revenue are both as per note 4 in the financial statements.
Adjusted operating margin: operating profit before acquired intangible amortisation, long-term incentive expense, exceptional items and associates as a percentage of revenue.
Operating profit and revenue are both as per the Consolidated Income Statement in the financial statements.
Like-for-like change in profits: proportion of adjusted operating profit growth that relates to organic growth, rather than acquisitions.
Adjusted operating profit is from continuing operations and excludes closed businesses, acquired intangible amortisation, exceptional items, long-term incentive expense, unallocated corporate costs and interest and is adjusted for significant timing differences.
Investment in technology and new products: the groups investment in technology and new digital products as part of its transition to an online information business.
Headcount: number of permanent people employed at the end of the period excluding people employed in associates.
Cash consideration on acquisitions: the total cash outflow on acquisition related activity in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows net of cash acquired.
Net debt to EBITDA: the amount of the groups net debt converted at the groups weighted average exchange rate for a rolling 12 month period to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortisation and also before exceptional items but after the normal long-term incentive expense.
Cash conversion rate: the percentage by which cash generated from operations covers adjusted operating profit.
Variable pay as a percentage of total pay: staff incentives including bonuses, commissions and normal long-term incentive expense as a percentage of total staff costs as per note 6 in the financial statements.
CAP profit: profit before tax excluding acquired intangible amortisation, long-term incentive expense, exceptional items, net movements in acquisition commitments values, imputed interest on acquisition commitments, movement in acquisition deferred consideration, foreign exchange loss interest charge on tax equalisation contracts and foreign exchange on restructured hedging arrangements as set out in the Consolidated Income Statement, note 5 and note 7.
Adjusted PBT: CAP profit after the deduction of long-term incentive expense as set out on page 7.
22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Million Strategic Report Strategy and Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 14 www.
com Strategic Report continued 3.2 KPIs explained The key performance indicators are all within the boards expectations and support its successful strategy.
These indicators are discussed in detail in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 to 6, and in section 3.3 below.
3.3 Development of the business of the group 3.3.
1 Trading review Total revenues for the year increased by 3% to 404.7 million.
After a 1% decline in the first half, the headline rate of revenue growth improved to 6% in the second, due to a combination of gradually improving markets and the contribution from three acquisitions completed in the middle of the year.
Underlying revenues, excluding acquisitions, increased by 1%.
The group derives nearly two thirds of its total revenue in US dollars and movements in the sterling-US dollar rate can have a significant impact on reported revenues.
However, currency movements in 2013 were not significant and headline revenue growth rates are similar to those at constant currency see table below.
Change at constant exchange 2013 2012 Headline change rates Revenues m m H1 H2 Year Year Subscriptions 206.3 199.7 7% 3% 2% Advertising 57.6 58.4 10% 5% 1% 2% Sponsorship 51.4 47.6 2% 12% 8% 7% Delegates 77.8 80.1 10% 5% 3% 3% Other closed 12.3 9.7 29% 26% 27% 27% Foreign exchange losses on forward contracts 0.7 1.4 Total revenue 404.7 394.1 1% 6% 3% 2% Less: revenue from acquisitions 6.2 Underlying revenue 398.5 394.1 2% 4% 1% 1% 22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 15 Headline subscription revenues increased by The groups adjusted operating margin was dependent on advertising.
The growth achieved 3% to 206.3 million, after a flat first half, and 30%, the same as 2012.
Over the past four in the first half continued into the second, with again accounted for just over half of group years the group has consistently delivered revenues up 7% to 68.9 million and adjusted revenues.
Underlying subscription revenues, steady operating margins around the 30% operating profits 5% ahead at 25.8 million.
For excluding acquisitions, increased by 2% with level.
Increased spend on technology and digital the first time, profits from business publishing the strongest performances coming from CEIC products has reduced margins in the publishing exceeded those from financial publishing.
Data, the emerging markets data business, and businesses, but has been largely offset by Institutional Investors membership business.
changes in the divisional mix towards higher Conferences and Seminars: revenues comprise Revenues from independent research were margin research and data products, as well as both sponsorship and paying delegates and unchanged.
rigorous cost control and a constant refreshing increased by 5% to 99.4 million, despite the of the portfolio with new products replacing timing differences on biennial events in the first After two years of decline, advertising revenues those with lower margins.
The permanent half, and helped in the second by a contribution returned to growth in the final quarter.
This was headcount at September 30 was 2,142 people, from CIE. Growth was achieved across most largely driven by factors specific to the quarter: including 38 from businesses acquired in the sectors and reflects both new events and more new products and a tendency for advertising in year, against 2,133 a year ago.
However, adjusted the main financial titles, Euromoney, Institutional operating profits fell by 4% to 28.9 million 3.3.
2 Business division review Investor, Latin Finance and Asiamoney, to be and the decline in adjusted operating margin is Research and Data: this division accounts for concentrated in their IMF issues published in largely due to the event timing differences.
a third of group revenues and, with its higher September.
This quarterly improvement is more margins, nearly 40% of group operating indicative of product timing than a sustained Training: the groups training division profits before central costs.
Revenues are improvement in advertising markets.
Over the predominantly serves the global financial sector derived predominantly from subscriptions year, advertising fell across most of the groups and banks have continued to tightly control and increased by 1% to 131.3 million while titles with Latin Finance, which celebrated its headcount and training budgets.
Revenues fell th adjusted operating profits fell by 1% to 25 anniversary, and the energy titles the only by 3% to 30.1 million, although performance 54.8 million.
The trends seen in the first half significant exceptions.
in the second half showed an improvement on continued, with financial institutions exercising the first.
The decline in operating margin from tight control over their information buying and Event sponsorship revenues have continued to 22% to 18% reflects the high operational new business difficult to generate.
In addition, grow from a combination of new events and gearing in this business and adjusted operating US sequestration had a negative impact in the strong demand for emerging market events, profits fell by 23% to 5.4 million.
second half as customers including government helped in the second half by the acquisitions agencies and libraries were forced to cut costs.
3 Financial review of Insider Publishing and CIE. Paying delegate That apart, renewal rates for most products The adjusted profit before tax of 116.5 million attendance improved across most of the event remained robust, and more recently have shown compares to a statutory profit before tax of 95.3 businesses, mostly due to new events.
A detailed reconciliation of the groups first half decline in revenues was due to timing adjusted and statutory results is set out on page differences on biennial events not held this year.
Financial Publishing: revenues increased by 7.
The statutory profit is generally lower than 2% to 75.6 million while adjusted operating the adjusted profit before tax because of the Other revenues largely comprise content profits fell by 1% to 23.8 million.
An impact of acquired intangible amortisation and redistribution royalties and one-off content advertising-led rebound in the final quarter, and non-cash movements in acquisition liabilities.
Although only accounting for 3% of total a contribution from Insider Publishing, helped revenues, these revenues increased sharply as offset first half weakness.
The 1% point decline A net exceptional credit of 2.2 million 2012: the group continues to explore the possibilities in the adjusted operating margin reflects the 1.6 million charge was recognised.
This for alternative distribution channels for its continued investment in the transition to a includes a credit of 4.4 million for negative content.
goodwill arising from the valuation of intangibles as part of the acquisition of Quantitative Business Publishing: the groups activities Techniques, offset by acquisition, restructuring in the non-financial sectors of the market, and other exceptional costs of 2.2 million.
particularly energy and telecoms, have proved more robust, partly because they are less 22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Strategic Report Strategy and Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 16 www.
com Strategic Report continued The reduction in long-term incentive expense Significant non-operating cash outflows in to 2.1 million 2012: 6.3 million reflects the the year included four acquisitions with a net final cost of CAP 2010, which has now been cash cost of 28.1 million, dividends of 27.2 fully amortised after the performance test was million against 7.5 million in 2012 when a scrip satisfied in 2011 and again in 2012. dividend was offered, and capital investment in Project Delphi of 6.1 million.
Cash generated Adjusted net finance costs for the groups from operations fell by 16.0 million to 106.2 committed borrowing facility fell by 2.8 million million and the operating cash conversion to 2.7 million, reflecting lower debt levels rate was 88% 2012: 103%.
The reduction during the year.
The average cost of funds for in operating cash flow and operating cash the year was 4.7% 2012: 4.8%.
Statutory conversion was due to cash payments in 2013 net finance costs of 10.4 million 2012: 3.6 in respect of long-term incentive costs and profit million include a charge of 4.7 million for the shares which were expensed in 2012 or earlier.
increase in deferred consideration payable on The underlying operating cash conversion rate, two of the acquisitions completed in the year after adjusting for these timing differences, was which have performed better than expected unchanged at 103%.
since acquisition, and a charge of 2.7 million largely due to the extension of the put option The companys policy is to distribute a third of its agreement to acquire the outstanding minority after-tax earnings by way of dividends each year.
interest in Ned Davis Research.
Pursuant to this policy, the board recommends a final dividend of 15.75p a share 2012: 14.75p The group does not hedge the foreign exchange The adjusted effective tax rate for the year was giving a total dividend for the year of 22.75p a risk on the translation of overseas profits, 22%, the same as 2012.
The tax rate depends share 2012: 21.75p.
As explained in previous although it does endeavour to match foreign on the geographic mix of profits and applicable announcements, following the earlier than currency borrowings with investments and the tax rates.
The group has benefited this year expected achievement of the CAP 2010 profit related foreign currency finance costs provide a from the reduction in the UK corporate tax target an additional accelerated CAP expense of partial hedge against the translation of overseas rate from 24% to 23%, although this was 6.6 million was not charged against earnings profits.
The translation impact on overseas offset by the expiry of the US tax deduction for for dividend purposes in 2011, but is being profits of a one cent movement in the average goodwill amortisation from the acquisition of spread over the period to which it originally US dollar exchange rate is approximately 0.6 Institutional Investor 15 years ago.
Accordingly, earnings for dividend million on an annualised basis.
The average rate will fall further to 21% in April 2014 and purposes were reduced by 1.1 million in 2012 sterling-US dollar rate for the year was $1.56 20% in April 2015. and by 3.9 million in 2013, and will be similarly 2012: $1.58.
The group continues to generate two thirds of 3.3.
4 Net debt, cash flow and its revenues, including approximately 30% of It is expected that the final dividend will be paid dividend the revenues from its UK businesses, and more on February 13 2014 to shareholders on the Net debt at September 30 was 9.9 million than half its operating profits in US dollars.
register at November 22 2013. compared with 38.1 million at March 31 and The group hedges its exposure to the US dollar 30.8 million last year-end.
The groups debt is revenues in its UK businesses by using forward provided through a dedicated multi-currency contracts to sell surplus US dollars.
This delays committed facility from its parent company, the impact of movements in exchange rates for Daily Mail and General Trust plc DMGT.
group has exercised its option to replace its existing $300 million 190 million facility with DMGT, which expires in December 2013, with a new $160 million 100 million facility which expires at the end of April 2016.
This new facility will continue to provide funding for the groups acquisition strategy.
5 Balance Sheet The main movements in the balance sheet were as follows: 2013 2012 Change m m m Goodwill and other intangible assets 505.6 469.3 36.3 Property, plant and equipment 16.8 18.0 1.2 Acquisition commitments and deferred consideration 31.1 7.9 23.2 Liability for cash-settled options 7.4 14.1 6.7 Deferred income 117.3 105.1 12.2 Other non-current assets and liabilities 1.3 4.8 3.5 Other current assets and liabilities 6.9 22.3 15.4 Net pension deficit 2.9 4.8 1.9 Deferred tax 11.8 9.6 2.2 Net assets before net debt 343.7 318.7 25.0 Net debt 9.9 30.8 20.9 Net assets 333.8 287.9 45.9 These movements are explained below: Goodwill and other intangible assets includes 25.3 million of goodwill and 23.4 million of acquired intangible assets following the acquisitions during the year of TTI Vanguard, Insider Publishing, Centre for Investor Education CIE and Quantitative Techniques QT see note 14 and the addition of 6.1 million of intangible assets in development, offset by amortisation costs of 15.9 million: Property, plant and equipment regular capital expenditure across the group of 2.7 million offset by depreciation of 3.9 million: Acquisition commitments increased by 7.2 million to 15.0 million, deferred consideration increased by 16.0 million to 16.1 million due to the acquisitions of TTI Vanguard, Insider Publishing and CIE and an increase in the Ned Davis Research NDR acquisition commitment following the amended acquisition agreement for the remaining equity shareholding: Liability for cash settled options reflecting the cash payment of 7.6 million following the vesting of the first tranche of the cash element of CAP 2010 in February 2013: Deferred income due to balances brought into the balance sheet following this years acquisitions and an underlying increase in deferred subscription revenue, mainly from NDR as it continues to move clients onto subscription contracts: Other current assets and liabilities includes an increase in trade debtors and accrued subscription income also due to balances brought into the balance sheet following the acquisitions together with the impact from NDR as it moves clients onto subscription contracts.
Prepayments increased as deferred consideration was paid in advance into escrow following the acquisitions of Insider Publishing and CIE. Accruals fell, with lower profit shares and bonuses following the death of Padraic Fallon in October 2012: Net pension deficit a 2.8 million increase in the pension asset value offset by a 0.9 million increase in the obligation: Net debt the DMGT loans reduced by the groups excess cash: net cash generated by the group from operations of 106.1 million offset by 31.6 million used in investing activities, 33.4 million spent on financing activities excluding repayment of loans, 19.2 million on tax and an exchange loss of 1.0 million, see cash flow on page 82.
22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Strategic Report Strategy and Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 18 www.
com Strategic Report continued The remaining 12.8% equity holding will be 3.3.
6 Capital Appreciation Plan Acquisitions CAP Purchase of new business acquired in two instalments of 7.4% in March tti technologies, llC tti vanguard The CAP, the groups long-term incentive 2014 based on a pre-determined multiple of the On December 21 2012, the group acquired plan, remains an important part of the groups profits for the year to December 31 2013 and 87.2% of the equity of TTI Vanguard, a remuneration strategy.
It is a highly geared, 5.4% in March 2015 based on a pre-determined US-based private membership organisation for performance-based share option scheme multiple of the profits for the year to December executives who lead technology innovation which both directly rewards executives for 31 2014.
The total discounted amount that the in global organisations, for US$8,063,000 the growth in profits of the businesses they group expects to pay at September 30 2013 5,031,000 followed by a working capital manage, and links to the delivery of shareholder under the earn-out agreement is US$678,000 adjustment of 91,000 in June 2013.
The value by satisfying rewards in a mix of shares 418,000 calculated using the groups WACC.
acquisition of TTI Vanguard is consistent with in the company and cash.
It aims to deliver the groups strategy of acquiring high-quality exceptional profit growth over the performance events businesses and accelerating their growth period and for this profit to be maintained over globally.
The graph set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 49 shows the groups profit achieved US-based private membership for executives who lead technology since the introduction of the CAP scheme.
innovation in global organisations Further details are set out in the Company Share Schemes section in the Directors Remuneration Australian provider of investment forums for senior executives of Report.
superannuation funds and global asset management firms 3.3.
7 Acquisitions and disposals Leading information source and events provider for the international Acquisitions remain an important part of the insurance reinsurance markets.
Mostly online and subscription-driven groups growth strategy.
In particular the board believes that acquisitions are valuable for taking Leading provider of online data, intelligence and events for the the group into new sectors, for bringing new global infrastructure sector.
Also mostly online and  into the group and for increasing driven.
50tr global investment by 2025 the groups revenues and profits by buying into rapidly growing niche businesses.
The group Benchmark and calculation agent business of HSBC: creates and maintains c100 equity bond indices for HSBC Global Markets continues to look for strategic acquisitions division, and over 60 external clients which will fit well with its existing businesses.
insider publishing On March 19 2013, the group acquired 100% of the equity share capital of Insider Publishing Limited, a leading information source and events provider for the international insurance and reinsurance markets, for an initial cash consideration of 14,148,000, followed by a working capital adjustment of 2,549,000 in June 2013.
The acquisition is consistent with the groups strategy of investing in specialist online information businesses and using its global reach to drive further growth.
22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 19 At acquisition a discounted deferred consideration of 8,342,000 was recognised.
In May 2013, deferred consideration of 251,000 was paid and the remaining discounted deferred consideration of 8,091,000 was expected to be paid between March 2014 and March 2015 dependent upon the audited results of the business for the average of the 2013 and 2014 calendar years.
The discounted expected payment under this mechanism increased to 11,081,000 at September 30 2013 be paid between March 2014 and March 2015 Increase in equity holdings resulting in a charge to the Income Statement dependent upon the audited results of the internet Securities, inc. iSi of 2,990,000.
At the date of acquisition, business for the 2013 and 2014 calendar years.
During the year the group spent 67,000 on the 2,400,000 of the deferred consideration was The expected payment under this mechanism remaining 0.08% interest in ISI, the emerging paid in advance into escrow.
increased to A$8,737,000 5,044,000 at market content aggregator and data business, September 30 2013 resulting in a charge to the taking its holding to 100%.
Centre for investor education Cie Income Statement of 1,209,000.
In April 2013, On April 18 2013, the group acquired 75% of Structured Retail products A$3,600,000 2,472,000 of the deferred the trade and assets of CIE, a leading Australian limited SRp consideration was paid in advance into escrow.
provider of investment forums for senior In April 2013, the group purchased 0.76% of The remaining 25% interest in the trade and executives of superannuation funds and global the equity share capital of SRP from some its assets of CIE will be acquired in two equal asset management firms, for A$10,800,000 employees for a cash consideration of 86,000, instalments based on the profits for the 7,415,000 offset by a working capital representing the fair value of 0.76% of assets at calendar years to 2014 and 2015.
The total adjustment receipt of 929,000 in July 2013. date of acquisition, increasing the groups equity discounted amount that the group expects to By combining CIE with the expertise and shareholding in SRP to 98.94%.
pay at September 30 2013 under this earn-out relationships of Institutional Investors forums agreement is A$7,315,000 4,224,000. and memberships, the group expects to 3.3.
8 Headcount consolidate its leading position in the global The number of people employed is monitored quantitative techniques qt asset management events sector.
monthly to ensure there are sufficient resources On April 3 2013, the group signed a binding to meet the forthcoming demands of each agreement with HSBC to acquire its QT A discounted deferred consideration of business and to make sure that the businesses operation for 1.
QT is the benchmark and A$5,586,000 3,835,000 was expected to continue to deliver sustainable profits.
During calculation agent business of HSBC Bank plc and 2013 the directors have focused on maintaining creates and maintains more than 100 equity and headcount at a similar level to that in 2012, bond indices for HSBCs Global Markets division hiring new heads only where it was considered as well as over 60 external clients.
Completion essential or for investment purposes.
Headcount of the sale took place on September 30 2013. at September 2013 was 2,142, an increase of HSBC has agreed to purchase index calculation only nine since September 2012, including 38 services from QT for a minimum period of acquired heads offset by restructuring across three years.
The group believes the acquisition the group.
creates an opportunity to establish a significant footprint in the index compilation market.
9 Marketing and digital development Further details of the above acquisitions are set The groups digital development continues with out in note 14. record investment.
Part of this contributes to a major scale roll-out of best-in-class publishing authoring tools and a new content management system.
The groups customers increasingly desire mobile access Euromoney launched 13 Ned Davis Research 22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Strategic Report Strategy and Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 20 www.
com Strategic Report continued new mobile and tablet services in 2013, as well as redesigning online sites and email alerts with responsive design, to adapt to the mobile or tablet interface.
Notable new product launches include: SteelFirst one of the groups most significant online product launches to date, this has already become one of the top news, pricing data and Social media growth and visibility across all To aid in flexible delivery a new locally based analysis service for the steel industry delivered brands continues with over 335,000 members partnership was introduced that is proving via online, email alerts and mobile: Sovereign 130% increase from last year.
Wealth Center provides detailed information, are highly engaged through third party insight, deal flows and data on sovereign wealth networks, such as LinkedIn and Twitter, as well The first phase of Project Delphi continued as funds: Digital Maps for Petroleum Economist as the groups own social networks, and now planned with the successful trial of the first interactive map providing interactive contribute to event sales, subscription trials and new BCA product in May and the integration country-and-project level infrastructure sponsorship opportunities.
All EuroWeek content will be information and data on the worlds Liquid created using the new authoring platform and is Natural Gas: Islamic Finance information The marketing structure and central contacts now truly digital first.
Plans for the second phase service and comprehensive and timely analysis data capability have enabled the company to of Project Delphi and an accelerated rollout are for the Islamic banking community.
rapidly integrate new acquisitions Euromoney also underway while the project itself has been Indices, Insurance Insider and Infrastructure shortlisted for an Agile development award.
Customer-segmented campaign management Journal have all benefited from this capability.
Forty other projects were also completed and social media have dominated marketing with a focus on updating legacy codebases in 2013.
The group made a recent investment 3.3.
10 Systems and information and delivering mobile and socially integrated in a new campaign system that sits on top of technology products.
Notable launches include the American proprietary customer database and enables The group continues to focus significant Metal Market iPad app, EuromoneyIndices.
com personalised cross-channel campaigns and investment on enhancing its corporate and and .
There are an improved customer marketing experience.
digital infrastructure and services as well the now over 15 apps available across the group Combined with this new process is the people that deliver it.
A number of new products with five publications available in Apples increasing investment in customer insight data were launched as well as existing digital assets newsstand.
All new development projects the group now help customers find the right redesigned during the year to support continued are now run on an Agile Kanban basis with products and services through their online business demand.
behaviour, online chat plus user feedback and trial purchase history.
The project to migrate the digital and corporate infrastructure to an enterprise-class hybrid, cloud supplier was successfully completed while a leading search solution was also enabled via Elastic Search.
This, in conjunction with rigorous new service management disciplines, has resulted in business-impacting incidents being reduced by over 50% during the year.
Investment was increased again in information security with a revised auditable baseline plan agreed across the group entities.
The corporate network has been upgraded to improve its resilience, support the increasing demands of a global, remote workforce, and to absorb network demand from three new satellite 22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 21 offices following the groups acquisitions.
A Microsoft Office 365 and Windows platform rollout will be completed within the second quarter of 2014 as planned while an upgrade to the Customer Relationship Management platform is also underway.
These steps have positioned the group to make the most of product opportunities and increased the groups agility allowing technical staff to focus on revenue-generating activities rather than commodity maintenance.
The group is therefore exposed to foreign Tax 3.3.
11 Tax and treasury exchange risk on the US dollar revenues in its The adjusted effective tax rate based on Treasury UK businesses, and on the translation of the adjusted profit before tax and excluding The treasury department does not act as a profit results of its US dollar-denominated businesses.
deferred tax movements on intangible assets, centre, nor does it undertake any speculative prior year items and exceptional items is 22% trading activity, and it operates within policies In order to hedge its exposure to US dollar 2012: 22%.
The groups reported effective tax and procedures approved by the board.
revenues in its UK businesses, a series of forward rate decreased to an expense of 23% compared contracts are put in place to sell forward surplus to an expense of 24% in 2012.
A reconciliation Interest rate swaps are used to manage the US dollars.
The group hedges 80% of forecast to the underlying effective rate is set out in groups exposure to fluctuations in interest rates US dollar revenues for the coming 12 months note 8 in the accounts.
on its floating rate borrowings.
The maturity and up to 50% for a further six months.
profile of these derivatives is matched with The total net deferred tax balance held is a the expected future debt profile of the group.
The group does not hedge the foreign exchange liability of 11.8 million 2012: 9.6 million and The groups policy is to fix the interest rates on risk on the translation of overseas profits, relates primarily to capitalised intangible assets approximately 80% of its term debt looking although it does endeavour to match foreign and rolled over capital gains, net of deferred forward over five years.
The maturity dates currency borrowings with investments and the tax assets held in respect of US tax losses and are spread in order to avoid interest rate basis related foreign currency finance costs provide a short-term timing differences and the future risk and also to mitigate short-term changes partial hedge against the translation of overseas deductions available for the CAP.
The predictability of interest profits.
As a result of this hedging strategy, costs is deemed to be more important than the any profit or loss from the strengthening or possible opportunity cost foregone of achieving weakening of the US dollar will largely be lower interest rates and this hedging strategy delayed until the following financial year and has the effect of spreading the groups exposure beyond.
to fluctuations arising from changes in interest rates and hence protects the groups interest Details of the financial instruments used are set charge against sudden increases in rates but also out in note 18 to the accounts.
prevents the group from benefiting immediately from falls in rates.
Given the groups low level of debt, there were no interest rate hedges in place as at September 30 2013.
The group generates approximately two-thirds of its revenues in US dollars, including approximately 30% of the revenues in its UK-based businesses, and approximately 60% of its operating profits are US dollar-denominated.
22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Strategic Report Strategy and Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 22 www.
Principal risks and uncertainties The principal risks and uncertainties the group faces vary across the different businesses and are identified in the groups risk register.
Management of significant risk is regularly on the agenda of the board and other senior management meetings.
The geographical spread and diverse portfolio of businesses within the group help to dilute the impact of some of the groups key risks.
The groups principal risks and uncertainties are summarised below.
The arrows provide a pictorial indication in the change in riskiness of each principal risk compared to last year.
DOwntuRn in eCOnOmy OR mARKet SeCtOR The group generates significant income from certain key geographical regions and market sectors for its publishing, events, research and data businesses.
pOtentiAl impACt mitiGAtiOn Uncertainty in global financial markets increases the risk of a downturn The group has a diverse product mix and operates in many geographical or potential collapse in one or more areas of the business.
This reduces dependency on any one sector or region.
income is likely to be adversely affected and for events businesses some Management has the ability to cut costs quickly if required or to abandonment costs may also be incurred.
switch the groups focus to new or unaffected markets e. g. through development of new vertical markets or transferring events to better performing regions.
tRAvel RiSK The conference, seminar and training businesses account for approximately a third of the groups revenues and profits.
The success of these events and courses relies heavily on the confidence in and ability of delegates and speakers to travel internationally.
pOtentiAl impACt mitiGAtiOn Significant disruptions to or reductions in international travel for any Where possible, contingency plans are in place to minimise the reason could lead to events and courses being postponed or cancelled disruption from travel restrictions.
Events can be postponed or moved and could have a significant impact on the groups performance.
to another location, or increasingly can be attended remotely using online technologies.
Cancellation and abandonment insurance is in Past incidents such as transport strikes, extreme weather including place for the groups largest events.
hurricanes, terrorist attacks, fears over SARS and swine flu, and natural disasters such as the disruption from volcanic ash in Europe, have all had a negative impact on the groups results, although none materially.
22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 23 COmpliAnCe witH lAwS AnD ReGulAtiOnS Group businesses are subject to legislation and regulation in the jurisdictions in which they operate.
The key laws and regulations that may have an impact on the group cover areas such as libel, bribery and corruption, competition, data protection, privacy including eprivacy, health and safety and employment law.
Additionally, specific regulations from the Audit Bureau of Circulations apply to published titles see incorrect circulation claims below.
pOtentiAl impACt mitiGAtiOn A breach of legislation or regulations could have a significant impact Compliance with laws and regulations is taken seriously throughout on the group in terms of additional costs, management time and the group.
The groups Code of Conduct and supporting policies sets reputational damage.
out appropriate standards of business behaviour and highlights the key legal and regulatory issues affecting group businesses.
Divisional and In recent years responsibilities for managing data protection have local management are responsible for compliance with applicable local increased significantly.
The emergence of new online technology is laws and regulations, overseen by the executive committee and the further driving legislation and responsibilities for managing data privacy.
board: and supported by internal audit.
Failure to comply with data protection and privacy laws could result in significant financial penalties and reputational damage.
The group has strict policies and controls in place for the management of data protection and privacy with staff receiving relevant training.
This year the group began rolling out new website technology across its online businesses to reinforce legal and regulatory compliance.
Controls are also in place to comply with the Audit Bureau of Circulations regulations and other regulatory bodies to which the group adheres.
DAtA inteGRity, AvAilABility AnD CyBeR SeCuRity The group uses large quantities of data including customer, employee and commercial data in the ordinary course of its business.
The group also publishes data see published content risk below.
The integrity, availability and security of this data is key to the success of the group.
Risk to the groups data has increased as a result of the growing number of cyber attacks affecting organisations around the world.
pOtentiAl impACt mitiGAtiOn Any challenge to the integrity or availability of information that the The group has comprehensive information security standards and group relies upon could result in operational and regulatory challenges, policies in place which are reviewed on a regular basis.
Access to key costs to the group, reputational damage to the businesses and the systems and data is restricted, monitored, and logged with auditable data permanent loss of revenue.
This risk has increased as the threat of cyber trails.
Restrictions are in place to prevent unauthorised data downloads.
attack has become more significant.
A successful cyber attack could The group is subject to regular internal information security audits, cause considerable disruption to business operations.
supplemented by expert external resource.
The group continues to invest in appropriate cyber defences including implementation of The wider use of social media has also increased information risk as intrusion detection systems to mitigate the risk of unauthorised access.
negative comments made about the groups products can now spread The groups Information Security Group meets regularly to consider and more easily.
Although technological innovations in mobile working, the Comprehensive back-up plans for IT infrastructure and business data introduction of cloud-based technologies and the growing use of social are in place to protect the businesses from unnecessary disruption.
media present opportunities for the group, they also introduce new information security risks that need to be managed carefully.
The group has professional indemnity insurance.
22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Strategic Report Strategy and Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 24 www.
Principal risks and uncertainties continued lOnDOn, new yORK, mOntReAl OR HOnG KOnG wiDe DiSASteR The groups main offices are located in London, New York, Montreal and Hong Kong.
A significant incident affecting these cities could lead to disruption to group operations.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION An incident affecting one or more of the key offices could disrupt the Business continuity plans are in place for all businesses.
These plans are ordinary operations of the businesses at these locations: a region-wide refreshed annually and a programme is in place for testing.
If required, disaster affecting all offices could have much worse implications with employees can work remotely.
serious management and communication challenges for the group and a potential adverse effect on results.
The group has robust IT systems with key locations including the UK, US, Canada and Asia benefiting from offsite data back-ups, remote The risk of office space becoming unusable for a prolonged period and recovery sites and third-party 24-hour support contracts for key a lack of suitable alternative accommodation in the affected area could applications.
also cause significant disruption to the business and interfere with delivery of products and services.
The groups business continuity planning helped its New York office to recover quickly and effectively from the significant disruption caused by Incidents affecting key clients or staff in these regions could also give Hurricane Sandy in 2012. rise to the risk of not achieving forecast results.
puBliSHeD COntent RiSK The group generates a significant amount of its revenue from publishing magazines, journals or information and data online.
As a result, there is an inherent risk of error which, in some instances, may give rise to claims for libel.
The rapid development of social media has increased this risk.
The transition to online publishing means content is being distributed far quicker and more widely than ever before.
This has introduced new challenges for securing and delivering content and effective management of content rights and royalties.
The business also publishes databases and data services with a particular focus on highvalue proprietary data.
There is the potential for errors in data collection and data processing.
The group publishes industry pricing benchmarks for the metals markets and more than 100 equity and bond indices.
The group also runs more than 100 reader polls and awards each year.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION A successful libel claim could damage the groups reputation.
The rise The group runs mandatory annual libel courses for all journalists and in use of social media, and in particular blogging, has further increased editors.
Controls are in place, including legal review, to approve content this risk.
Damage to the reputation of the group arising from libel could that may carry a libel risk.
The group also has editorial controls in place lead to a loss of revenue, including income from advertising.
In addition for publishing using social media and this activity is monitored carefully.
there could be costs incurred in defending the claim.
The groups policy is to own its content and manage redistribution The failure to manage content redistribution rights and royalty rights tightly.
Royalty and redistribution agreements are in place to agreements could lead to overpayment of royalties, loss of intellectual mitigate risks arising from online publishing.
property and additional liabilities for redistribution of content.
The group has implemented tight controls for the verification, cleaning and processing of data used in its database, research and data services.
22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 25 puBliSHeD COntent RiSK continued POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION The integrity of the groups published data is critical to the success The groups processes and methodologies for assessing metals and of the groups database, research and data services.
The group also other commodity prices and calculating indices are clearly defined publishes extensive pricing information and indices for the global and documented.
All employees involved with publishing pricing metals industries and financial markets.
Errors in published data, price information or indices receive relevant training.
Robust contractual assessments or indices could affect the reputation of the group leading disclaimers are in place for all businesses that publish pricing data, to fewer subscribers and lower revenues.
Any challenge to the integrity of polls and awards could damage the Polls and awards are regularly audited and a firewall is in place between reputation of the product and by association the rest of the group, the commercial arm of the business and the editors involved in the polls resulting in legal costs and a permanent loss of revenue.
Key staff are aware of the significant risks associated with publishing content and strong internal controls are in place for reporting to senior management if a potential issue arises.
The group also has libel insurance and professional indemnity cover.
inCORReCt CiRCulAtiOn OR AuDienCe ClAimS The group publishes over 70 titles and sells advertising based partly on circulation and online audience figures.
An incorrect claim for circulation or audience could adversely affect the groups reputation.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION A claim resulting from an incorrect circulation or audience claim could The group audits the circulation figures of every publication regularly lead to the permanent loss of advertisers and other revenue and and monitors related internal controls.
A strict approval system is in damage to the reputation of the group.
place for all media packs.
Detailed guidance is provided to all relevant employees, and their understanding of the rules is regularly monitored.
There are a large number of mutually exclusive titles and it is unlikely that an incorrect circulation claim, should it arise, would affect the circulation of other titles within the wider group.
Similar controls are applied to claims for electronic publishing activities including online traffic reporting.
22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Strategic Report Strategy and Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 26 www.
Principal risks and uncertainties continued lOSS Of Key StAff The group is reliant on key management and staff across all of its businesses.
Many products are dependent on specialist, technical expertise.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION The inability to recruit and retain talented people could affect the Long-term incentive plans are in place for key staff to encourage groups ability to maintain its performance and deliver growth.
The directors remain committed to recruitment and retention of high-quality management and talent, and provide a programme of When key staff leave or retire, there is a risk that knowledge or career opportunity and progression for employees including extensive competitive advantage is lost.
training and international transfer opportunities.
Succession planning is in place for senior management.
In 2012, following an independent and rigorous selection process PR Ensor, managing director, succeeded PM Fallon as executive chairman.
CHC Fordham, an executive director since 2003, succeeded Mr Ensor.
fAiluRe Of CentRAl BACK-OffiCe teCHnOlOGy The business has invested significantly in central backoffice technology to support the transition of the business from print to online publishing.
The backoffice provides customer and product management, digital rights management, ecommerce and performance and activity reporting.
The platform supports a large share of the groups online requirements including key activities for publishing, events and data businesses.
The backoffice technology is critical to the successful functioning of the online business and hence carries a significant amount of risk.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION A failure of the back-office technology may affect the performance, The group continues to invest significantly in its central back-office data integrity or availability of the groups products and services.
The platform is planned, managed and run by a dedicated, extensive failure is likely to affect a large number of businesses and skilled team and its progress and performance are closely monitored by customers, and lead directly to a loss of revenues.
the executive committee and the board.
Online customers are accessing the groups digital content in an The group continues to invest in digital rights management technology increasing number of ways, including using websites, apps and to ensure its content is adequately secured and changing customer e-books.
The group relies on effective digital rights management requirements for accessing the groups products and services are met.
technology to provide flexible and secure access to its content.
An inability to provide flexible access rights to the groups content could Operational and financial due diligence is undertaken for all key lead to products being less competitive or allow unauthorised access to suppliers as part of a formal risk assessment process as well as regular content, reducing subscription revenues as a result.
Contingency planning is carried out to mitigate risk from supplier failure.
The groups reliance on key suppliers, particularly IT suppliers, has increased.
An operational or financial failure of a key supplier could The group has made a substantial investment in e-commerce technology affect the groups ability to deliver products, services or events with a and hosting infrastructure to ensure the back-office platform continues direct impact on management time and financial results.
A reduction in back-office technology investment increases the risk of the online platform becoming ineffective with the group becoming less competitive.
This could lead to fewer customers and declining group revenues.
22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 27 ACquiSitiOn AnD DiSpOSAl RiSK As well as launching and building new businesses, the group continues to make strategic acquisitions where opportunities exist to strengthen the group.
The management team reviews a number of potential acquisitions each year with only a small proportion of these going through to the due diligence stage and possible subsequent purchase.
The strategy also results in the disposal of businesses that no longer fit the groups strategy.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION There is a risk that an acquisition opportunity could be missed.
The group Senior management perform detailed in-house due diligence on could also suffer an impairment loss if an acquired business does not all possible acquisitions and call on expert external advisers where generate the expected returns or fails to operate or grow.
Acquisition agreements are usually structured so as to retain there is a risk that a newly acquired business is not integrated into key employees in the acquired company and there is close monitoring the group successfully or that the expected risks of a newly acquired of performance at board level of the entity concerned post-acquisition.
As a consequence a significant amount of management time could be diverted from other operational matters.
The board regularly reviews the groups existing portfolio of businesses to identify underperforming businesses or businesses that no longer fit The group is also subject to disposal risk, possibly failing to achieve with the groups strategy and puts in place divestment plans accordingly.
optimal value from disposed businesses, failing to identify the time at which businesses should be sold or underestimating the impact on the remaining group from such a disposal.
fAiluRe Of Online StRAteGy The emergence of new technologies such as tablets and other mobile devices and the proliferation of social media are changing how customers access and use the groups products and services.
The group has established a strategy to meet the many challenges of migrating the publishing businesses from traditional print media to online and to ensure the nonpublishing businesses take advantage of new technology when advantageous to do so.
This strategy has been pursued for a number of years.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION The groups online strategy addresses a number of challenges arising The group is already embracing these challenges and overall sees the from the groups transition from print media to an online business and Internet and other technological advances as an opportunity, not a changing customer behaviour.
Competition has increased, with free content becoming more available Significant investment in the groups online strategy has already on the Internet and new competitors benefiting from lower barriers to been made and will continue for as long as necessary.
A failure to manage pricing effectively or successfully differentiate management technology is being implemented across the group the groups products and services could negatively affect business to enable more effective publishing to web, print and the rapidly results.
increasing number of mobile platforms coming onto the market.
Many of the groups businesses already produce soft copies of publications to The customer environment is changing fast with an increasing number supplement the hard copies as well as provide information and content spending more time using the Internet.
Print circulation is declining via apps.
and a failure to convert customers from print risks a permanent loss of customers to competitors.
22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Strategic Report Strategy and Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 28 www.
Principal risks and uncertainties continued fAiluRe Of Online StRAteGy continued POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION The transition from a traditional weekly or monthly publishing cycle to The groups acquisition strategy has increased the number of online continuous publishing has affected editorial practices significantly.
A information providers in the business.
However, while online revenues failure to continue to manage this transition effectively could make the are important, the groups product mix reduces dependency on this business less efficient and less competitive.
For example, the group generates a third of its profits from its event businesses and face-to-face meetings remain an important part Further changes in technology including the widespread use of tablets of customers marketing activities.
and other mobile devices and the impact of social media such as LinkedIn and Twitter are changing customer behaviour and will introduce new challenges for all businesses.
A failure in the groups online strategy to meet these challenges could result in a permanent loss of revenue.
tReASuRy OpeRAtiOnS The group treasury function is responsible for executing treasury policy which seeks to manage the groups funding, liquidity and treasury derivatives risks.
More specifically, these include currency exchange rate fluctuations, interest rate risks, counterparty risk and liquidity and debt levels.
These risks are described in more detail in note 18 to the financial statements.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION If the treasury policy does not adequately mitigate the financial risks The tax and treasury committee is responsible for reviewing and summarised above or is not correctly executed, it could result in approving group treasury policies which are executed by the group unforeseen derivative losses or higher than expected finance costs.
The treasury function undertakes high-value transactions, hence there Segregation of duties and authorisation limits are in place for all is an inherent high risk of payment fraud or error having an adverse payments made.
The treasury function is also subject to regular internal impact on group results.
unfOReSeen tAx liABilitieS The group operates within many tax jurisdictions and earnings are therefore subject to taxation at differing rates across these jurisdictions.
POTENTIAL IMPACT MITIGATION The directors endeavour to manage the tax affairs of the group in an External tax experts and in-house tax specialists, reporting to the tax efficient manner: however, due to an ever-more complex international and treasury committee, work together to review all tax arrangements tax environment there will always be a level of uncertainty when within the group and keep abreast of changes in global tax legislation.
There is also a risk of tax laws being amended by authorities in the different jurisdictions in which the group operates which could have an adverse effect on the financial results.
22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 29 compliance with all local health and safety 5.
Future development in the Quality and integrity of employees business regulations.
External health and safety advisers The competence of people is ensured through An indication of the trading outlook for the are used where appropriate.
The UK businesses high recruitment standards and a commitment group is given in the Chairmans Statement on benefit from a regular assessment of the to management and business skills training.
In 2014 the directors will manage the working environment by experienced assessors group has the advantage of running external business to facilitate growth and to continue to and regular training of all existing and new UK training businesses and uses this in-house shape the business to remain competitive in the employees in health and safety matters.
resource to train cost effectively its employees on economic environments in which it operates.
Employees are also encouraged Disabled employees The group is well placed to diversify its product actively to seek external training as necessary.
It is the groups policy to give full and fair and geographical base and remains committed consideration to applications for employment to its strategy set out on page 8.
High-quality and honest personnel are an from people who are disabled: to continue, essential part of the control environment.
wherever possible, the employment of, and to The board will continue to review the portfolio The high ethical standards expected are arrange appropriate training for, employees who of businesses, disposing, closing or restructuring communicated by management and through become disabled: and to provide opportunities any underperforming businesses to allow the the employee handbook which is provided to all for the career development, training and group to have the necessary resources and skills employees.
The employee handbook includes promotion of disabled employees.
The group will invest in specific policies on matters such as the use of technology and new businesses, particularly the groups information technology resources, 8.
Corporate and social electronic information products, as well as in its data protection policy, the UK Bribery Act, responsibility internal systems.
and disciplinary and grievance procedures.
Information on the groups corporate and The group operates an internal intranet site social responsibility including information on its 6.
Gender diversity which is used to communicate with employees carbon footprint, greenhouse gas emissions and The groups gender diversity information is set and provide guidance and assistance on charitable activities is set out in the Corporate out in the Corporate Governance report on day-to-day matters facing employees.
The and Social Responsibility report on page 44. page 38. group has a specific whistle-blowing policy that is supported by an externally monitored and run 7.
Employees involvement and whistle-blowing hotline.
The whistle-blowing training policy is updated regularly and is reviewed by Equal opportunities the audit committee.
The group is an equal opportunities employer.
It seeks to employ a workforce which reflects Human rights and health and safety Christopher Fordham the diverse community at large, because requirements Managing Director the contribution of the individual is valued, The group is committed to the health and November 13 2013 irrespective of sex, age, marital status, disability, safety and the human rights of its employees sexual preference or orientation, race, colour, and communities in which it operates.
Health religion, ethnic or national origin.
It does not and safety issues are monitored to ensure discriminate in recruitment, promotion or other employee matters.
The group endeavours to provide a working environment free from unlawful discrimination, victimisation or harassment.
22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Strategic Report Strategy and Performance
