Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 30 www.
com Directors Report The directors submit their annual report Details of the interests of the directors in Directors and their interests and group accounts for the year ended the ordinary shares of the company and of The companys Articles of Association give September 30 2013. options held by the directors to subscribe for power to the board to appoint directors from ordinary shares in the company are set out in time to time.
In addition to the statutory rights Business review and activities the Directors Remuneration Report on pages of shareholders to remove a director by ordinary The principal activities of the group are set out 50 to 73. resolution, the board may also remove a director on page 8 of this Annual Report and Accounts.
where 75% of the board give written notice The information that fulfils the Companies Act Post balance sheet events to such director.
The Articles of Association requirements of the business review is included Events arising after September 30 2013 are set themselves may be amended by a special in the Strategic Report on pages 8 to 29.
This out in note 29. resolution of the shareholders.
includes a review of the development of the Going concern, debt covenants business of the group during the year, of its The directors who served during the year are and liquidity position at the end of the year and of likely listed on page 58.
The directors interests are The results of the groups business activities, future developments in its business.
PM Fallon, the chairman, together with the factors likely to affect its the principal risks and uncertainties are included who was due to retire at the AGM in January future development, performance and financial in the Strategic Report on pages 22 to 28.
The company position are set out in the Chairmans Statement Corporate Governance report forms part of this announced that, effective from October 15 2012, on pages 4 to 7.
its previously announced succession plans would be accelerated and that PR Ensor would succeed The financial position of the group, its cash flows Forward-looking statements PM Fallon as chairman and CHC Fordham would and liquidity position are set out in detail in this Certain statements made in this document succeed PR Ensor as managing director.
The group meets its day-to-day working are forward-looking statements.
Such addition, on December 12 2012 ART Ballingal capital requirements through its US$300 million statements are based on current expectations and TP Hillgarth were appointed as non-executive dedicated multi-currency borrowing facility with and are subject to a number of risks and directors and on January 31 2013 JC Gonzalez Daily Mail and General Trust plc group DMGT.
uncertainties that could cause actual events or retired as non-executive director.
The total maximum borrowing capacity is results to differ materially from any expected US$250 million 154 million and 33 million future events or results referred to in these Following best practice under the September and was due to mature in December 2013.
Unless otherwise 2012 UK Corporate Governance Code and facilitys covenant requires the groups net debt required by applicable law, regulation or in accordance with the companys Articles of to be no more than four times adjusted EBITDA accounting standards, the directors do not Association, all directors submit themselves for on a rolling 12 month basis.
At September 30 undertake any obligation to update or revise any re-election annually.
Accordingly, all directors 2013, the groups net debt to adjusted EBITDA forward-looking statements, whether as a result will retire at the forthcoming Annual General covenant was 0.09 times and the committed of new information, future development or Meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves undrawn facility available to the group was otherwise.
Nothing in this document shall be for re-election.
In addition, in accordance with 165.9 million.
the September 2012 UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance, before the re-election Group results and dividends Subsequent to the year end, the group has of a non-executive director, the chairman The group profit for the year attributable to signed a US$160 million multi-currency is required to confirm to shareholders that, shareholders amounted to 72.6 million 2012: replacement funding facility with DMGT that following formal performance evaluation, the 69.7 million.
The directors recommend a final provides access to funds during the period to non-executive directors performance continues dividend of 15.75 pence per ordinary share April 2016.
The new facilitys covenant requires to be effective and demonstrates commitment 2012: 14.75 pence, payable on Thursday the groups net debt to be no more than to the role.
Accordingly, the non-executive February 13 2014 to shareholders on the register three times adjusted EBITDA on a rolling directors will retire at the forthcoming Annual on Friday November 22 2013.
General Meeting and, being eligible following a with the interim dividend of 7.00 pence per formal performance evaluation by the chairman, ordinary share 2012: 7.00 pence which was offer themselves for re-election.
declared on May 16 2013 and paid on June 27 2013, brings the total dividend for the year to 22.75 pence per ordinary share 2012: 21.75 pence.
22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 31 The groups forecasts and projections, looking there are no people who hold securities Directors indemnities out to September 2016 and taking account carrying special rights with regard to The company has directors and officers liability of reasonably possible changes in trading control of the company: and corporate reimbursement insurance for performance, show that the group should be the companys employee share schemes do the benefit of its directors and those of other able to operate within the level and covenants not give rights with regard to control of the associated companies.
This insurance has been of its current borrowing facility.
company that are not exercisable directly in place throughout the year and remains in by employees: force at the date of this report.
After making enquiries, the directors have a there are no restrictions on voting rights: Annual General Meeting reasonable expectation that the group has the directors are not aware of any The companys next Annual General Meeting adequate resources to continue in operational agreements between holders or securities will be held on January 30 2014. existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, that may result in restrictions on the the directors continue to adopt the going transfer of securities or on voting rights: Auditor concern basis in preparing this annual report.
the company has a number of agreements In the case of each of the persons who is a that take effect, alter or terminate upon a director of the company at November 13 2013: Capital structure and significant change of control of the company following shareholdings so far as each of the directors is aware, a takeover bid, such as commercial Details of the companys share capital are given there is no relevant audit information contracts, bank loan agreements, property in note 22.
The companys ultimate controlling as defined in the Companies Act 2006 lease arrangements, directors service party is given in note 30.
The companys share of which the companys auditors are agreements and employee share plans.
capital is divided into ordinary shares of 0.25 unaware: and None of these agreements are deemed to pence each.
Each share entitles its holder to one each of the directors has taken all the be significant in terms of their potential vote at shareholders meetings and the right to steps that he she ought to have taken as impact on the business of the group as a receive one share of the companys dividends.
a director to make himself herself aware of whole: and any relevant audit information as defined details of the directors entitlement to Significant shareholdings at and to establish that the companys compensation for loss of office following a November 12 2013 auditors are aware of the information.
takeover or contract termination are given Nature % of in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Name of Number voting This confirmation is given and should be of holder holding of shares rights interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Authority to purchase and allot DMG Charles own shares s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Direct 85,838,458 67.88 Limited The companys authority to purchase up to 10% of its own shares expires at the conclusion of A resolution to reappoint Deloitte LLP as the EU Takeovers Directive the companys next Annual General Meeting.
companys auditor is expected to be proposed Pursuant to s992 of the Companies Act 2006, A resolution to renew this authority for a at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
which implements the EU Takeovers Directive, further period will be put to shareholders at this the company is required to disclose certain meeting.
additional information which is not covered elsewhere in this annual report.
Such disclosures At the Annual General Meeting of the company are as follows: on January 31 2013, the shareholders authorised there are no restrictions on the transfer the directors to allot shares up to an aggregate of securities shares or loan notes in the nominal amount of 93,266 expiring at the company, including: i limitations on the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to holding of securities: and ii requirements be held in 2014.
A resolution to renew this to obtain the approval of the company, authority for a further period will be put to or of other holders or securities in the shareholders at this meeting.
company, for a transfer of securities: 22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Strategic Report Strategy and Performance
