Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 02 www.
com Heading Our Divisions Strapline Activities FINANCIAL Financial publishing includes an extensive portfolio of titles PUBLISHING covering the international capital markets as well as a number of specialist financial titles.
Products include magazines, newsletters, journals, surveys and research, directories, and books.
A selection of the companys leading financial brands includes: Euromoney, Institutional Investor, EuroWeek, Latin Finance, Asiamoney, Global Investor, Project Finance, Air Finance and the hedge fund title EuroHedge.
Revenue 75.6m BUSINESS The business publishing division produces print and online PUBLISHING information for the metals and mining, legal, telecoms and energy sectors.
Its leading brands include: Metal Bulletin, American Metal Market: International Financial Law Review, International Tax Review and Managing Intellectual Property: Capacity: Petroleum Economist, World Oil and Hydrocarbon Processing.
Revenue 68.9m CONFERENCES The group runs a large number of sponsored conferences and AND SEMINARS seminars for the international financial markets, mostly under the Euromoney, Institutional Investor, Metal Bulletin and IMN brands.
Many of these conferences are the leading annual events in their sector and provide sponsors with a high quality programme and speakers, and outstanding networking opportunities.
Such events include: Euromoneys Covered Bond Congress: the Global Revenue Borrowers and Investors Forum: the Annual Global Hedge Fund Summit: the European 99.4m Airfinance Conference: and Global ABS and ABS East for the asset-backed securities market.
In the commodities sector, events include Metal Bulletins International Ferro Alloys conference and the worlds leading annual coal conferences, Coaltrans and Coaltrans Asia: TelCap runs International Telecoms Week, the worldwide meeting place for telecom carriers and service providers: and MIS runs a leading event for the information security sector in the US, InfoSec World.
22706.04 13 December 2013 6:27 PM Proof 6 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 03 GROUP REVENUE SPLIT Group revenue Financial publishing 19% Business publishing 17% 404.7m Conferences and seminars 25% Training 7% For more information go to the Research and data 32% Strategic report on pages 8-29 TRAINING The training division runs a comprehensive range of banking, finance and legal courses, both public and in-house, under the Euromoney and DC Gardner brands.
Courses are run all over the world for both financial institutions and corporates.
In addition the companys Boston-based subsidiary, MIS, runs a wide range of courses for the audit and information security market.
Revenue 30.1m RESEARCH The group provides a number of subscription-based research and AND DATA data services for financial markets.
Montreal-based BCA Research is one of the worlds leading independent providers of global macro economic research.
In 2011, the group expanded its independent research activities with the acquisition of US-based Ned Davis Research, a leading provider of independent financial research to institutional and retail investors.
The companys US subsidiary, Internet Securities, Inc. provides the worlds most comprehensive service for Revenue news and data on global emerging markets under the Emerging Markets Information 131.4m Service EMIS brand, and includes CEIC, one of the leading providers of time-series macro-economic data for emerging markets.
The group also offers global capital market databases through a venture with its partner, Dealogic Holdings plc.
Principal Brands Ned Davis Research Group Design Shell Strategic Report Our Divisions Overview Overview
