Strategic Report Business Units Review Governance Financial Statements DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report to Dividends Events since the reporting date shareholders for the financial year ending The directors recommend a dividend of 6 cents The major events after 31 December 2013 are 31 December 2013, which they are required per share to be consistent with their intention disclosed in Note 32 to the Consolidated to produce by law.
of distributing, where appropriate, a proportion Financial Statements on page 200. of the margin on disposals as dividends, and Introduction as an indication of confidence in the Directors and their interests For the purposes of the disclosures required Companys position.
The US$90.4 million Biographical details of the directors who under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules represents the approximate cash portion of the served on the Board during the year are set out and the Listing Rules of the UKLA, cross proceeds from the sale of EVRAZ Vitkovice in the Corporate Governance section on pages references are made where appropriate to Steel, leaving US$196.6 million for the 76 to 77. other sections of the Annual Report.
Detailed information on share ownership by The Company was incorporated under the Going forward, the dividend policy has been directors can be found in the Remuneration name EVRAZ plc as a public company limited revised to support the financial strategy of Report on pages 101 - 102. by shares on 23 September 2011.
EVRAZ plc deleveraging and envisages that the regular listed on the London Stock Exchange in dividends will be paid only when the net Members of EVRAZ plc Board do not receive November 2011 and is a member of the FTSE leverage net debt EBITDA target of below share-based compensation.
The Board reserves the right to propose special dividends in the event of asset disposals.
Powers of Directors Sustainable development Subject to the Companys Articles of The Corporate Social Responsibility section Overseas branches Association, UK legislation and to any of this report focuses on the health and safety, directions given by special resolution, the environmental and employment performance EVRAZ does not have any branches.
The business of the Company is managed by the of the Companys operations, and outlines the Company does, however, have a controlling Board, which may exercise all the powers of Companys core values and commitment to the interest in Evraz Group S. A. which owns steel the Company.
The Articles of Association principles of sustainable development and production, mining and trading companies, as contain specific provisions concerning the development of community relations well as in EVRAZ Greenfield development.
Company power to borrow money and also programmes.
Details of the Companys policies Information about the direct and indirect provide the power to make purchases of any on diversity and employee engagement are subsidiaries of EVRAZ is provided in the of its own shares.
The directors have the provided in the Corporate Social Responsibility Additional Information EVRAZs Corporate authority to allot shares or grant rights to Section on pages 35 - 41.
Structure section of this report on page 210. subscribe for or to convert any security into shares in the Company.
Further details of the Going concern Future developments proposed authorities are set out in the Notice The financial position and performance of the Information on the Group and its subsidiaries of AGM.
Group and its cash flows are set out in the future developments is provided in the Chief Financial Review section of the report on pages Executive Officers Review, Strategic Report, Director appointment 28 to 34. Business Units Review and Financial Review and re-election sections of this report.
The Board has the power at any time to elect The Directors have considered the Groups any person to be a director, but the number debt maturity and cash flow projections and an Financial instruments of directors must not exceed the maximum analysis of projected debt covenants The financial risk management and internal number fixed by the Articles of Association of compliance for the period to the end of June control processes and policies and details the Company.
Any person so appointed by the 2014.
The Board is satisfied that the Groups of hedging policy and exposure to the risks directors will retire at the next Annual General forecasts and projections, taking into account associated with financial instruments can be Meeting and then be eligible for election.
reasonably possible changes in trading found in Note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Under the Articles of Association each director performance, show that the Group will continue Statements, the Corporate Governance section shall retire at the Annual General Meeting held in operation for the foreseeable future and has of this report on pages 72 to 111 and in the in the fourth calendar year following the year in neither the intention nor the need to liquidate Financial Review on page 33. which he she was elected or at such earlier or materially curtail the scale of its operations.
Annual General Meeting as the directors may Political donations decide.
In accordance with the UK Corporate For this reason the Group continues to adopt Governance Code, the directors may be eligible the going concern basis in preparing its No political donations were made in 2013. to annual re-election.
Greenhouse gas emissions In 2013, following the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 Strategic and Directors Report Regulations 2013 EVRAZ undertook to assess full greenhouse gases GHGs emissions from facilities under its control.
Details can be found in the Corporate Social Responsibility section on pages 35 to 41.
EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 105 DIRECTORS REPORT Continued by the Companies Acts.
In addition, directors Directors liabilities Substantial shareholdings and officers of the Company and its Directors indemnities As of 31 December 2013, the following subsidiaries have been and continue to be significant holdings of voting rights in the share As at the date of this report, the Company has covered by Directors & Officers liability capital of the Company were disclosed to the granted qualifying third party indemnities to insurance.
Company under Disclosure and Transparency each of its directors against any liability that Rule 5. attaches to them in defending proceedings brought against them, to the extent permitted Number of % of Issued Ordinary Ordinary Shares Shares Lanebrook Ltd. 934,440,556 63.46 Lanebrook Ltd. Affiliates 42,870,614 2.91 Kadre Enterprises Ltd. 83,751,827 5.69 Verocchio Enterprises Ltd. 82,887,014 5.63 Lanebrook Ltd. the Major Shareholder is a limited liability company incorporated under the laws of Cyprus on 16 March 2006.
It was established for the purpose of holding a majority interest in the Group.
Lanebrook Ltd. is controlled by i Mr. Abramovich, who held a beneficial interest in 456,310,736 ordinary shares in EVRAZ plc 30.99%, ii Mr. Abramov, who held a beneficial interest in 317,300,488 ordinary shares in EVRAZ plc 21.55%, iii Mr. Frolov, who held a beneficial interest in 158,442,915 ordinary shares in EVRAZ plc 10.76% and iv Mr. Shvidler, who held a beneficial interest in 45,257,031 ordinary shares in EVRAZ plc 3.07%.
The percentages in this paragraph exclude any treasury shares and any shares held by or on behalf of EVRAZ pursuant to any employee incentive plan.
From 31 December 2013 to 8 April 2014 being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this document, there was an increase in the number of ordinary shares held by Lanebrook Ltd. and in the underlying number of beneficial interests held by each of Mr. Abramovich, Mr. Abramov, Mr. Frolov and Mr. Shvidler.
Includes shares held by Gennady Kozovoy, Kadres shareholder, both indirectly through Kadre and directly.
Verocchio Ltd. is owned by Alexander Vagin.
In October 2012 EVRAZ agreed the terms of Vagin 33,944,928 new warrants to subscribe ranking pari passu with the existing issued an acquisition of a further 50% interest in for 33,944,928 new ordinary shares in EVRAZ.
ordinary shares, were issued by the Company Corber Enterprises Limited, a 82% shareholder Cash consideration was also agreed to be paid in favour of Lanebrook Ltd. and application was of OJSC Raspadskaya and its subsidiaries, to the sellers in the amount of approximately made to the London Stock Exchange and the from Mr Gennady Kozovoy and Mr Alexander US$202million, payable in four equal UK Listing Authority of the FCA for their listing.
On 3 October 2012, i. e. the time at instalments in Q1 and Q2, Q3 2013 and in The new shares were admitted to the Official which the terms of the issue of new shares Q1 2014 two payments.
List and to trading on the London Stock and new warrants were fixed, the closing Exchange on 28 Januray 2014. market price of the Companys shares was In February 2013, following an agreement 247.30 pence per ordinary share.
The between EVRAZs major shareholder, The Company's issued share capital as of acquisition was completed in January 2013 Lanebrook, and Messrs. Kozovoy and Vagin, 8April 2014 is 1,506,527,294 ordinary when 132,653,006 new EVRAZ ordinary the latter two shareholders exchanged all their shares.
shares were issued in equal shares in favour warrants for Lanebrooks 33,121,022 EVRAZ of the sellers.
The new shares were admitted shares.
The 33,944,928 warrants, held by As of 8 April 2014, the following significant to the Official List of the Financial Conduct Lanebrook, could be exercised at any time holdings of voting rights in the share capital of Authority and began to be traded on the between 16 January 2014 and 16 April 2014. the Company were disclosed to the Company London Stock Exchange main market.
In January 2014, Lanebrook Ltd. exercised its under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5.
33,944,928 warrants to subscribe for new Pursuant to the terms of the Acquisition, ordinary shares in EVRAZ plc.
33,944,928 EVRAZ also issued to Messrs. Kozovoy and new ordinary shares of US$1 each fully paid, Number of % of Issued Ordinary Ordinary Shares Shares Lanebrook Ltd. 968,358,484 64.28 Lanebrook Ltd. Affiliates 42,870,614 2.85 Kadre Enterprises Ltd. 83,751,827 5.56% Verocchio Enterprises Ltd. 82,887,014 5.50% 106 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Business Units Review Governance Financial Statements As a result of the warrant exercise the following ultimate beneficial owners had interests in EVRAZ plc share capital in each case, except for Mr. Kozovoy, held indirectly as of 8 April 2014 being the last practicable date prior to the publication of this document : Number of ordinary % of issued Ultimate benefcial owner shares share capital Roman Abramovich 471,675,808 31.31% Alexander Abramov 328,620,382 21.81% Alexander Frolov 164,095,485 10.89% Gennady Kozovoy 83,751,827 5.56% Alexander Vagin 82,887,014 5.50% Eugene Shvidler 46,864,423 3.11% significant contractual arrangements The Major Shareholder and the Company have a committee comprising the Non-Executive the Listing Rules involving the Major entered into a relationship agreement which Directors of the Company whom the Board Shareholder or any member of the Major regulates the on-going relationship between considers to be independent in accordance Shareholder Group: h if any matter which, in them, ensures that the Company is capable of with paragraph B.
1.1 of the UK Corporate the opinion of an independent Director, gives carrying on its business independently of the Governance Code the Independent rise to a potential conflict of interest between Major Shareholder and ensures that any Committee : d the Major Shareholder shall the Company and or its subsidiaries on the transactions and relationships between the not, and shall procure, insofar as it is legally one hand and the Lanebrook Directors, the Company and the Major Shareholder are at able to do so, that each member of the Major Major Shareholder or any member of the Major arms length and on normal commercial terms.
Shareholder Group shall not, take any action Shareholder Group on the other, such matter which precludes or inhibits the Company and must be approved at a duly convened meeting This agreement terminates if the Major or its subsidiaries from carrying on its of the Independent Committee or in writing by Shareholder ceases to own or control directly business independently of the Major a majority of the Independent Committee: and or indirectly at least 30% of the Ordinary shareholder or any member of the Major i for so long as the Major Shareholder holds Shares in the Company or if the Major Shareholder Group: e the quorum for any an interest in 50% or more in the Company, the Shareholder ceases to have a larger interest Board meeting of the Company shall be two, Major Shareholder undertakes that it will not in the Company than the interest of any other of which at least one must be a Director other and will use its reasonable endeavours to shareholder of the Company.
than a Shareholder Director and or a Director procure that no other member of the who is or has, in the 12 months prior to the Controlling Shareholder Group becomes Under the relationship agreement, the Major relevant date any business or other involved in any competing business subject to Shareholder and the Company agree that: a relationship with the Major Shareholder or any certain exceptions in Russia, the Ukraine or the Major Shareholder has the right to appoint member of the Major Shareholder Group which the CIS without giving the Company the the maximum number of Non-Executive could materially interfere with the exercise of opportunity to participate in the relevant Directors that may be appointed whilst his or her independent judgement in matters competing business.
ensuring that the composition of the Board concerning the Company Lanebrook remains compliant with the UK Corporate Director : f the Major Shareholder shall not, The Board is satisfied that the Company is Governance Code for so long as it holds an and shall procure, insofar as it is legally able to capable of carrying on its business interest in 30% or more of the Company with do so, that each member of the Major independently of the major shareholder and each appointee being a Shareholder Director: Shareholder Group shall not, subject to makes its decisions in a manner consistent b the Major Shareholder shall, and shall specified exceptions, take any action or omit with its duties to the Company and procure, insofar as it is legally able to do so to take any action to prejudice the Companys stakeholders of EVRAZ plc.
Furthermore, the that each of its affiliates excluding the status as a listed company or its suitability for Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings the listing or its on-going compliance with the Company have conducted an annual review to Major Shareholder Group shall, save to the Listing Rules and Disclosure and Transparency consider the continued good standing of the extent required by law, exercise its powers so Rules: g the Major Shareholder shall not, and Relationship Agreement and are satisfied that far as it is able so that the Company is shall procure, insofar as it is legally able to do the terms of the Relationship Agreement are managed in compliance with the requirements so, that each member of the Major being fully observed.
of the Companies Act 2006, the Listing Rules Shareholder Group shall not, exercise any of its and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: c voting or other rights and powers to procure 9.50% notes due 2018, issued by Evraz Group transactions, relationships and agreements any amendment to the Articles which would be S. A. contain change of control provisions.
If a between the Company and or its subsidiaries inconsistent with, undermine or breach any of change of control occurs under the terms of on the one hand and the Major Shareholder the provisions of the Relationship Agreement, these notes, note holders will have the option or a member of the Major Shareholder Group and will abstain from voting on, and will procure to require Evraz Group S. A. to redeem notes on the other shall be entered into and that the Lanebrook Directors abstain from together with interest accrued, if any.
At conducted on an arms length and normal voting on, any resolution to approve a 31 December 2013, the principal amount of commercial basis, unless otherwise agreed by transaction with a related party as defined in these notes amounted to US$509million.
EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 107 DIRECTORS REPORT Continued The Company's issued ordinary share capital The trustee of the Company's Employee Share Annual General Meeting AGM ranks pari passu in all respects and carries the Trust is entitled, under the terms of the trust An annual general meeting shall be held in right to receive all dividends and distributions deed, to vote as it sees fit in respect of the each period of six months beginning with the declared, made or paid on or in respect of the shares held on trust.
day following the Companys annual accounting ordinary shares.
reference date, at such place or places, date Transfer of shares and time as may be decided by the Directors.
There are currently no redeemable non-voting The Companys Articles provide that transfers preference shares or subscriber shares of the The 2014 AGM will be held on 12 June 2014 in of certificated shares must be effected in Company in issue.
At the AGM, shareholders will have the writing, and duly signed by or on behalf of the opportunity to put questions to the Board, transferor and, except in the case of fully paid Articles of association including the chairmen of the Board shares, by or on behalf of the transferee.
The Companys Articles of Association have transferor shall remain the holder of the shares been adopted with effect from Admission on concerned until the name of the transferee is Full details of the AGM, including explanatory 7 November 2011 and contain among others entered in the Register of Members in respect notes, are contained in the Notice of AGM provisions on the rights and obligations of those shares.
As of the date hereof, the which will be distributed at least 20 working attaching to the Companys shares, including Company does not have certificated shares.
The Notice sets out the redeemable non-voting preference shares Transfers of uncertificated shares may be the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM and the subscriber shares.
The Articles of effected by means of CREST unless the CREST and an explanation of each resolution.
All Association may only be amended by special Regulations provide otherwise.
documents relating to the AGM are available resolution at a general meeting of the on the Companys website at www.
The directors may refuse to register an investors information general meeting.
allotment or transfer of shares in favour of more than four persons jointly.
Share rights Electronic communications Without prejudice to any rights attached to any Auditors A copy of the 2013 Annual Report, the Notice existing shares, the Company may issue of the AGM and other corporate publications, shares with rights or restrictions as determined Ernst & Young is the Companys auditor and reports and announcements are available on by either the Company by ordinary resolution will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual the Companys website at www.
or, if the Company passes a resolution, the General Meeting.
Shareholders may elect to receive notification Directors.
The Company may also issue shares by email of the availability of the Annual Report which are, or are liable to be, redeemed at the Our Directors Report as set out on pages 105 on the Companys website instead of receiving option of the Company or the holder and the to 108 inclusive has been prepared in paper copies.
directors may determine the terms, conditions accordance with, applicable English company and manner of redemption of any such shares.
law and was approved by the Board on 8 April 2014.
Purchase of own shares Voting rights Details of transactions with treasury shares By order of the Board are provided in Note 20 of the Consolidated There are no other restrictions on voting rights Financial Statements on page 176. or transfers of shares in the Articles other than those described in these paragraphs.
Details of deadlines for exercising voting rights and Share capital proxy appointment will be set out in the 2014 As of 31 December 2013 EVRAZ plc notice of AGM.
subscribed share capital was represented by Alexander Frolov 1,472,582,366 ordinary shares with a nominal At a general meeting, subject to any special Chief Executive Officer value of US$1 each.
In connection with an rights or restrictions attached to any class of EVRAZ plc exercise by Lanebrook Limited Lanebrook, shares on a poll, every member present in 8 April 2014 EVRAZs major shareholder, of 33,944,928 person or by proxy has one vote for every share warrants to subscribe for new ordinary shares held by him.
in EVRAZ plc, the Company issued 33,944,928 new ordinary shares of US$1 A proxy is not be entitled to vote where the each fully paid, ranking pari passu with the member appointing the proxy would not have existing issued ordinary shares.
The newly been entitled to vote on the resolution had he issued shares were admitted to the Official List been present in person.
Unless the directors and to trading on the London Stock Exchange decide otherwise, no member shall be entitled on 28 Januray 2014. to vote either personally or by proxy or to exercise any other right in relation to general Since 28 January 2014, the Company's issued meetings if any sum due from him to the share capital has consisted of 1,506,527,294 Company in respect of that share remains ordinary shares, and the total number of voting unpaid.
108 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
