BOARD OF DIRECTORS Alexander Abramov Alexander Frolov Olga Pokrovskaya Eugene Shvidler Eugene Tenenbaum Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive officer Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director born 1959 born 1964 born 1969 born 1964 born 1964 Appointment: Founded Appointment: Joined Appointment: Has been Appointment: Member of the Appointment: Member of the EvrazMetall, a predecessor EvrazMetall in 1994 and a member of the Board of Board of Directors of Evraz Board of Directors of Evraz of the Group, in 1992.
CEO served as EvrazMetalls Chief Directors of Evraz Group S. A.
Group S. A. since August 2006. of EVRAZ Group S. A. until Financial Officer from 2002 to since August 2006.
Appointed Appointed to the Board of Appointed to the Board of 1 January 2006, Chairman 2004 and as Senior Executive to the Board of EVRAZ plc on EVRAZ plc on 14 October EVRAZ plc on 14 October of EVRAZ Group S. A. s Board Vice President of Evraz Group 14 October 2011.
Appointed S. A. from 2004 to April 2006.
Chairman of EVRAZ plc on Chairman of the Board of Committee membership: Committee membership: Committee membership: None 14 October 2011.
Directors of Evraz Group S. A.
Member of the Audit Member of the Nominations from May 2006 until December Committee and of the Health, Committee.
Skills and experience: 2008 and appointed CEO with Committee membership: Safety and Environment Mr. Tenenbaum is currently effect from January 2007.
Member of the Nominations Committee.
Skills and experience: Eugene Managing Director of MHC Apointed CEO of EVRAZ plc Committee.
Shvidler currently serves as Services Ltd. and serves on on 14 October 2011.
Skills and experience: Chairman of Millhouse LLC and the Board of Chelsea FC Plc Skills and experience: Ms. Pokrovskaya is head of Highland Gold Mining Ltd.
He is and Highland Gold Mining Ltd. Committee membership: Mr. Abramov served as corporate finance at Millhouse also on the board of directors He served as Head of Member of the Health, Safety a non-executive director LLC and a member of the of AFC Energy plc.
Mr. Shvidler Corporate Finance for Sibneft and Environment Committee.
from May 2006 until his Board of Directors of Highland served as President of Sibneft in Moscow from 1998 to2001.
re-appointment as Chairman Gold Mining Ltd.
Mr. Tenenbaum joined Salomon of the Board on 1 December Skills and experience: Ms. Pokrovskaya has held Brothers in 1994 as Director 2008.
A director of OJSC Alexander Frolov has held several key finance positions for Corporate Finance where Raspadskaya, a member various positions at with Sibneft, including head he worked until 1998.
Prior of the Bureau of the Board EvrazMetall and other of corporate finance.
From to that, he spent five years in of Directors, a member of the companies, predecessors of 1991 to 1997, she worked Corporate Finance with KPMG Board of Directors of the Evraz Group S. A. since joining as a senior audit manager in Toronto, Moscow and Russian Union of Industrialists in 1994 and has been a at the accounting firm London, including three years and Entrepreneurs an member of the Board of Arthur Andersen.
1990-1993 as National independent non-governmental Directors of Evraz Group S. A.
Director at KPMG International organization, a director of since 2005.
Prior to joining in Moscow.
Mr. Tenenbaum OJSC Bank International EVRAZ, Mr. Frolov worked was an accountant in the Financial Club, a member of as a research fellow at the I. V. Business Advisory Group at the Board of Skolkovo Institute Kurchatov Institute of Atomic Price Waterhouse in Toronto for Science and Technology Energy.
from 1987 until 1989. and a member of the Board of Moscow University of Physics and Technology.
76 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Business Units Review Governance Financial Statements Sir Michael Peat Duncan Baxter Karl Gruber Alexander Izosimov Terry Robinson Senior Independent Independent NonIndependent NonIndependent NonIndependent NonNon-Executive Director Executive Director Executive Director executive Director Executive Director born 1949 born 1952 born 1952 born 1964 born 1944 Appointment: Appointed Appointment: Member of the Appointment: Member of the Appointment: Appointed Appointment: Member of the to the Board of EVRAZ plc Board of Directors of Evraz Board of Directors of Evraz to the Board of EVRAZ plc Board of Directors of Evraz on 14 October 2011.
Group S. A. since May 2010. on 28 February 2012.
Appointed to the Board of Appointed to the Board of Appointed to the Board of EVRAZ plc on 14 October EVRAZ plc on 14 October EVRAZ plc on 14 October Committee membership: Committee membership: 2011.
Chairman of the Nominations Member of the Remuneration Committee and a member of Committee and a member of the Audit Committee.
Committee membership: Committee membership: the Nominations Committee.
Committee membership: Chairman of the Remuneration Chairman of the Health, Safety Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of and Environment Committee Committee and a member of Skills and experience: Skills and experience: the Audit Committee.
and a member of the the Nominations Committee Sir Michael Peat is a qualified Alexander Izosimov has Remuneration Committee.
and of the Health, Safety and chartered accountant with over extensive managerial and Environment Committee.
He Skills and experience: Duncan board experience.
From 2003 also chairs the Groups Risk served as Principal Private Baxter, resident in Jersey, has Skills and experience: to 2011, he was President and Committee, which is an Secretary to HRH The Prince of had many years experience of Mr. Gruber has over 35 years CEO of VimpelCom, a leading Executive Committee.
Wales from 2002 until 2011. international banking.
He experience in the international emerging market Prior to this, he spent nine began his career in banking metallurgical mill business.
years as the Royal Households with Barclays International He has held various From 1996 to 2003 he held Skills and experience: Director of Finance and Bank in Zimbabwe before management positions, various managerial positions Mr. Robinson is a qualified Property Services, Keeper of joining RAL Merchant Bank in including eight years as a at Mars Inc. and was Regional chartered accountant and the Privy Purse and Treasurer 1978.
In 1985, he became a member of the Managing President for CIS, Central has 40 years international to the Queen, and Receiver director of Commercial Bank Board of VOEST-Alpine Europe and Nordics, and a business experience.
He spent General of the Duchy of Jersey Ltd, which was Industrieanlagenbau VAI, first member of the executive 20 years at Lonrho PLC, the Lancaster.
Sir Michael Peat subsequently acquired by as Executive Vice President of board.
Prior to Mars Inc, Mr international mining and was at KPMG from 1972, and Swiss Bank Corporation SBC.
VAI and then as Vice Chairman Izosimov was a consultant with trading group, the last 10 years became a partner in 1985.
He In 1988, he became managing of the Managing Board of McKinsey & Co. Stockholm, of which he served as a main left KPMG in 1993 to devote director of SBC Jersey Branch.
He also served London 1991-1996 and was board director.
Since 1998, he himself to his public roles.
Sir Since leaving SBC in 1998 as Chairman on the Boards involved in numerous projects has been variously occupied Michael Peat is an Independent after its merger with UBS AG, of Metals Technologies MT in transportation, mining, with international business Non-executive on the Board of he has undertaken a number of Germany and MT Italy.
Further manufacturing and oil recovery engagements and Deloitte LLP, a director of CQS consultancy projects for he has executed various businesses.
Mr Izosimov investment projects including Management Limited, a international banks and consultancy projects for currently serves on the boards natural resources in the UK, Non-executive Director of investment management steel industry and served of MTG AB, East Capital AB, Russia, the CIS and Brazil.
He Tamar Energy Limited and companies.
He is a Nonas CEO and Chairman of Dynasty Foundation, LM is independent director and Chairman of the Advisory Board Executive Director of Highland the Management Board of Ericsson AB and Transcom SA, Deputy Chairman of Katanga of GEMS UK.
He is an MA, Gold Mining Ltd and also holds LISEC Group.
as well as on the executive Mining Limited and is also MBA and Fellow of the Institute other non-executive board of ICC International an independent and senior of Chartered Accountants in directorships.
Mr. Baxter is a Chamber of Commerce.
He non-executive director of England and Wales.
Fellow of the Institute of previously served as director Highland Gold Mining Ltd. Chartered Secretaries and and Chairman of the GSMA He is a Fellow of the Institute Administrators, the Securities global association of mobile of Chartered Accountants of Institute, the Chartered operators board of directors, England and Wales.
Terry Institute of Bankers, the and was also a director of Robinson was elected to the Institute of Management and Baltika Breweries, Board of OJSC Raspadskaya, the Institute of Directors.
confectionery company Sladko, a subsidiary of EVRAZ, at the and IT company Teleopti AB.
The Board is satisfied that this nomination has no impact on Mr Robinsons independence.
EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 77 VICE PRESIDENTS OF EVRAZ PLC 2 Pavel Tatyanin Vsevolod Sementsov Senior Vice President Vice President Head of International Business Corporate Communications Leonid Kachur Alexander Kuznetsov Senior Vice President Vice President Business Support and Interregional Relations Strategic Development and Operational Planning Marat Atnashev Vice President Artem Natrusov Iron Ore Division and Major Projects Vice President Information Technologies Giacomo Baizini Vice President Yury Pavlov Corporate Affairs and CFO Vice President Procurement Scott Baus Vice President Ilya Shirokobrod EVRAZ Business System Vice President Railway Products Division 1 Grigory Botvinovskiy Vice President Sergey Stepanov Raw Materials Sales Vice President Coal Division Natalia Ionova Vice President Timur Yanbukhtin Human Resources Vice President Business Development and International Aleksey Ivanov Business Vice President Steel Division Elena Zhavoronkova Vice President Michael Shuble Legal Affairs Vice President Health, Safety and Environment 1 In March 2013 Grigory Botvinovskiy was appointed Vice President of Raw Materials Sales: prior Mr. Botvinovsky was Vice President of Vanadium Assets 2 In June 2013 Vsevolod Sementsov was appointed Vice President of Corporate Communications.
78 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
