10 Experian Annual Report 2013 Business overview Our strategy for growth We seek to create value by investing in our business for growth.
At the heart of our strategy is the global growth programme through which we extend our presence into new customer segments, expand geographically and invest in new products.
We are careful to prioritise our investments in order to achieve the maximum returns on the investments that we make.
In 2013, of 19 initiatives in our growth programme, 11 were related to new product development, five to growth across new customer segments and three to expansion in new geographies.
There is growing demand from customers in many NEW CUSTOMER SEGMENTS different industries for data and analytical solutions REVENUE BY which help to improve business decisions and enhance CUSTOMER SEGMENT the customer experience.
Financial services 30% Direct-to-consumer 21% When we are successful in one market we are able to use this Retail 10% experience in other industry segments.
For example, data and Telecoms and utilities 6% Automotive 5% software platforms that help banks to assess credit risk can Insurance 4% be adapted to help telecommunication companies manage Media and technology 3% their customer relationships more effectively.
Healthcare payments 2% Public sector and education 2% Other 17% As a Group we take a global approach to our business.
EXPANDING GEOGRAPHICALLY We map out where we are in the world and then evaluate the options for expanding into new geographies.
We move around the world inorganically via acquisition, or organically by building new credit bureaux and taking existing products into new geographies.
REVENUE BY REGION We invest in products and platforms that are designed to North America 48% work in many markets around the world, taking the best Latin America 21% products from our large markets and introducing these into UK and Ireland 19% EMEA Asia Pacific 12% emerging markets.
New product innovation is critical to the development of PRODUCT INNOVATION our business.
We continuously seek new ways to grow our business by developing new products.
We also look for ways REVENUE FROM NEW PRODUCTS DEVELOPED IN THE PAST FIVE YEARS to become more efficient and our preference is to build a product once and then to deploy it many times.
In this way, our business is becoming more scalable and more costefficient.
It also means we can build products on which 10% our clients can standardise, enabling them to make more consistent decisions wherever they operate around the world.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 11 P32 For further information on how we have executed on our strategy this year please see the Chief Executives review.
We are expanding into a variety of new segments such as the public sector, telecommunications, the small and medium enterprise SME sector, healthcare payments, insurance and utilities.
These are proving to be areas of high growth for us.
This year, 70% of global revenue came from customer segments outside of financial services.
We are investing in start-up credit bureaux in India and Australia, rolling out Consumer Services in Brazil, Colombia and South Africa, taking our Marketing Services products globally, and expanding our analytics and software capabilities in Brazil, Colombia, Russia and Turkey, among other markets.
This year, 33% of our global revenue came from Latin America and EMEA Asia Pacific.
We are investing in new decision management software, new fraud and identity management products, crosschannel marketing capabilities, new technology to support our expansion into affinity services for consumers, and new business information and credit bureau platforms.
More than 10% of our global revenue this year came from new products developed in the past five years.
