14 Experian Annual Report 2013 Business overview CREDIT SERVICES DECISION ANALYTICS Business lines: MARKETING SERVICES CONSUMER SERVICES Decision Analytics Decision Analytics unlocks the value of our vast Contribution to Group revenue databases of credit and marketing information, as well as our clients data, applying expert consulting, analytical 11% tools, software and systems to help clients solve complex problems and make valuable business decisions.
Description Competitive environment Customer management systems are We enable organisations to make accurate used to automate huge volumes of dayOur competitive advantage lies in our and relevant decisions at every stage of the to-day decisions, helping clients make integrated approach to solving our the right decision for each customer, in a clients problems, particularly in our customer journey, helping them: to identify consistent and cost-efficient manner.
ability to integrate multiple data sets.
potentially profitable new customers, We are a market-leading provider of to segment their existing customers Fraud and identity solutions are used to Decision Analytics in all our major according to risk and opportunity, to authenticate that people are who they geographies.
Global competitors include manage and grow their existing portfolios, say they are and that the information Fair Isaac and SAS, and competition in to undertake effective collections actions, being provided is correct.
individual markets consists typically of and to help detect and prevent fraud.
Collections analytics and software smaller, local players.
play an important part in helping Our integrated approach involves taking organisations establish an accurate our data, our clients data, third party Market influences for Credit Services picture of a customers propensity and Decision Analytics data, and applying analytical models to pay and, therefore, the amount likely and scores to transform that data into The explosion of data globally means to be recovered.
Our organisations need to capture that data comprehensive consultative-led approach and derive useful insights from it to make Clients helps clients identify issues, develop better and faster decisions about their Clients vary in size, from small to insights and focus on solutions that add business and customers.
We serve value to their business, whilst providing particularly financial institutions, are thousands of clients globally, from a execution support.
We employ over 400 dealing with increased regulatory range of industries, including financial analysts and statisticians globally to scrutiny: new rules and regulations create bespoke and industry solutions.
services, telecommunications, utilities, are focusing on risk management and Products that can be applied industryfair treatment of customers.
Clients in retail, insurance, automotive and the our newer customer segments, such wide can frequently spring from bespoke public sector.
Multinational clients often as telecommunications and utilities, models, as we find common elements of a standardise their operations globally are becoming increasingly aware of problem across more than one customer.
on our tools and software, helping to the benefits of managing customer improve strategic control and operating We have developed solutions to help relationships, optimising collections effectiveness as well as helping to our customers improve their business and combating fraud.
The growth in satisfy regulatory obligations.
operations and decision making in e-commerce and mobile commerce, and areas such as application processing, the increase in cross-border transactions Financial characteristics customer management, fraud and mean that organisations need to Credit scores and fraud checks are identity, and collections: authenticate customers and understand sold on a transactional volumeApplication processing systems enable with whom they are doing business.
tiered basis, whilst revenue from organisations to balance the requirement Economic growth in emerging markets software and systems consists partly for speed and competitiveness with the stimulates demand for our core products of implementation fees and partly of need for careful risk assessment when and simpler hosted solutions support considering an applicant for credit.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 15 NEW CUSTOMER EXPANDING PRODUCT SEGMENTS GEOGRAPHICALLY INNOVATION Banco Votorantim Using our teams statistical modelling expertise combined with our high-quality, detailed credit bureau information we helped the bank to enhance its credit models and to increase automated responses in the credit process to speed up the approvals process for customers.
A new portfolio management strategy was implemented to improve customer profitability, f fr ro om m the loan application, to approval, to the monitorin ng g of repayments.
Our team also helped explore the e collections process to take into account custome er rs s Banco Votorantim is one of Brazils largest privately circumstances and their ability to repay, to deter rmin mine e held banks, with a financing division that manages the appropriate collections approach to help imp pro rov five e consumer credit, specialising in vehicle finance and the recovery of outstanding balances.
Andr Luis Duarte fide Oliveira, Director Credit and d At the beginning of 2012, Banco Votorantim wanted Collections at Banco Votorantim, says: Our work w k wi ith th to refine its customer acquisition process, while also Serasa Experian has enabled us to quickly redu uc ce e improving how it managed its existing customers.
delinquencies in our vehicle finance loan portfol oli io o, Working with Banco Votorantim, we helped the bank while improving how we manage customers ac cro ros ss s to improve how it managed its customers through the the entire credit lifecycle.
The value added by S Ser era as sa a credit lifecycle.
Experian and its proven data and analytical too ol ls h s ha as s helped us a lot.
PRODUCT NEW CUSTOMER EXPANDING INNOVATION SEGMENTS GEOGRAPHICALLY Turkcell Europes telecommunications market is one of the most highly competitive markets in the world with operators investing heavily to keep customers from switching to competitors.
To add to the complexity, the huge array of new products, services and channels means there are countless different tariffs that operators can offer to new and existing customers.
Turkcell is the leading communications and technology company in Turkey, with 34.9 million subscribers.
It is a leading regional player, with market leadership in five of the nine countries in which it operates with approximately 69.2 million subscribers as of 31 March 2013.
The rapidly growing operator wanted to look at ovem m m m m ment As a result, Turkcell has already seen a 20% improvement how it could optimise every offer it makes to each of creas s s s se in the number of contacts made and a two-fold increase its customers in Turkey over a variety of digital and nnels, in campaign response rates across multiple channels, offline channels.
ate and while drastically reducing the time it takes to create and deliver personalised offers to just a few hours.
Working closely with Turkcell, we implemented our Marketswitch Optimisation technology to maximise Ebru Darip, Business Insights and Controlling Dir re ec ct to or r the performance of every customer interaction by at Turkcell, says: Experians proven experience e o of f automatically determining the best offer to send to each working in the global telecommunications mar rk ke et t customer, the most effective message and the best and the combination of its analytics and consu ulti ltin ng g channel to use.
means that we can now communicate with eve ery ry single one of our customers, with the right offe er r, u us si in ng g For Turkcells Customer Relationship Management the right channel within compliance of regulato or ry y CRM team, it can now create and evaluate a multitude requirements.
This level of insight means we c can an of different communication scenarios for its customer now make fast and effective decisions to boost t offers, before allocating resources to a campaign.
Direct our acquisition, retention and cross and up-sell l from their desktop, the Turkcell CRM team can quickly strategies.
pre-test each campaign and fine-tune every aspect to optimise its performance ahead of going live.
