92 Experian Annual Report 2013 Governance Directors report The directors present their report in lieu of a final dividend of 24.00 US cents Insurance and third party and the audited financial statements per ordinary share 2012: 21.75 US cents indemnification for the year ended 31 March 2013. to be paid on 19 July 2013 to shareholders During the year and up to the date The corporate governance report forms on the register of members on 21 June of approval of this annual report, the part of this directors report.
An interim dividend of 10.75 US Company maintained liability insurance cents per ordinary share was paid on and third party indemnification Principal activities and 1 February 2013 giving a total dividend for provisions for its directors.
business review the year of 34.75 US cents per ordinary Experian provides data and analytical tools share 2012: 32.00 US cents.
Acquisitions and disposals to organisations in North America, Latin Information in respect of acquisitions P58 Directors America, UK and Ireland, EMEA and Asia and disposals made during the year are Pacific.
Clients use these to manage credit The names, biographical details and key contained in the business review and in risk, prevent fraud, target marketing offers skills and experience of the directors are note 45 and note 47 respectively to the and automate decision-making.
Experian shown in the biographies section.
also helps individuals to manage their Cassin was appointed as Chief Financial Post balance sheet events credit relationships and protect against Officer on 30 April 2012.
Activities in the regions in and George Rose were appointed as nonDetails of events occurring after the end which Experian operates are grouped executive directors on 1 September 2012. of the reporting period are contained in into four global business lines: Credit David Tyler retired as a non-executive note 52 to the Group financial statements.
Services, Decision Analytics, Marketing director on 31 December 2012.
Share capital Services and Consumer Services.
Particulars of directors remuneration, Details of the authorised and issued The business overview and business service contracts and interests in share capital of the Company and review sections are incorporated into the ordinary shares of the Company changes to the Companys share capital this directors report by reference.
They are shown in the report on directors during the year ended 31 March 2013 are contain details of the development and remuneration.
There have been no set out in note N to the parent company performance of the Groups businesses changes in the directors interests in financial statements.
The rights and during the year, an indication of the key such ordinary shares between the end obligations attaching to the ordinary performance indicators and information of the financial year and 8 May 2013. and deferred shares are also set out in regarding principal risks and uncertainties, In accordance with the UK Corporate note N and the articles of association together with information equivalent to Governance Code, all directors will of the Company, a copy of which can that required for a business review.
retire at the annual general meeting in be obtained from the Experian website July 2013 and, being eligible, will offer www.
Research and development themselves for election re-election.
Research and development plays a key Substantial shareholdings An evaluation of Board performance role in supporting Experians activities.
and the performance of individual Substantial shareholders are required to Details of such activities are given in directors, as well as an evaluation of notify their interests in accordance with the business overview and business the performance of the principal Board the Companys articles of association, review sections.
committees, was carried out during the which obliges shareholders to comply year ended 31 March 2013 and the Board Results and dividends with the notification obligations to the is satisfied that all directors contribute Company contained in the UK Disclosure The Group income statement shows effectively and demonstrate commitment and Transparency Rules.
As at 8 May a profit for the financial year ended to their roles.
Further details regarding 2013, the Company had been notified of 31 March 2013 of US$406m 2012: the evaluation process are contained in the interests below in its issued ordinary US$718m.
The directors have announced the corporate governance report.
share capital or voting rights.
the payment of a second interim dividend Substantial shareholdings Percentage of Direct indirect Number of ordinary issued share Date of notification Shareholder interest shares voting rights capital voting rights 15 February 2011 Artisan Partners Limited Partnership Indirect 50,901,871 4.98% 5 September 2012 The Capital Group Companies, Inc Indirect 32,286,000 3.1979% 24 January 2013 BlackRock, Inc Indirect 51,371,146 5.09% Bu Bus si ine fines ss s o ov five er rv vi ie ew w Bu Bus si ine fines ss s r re ev vi ie ew w G Go ov five ern rna an nce ce F Fi in na anc nci ia al l s st ta at tem emen ent ts s 93 Where, under a share-based employee maximum and the directors give ADR programme incentive plan operated by Experian, notice to the holder s of such shares, The Company has a Level 1 American participants are the beneficial owners such shares shall not confer on the Depositary Receipt ADR programme of the shares but not the registered holder s thereof the right to receive in the USA for which The Bank of owner, the voting rights are normally notice of, attend or vote at general New York Mellon acts as depositary.
exercised by the registered owner at meetings of the Company.
The ADRs are traded on the highest the direction of the participants.
tier of the US over-the-counter market, Details of deadlines in respect of OTCQX, where each ADR represents Shares held in treasury carry no voting for the 2013 annual general one Experian plc ordinary share.
voting rights for as long as they are meeting are contained in the notice Further details are given in the held as treasury shares.
of meeting that has been circulated to shareholder information section.
shareholders and which can also be The deferred shares in the Company viewed at the Companys website.
Restrictions on transfers of shares No member shall, unless the directors and or voting rights Own shares otherwise determine, be entitled in The existing authority for the Company The Company is not aware of any respect of any share held by him to purchase its own shares, which agreements between shareholders that her to vote either personally or by expires at the end of this years annual may result in restrictions on the transfer proxy at a shareholders meeting or general meeting, was given at the annual of securities and or voting rights and, to exercise any other right conferred general meeting held on 18 July 2012 and apart from those matters described by membership in relation to permitted the Company to purchase, in below, there are no restrictions on the shareholders meetings if any call or the market, 100,900,421 of its own shares.
transfer of ordinary shares in the capital other sum presently payable by him The Company did not utilise this authority of the Company and or voting rights: her to the Company in respect of that during the year under review, or up to the Certain restrictions on transfers of share remains unpaid.
date of approval of this annual report.
shares may from time to time be No member shall, unless the directors imposed by, for example, insider Details of the new authority being requested otherwise determine, be entitled to dealing regulations.
In accordance at the 2013 annual general meeting are vote either personally or by proxy with the Listing Rules of the UK contained in the circular to shareholders, at a shareholders meeting or to Financial Conduct Authority, directors which accompanies this annual report or exercise any other right conferred are required to seek the approval of is available on the Companys website at by membership in relation to the Company to deal in its shares.
shareholders meetings if he she Certain employees are also required fails within the prescribed period to As at the date of approval of this annual to seek approval.
provide the Company with information report, the Company holds 20,000,000 Some of Experians share-based concerning interests in those shares 2012: 23,995,602 of its own shares as employee incentive plans include required to be provided after being treasury shares.
On 25 May 2012, 3,995,602 restrictions on transfer of shares while duly served with a notice pursuant shares were transferred from treasury the shares are subject to the plan.
to the articles of association of the to RBC cees Trustee Limited for nil As described in the report on directors Company.
consideration, to be held under the terms remuneration, non-executive directors of the Experian plc Employee Share Trust.
In accordance with the articles of receive a proportion of fees in shares association of the Company and save Details of the shares in the Company until their shareholding reaches one for certain limited circumstances, if purchased by and held under the times their annual fee.
These shares the number of shares in the Company Experian plc Employee Share Trust and may not normally be transferred during beneficially owned by residents of the the Experian UK Approved All Employee their period of office.
USA exceeds a defined permitted Share Plan are set out in note O to the parent companys financial statements.
94 Experian Annual Report 2013 Governance Directors report continued Significant agreements Contractual arrangements Financial risk management, objectives change of control and policies The licences granted to Group There are a number of agreements to companies by governmental entities Descriptions of the use of financial which the Group is party that take effect, in respect of the operation of its credit instruments and Experians treasury and alter or terminate, or have the potential bureaux in key jurisdictions are essential risk management objectives and policies to do so, upon a change of control to the Groups business.
The Group are set out in the financial review within of the Company following a takeover also has several key agreements with the business review section and also in bid.
Details of the agreements of this its technology and data providers.
note 8 to the Group financial statements.
nature are: Although the Group has numerous other Charitable donations third party contractual arrangements, The Groups banking facilities contain none of these is considered essential to Experian has continued to support provisions which, in the event of a its business.
community initiatives and charitable change of control of the Company, could causes worldwide in line with our result in a renegotiation or withdrawal of Appointment and removal of directors strategy, which focuses on financial such facilities.
Both the Company by ordinary education and entrepreneurship.
The 334m 5.625% Euronotes due 2013, resolution and the directors may elect The total commitment, including cash the US$600m 2.375% Senior Notes due any person to be a director, but the support and employee time, during 2017, the 400m 4.75% Euronotes due number of directors shall not exceed the year was US$5.3m 2012: US$3.5m, 2018 and the 500m 4.75% Euronotes the maximum number fixed by the as re-presented.
due 2020, issued by the Group, provide articles of association of the Company.
Of this, in 2013, the Groups community that holders may require repayment Any person appointed by the directors investment in the UK totalled US$1.5m of the notes in the event that a rating shall only hold office until the next 2012: US$1.5m, as re-presented agency re-rates the notes to below annual general meeting and shall and US$0.6m was made in financial investment grade following a change then be eligible for election.
The office donations and volunteering hours to of control of the Company.
of a director shall be vacated on the charitable organisations.
An amount of All of Experians share-based employee occurrence of any of the events listed in US$0.3m was given to fund significant incentive plans contain provisions article 92 of the articles of association partnership projects with The Princes relating to a change of control.
The Company may, Trust, Personal Finance Education Group Outstanding awards and options would in accordance with its articles of and Teach First.
A further US$0.2m was normally vest and become exercisable association, remove any director from donated in small grants to a further on a change of control, subject to office and elect another person in place 106 charities in support of employees the satisfaction of any performance of a director so removed.
suggestions and fundraising efforts and conditions at that time.
Articles of association The Group is party to a limited number The articles of association of the of operational arrangements which Political donations Company may be amended by the can be terminated or altered upon a Experian did not make any EU political passing of a special resolution.
change of control of the Company, donations during the year ended but these are not considered to 31 March 2013. be individually significant to the business of the Group as a whole or, in certain cases, it is considered that their disclosure would be seriously prejudicial to the Company.
The provisions in directors service contracts relating to a change of control of the Company are described in the report on directors remuneration.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 95 Employment of people with Creditor payment Annual general meeting disabilities For all trade creditors, it is Group policy to: The 2013 annual general meeting of the People with disabilities have equal Company will be held at The Merrion Agree and confirm the terms of opportunities when applying for Hotel, Upper Merrion Street, Dublin 2, payment at the commencement vacancies.
In addition to complying with Ireland at 9.30am on Wednesday 17 July of business with that supplier: legislative requirements, procedures 2013.
Shareholders who are unable Pay in accordance with any are in place to ensure that disabled to attend in person may submit contract agreed with the supplier employees are fairly treated and that questions beforehand via email to or as required by law: and their training and career development agmquestions@experianplc.
com Continually review payment needs are carefully managed.
The or on the prepaid card sent to procedures and liaise with policies are considered to operate shareholders with the notice of meeting.
suppliers as a means of eliminating effectively.
For those employees The questions will be addressed at the difficulties and maintaining good becoming disabled during the course meeting, via the Companys website at working relationships.
of their employment, the Group is www.
com or individually as supportive, whether through re-training appropriate.
The notice of meeting has Trade creditors of the Group at 31 March or re-deployment, so as to provide an been circulated to shareholders and can 2013 were 35 days based on the ratio of opportunity for them to remain with the also be viewed on the Companys website.
Group trade creditors at the end of the Group whenever possible.
year to the amounts invoiced during the Independent auditors year by trade creditors.
The Company Employee involvement The auditors,  LLP, has had no trade creditors throughout Experian is committed to employee have indicated their willingness to the current and prior year.
involvement throughout the business continue in office and a resolution that Going concern and is intent on motivating and keeping they be re-appointed as auditors of the staff informed on matters that concern Company will be proposed at the annual Details of the adoption by the Group and them in the context of their employment general meeting.
the Company of the going concern basis and involving them through local in preparing the financial statements consultative procedures.
Where there are set out in the financial review within are recognition agreements with trade the business review section and are unions, the consultation process is incorporated into this report by reference.
established through national and local Relevant audit information trade union representatives and through joint consultation committees.
As at 8 May 2013, so far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit Employees are kept well informed on information, being information needed by matters of interest and the financial and the auditors in connection with preparing economic factors affecting the Groups their report, of which the auditors are performance through management unaware and each director has taken all channels, conferences, meetings, steps that he she ought to have taken publications and intranet sites.
More as a director in order to make himself detail on employee engagement, herself aware of any relevant audit together with information on diversity, information and to establish that the succession planning and talent auditors are aware of that information.
development, can be found in the our people section of the annual report.
Experian continues to support employee share ownership through the provision of Sharesave and other employee share plan arrangements which are intended to align the interests of employees with those of shareholders.
96 Experian Annual Report 2013 Governance Directors report continued Statement of directors responsibilities the Group financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted for use The directors are responsible for: in the European Union: preparing the annual report, the all accounting standards which Group and parent company financial they consider applicable have been statements and the report on followed in preparing the parent directors remuneration in accordance company financial statements: and with applicable law and regulations: it is appropriate that the Group and preparing financial statements which parent company financial statements give a true and fair view of the state have been prepared of affairs at the balance sheet date, on a going concern basis.
and the profit or loss for the period then ended of a the Group in The directors confirm also that, to the accordance with IFRSs as adopted for best of their knowledge, the financial use in the European Union, and b statements are prepared in accordance the Company in accordance with UK with the applicable set of accounting Accounting Standards : standards, give a true and fair view of keeping proper accounting records the assets, liabilities, financial position which disclose, with reasonable and profit of the Company and the accuracy, at any time the financial Group taken as a whole: and this position of the Group and the directors report contains a fair review Company and enable them to of the development and performance ensure that the Group financial of the business and the position of the statements comply with applicable Company and the Group taken as a law and Article 4 of the International whole, together with a description of the Accounting Standards Regulation: principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Company and the Group, and By order of the Board to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities: and Charles Brown the maintenance and integrity of the Company Secretary statutory and audited information 8 May 2013 on the Companys website Jersey legislation and UK regulation Corporate headquarters: governing the preparation and Newenham House dissemination of financial statements Northern Cross may differ from requirements in other Malahide Road jurisdictions.
Dublin 17 Ireland In addition, the directors consider that, in preparing the financial statements: Registered office: suitable accounting policies 22 Grenville Street have been selected and applied St Helier consistently: Jersey JE4 8PX judgments and estimates made have been reasonable and prudent:
