16 Experian Annual Report 2013 Business overview CREDIT SERVICES DECISION ANALYTICS Business lines: MARKETING SERVICES CONSUMER SERVICES Marketing Services Marketing Services provides data, data quality, Contribution to Group revenue analytics and cross-channel campaign management to help our clients better interact with their customers, 21% and increase customer revenue and loyalty.
Description High quality data is very important to Financial characteristics our clients as this is what enables them We provide Marketing Services in Revenue is derived in a variety to connect with consumers.
We help clients to of ways, including transactional our clients with linkage and identity develop effective marketing campaigns volume-tiered charges, data licences resolution, data verification and data to identify their best customers, and subscription fees.
management to help make sure their understand their motivations and Competitive environment data is accurate and up-to-date.
behaviours, and to find new, similar Our competitive distinction lies in our customers to whom they then market Once our clients understand their global reach, the depth of our data assets, their products.
We accomplish this by customers, they can then begin to our expertise in data management and helping marketers to profile, segment engage with them.
We help our clients marketing across multiple channels, our and interact with consumers across to execute their marketing campaigns, extensive platforms and our position as different channels, an approach that develop their messaging, interact a trusted, neutral third party.
with their customers across channels and measure the success of their With the growth of new digital channels We use our core competency in campaigns.
Marketers interact with the competitive environment has data management to maintain one consumers through their preferred evolved.
Competitors still include of the worlds largest databases of channels, which may range from traditional providers such as Acxiom marketing information on consumers.
traditional channels such as direct and Epsilon, agencies such as WPP or Consumer profiles include data from mail, or increasingly via channels Omnicom, and in digital there is a very many sources, including: market such as email, addressable television, fragmented market with competition surveys, postal addresses, electoral social media, internet display and from companies such as ExactTarget, registers, internet service providers mobile devices.
Our data is often augmented with a clients By taking this focused, data-led, Market influences own proprietary data and aggregated customer-centred approach our Digital channels are changing consumer according to the clients needs.
Globally, clients benefit from increased behaviours.
Consumers are increasingly we hold demographic data on more than return on investment and improved interacting digitally, via multiple 700 million individuals in 270 million customer engagement.
channels, through online, mobile and households, and online behaviour data social media, and via multiple devices.
on 25 million internet users across five Clients This is creating an unprecedented, evermillion websites.
We have over 10,000 clients in growing mass of data that marketers 30 countries, in some of the largest This rich source of information helps need help to understand and to ensure economies around the world, including marketers understand their customers they meet the needs of their customers Australia, Brazil, China, France, and prospects by classifying consumers who expect quick response times and Germany, Japan, the UK and the US.
according to their circumstances, personalised, relevant offers across This global reach allows us to service preferences and behaviours in the the channels in which they interact.
large regional and multinational offline and digital worlds.
Segmentation Companies are now requiring more businesses.
Clients include financial can be by geographic location, and more customised, portable and services, retail, media, automotive demographics, purchasing behaviours, global campaigns, where the marketing and public sector organisations.
and channel and device preferences.
We message is personalised to individuals, have segmented more than 2.3 billion using online, real-time communication consumers in over 28 countries.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 17 NEW CUSTOMER EXPANDING PRODUCT SEGMENTS GEOGRAPHICALLY INNOVATION ZUJI consumer data into one place and use our multi-channel marketing campaign management software to create targeted marketing campaigns based on each customers purchasing tendencies.
To create an even more engaging experience for its customers, ZUJI selected Experian CheetahMail, our email marketing service, to create and send tailored email newsletters featuring content designed to appeal to each customers interests.
ZUJI is the leading online travel agency in Asia Pacific, Since partnering with Experian, ZUJI has seen email providing deals from more than 400 airlines and 100,000 opening rates double, a seven-fold increase in customers hotels worldwide.
It operates in three key markets in clicking through to its website and a 50-fold improvement Asia Pacific Australia, Hong Kong and Singapore.
The on revenue generated per thousand emails.
company was previously owned by Travelocity and had recently been acquired by Webjet Limited ASX:WEB.
Desmond Phua, Head of Customer Experience and Direct Channels at ZUJI, says: Our work with Experian is really ZUJI prides itself on enabling customers to book about two key activities enhancing and optimising their own individual travel experience but, with its all of the information we have at our fingertips and customer base spread across three diverse markets, using this customer intelligence in the most effective creating personalised, targeted communications had way to develop greater insights and build deeper become a challenge.
Using our data and analytics expertise, we partnered This isnt a technology partnership.
Its about with ZUJI to provide a comprehensive suite of marketing marketing and understanding people.
With a strong and consulting services to help analyse the companys understanding of our business, Experian provides us multiple customer data sources to understand which with a deep level of support and engagement and the communications performed best with each of ZUJIs perfect union of marketing intelligence customers in each market.
Through our marketing and technology.
database technology, ZUJI was able to consolidate all its NEW CUSTOMER EXPANDING PRODUCT SEGMENTS GEOGRAPHICALLY INNOVATION from Her Royal Highness, Princess Anne, as part of P&O Cruises the Grand Event.
The challenge was to encourage passenger bookings, deliver a strong return on investment and raise awareness ahead of the event.
Our Marketing Services team worked closely with P&O Cruises to deploy our Experian CheetahMail email marketing service to create personalised email campaigns using high standard video content.
With perfect playback every time, our technology allowed P&O Cruises to engage customers with a smart, innovative campaign to drive awareness in the build up to the Grand Event.
P&O Cruises has a proud heritage, bringing luxurious The campaign was a huge success with P&O Cruises travel to its passengers since 1837 and is now seeing a 950% increase in bookings and a 670% boost part of a group that carries nearly half of the worlds to revenues.
Andy Mould, Senior Search Marketing Executive The cruise industry is a 20 billion a year business, and at P&O Cruises, says: The Grand Event video competition is intense.
Email communication plays email campaign was the most effective video email a key role in P&O Cruises marketing strategy to help campaign weve ever run.
Thanks to Experians demonstrate the quality and luxury of life on board, as digital marketing expertise, the campaign resulted in well as the range of destinations to be explored.
the highest number of bookings we have seen from In 2012 P&O Cruises announced that their fleet of seven an email campaign.
It helped us engage with our ships would meet in Southampton in the UK for the passengers in a way that brought one of the biggest first time, which also included a Royal Review events in our history to life.
