12 Experian Annual Report 2013 Business overview CREDIT SERVICES DECISION ANALYTICS Business lines: MARKETING SERVICES CONSUMER SERVICES Credit Services Credit Services manages extensive databases containing Contribution to Group revenue the credit application and repayment histories of millions of consumers and businesses around the world.
This 46% information is used by our clients to manage the risks associated with extending credit and to prevent fraud.
Description Consumer credit reports help lenders notify the applicant of their intention make better informed and faster credit to contact a credit bureau.
The laws Our credit bureaux hold and manage decisions through access to detailed of each country vary in respect of the databases that include information historical information about how hosting of such data and access to it.
supplied by lenders and certain public consumers have managed their credit records, such as liens, judgments and We maintain a comprehensive security obligations.
Business credit reports bankruptcies, supplied by other programme to protect credit bureau are used by clients to set the credit third parties.
data through its entire lifecycle, from terms for new accounts and to manage collection, transformation and use, to Lenders and other subscribing existing account relationships with storage and then destruction.
members to the bureaux provide us their customers and suppliers.
With a with credit application and repayment We do not make lending decisions complete customer view, our clients data on consumers and businesses.
or offer any comment or advice on can manage their interactions with We augment that data with publicly particular applications, but simply their customers in a more effective available information.
It is then provide factual information.
Clients then and positive manner, from a risk and aggregated, cleansed and sorted to use that information, often in conjunction customer relationship perspective.
form a credit report on a consumer or a with other information such as that We continually freshen and augment business which comprehensively shows included in an application form or any our bureaux databases, adding new how current and past credit obligations previous agreements with the applicant, sources of data to further enhance the have been managed.
to help decide whether or not to lend.
depth and quality of the credit reports.
Credit reports vary by country, We benchmark our current data depth Clients but typically include identity data, around the globe against an ultimate Clients principally include organisations transactional data, past and present credit bureau profile.
This allows us to that are extending or offering credit credit obligations, court judgments, understand exactly what new data we in its many different forms.
Our bankruptcy information, suspected need to acquire and in what geographies.
diverse client base includes financial fraudulent applications, collections data Deeper data expands our market institutions, retailers, manufacturers, and previous addresses, and in the case coverage, provides our clients with insurance companies, automotive of businesses, may include company insights into complex decisions, enables dealers, telecommunications and utility registration and ownership.
our data lab to research and build companies.
We also serve hospitals and innovative products that we can deploy In a fully mature credit market, a credit physician practices in the US, as well as globally, opens up new vertical markets report includes information on credit the public sector.
and drives competitive differentiation obligations, both positive and negative.
Globally, we hold credit payment Financial characteristics Positive information includes accounts data on close to 800 million consumers that have been paid on time, forming Credit reports are sold on a transactional and 99 million businesses.
We operate 19 a complete view of a consumers basis, priced per report delivered.
Pricing consumer credit bureaux and 13 business or businesss financial behaviours.
is typically tiered, varying according to the credit bureaux around the world.
Negative information includes past volume of reports delivered to the client.
due payments, collection accounts Typically, revenue for Credit Services To check the credit history of a and public records information such recurs habitually.
Costs are incurred in consumer or business and store as bankruptcies.
In emerging credit bringing data onto file during aggregation, information with a credit bureau, a markets, consumer credit bureaux often cleansing and sorting and from the company must have a legitimate need contain only negative data.
purchase of some third party data.
for accessing the data and usually must Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 13 Competitive environment financial institutions in the US: the In the US, we are second to other credit bureaux are Equifax and Dun & Bradstreet, which is the Our competitive advantage lies in the TransUnion.
In Brazil and the UK, only global competitor in this field.
depth and breadth of our data assets we are the clear market leader and across the globe: they are very extensive Market influences we have leading positions in many in the markets in which we operate and See page 14 for market influences on other countries.
include many unique data sources, Credit Services and Decision Analytics.
which can be exclusive to us.
In business information, we are the market-leading provider in Brazil, the We are the primary provider of consumer credit information to many UK and in a number of other markets.
EXPANDING PRODUCT NEW CUSTOMER GEOGRAPHICALLY INNOVATION SEGMENTS Altru Altru Health System, an When paired with other aspects of the solution, like Medicaid integrated not-for-profit screening, Altru was able to identify accounts eligible for community health system that Medicaid.
This ensured patients who were Medicaid eligible includes a 300-bed acute care were not forwarded for collection activity, and their insurance hospital and 20 outpatient clinics, was billed.
By implementing this process, Altru identified over cares for 200,000 patients a year 4,000 patients entitled to assistance worth US$2.7 million in Grand Forks, North Dakota, helping reduce days in accounts receivable, obtain Medicaid US.
In an effort to help combat a reimbursement for the insurance filings and reduce bad debt growing population of uninsured write-offs.
or self-pay patients, Altru Stan Salwei, Patient Financial Services Manager at needed to find the tools necessary to manage this increase Altru Health System, says: By leveraging Collections in volume and assist in qualifying patients for charity and or Optimisation paired with other Experian Healthcare Medicaid benefits.
patient access solutions, weve stabilised our ability to After evaluating several solutions, Altru selected our respond to the rise in self-pay patients and avoid the Healthcare Collections Optimisation service to better manage payment risk this poses.
Even better, we have helped patient accounts through data-enriched segmentation.
Using them obtain healthcare coverage, which is a win-win financial background and behavioural data, Collections for all.
Partnering with Experian has allowed us to be Optimisation uses algorithms to create weighted scores that an advocate for our patients while also protecting the illustrate a patients payment ability and probability to pay.
EXPANDING PRODUCT NEW CUSTOMER GEOGRAPHICALLY INNOVATION SEGMENTS Yorkshire Water Yorkshire Water manages outstanding balances, but it also gains access to the same the collection, treatment and information provided by other members of the scheme.
distribution of water in Yorkshire, These include financial services and telecommunications the UKs largest county, companies.
supplying households with 1.24 The utility company is now able to access a customers full billion litres of drinking water credit history, with their permission, to help identify customers each day.
who may be showing early signs of financial stress.
This With growing financial strain significantly reduces the likelihood and level of bad debt, f fa ac cin ing m g any households, there is an increasing need for which is currently three times higher in the water industry than u uti til li it ty c y ompanies to understand and gain insight into those in the rest of the energy sector.
cu cus st to omers who are facing financial hardship, and prioritise Jonathan Harding, Head of Customer Service at Yorkshire th the em f m or help before it becomes a more serious situation.
Water, says: Putting in place the tools to share data and Y Yor ork ks sh hire Water became the first water company in the UK to utilise credit information, will help provide a reliable early joi join E n Ex xperians Credit Account Information Sharing CAIS warning of customer behaviour and how that might play se ser rv viic ce as a full member.
It makes us better placed in the utilities sector to understand our customers and adapt effective Fu Ful ll l m membership of our CAIS service means Yorkshire Water payment plans to ensure our customers are being not not o on nly shares information about all of its customers on treated fairly and that we are responding to individual ho how t w th hey manage their accounts, from payment history to circumstances and needs.
