4 Experian Annual Report 2013 Business overview What we do We hold and manage a vast amount of data and develop analytics, software and platforms using our industry experts around the world, to help consumers and organisations derive insights and make informed decisions.
Data Data Management Analytics Platforms Expertise Global Reach 1 2 3 DATA DATA MANAGEMENT ANALYTICS The data we hold is incredibly Accurate and up-to-date data By applying scoring, analytical powerful and underpins our about customers, suppliers, models and software to data, business.
We continuously invest products, business finance we enable clients to get a richer to ensure that we are the market and personal credit-worthiness picture of whats happening in leader in the breadth, depth and is vital to help organisations their markets and more accurately quality of our data.
and consumers make the predict their customers needs, best decisions.
Were specialists in gathering credit data on consumers and Thousands of organisations Analytics may be used to describe businesses, marketing data, upload data to us on a real-time, the characteristics of a group of as well as other data such as daily, weekly or monthly basis, people or businesses, to predict insurance, healthcare payments ensuring that the data we hold future events and to decide on and automotive.
Globally, we is as current as possible.
This is hold credit data on close to 800 aggregate, cleanse, sort and based on the understanding of the million consumers and 99 million enhance the data.
We ensure the characteristics we have analysed businesses, and marketing data quality of the data by including and the predictions we have made, on 700 million individuals across checks at the point of capture all through the different stages of 270 million households.
as well as cleaning, removing the customer journey.
duplications and enriching data We keep our data relevant by We develop scores, models and for improved customer insight.
adding new, unique data sets.
software, and build customised This enhances the breadth and We work hard to protect our products for our clients.
At the depth of the data files that we data sources and maintain basic level, our tools work by hold, gives us the opportunity strict standards of data security.
taking data in and applying a to create new products and We maintain a comprehensive number of client specified decision services, and increases the datas security programme: data is strategies to produce a decision.
protected from collection, to transformation and use, to storage and then destruction.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 5 4 5 6 PLATFORMS EXPERTISE GLOBAL REACH Platforms bring our data and Our industry experts work We serve clients of all sizes from analytics together: they are the collaboratively with clients, offices in 40 countries around the way we deliver value to clients combining data and analytical world, with over 17,000 employees.
by making it easier for them to expertise with sector experience Our global network enables us get important jobs done.
Most on how to turn insights into to support and service clients of our platforms include a mix valuable business decisions.
locally and share best practice of data, software and hardware.
and innovation across our regions Our capabilities range from crossData provides the essential and business lines.
channel marketing to credit risk.
facts and insights: software is They are often supported with We provide data, data management, the step-by-step instruction that specialist implementation and analytics, platforms and our tells a computer what to do: and consulting services.
We blend expertise in North America, hardware is the physical platform data, analytics and platforms with Latin America, UK and Ireland, that houses the data and software.
an in-depth understanding of our and EMEA Asia Pacific.
Our platforms enable clients clients: the markets they operate We have many hundreds of to carry out complex activities within, the drivers that influence thousands of clients globally such as compiling, standardising their business decisions, and the across financial services, and retrieving data, managing ways in which they can establish direct-to-consumer, retail, the decision-making process, competitive advantage.
telecommunications and utilities, managing workflows, We offer a highly differentiated automotive, insurance, media communicating with customers consultancy service, working with and technology, public sector and accessing information that clients to help shape strategy, and education, and healthcare helps them make informed tactics and execution, in multiple payments.
vertical markets across the world.
