18 Experian Annual Report 2013 Business overview CREDIT SERVICES DECISION ANALYTICS Business lines: MARKETING SERVICES CONSUMER SERVICES Consumer Services Consumer Services provides credit monitoring, fraud Contribution to Group revenue protection and identity management to 12.8 million consumers in the US and UK.
We enable consumers to 22% monitor the accuracy of their credit report, to check their credit score and to protect against fraud and identity theft.
Description Another significant channel for us is Competitive environment through affinity marketers.
This is where We provide consumers with secure, Our competitive advantage lies in us institutions with large membership online, unlimited access to their taking the assets and capabilities from bases, such as retail banks, financial complete credit history and scores.
We our three other global business lines and institutions, insurance companies and also help them to manage fraud and bringing them together.
We take data member associations, take our products protect their identity.
from Credit Services, analytical tools, and repackage them under their own monitoring and alerts from Decision Using our interactive tools a consumer branding.
Institutions offer these Analytics and multi-channel digital may subscribe with us to monitor their services in response to demand from marketing capabilities from Marketing credit and to help identify ways they their customers.
About half of our 12.8 Services to help us to serve and market can actively improve their credit rating.
million members subscribe through the to consumers.
Consumers also subscribe when they affinity channel.
have a major life event, such as when We are the clear market leader in both Our identity protection services in the making a one-off purchase that is creditthe US and UK.
In the US, competition US and the UK, ProtectMyID.
com and dependent, like for a car, appliance or is provided by Equifax, TransUnion, ProtectMyID.
co. uk, help provide identity home, and they want to monitor their Fair Isaac and other smaller specialists, theft detection, protection and fraud credit and negotiate the best deal for but we are over four times the size of resolution to consumers.
In the event that purchase.
Email or text alerts any of these competitors.
In the UK, of fraud, we provide consumers with keep consumers informed about any competition is provided by Equifax and access to a dedicated fraud resolution significant changes to their credit report.
smaller niche players such as CallCredit.
service together with insurance against Our direct-to-consumer channels financial loss.
We help parents monitor Market influences in the US, CreditReport.
com and their childrens online activity with Consumers are becoming increasingly freecreditscore.
com, and in the UK, our SafetyWeb.
com services and our aware of the need to manage and CreditExpert.
co. uk, allow consumers DataPatrol product provides realcontrol their financial circumstances, to see the same information that is time wider web and social network and protect their identity.
They are available to lenders.
New markets are monitoring to help prevent identity fraud more conscious of how their personal also opening up for us in countries such before it happens.
information and credit history is as Brazil, Colombia and South Africa.
employed by lenders, and are more Financial characteristics focused on managing their credit Consumer credit reports, scores relationships.
Consumers want to and identity protection are provided proactively manage their identity when to consumers for a regular monthly they are online and mobile.
Depending on the size to protect their identities and minimise and nature of the contract, affinity deals the risk of identity theft, as well as may be on a revenue or profit share protecting their children while they are basis.
Typically, affinity contracts are online and using mobile devices.
institutions want to meet the needs of their customer base, whilst attracting and retaining new customers.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements 19 NEW CUSTOMER EXPANDING PRODUCT SEGMENTS GEOGRAPHICALLY INNOVATION Vanquis Looking to the future, the partnership approach between Vanquis and Experian means that we are working collaboratively to develop innovative products tailored to serve their customers needs in the future.
Sion OConnor, Marketing Director at Vanquis Bank, says: This has been a truly collaborative project with Experian.
They did not just provide us with a pre-packaged product but took a truly consultative approach.
Experian Vanquis is a UK credit card company which addressed what we needed and what is part of the 130 year-old Provident Financial would best serve our customers both now Group and has helped 1.8 million people and into the future.
across the UK to obtain credit.
Our customers now have peace of mind We were asked by Vanquis to use our global that were working with the best in the expertise to combat identity fraud and industry to give them the opportunity protect Vanquiss customers from this ever to help protect their identities from present threat.
The objective was simple fraudsters while also helping them to ensure that every Vanquis customer improve their credit score.
can be offered immediate protection.
Working closely with Vanquis, our Consumer Services business introduced our pioneering Active Web Monitoring tool, which enables customers personal and financial information to be protected from online identity fraud threats.
Following the successful roll-out, Vanquis customers are now offered protection from credit and online identity threats.
In addition, Vanquis customers also benefit from having fast access to their credit report through our ProtectMyID online service.
ProtectMyID provides consumers with greater visibility of their finances as well as expert advice on how to manage and improve their credit rating.
