Directors Report Governance OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Mark Abrahams Chairman The directors submit their management Substantial shareholdings Directors indemnities and report and the audited Group financial As of 13 November 2013, the following insurance cover statements for the financial year ended interests in shares have been notified to the A qualifying third party indemnity QTPI, as 31 August 2013.
Company: permitted by the Companys Articles of % of issued Association and the Companies Act 2006, has Principal activities Interested party share capital been granted by the Company to each of the Fenner PLC is a holding company which is a directors.
Under the provisions of the QTPI, public limited company listed on the London Standard Life Investments Limited 11.39 the Company undertakes to indemnify each Stock Exchange and is incorporated and Threadneedle Asset Management director against claims from third parties in domiciled in the United Kingdom.
The address Holdings Limited 7.62 respect of certain liabilities excluding of the registered office is Hesslewood Country Lloyds Banking Group Plc 6.36 criminal and regulatory penalties arising out Office Park, Ferriby Road, Hessle, East Norges Bank Investment Management 3.89 of, or in connection with, the execution of their Yorkshire, HU13 0PW.
The principal activities Montanaro Asset Management Limited 3.37 powers, duties and responsibilities as of the Group are detailed in the Business directors of the Company or any of its Review on pages 5 to 26. subsidiaries.
The Group also holds Directors and their interests appropriate Directors and Officers Liability Results and dividends The names of the directors in office during the Insurance.
These policies were in force during year and up to the date of signing the financial the financial year ended 31 August 2013 and 2013 2012 statements and their brief biographies and m m remain in place at 13 November 2013. other details, including other significant commitments, are as shown on pages 27 to 28.
Supplier payment policy Group profit for the year 49.2 62.4 Given the international nature of the Groups Details of the directors beneficial interests in operations, the Group does not operate a the ordinary shares of the Company, in share Dividends: standard code in respect of payments to options over the ordinary share capital of the Interim 3.75p per share suppliers.
Individual operating units are Company and in the Performance Share Plan 2012: 3.5p payable 7.3 6.8 responsible for agreeing the terms and are given in the Board Remuneration Report conditions under which transactions with their on pages 40 to 48.
Final 7.5p per share suppliers are conducted, including the terms Save as disclosed in the Board Remuneration of payment.
It is the Groups policy that 2012: 7.0p proposed 14.5 13.5 Report: payments to suppliers are made in accordance with these terms.
The average creditor days No director has any interest beneficial or Total dividend 21.8 20.3 for the Group during the year ended 31 August non-beneficial in any share or loan 2013 was 55 days 2012: 54 days.
The capital of the Company or any of its Company does not have any trade creditors.
subsidiaries: Donations During the year, the Group made donations of Employment policy No change in the interests of directors 108,000 2012: 102,000 to charitable, social The Group operates worldwide and its has occurred between the end of the and community related organisations.
It is the employment policies are designed to meet financial year and 13 November 2013: and Groups policy that no donations are made to local conditions and requirements, but are political parties.
There were no contracts of significance established on the basis of the best practices subsisting during or at the end of the in each country and support the principles of financial year in which a director of the the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Wherever the Group operates, it encourages the provision of equal employment In accordance with the recommendation in the opportunities, thereby ensuring a competent UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors and diverse workforce.
will be offering themselves up for re-election on an annual basis.
The performance of each The Groups policy is to secure good relations of the directors continues to be effective and between management and all employees, to they continue to demonstrate commitment to promote a better understanding of all the the role and the Company.
issues, both internal and external, that Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013 37 Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results influence the Groups business performance page 101.
Each ordinary share of the Company transferor and, unless the share is fully paid, by and to improve performance and productivity.
The Company has a single or on behalf of the transferee.
An instrument of transfer need not be under seal.
Transfers of Formal and informal meetings are used to class of share capital which is divided into consult employees and to keep them informed ordinary shares of 25p each.
shares which are in uncertificated form are about the performance of the Group.
The effected by means of the CREST system.
Dividends and distributions practices of consultation and involvement vary Subject to the provisions of the Companies The Board may refuse to register the transfer of a from country to country according to local share which is not fully paid, provided that the Act, the Company may, by ordinary resolution, customs, legal considerations and the size of refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in from time to time declare dividends not the operation.
The regular issue of the Groupexceeding the amount recommended by the the Company from taking place on an open and wide magazine Fenner Focus assists proper basis.
In the case of uncertificated shares, Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends, internal communication, as do briefing the Board may exercise its discretion to refuse to including fixed rate dividends, whenever the meetings, information bulletins and meetings register a transfer of a share to the extent financial position of the Company, in the with employee representatives.
permitted by the regulations and the facilities and opinion of the Board, justifies such payment.
The Group continues to recognise its social and requirements of the relevant system.
Dividends will be paid pro-rata to the amounts statutory duties to disabled persons and does paid up on the shares.
In specie and scrip The Board may also refuse to register the all that is practicable to meet this dividends can be authorised at a General transfer of a certificated share unless the responsibility.
Full and fair consideration is Meeting at the Boards recommendation.
instrument of transfer is lodged, duly stamped given to the recruitment, training, career if stampable at the office or at another place Voting rights development and promotion of disabled appointed by the Board, accompanied by the Subject to any rights or restrictions attaching persons, bearing in mind the aptitude and certificate for the share to which it relates and to any shares by or in accordance with the ability of the individual concerned.
If an such other evidence as the Board may Articles, at a General Meeting, every member employee becomes disabled while employed reasonably require to show the right of the who is present in person or by proxy shall have by the Group, wherever possible, he or she will transferor to make the transfer and, if the one vote and, on a poll, every member present continue to be employed in the same job.
If this instrument of transfer is executed by some other in person or by proxy shall have one vote for action is not practicable or possible then every person on his or her behalf, the authority of that each share.
In the case of joint holders of a effort will be made to find suitable alternative person to do so : is in respect of only one class of share, the vote of the senior holder who employment.
In these circumstances, shares: and is in favour of not more than four tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, retraining would be made available using transferees.
shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes Group resources as well as by contact with the of the other joint holders.
If the Board refuses to register a transfer of a share, it shall send the transferee notice of its For this purpose, seniority shall be determined A detailed review of the Groups refusal together with reasons for the refusal by the order in which the names of the holders employment policy is set out in Corporate within two months after the date on which the stand in the register.
Responsibility on pages 51 to 52 instrument of transfer was lodged with the Restrictions on voting Company.
Environmental policy Unless the Board determine otherwise, no Appointment and replacement of directors The Group recognises and accepts that member shall be entitled to vote at a General Unless varied by ordinary resolution, the concern for the environment is an integral Meeting, either in person or by proxy, in number of directors other than alternate and fundamental part of the Groups respect of any share held unless all moneys directors shall be not less than two nor more corporate business strategy.
are fully paid up on that share.
In addition, no than 15 in number.
member shall be entitled to vote if he has been A detailed review of the Groups served with a notice after failure to provide the At each AGM, all directors shall retire from environmental policy is set out in Corporate Company with information concerning office and be eligible for re-election, in line with Responsibility on pages 52 to 54 interests in those shares required to be best corporate practice.
provided under the Companies Act.
The Board may appoint a director either to fill a The Group Environmental Policy can be Deadline for exercising voting rights viewed at www.
com casual vacancy or as an additional director Voting rights may be exercised in person, by provided that the appointment does not cause proxy or by a Corporate Representative.
The the number of directors to exceed the maximum Financial risk management deadline for submission of proxy forms is not prescribed by the Articles.
A director so Details of the Groups financial risk less than 48 hours before the time appointed appointed shall hold office only until the next management policies are given in the for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting.
If not re-elected at such AGM, Business Review on page 25 and note 20 to the the director shall vacate office at its conclusion.
Variation of rights Group financial statements on pages 80 to 82.
Subject to the provisions of legislation, the Powers of directors Statutory information Articles specify that rights attaching to any Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act class of shares may be varied or abrogated, Set out below is a summary of certain and Articles and to any directions given by either with the consent in writing of the holders provisions of the Companys current Articles special resolution, the business of the Company of Association the Articles and the of three-quarters in nominal value of the shall be managed by the Board which may Companies Act 2006 Companies Act.
If issued shares of the class being varied or with exercise all the powers of the Company.
the sanction of a special resolution passed at a further information is required, the relevant The Board may exercise all the powers of the provisions of the Articles and the Companies separate General Meeting of the holders of the Company to borrow money, to mortgage or Act should be consulted.
charge all or any part of its undertaking, Share capital Transfer of shares property, assets present or future and Details of the Companys issued share capital All transfers of certificated shares may be in uncalled capital and to issue debentures and any usual form or in any other form which the as at 31 August 2013, together with details of other securities whether outright or as shares issued during the year, are set out in Board may approve.
The instrument of transfer collateral security for any debt, liability or note 8 to the Company financial statements on shall be signed by or on behalf of the obligation of the Company or of any third party.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013 38 Directors Report Governance Other Statutory Information continued Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act and Articles, at a General Meeting, the Board may request authority to allot shares and the power to disapply the statutory pre-emption rights and the authority to buy the Company's own ordinary shares in the market.
Currently the Board requests such consent at each AGM.
The details of requested authorities and powers in connection with the AGM to be held on 15 January 2014 are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Significant agreements: change of control All of the Companys current share plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions at that time.
Amendment to Articles of Association Any amendments to the Articles may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act by way of special resolution.
Independent auditors A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as independent auditors to the Company will be proposed at the AGM.
As far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Annual General Meeting As special business at the forthcoming AGM, resolutions will be proposed to renew the directors authority to allot shares, to disapply the statutory pre-emption rights to a limited extent and to make market purchases of ordinary shares in the Company subject to defined limits.
Resolutions will also be proposed to hold General Meetings on 14 days notice.
The proposed resolutions and further details regarding these proposals are set out in the Chairmans explanatory letter accompanying the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors Mark Abrahams Chairman 13 November 2013 Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013 39
