Directors Report Business Review Divisional Review continued ADVANCED ENGINEERED PRODUCTS AEP uses advanced polymeric materials and technical expertise to provide high value-added solutions to customers most challenging engineering problems.
AEP products are performance-critical with significant design content Unit prices of AEPs products are a small proportion of total unit cost AEP typically has strong positions in chosen market niches which are expected to show sustained growth over the medium term AEP has unique and high-end manufacturing expertise and external certifications AEP provides its customers with timely delivery and customer logistics support AEP has a consistent record of growing revenue and profit, while achieving attractive operating margins and returns on capital employed Find out more about AEP and its operations at www.
3 Total investment over period net capital expenditure plus acquisition spend less disposal proceeds.
Revenue analysis By markets served Revenue analysis By destination Oil & Gas Medical 28% 271m Revenue 33% of Fenner 271m Revenue 33% of Fenner 12% 3% 2013 MINING Seals bushings 28% AUTOMATION Mining equipment 7% Belts & rollers 56% Roof supports ATMs 20% Printing Automation 13% 5% 16% 7% CONSTRUCTION Seals hoses belts GENERAL INDUSTRIAL Seals belts rollers hoses 5% Construction equipment Tile, brick, lumber Alternative energy AGRICULTURE Americas EMEA processing equipment Green solutions Power transmission Asia Pacific FLUID POWER TRANSPORTATION Motion control Seals Textiles seals hoses Industrial Aerospace Mobile Trucks Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013 17 Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results AEP business model and value creation AEPs business model is centred around its AEP technology or expertise is profitably expertise in polymeric materials and its ability utilised.
Expansion into further missionto utilise its expertise to identify and develop critical applications is a key part of AEP new opportunities.
Customers are spread across a variety of end-user segments and geographies where Knowledge Development AEP market knowledge Develop new product Develop manufacturing Engineering know-how Research process using AEP manufacturing facilities and expertise Identify and assess potential new products Does it utilise AEP technology and know-how?
Is there an identifiable and growing market for the product?
Launch Follow up Is the product capable of generating Supply product to launch A successful roll-out leads sufficient margins and return on customers to an enlarged customer capital?
Provide additional base added-value through Exposure to new sub timely delivery and segments and industries customer support Product roll-out Market new products across existing and new customer base Adapt product and service offering for customers and opportunities in adjacent markets Examples of AEP products The acquisition of Norwegian Seals enhanced Designed for ease of installation and flexibility Using our polymer knowledge and advanced the geographic coverage and technical in application, Fenner PowerTwist Plus assembly techniques, Xeridiem supported the capabilities of CDI Energy Products, v-belts outperform traditional fixed length development of the award winning TM particularly for subsea applications such as belts.
PleuraFlow active tube clearance system.
the well head pictured above.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013 18 Directors Report Business Review Divisional Review continued Summary of results AEP has an outstanding record of growing 40% of total revenue 2012: 33% : general operating margin was 19.1% in the second revenue and operating profit, while at the industrial customers, including distributors, half of the year, compared with 15.2% during same time increasing its operating margin.
the first half, reflecting an improved performance as conditions in AEPs principal In the financial year ended 31 August 2013, In 2013, acquisitions contributed 45.1m of markets recovered.
AEP achieved revenue of 270.8m 2012: revenue and 10.7m of underlying operating 237.2m, an increase of 14.2%.
Movements in foreign exchange, principally the US dollar against sterling, led Underlying operating profit for the year was to increases in revenue and operating profit of 46.8m 2012: 43.6m, an increase of 7.3%.
On a like-forlike basis, revenue and underlying operating Since 2009, AEPs revenue and underlying profit fell by 6% and 18% respectively.
operating profit have increased at compound annual rates of 18.4% and 31.2% respectively.
The underlying operating margin for the year was 17.3% compared with 18.4% in 2012 and In 2013, customers in the oil & gas and 11.5% in 2009.
In 2013, the underlying medical industries together accounted for Markets, end-user segments and supply chain AEP uses its expertise in advanced polymeric PMI.
As well as the macro-economic climate, important part of this development will reflect materials and in application design to serve sales by AEP to individual OEM customers are changes in the industries served by AEP such impacted by conditions in their particular customers across a variety of industries.
In as US-based oil service companies delegating domestic and export markets: for example, 2013, sales to customers in the oil & gas and more purchasing decisions to regional offices medical industries, which have been identified during the first half of 2013, a general overin oil producing regions like the North Sea by AEP management as offering particular supply of construction equipment in China and South-East Asia.
In response, AEP now contributed to a slow-down in orders from growth opportunities, accounted for 40% of has established manufacturing and service AEPs OEM customers in the USA.
Other important industries facilities in Norway and Singapore.
served are construction equipment, AEPs business is weighted towards the AEPs human capital and knowledge are automation, transportation and fluid power.
Americas, principally the USA, which crucial parts of its business model and higher accounted for 56% of AEPs revenues in 2013.
Many larger OEM customers are served investment is planned in these areas.
As AEP develops, both organically and directly by AEP, often with products designed Raw materials typically represent a relatively through acquisition, its revenues from to each particular customers own small proportion of the price of finished customers in Europe and Asia Pacific are specifications.
Certain products may be used likely to represent an increasing proportion of products, meaning that AEPs margins are not within a variety of different industries: as revenues.
Much of this development will arise especially sensitive to changes in input prices.
these reach the roll-out phase of their from opportunities to roll-out products development, they may increasingly access The great majority of products sold by AEP developed for the USA to wider markets: for their end-user through independent are manufactured in-house, although certain example, many of AEPs medical products are distributors and are normally included as products, mainly within Precision Polymers, more heavily used within populations which general industrial sales, which in 2013, were are sourced from a small number of qualified are aging and sedentary, characteristics 20% of AEPs total revenues.
which have traditionally been associated with As a US-centric business, AEP considers the the USA but which are likely to become more single most useful forward indicator of its widespread as global populations become trading environment to be US Manufacturing more affluent and urbanised.
However, an CASE STUDY Resilient - Transforming high-performance materials Relaunched in May 2013 with its own custom sealing solutions, wear products focused management team and dedicated and precision components for pumps, facilities, EGC Critical Components designs, valves, connectors, filtration and purification engineers and manufactures thermoplastic systems.
With extensive knowledge of and elastomeric components that make working with hundreds of plastics, critical applications work: from small, 3mm elastomers and composites and a wide hearing aid parts to large, 2.5m wind range of moulding, extrusion and machining turbine components.
Serving industries techniques, our experts work closely with including chemical processing, nuclear, customers from design to final product.
aerospace and defence, semiconductor and Compliance with ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and medical equipment, EGC Critical OHSAS 18001 underscores commitment to Components uses its extensive polymer quality and dedication to health, safety and knowledge with world-class capabilities to the environment.
provide innovative, high-performance Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013 19 Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results AEP organisation AEP is organised into three product groups.
business presence in its local markets, while Acquired businesses typically retain their gaining access to Fenners technical brands and corporate identities, which are expertise, international presence and seen as important in maintaining the financial resources to achieve further growth.
ADVANCED ENGINEERED PRODUCTS PRODUCT GROUP Advanced Precision Sealing Technologies Polymers PRINCIPAL BUSINESS PRINCIPAL PRODUCTS AND MARKETS Engineered belts for powerBiomedical textiles.
Sealing solutions for oil transmission and automation.
Single-use & gas and hydraulic Hoses for diesel engines and disposable devices fluid power oil & gas industries PRINCIPAL LOCATIONS AUSTRALIA, CHINA, GERMANY, CHINA, NORWAY, USA NORWAY, SINGAPORE, UK and USA UK and USA CASE STUDY Strong & Growing - Serving the oil & gas industry Based in Norway, Mandals have developed resistance, making the hose ideal for use in Superman HVT and Ultraman lay-flat hoses rugged terrain or in applications where the specially for use in fracking.
Fracking is a strength and abrasion resistance either for technique in which water is mixed with sand the cover or lining is essential.
Flexible layand chemicals and the mixture is injected at flat hoses offer many advantages over more high pressure into a wellbore to create small inflexible types of hoses or pipes, particularly fractures along which fluids such as natural in terms of transport and storage volumes, gas and oil flow into the well.
Made from handling and usage, advantages recognised extruded polyurethane with circular woven in the extraction business in the USA and filament polyester reinforcement, this around the world.
Building on our success in ensures very high tensile strength combined this and other markets, Mandals have with excellent wear and tear properties.
The embarked on a major development to hose has high resistance against commonly substantially increase their capacity.
used chemicals and excellent abrasion Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013 20
