Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results Directors Report Remuneration BOARD REMUNERATION REPORT Alan Wood Chairman of the Remuneration Committee CHAIRMAN OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEES STATEMENT complexities that may refine targets but Hobson but this relates to his employment Dear Shareholder reduce understanding.
with the Group prior to his appointment as CEO.
Our people are key to enabling Fenners success.
Therefore the Groups remuneration 2013 outcomes Basic annual salary and other benefits policy is structured to meet our aim of being a Salary increases of 4.7% and 3.7% were The outcomes of the various plans that make strong, growing, resilient company up the 2013 total remuneration for executive awarded to Nicholas Hobson and Richard generating sustainable long-term returns for directors are summarised in the table on page Perry respectively at the start of the year employees and shareholders alike.
Pension contributions and pension allowances remained unchanged as a Group performance remains a key Bonus constant percentage of salary.
Nicholas consideration when setting remuneration The annual bonus has a performance target Hobson received reimbursement for on-going levels but the overarching aim of the based on growth in underlying earnings per relocation expenses as per the terms of his remuneration policy has to be to reward the share EPS of the Company: the targets are Service Agreement.
executive directors and senior managers set at the beginning of each financial year and appropriately for their hard work, 2014 policy are aligned with some of the KPIs of the commitment, drive, experience, leadership For the financial year ending 31 August 2014, Company.
The EPS performance target was skills and performance against Group the overall policy for the executive directors not met and therefore no bonuses will be paid objectives, while balancing the interests of remains largely unchanged and is summarised to the executive directors for the financial year shareholders.
As with all well run and on pages 41 to 42.
The remuneration package ended 31 August 2013. successful companies, to execute our strategy broadly consists of basic annual salary, an and meet the demanding targets set for the Performance Share Plan annual performance related bonus, a longGroup, we have to carefully position ourselves The long-term incentive plan in the form of term share-based incentive plan, retirement in the market to attract, motivate and retain the Performance Share Plan PSP had two benefits and benefits in kind.
In the case of the best available talent.
performance targets for the three year Nicholas Hobson there may also be some Performance Period ended 31 August 2013: continuing reimbursement of costs and Against somewhat difficult trading conditions, Total Shareholder Return TSR against an expenses arising from his relocation.
The the Group still managed to achieve strong appropriate peer group of companies: and salaries and incentive programmes continue to results, albeit below the 2012 outturn.
growth in underlying EPS of the Company.
The reflect performance of the individuals and Consequently, the annual bonus programme TSR performance over this period ended performance against Group metrics.
Nicholas for the executive directors has resulted in a nil below the median and therefore no award will Hobson has had an increase to his PSP award for the year.
We believe that this be made under that performance metric.
provisional entitlement to raise it to 100% of demonstrates the alignment of our However, over the performance period, the basic salary from 70% of basic salary to reflect remuneration policies and practices with the EPS performance did exceed the target and his growing experience and success in the role performance of the Group and the interests of cap for that measure and therefore there will of CEO.
This considered acceleration of shareholders.
Remuneration incentives are be a final allotment of shares equating to 33% benefits has been highlighted in our previous deliberately set with challenging targets given of the initial award, although the final value of the markets in which the Group operates, but two Board Remuneration Reports, where the those shares will not be known until after the Remuneration Committee has stated that we do also expect that those same principles printing date for this Annual Report.
This remuneration would increase as Nicholas and targets will reward generously when further demonstrates that while the Group results show growth against the stated Hobson developed into his CEO role operates in markets which can be cyclical, the successfully.
objectives and strategy of the Group.
We feel that overall this is fair and equitable and in the underlying strong performance of the Group Report format interests of Fenner and shareholders alike.
can still result in an appropriate level of The UK government has issued regulations on long-term award.
In order to promote understanding and gain the revised reporting requirements for clarity we believe in remuneration policies It should be noted that payment of a long-term directors remuneration effective for the year which are simple wherever possible and avoid incentive cash award was made to Nicholas ending 31 August 2014.
Although not Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013 40
