Directors Report Business Review Divisional Review ENGINEERED CONVEYOR SOLUTIONS ECS offers a unique, comprehensive suite of products and services which serve the conveying needs of mining, power generation and bulk handling markets.
ECS is one of the worlds leading heavyweight conveyor belting suppliers and has the most comprehensive range of belting products, services and packaged solutions Demand for ECS products and services is primarily determined by the volume of material extracted ECS products and services are critical to its customers businesses, although conveying represents only a small proportion of total extraction costs ECS manufacturing plants are well invested and are strategically located in mining regions with a long-term future Over the last five years, ECS has significantly increased revenue, operating profit and operating margin: during this period, some 196m has been invested in capital expenditure and acquisitions Find out more about ECS and its operations at www.
3 Total investment over period net capital expenditure plus acquisition spend less disposal proceeds.
Revenue analysis Revenue analysis By markets served Replacement belt and service 85% against new customer capacity 15% 550m Revenue 67% of Fenner 550m Revenue 67% of Fenner 2013 42% 18% 64% 15% THERMAL COAL BULK MATERIALS Sand, gravel, cement Underground mining 12% Construction & Ports & power NEW CUSTOMER infrastructure REPLACEMENT stations 28% CAPACITY 21% Electricity generation BELT Mine expansions Worn out New mines Damaged Typical belt life 3-5 years METALLURGICAL COAL OTHER MINERALS SERVICE Underground mining Iron, copper ores Maintain Manage Ports & coking plants Hard rock open pit mining Install Replace Steel production Highly abrasive Emergency repair Steel & copper production Monitor conveyor condition Detect conveyor faults Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013 13 Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results s t n e n o p m o C E n g i n e e r i n g Manage Belt Idlers Maintain Cleaners Pulleys Drives Install Structure 24 7 Monitor Emergency Design Detect Integrate ECS business model and value creation ECS is a recognised leader in the global transactional relationship to a full strategic Mexico, the Middle East and sub-Saharan conveying market, under the Fenner, partnership.
Each type of product or service Africa.
These have offset revenue declines Fenner Dunlop and Dunlop brand names.
within the ECS portfolio provides benefits but from customers in more traditional areas the full value is only realised by the integrated such as Europe.
ECS has developed a comprehensive range of offer which is optimised to reduce the heavyweight belt products, including ply, solid ECS is continuing to broaden its product customers conveyor downtime and total cost woven and steel cord, which it manufactures range, service capabilities and locations to of ownership.
Flexible solutions can also be in its plants around the world.
further improve its global offering of belt adopted to respond to a customers market products and services.
Alongside its traditional expertise in belt relatively low proportion of revenue in certain manufacture, ECS has developed a Geographic coverage has also been key to regions, although this is expected to increase comprehensive range of conveying services, ECSs development.
ECS has particular over time.
including monitoring, maintenance, design strengths in the USA and Australia and and installation.
Recent acquisitions have brought new developing positions in Chile, China, India and capabilities into ECS which are being rolled southern Africa.
More recently, it has ECS offers commercial arrangements to its out across the division worldwide.
established a presence in north Africa, customers that vary from a purely Idlers Cleaners Idlers Cleaners Idlers Drives Idlers Cleaners Idlers Cleaners Examples of ECS products and services An overland steel cord belt where ECS A sorting installation handling sand, gravel A typical underground finger splice on a partnered with the customer on the design and granite.
These short belts on a more mainline belt which transfers the coal from the coal face to the surface.
and selection of products for the whole arduous application need our premier range project.
of belting to give superior belt life.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013 14 s e i t i l i c a D F i a g n o s t i c s s e c i v r e S Directors Report Business Review Divisional Review continued Summary of results ECS has grown significantly in recent years: In 2013, replacement belts and services and operating profit of 1.4m and 0.2m since 2009, revenue and underlying operating accounted for 85% of revenue, compared with respectively.
On a like-for-like basis, revenue only 15% attributable to new customer and underlying operating profit fell by 10% profit have grown at compound annual rates capacity.
The Americas, principally the USA, of 11.0% and 19.6% respectively and the and 27% respectively.
was once again the largest region, accounting underlying operating margin has increased by The underlying operating margin for the year for 42% of total revenue 2012: 44%.
The underlying sector represented 54% of revenues, slightly include the impact of acquisitions, were higher than last year.
operating margin was 12.1% in the second achieved despite the falls in revenue and half of the year, compared with 10.8% during The acquisition of Australian Conveyor underlying operating profit seen in 2013 as the first half, reflecting the seasonality of the Engineering in November 2012 contributed the mining industries in the USA and Australia business and changing trading conditions as 18.2m of revenue and 1.6m of underlying saw markedly weaker trading environments.
operating profit to the Groups results for the In the financial year ended 31 August 2013, year.
Movements in foreign exchange, ECS achieved revenue of 549.8m and principally the US and Australian dollars underlying operating profit of 63.0m.
against sterling, led to reductions in revenue Review of end-markets and business drivers Demand for ECS products and services is these declines are expected to be more than Global copper, iron ore and coal production chiefly driven by tonnage of material extracted offset by increasing demand from China and, to index 1994 100 and consequently consumption of the related a lesser extent, India.
The three principal commodities across the world is likely to adversely impact 300 that impact ECS are steel, through its major producers of lower quality coal.
250 feedstocks iron ore and metallurgical coal, Fenner expects that these changing patterns thermal coal and copper.
200 in the demand for, and supply of, commodities During 2013, record steel production in Asia will increasingly favour low-cost producers of 150 principally China which accounts for over high quality coal and ore, with a significant 100 one-half of global production helped to proportion located in Australia, where Fenner 50 underpin demand for iron ore and is market leader in the supply of belts and metallurgical coal.
0 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 As illustrated in the graph, Fenner expects Usage of belt is also impacted by reductions Copper Production Copper Forecast in the quality of ore and increases in global production of copper, iron ore and coal Iron Ore Production Iron Ore Forecast to continue to grow, driven by further overburden, meaning that, in the future, Coal Production Coal Forecast urbanisation of the populations in China and larger tonnages of material will have to be elsewhere in the developing world, leading to moved for each tonne of commodity produced, Source :  higher demand for steel and electricity.
Fenner expects worldwide consumption of Fenner believes that mining companies thermal coal to increase, of which the increasing focus on cost efficiency will favour seaborne trade will represent an increasing usage of its belts which offer lower life-time share.
While coal is the major source of fuel costs and also the outsourcing of conveyorfor power generation in the USA, long-term related services, which should provide further declines in consumption are anticipated: opportunities for Fenner.
CASE STUDY Strong & Resilient - ECSs response to market downturns in the USA and Australia ECSs businesses in the USA and Australia Eastern Australia to the iron-ore producing each took decisive steps to reduce costs as areas in Western Australia to meet higher trading conditions deteriorated at different demand for repair and maintenance times in 2013. services.
In the USA, hourly average headcount was In both countries, skilled employees were reduced by over 100 people, resulting in retained in anticipation of recovery in demand.
Other cost Prior to the year end, certain manned reducing initiatives targeted purchasing, capacity in the USA was restored in factory and business overheads.
anticipation of a recovery in demand for In Australia, overall headcount and other belting.
At the same time, significant amounts of labour were redeployed from the coal mining areas of Fenner PLC Annual Report 2013 15 n o s i s e c n i a r p p x y t e i d o o t m Overview Business Review Governance Remuneration Corporate Responsibility Financial Results s n m r o u c t g X n E i s P i R A C G r s o S e w s t t e m a h c i b u r C l s p e A e y P c r t E i o X d X m o E c High OPEX OPEX Tight OPEX increases control OPEX resumes ECS and the commodity cycle The great majority of ECSs revenue is this is by delaying the replacement of belts, even operational expenditure OPEX through the commodity cycle, illustrates that OPEX is generated through the supply of consumable though this is likely to require additional running belt products and related services, representing considerably less volatile than capital repairs and carries the risk of a belt failure operational expenditure by its mining and expenditure CAPEX such as the which has the potential to shut down the other customers.
Usage of these products and construction of new capacity, which accounted users facility for a period whilst the failure is services is a function of the tonnages of for only 15% of ECSs revenues.
rectified, with possibly significant losses of material extracted and moved: as with similar production and revenue.
At the end of the 2013 financial year, the consumable products such as truck tyres, mining industry in the USA appeared to be Later in the cycle, as commodity prices and there is an optimum time at which to replace recovering with cautious resumptions in OPEX sentiment start to improve, mines are more a belt in order to minimise life-time costs.
leading to ECS seeing an improved order likely to focus on increasing efficiencies, which Commodity prices do not impact demand for book, albeit below the levels seen in 2011. tends to lead to belt replacements returning conveyor products and services directly, but if Australia appeared to be behind the USA in towards normal levels and the resumption of commodity prices fall, the resulting adverse the commodity cycle and, while conditions planned maintenance programmes.
impact on miners profits and general sentiment have shown some signs of stabilising, mining in the industry may lead users to seek to reduce The below chart showing the changing companies continue to maintain a tight short-term cash outflows.
One way they can do attitude of the mining companies to control on OPEX.
CASE STUDY Growing - Completion of Kwinana expansion On 4June 2013, four years after the factory has an annual capacity of 450,000 square first opened, Fenner Dunlop Australia metres, equating to about 200km of belting, officially opened this A$25m expansion to and includes the most modern technical double the capacity of the Kwinana plant in testing facility in the southern hemisphere.
The expanded plant now This Australian manufacturing plant is houses two of the largest and longest Fenners fifteenth global conveyor belt presses to build the biggest and best quality manufacturing facility and strengthens the steel cord belting in the world.
It also has Groups reputation as a world leader and the best rubber calendering and steel cable innovator in conveyor belt technology.
tensioning equipment available anywhere in the world, which all leads to a faster throughput than was previously considered possible.
The plant produces steel cord belt and rubber ply belt up to 3200mm wide.
