08 S TR A TE G I C RE P OR T FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 OUR BUSINESS MODEL A FOCUSED STRATEGY applying FINANCIAL DISCIPLINE 09 S TR A TE G I C RE P OR T FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 According to the World Health Organisation, by the middle of the 21st century, the urban population will almost double, increasing from approximately 3.4 billion in 2009 to 6.4 billion in 2050 driven predominantly by growth in emerging markets.
Market Context Ferrexpos strategy is focused on the Steel as the worlds most important engineering and construction material is fundamental to this growth, 10 key priorities below: requiring iron ore as the key raw ingredient.
The supply of iron ore is dominated by four companies Develop its resource base providing approximately 70% of the worlds seaborne Improve the quality of its output iron ore, however, the share of steel production coming from lower grade iron ores has in recent years increased.
Develop its logistics capabilities Jefferies Bank believe the average grade of iron ore products in the seaborne market has fallen from 63% Fe Develop its customer portfolio in 2007 to below 62% Fe in 2013, while Goldman Sachs To be a low cost producer believe the average grade from Australian producers the largest supplier of seaborne iron ore will decline to below Train and develop the Groups employees 60% Fe by 2014.
In addition, steel mills are under increasing Maintain a social licence to operate pressure to reduce their environmental emissions.
Evaluate relevant investment opportunities Ferrexpo, with the largest resource base in Europe, supplies high quality iron ore pellet of increasing quality Maintain financial discipline to the growing steel market enabling lower grade iron Maintain high standards of corporate ores to be blended and blast furnace emissions to be reduced.
As a long standing supplier of premium iron governance ore in a concentrated market, Ferrexpo is well placed to grow its output and to provide an alternative supply of See page 12 to read about our progress high quality iron ore to global steel mills.
against our strategic priorities Within this context Ferrexpo has a strategy to develop a high quality business reducing the risk profile across all aspects of the operations.
Financial Discipline In order to develop the Company sustainably, it is necessary to ensure projects are funded and adequate liquidity is maintained, while dividend income to shareholders is stable, balanced and appropriate.
The majority of the Groups cash flows have been reinvested in the business over many years to increase output and shareholder returns.
To ensure a smooth long-term growth profile through business cycles, it is the strategy of Ferrexpo, where possible, to maintain strong credit ratios.
