52 G O V E RN A NC E FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Michael Abrahams, CBE DL Oliver Baring Raffaele Lucio Genovese Wolfram Kuoni Christopher Mawe, FCA Ihor Mitiukov Miklos Salamon Kostyantin Zhevago Non-executive Chairman Senior Independent Independent Non-executive Independent Non-executive Chief Financial Officer Independent Non-executive Non-executive Director Chief Executive Officer Non-executive Director Director Director Director Date of Appointment Date of Appointment Date of Appointment Date of Appointment Date of Appointment Date of Appointment Date of Appointment Date of Appointment Michael Abrahams joined the Oliver Baring joined the Board Lucio Genovese joined the Wolfram Kuoni joined the Chris Mawe joined the Board Ihor Mitiukov joined the Mike Salamon joined the Kostyantin Zhevago joined Board on 14 June 2007. on 1 December 2007.
Board on 27 March 2009. the Board as a Non-executive Director on 14 June 2007 and was appointed Chief Executive on 1 November 2008.
He is ultimately the controlling shareholder of Ferrexpo.
Other Appointments Other Appointments Other Appointments Other Appointments Other Appointments Other Appointments Other Appointments Other Appointments He is chairman of the Prudential He is non-executive chairman He is the chief executive officer He is the founder and senior None.
He is the managing director He is a non-executive director None.
of First Africa Holdings Limited, of Nage Capital Management, partner of Kuoni Attorneysand head of country for of Central Rand Gold, Gem and is a non-executive director a Swiss-based advisory at-Law, Zurich, Switzerland, Ukraine, Morgan Stanley.
Diamonds and Minera las of BlackRock World Mining and proprietary company and serves on a number Cenizas.
Trust plc, and a member specialising in the metals and of boards of directors.
of the Advisory Council of mining sector.
He is the nonSentient Resources Fund.
executive chairman of Firestone Diamonds plc and serves on a number of other boards of directors.
He was appointed a non-executive director of Ferrous Resources on 4 March 2014.
Background and Experience Background and Experience Background and Experience Background and Experience Background and Experience Background and Experience Background and Experience Background and Experience He was deputy chairman of He was chairman of Mwana Africa He has previously served as He has over 13 years of He qualified as a Chartered He was the general director of He was executive chairman of He was a non-executive director Prudential plc until May 2000, plc from 2005 until August 2013. investment officer and a member experience in investment Accountant with Coopers and the Financial Policy Institute until New World Resources plc, a of New World Resources plc, a and chairman of KCOM Group He retired from UBS Warburg in of the board of Taj Investment banking.
Prior to 2005, he held Lybrand in 1991, having gained March 2008.
From 2002 to 2005 subsidiary of BXR Group Limited subsidiary of BXR Group Limited plc until July 2009.
He has 2001, having led the International Limited with responsibility for a number of positions within a First Class Honours degree in he served as Extraordinary and and managing director of AMCI from 2009 until 24 February served as chairman and as a Mining Group with responsibility its Indian public and private UBS Investment Banking Zurich Engineering.
He has held senior Plenipotentiary Ambassador of Capital, a private equity fund from 2014.
He has been a member of director of a number of quoted for Africa and Europe.
Prior to that, and New York, including head financial positions for the past 17 Ukraine in the United Kingdom.
With a career the Ukrainian Parliament since and unquoted companies.
He he had been head of the UBS he held a number of positions of the european export and years, first with IMI plc in both the He also represented Ukraine spanning more than 30 years, 1998.
He was chairman of the was chairman of the London Warburg mining equity sales with Glencore International, project finance team.
He also UK and Europe, and then with in the International Maritime recently with BHP Billiton, he management board and deputy Clinic until March 2012. team and was responsible for its including senior member of the originated and structured crossCarclo plc as finance director.
From 1997 to 2001 has extensive knowledge of the chairman of the supervisory respected coverage and sales copper division, CEO of CIS border acquisitions and equity Before joining Ferrexpo he was he served as Minister of Finance of international mining and extractive board of CJSC Commercial Bank capability.
He was a partner operations, manager of the capital markets transactions.
finance director of UK Coal plc.
Ukraine and, from 1995 to 1997, as industries.
Before 1997 he held a Finance and Credit Bank F&C.
in Rowe and Pitman before its Moscow office and trader in the He graduated with a law degree Ukraines Special Representative number of positions, first at Anglo Between 1993 and 1996, he was merger with SG Warburg.
He is a Chartered from the University of Berne, and to the European Union in American and later in the coal financial director of F&C Group Accountant South Africa.
holds a doctorate in law from Brussels.
In 1994, he was deputy divisions of Shell and Gencor Ltd. of companies.
He graduated the University of Zurich and an governor of the National Bank He graduated in 1975 from The from the Kyiv State Economic MBA from INSEAD in France.
He of Ukraine and then Vice-Prime University of the Witwatersrand, University in 1996, specialising is a member of the Zurich Bar.
Minister of Ukraine for Banking Johannesburg with a degree in in international economics.
He graduated from Mining Engineering Cum Laude the Cybernetics Department, and obtained an MBA from Kyiv State University and has the London Business School, a PhD in Economics 1985 University of London in 1981. from the Institute of Economy, Academy of Sciences Ukraine.
Committee Membership Committee Membership Committee Membership Committee Membership Committee Membership Committee Membership Committee Membership Committee Membership He is a member of the He is Chairman of the He is Chairman of the He is Chairman of the Audit None.
He is a member of the Nominations and CSR Nominations Committee and a Remuneration Committee and a Committee and a member Audit, Remuneration and Nominations and CSR Committees.
member of the Audit Committee.
of the Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
53 G O V E RN A NC E FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Michael Abrahams, CBE DL Oliver Baring Raffaele Lucio Genovese Wolfram Kuoni Christopher Mawe, FCA Ihor Mitiukov Miklos Salamon Kostyantin Zhevago Non-executive Chairman Senior Independent Independent Non-executive Independent Non-executive Chief Financial Officer Independent Non-executive Non-executive Director Chief Executive Officer Non-executive Director Director Director Director Date of Appointment Date of Appointment Date of Appointment Date of Appointment Date of Appointment Date of Appointment Date of Appointment Date of Appointment Michael Abrahams joined the Oliver Baring joined the Board Lucio Genovese joined the Wolfram Kuoni joined the Chris Mawe joined the Board Ihor Mitiukov joined the Mike Salamon joined the Kostyantin Zhevago joined Board on 14 June 2007. on 1 December 2007.
