77 G O V E RN A NC E FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their report to shareholders for the financial Further details about the Directors and their roles within the Group year ending 31 December 2013, which they are required to produce are given in the Directors biographies on pages 52 and 53.
of the remuneration of the Directors, their interests in shares of the Company and their service contracts are contained in the Introduction Remuneration Report on pages 63 to 76.
For the purposes of the disclosures required under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules of the UKLA, cross Appointment and Replacement of Directors references are made where appropriate to other sections of the Directors may be elected by the shareholders by ordinary resolution Annual Report.
or appointed by the Board.
A Director appointed by the Board holds office only until the next following AGM and is then eligible for The Company was incorporated under the name Ferrexpo plc as a election by the shareholders.
public company limited by shares on 22 April 2005.
Ferrexpo plc listed on the London Stock Exchange in June 2007 and is a member Powers of the Directors of the FTSE 250 index.
Subject to the Companys Articles, the Act and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company will be managed Directors Duties by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
The duties of Directors are set out in sections 170 to 177 of the Act.
The duties that are specifically referred to in the Corporate Directors and Officers Insurance Governance Report on pages 55 to 62 include the duties under The Company maintains Directors and Officers Liability Insurance in section 172 to promote the success of the Company, section 175 to respect of legal action that may be brought against its Directors and avoid conflicts of interest, section 176 not to accept benefits from Officers.
third parties, and section 177 to declare any interests in existing or proposed transactions or arrangements with the Company.
Directors Indemnity Provision During the period under review, the Group had in force a qualifying Dividends third-party indemnity provision in favour of one or more of the Results for the year are set out in the Consolidated Income Directors of Ferrexpo plc against liability in respect of proceedings Statement on page 84. brought by third parties, subject to the conditions set out in the Act.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 3.3 US cents per Disclosures required by statute Ordinary Share.
Subject to shareholders approving this Employees recommendation at the Annual General Meeting AGM, the Information on the Groups employment policies can be found in the dividend will be paid in UK Pounds Sterling on 30 May 2014 to Strategic Report on pages 38 to 39 and 43.
Employee numbers are shareholders on the register at the close of business on 2 May 2014. stated in note 35 to the accounts.
The Group employs fewer than Shareholders may receive UK Pounds Sterling dividends by direct 250 staff in the United Kingdom and so does not disclose its policies bank transfer, provided that they have notified the Companys on employee involvement or employing disabled people.
However, it registrars in advance.
Shareholders may also elect to receive will give fair consideration to applications for employment from dividends in US Dollars the procedure for this is set out in the Notice disabled people.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions In recognition of the progress made by the business in 2013, the The disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions are in the Directors have also announced a special dividend of 6.6 US cents Strategic Report on page 45. per share, amounting to US$39 million, for payment on 28 March 2014 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 21 Political Donations March 2014.
The dividend will similarly be paid in UK Pounds Sterling The Group made no political donations during the year.
with an election to receive US Dollars.
Financial Instruments Directors Information on financial instruments is in note 37 to the accounts on The Directors of the Company who served during the year were: pages 133 to 141.
Michael Abrahams Oliver Baring Share Capital and Rights Attaching to the Companys Shares Lucio Genovese The Company has a single class of Ordinary Shares of 10 pence Wolfram Kuoni each.
Chris Mawe Ihor Mitiukov Subject to applicable statutes and other shareholders rights, shares Mike Salamon may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company may Kostyantin Zhevago by ordinary resolution decide, or if there is no such resolution or so far as it does not make specific provision as the Board may decide.
In compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code all of the Directors will retire at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
78 G O V E RN A NC E FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 DIRECTORS REPORT continued At each AGM, the Board proposes to put in place annual Dividends and Distributions shareholder authority for the Companys Directors to allot new Subject to the provisions of the Act, the shareholders may by shares in accordance with the Institutional Investor Guidelines.
ordinary resolution, from time to time, declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may Details of the issued share capital of the Company are shown in note pay interim dividends and also any fixed rate dividends whenever the 28 of the financial statements.
financial position of the Group, in the opinion of the Board, justifies their payment.
Variation of Rights Subject to the provisions of the Act, the rights attached to a class of Under the Companys Articles, the Board may withhold payment of shares may be varied or abrogated either with the consent in writing all or any part of any dividends or other monies payable in respect of of the holders of at least three-quarters of the nominal amount of the the Companys shares from a person with a 0.25% or greater issued shares of that class excluding any shares of that class held interest as defined in the Articles if such person has been served as treasury shares or with the sanction of a special resolution with a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and has passed at a separate meeting of the holders of the issued shares of failed within 14 days to provide the Company with information that class validly held in accordance with the Articles.
concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Act.
Transfer of Shares Any share in the Company may be held in uncertificated form and, Voting subject to the Articles, title to uncertificated shares may be At a general meeting of the Company, every member has one vote transferred by means of a relevant system.
Registration of a transfer on a show of hands and on a poll, one vote for each share held.
of an uncertificated share may be refused in the circumstances set Under the Act, members are entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to out in the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 and where, in exercise all or any of their rights to attend, speak and vote at a the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to general meeting.
A member that is a corporation may appoint one or whom the uncertificated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
more individuals to act on its behalf at a general meeting as a corporate representative.
Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or any of his certificated shares by an instrument of transfer in any usual form or Restrictions on Voting in any other form which the Board may approve.
The Board may No member is entitled to vote at any general meeting in respect of decline to register a transfer of a certificated share if it is not in the any shares held by him if any call or other sum outstanding in approved form.
The Board may also decline to register any transfer respect of that share remains unpaid.
Currently, all issued shares are of any share which is not a fully paid share.
The Board may decline fully paid.
In addition, subject to the Articles no member shall be to register a transfer of any of the Companys certificated shares by a entitled to vote if he has failed to provide the Company with person with a 0.25% or greater interest if such a person has been information concerning interests in those shares required to be served with a notice and has failed within 14 days to provide the provided under the Act.
Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Act, unless the transfer is shown Shares Held in the Employee Benefit Trust EBT to the Board to be pursuant to an arms length sale.
The trustees of the Companys EBT may vote or abstain from voting on shares held in the EBT as they think fit and in doing so may take Repurchase of Shares into account both financial and non-financial interests of the Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the Company beneficiaries of the EBT or their dependants.
may purchase its own shares in accordance with the Act.
Any shares which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or Deadline for Voting Rights cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not less than 48 hours before the meeting.
The Directors will also specify The Company was given authority to make market purchases of up in the notice of any general meeting a time, being not more that 48 to approximately 10% of its existing Ordinary Share capital by a hours before the meeting, by which a person must be entered in the resolution passed on 23 May 2013.
This authority will expire at the register of members in order to have the right to attend and vote at conclusion of the Companys 2014 AGM.
A special resolution to the meeting The Directors may decide, at their discretion, that no renew the authority will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
account should be taken of any day that is not a working day when Details of the resolution renewing the authority to purchase Ordinary calculating the 48-hour period.
Shares are set out in the notice of AGM enclosed with this report.
The Company did not make use of the authority mentioned above during 2013.
79 G O V E RN A NC E FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 Substantial Shareholdings Corporate Bond Due 2016 As at 31 December 2013, the Company had been advised, in Under the conditions of the Notes issued in April 2011, if Kostyantin accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the Zhevago ceases to own directly or indirectly at least 30% of the following notifiable interests in its voting rights.
issued and allotted share capital of the Company, or any person % of the other than Kostyantin Zhevago becomes the beneficial owner of Companys total voting shares in the Company carrying more than 50% of the voting rights Number of rights at date Name of shareholder Ordinary Shares voting rights of notification normally exercisable at a general meeting, then any Noteholder will have the right to require the repurchase of its Notes at a purchase 1 Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. 296,077,944 296,077,944 50.30% price in cash equal to 101% of the principal amount plus accrued Wigmore Street Investments and unpaid interest.
3 Ltd 147,156,035 147,156,035 24.99% Relationship Agreement On 28 February 2014 the Company was notified that Wigmore Street Details of the Relationship Agreement entered into between Investments No.
3 Ltds shareholding had been reduced to Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. Kostyantin Zhevago, The Minco Trust and the 140,456,035 shares, or 23.86%.
Company can be found in the Corporate Governance Report pages 56 and 57.
The Relationship Agreement ceases to apply if the 1 Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. is a wholly-owned subsidiary of The Minco Trust of which Kostyantin holding of Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. The Minco Trust or Mr Zhevago Zhevago is a beneficiary.
2 BXR Group Ltd is the ultimate parent undertaking and indirect controller of Wigmore Street individually or collectively falls below 25% of the issued share capital Investments No.
3 Ltd, which holds 140,456,035 shares through its nominee Lynchwood of the Company.
Nominees Ltd. Events Since the Balance Sheet Date Significant Agreements Change of Control Information on events since the balance sheet date is provided in The Company does not have any agreements with Directors or note 40 to the financial statements on page 142. employees that would provide for compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover.
Policy on Derivatives and Financial Instruments The Group does not hold any derivative financial instruments.
Group There are no circumstances connected with any other significant policy on financial instruments is set out in note 37 to the Notes to agreements to which the Company is a party that would take effect, the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 133 to 141. alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid, except those referred to below: Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Annual Report and Accounts LTIP The Statement of Directors Responsibilities is on page 81.
The rules of the Companys LTIP set out the consequences of a change of control of the Company on employee rights under the Risk Management Policies plan.
Generally, such rights will vest on a change of control to the Full details of the Groups policy on risk and uncertainty and an extent that the performance conditions have been satisfied and on a overview of the Groups exposure to credit, liquidity and market risks time pro rated basis, subject to the discretion of the Remuneration are set out in note 37 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Committee.
Participants will become entitled to acquire shares in the Information on pages 133 to 141.
Further references to risk are made Company, or in some cases, to the payment of a cash sum of in the Risks section on pages 28 to 31, 147 and 148, and in the equivalent basis.
Internal Control and Risk Management section of the Corporate Governance Report on pages 60 to 61 which provides a summary of Bank Loan Facility the internal control procedures put in place by the Board to identify Under the US$420 million revolving pre-export finance facility with key risks and review risk management and its effectiveness.
ING Bank N. V. Uni Credit Bank AG, Socit Gnrale and other banks entered into in September 2011, if Kostyantin Zhevago ceases Going Concern to own directly or indirectly at least 30% of the issued and allotted The Groups business activities, together with the risk factors likely to share capital of the Company, or any person other than Kostyantin affect its future development, performance and position are set out Zhevago becomes the beneficial owner of the shares in the on pages 17 to 35.
The financial position of the Company, its cash Company carrying more than 50% of the voting rights normally flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the exercisable at a general meeting, then the lenders are not obliged to Financial Review on pages 32 to 35.
In addition, note 37 of the Notes fund a drawdown.
to the Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 133 to 141 sets out the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives and details of its financial instruments: and its exposures to credit risk, liquidity risk as well as currency risk and interest rate risk.
The Directors are of the opinion that the Company will continue to operate and, as such, the accounts have been prepared using the Going Concern principle.
80 G O V E RN A NC E FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 DIRECTORS REPORT continued Corporate Governance Statement AGM The Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 7.2 require certain The AGM of the Company will be held at 11.00am on Thursday 22 information to be included in a corporate governance statement set May 2014 at The Dorchester, Park Lane, London W1K 1QA.
A out in a companys Directors Report.
In common with many separate letter from the Chairman summarising the business of the companies, Ferrexpo has an existing practice of issuing, within its meeting and the Notice convening the AGM will be sent to Annual Report, a Corporate Governance Report that is separate shareholders with this Annual Report.
The information that fulfils the requirements of DTR 7.2 is located in Ferrexpos Corporate Auditors Governance Report on pages 55 to 62 and is incorporated into this Having reviewed the independence and effectiveness of the Directors Report by reference, with the exception of the information auditors, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that referred to in DTR 7.2.
6, which is located in this Directors Report.
the existing auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, be reappointed.
Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office, and Statement on Disclosure of Information to Auditors an ordinary resolution reappointing them as auditors and authorising The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this the Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed at the 2014 Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is AGM.
no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors are unaware, and that each Director has taken all reasonable steps to Pages 1 to 51 inclusive consist of the Strategic Report and pages 77 make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish to 80 inclusive consist of the Directors Report.
These reports have that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
been drawn up and presented in accordance with, and in reliance upon, applicable English company law and any liability of the Amendments to Articles of Association Directors in connection with these reports shall be subject to the The Articles may be amended by special resolution in accordance limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
The Strategic Report and the Directors Report were approved by the Board on 11 March 2014.
For and on behalf of the Board Michael Abrahams Chairman Christopher Mawe Chief Financial Officer
