04 S TR A TE G I C RE P OR T FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 OUR BUSINESS MODEL PR O C E S S I N G a HIGH QUALITY PRODUCT Ferrexpo produces iron ore pellets which are a premium priced product used in the steel industry.
The high quality of the Groups products and the reliability of our supply means we have supplied some of the worlds leading steel producers for many decades.
In particular, those who require steel for premium applications, meaning it is critical that the final product is produced to the highest quality.
These top producers enjoy a competitive advantage in their chosen markets, and our close ties with these customers help us to maintain stable iron ore pellet sales volumes across business cycles.
In addition, Ferrexpo meets the requiremements of steel mills by having a competitive and reliable logistics system.
Pellets are uniform in size and composition.
They are a high productivity, direct charge iron ore feed to the iron making process and therefore have a lower environmental impact than fines which require sintering by the steel producers.
Our magnetite product has a lower environmental impact than competing hematite products, and it improves blast furnace productivity in the steel production process due to its high iron content, low levels of impurities, spherical shape and uniform quality.
05 S TR A TE G I C RE P OR T FERRE XPO PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2 0 13 All of our current output is in the form of high quality iron Ferrexpo Basic Pellets FBP : 62% Fe ore pellets with an iron content of 62% or 65%.
FBP pellets provide a high performance cost-effective feed for a blast furnace and can reduce the use of fluxes Ferrexpo Premium Pellets FPP : 65% Fe due to elevated silica levels.
After many years of use by Approximately half of our production is in the form of FPP steel producers around the world, FBPs performance in of 65% Fe.
We have a capital investment project under the blast furnace has established a strong reputation, way to install improved processing capability to allow for particularly when combined with our after sales service.
FPP are high grade acid pellets with low levels of alumina and phosphorus as well as high magnesium oxide content.
This chemical composition assists in the production of high value added steel products at reduced costs.
Ore from mine Primary crushing Medium fine crushing Open cut, hard rock iron ore mining, The ore is crushed and screened using truck and shovel.
Average Fe to allow it to be upgraded through Input particle size: 01,200mm: output content of 30%.
separation by two crushing plants.
Wet magnetic Grinding Dry magnetic separation separation Dry magnetic separation separates waste The fine ore particles are collected to material from the iron resulting in output produce 63% Fe concentrate, half of particles of 020mm with a Fe content which goes to the pelletiser to produce The ore is ground to produce fine of 40%.
Pelletising Flotation tanks Transportation Approximately 50% of the concentrate Ferrexpo transports its finished is upgraded to 67% Fe content, used products by rail to border dispatch to create 65% Fe iron ore pellets, with Four kiln grate units which heat and form points.
From the border points, the unwanted waste material removed to the materials into pellets of around 16mm.
means of transportation include rail, the tailings storage area.
