Fidessa group plc 07 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 number of industry awards won.
During the year, Fidessa has Historically compliance was seen The delivery of these platforms continued to bring on new markets, as a post-trade function, checking required a significant focus during such as the DGCX in Dubai, enabling and adjusting trading positions as 2013, with an increased level of its customers to trade directly on necessary the following day.
More investment to strengthen Fidessas these markets.
Fidessa has also recently this has been changing position in this important new sector.
continued to invest in more low towards interactive checks so fund This additional investment was latency and co-location solutions as it managers can use compliance limits focused in the areas of increased builds out its market leading execution when constructing orders and this support levels across the globe, a service.
This investment will continue real-time, pre-trade activity requires strengthening of Fidessas global with further expansion of data centre, more sophisticated compliance infrastructure, improving data quality co-location and network facilities.
Fidessas multi awardand bringing forward the development winning compliance solution, Sentinel, of new components of software.
The Fidessas sell-side solutions continue continues to be a market leader in this new derivatives platforms, which are to win awards around the world area.
Available for many years on a now live across Fidessas first three including for best equities trading software licence basis, Fidessa has global customers, are already handling platform and best derivatives sell-side now signed its first customer for its substantial business and represent a platform with these awards spread service-based version of Sentinel.
This major step forward in the products across America, Europe and Asia.
new service leverages Fidessas global available to service this market.
This Software as a Service SaaS capability Buy-side trading successful roll out achieves a key goal to allow the solution to be provided to for Fidessas derivatives business and During 2013 there have been signs customers in a highly efficient and cost that market conditions have improved gives Fidessa a platform that can be effective manner and opens up a new fully referenced, and has led to for the buy-side, with assets under potential customer base for Sentinel management reaching their highest increased interest and an increased by allowing a broader range of firms pipeline of deals coming into 2014. level since the beginning of the to benefit from its market leading financial crisis.
The sentiment within During the coming year Fidessa will compliance capabilities.
continue to build on its derivatives the buy-side community remains mixed, although the appetite for new, platform, extending into further areas The focus on cost and efficiency such as middle office and hedge large-scale, enterprise investment within buy-side firms is also allowing management deployments is slowly management services.
Both of these Fidessa to leverage its proven servicelast two areas also leverage Fidessas returning.
The market conditions and based delivery capabilities more financial pressures experienced by the experience and technology in equities broadly across its buy-side product which will enable it to rapidly deliver buy-side still mean that there is a suite.
This has resulted in the first strong focus on finding ways to market leading solutions to meet these customer signing for a fully servicerequirements.
reduce cost and improve efficiency.
based implementation of Fidessas enterprise investment management Fidessa has continued to invest in its Although the speed of regulatory suite.
In current market conditions change remains slow, buy-side firms ability to deliver connectivity across Fidessa expects further customers all the regions in which its customers are preparing for the anticipated flow to look seriously at this option, and of new regulations, such as MiFID II operate.
Fidessas global network now believes Fidessas track record of serves around 800 brokers, 4,000 and Dodd-Frank, and with more providing service-based solutions, complex customer mandates and buy-sides and 200 trading venues along with its global infrastructure worldwide.
The value of activity going instructions, the need for and consulting services, will allow comprehensive and flexible across Fidessas global network grew it to engage successfully with by over 15% to around $1 trillion per compliance systems remains strong.
