Fidessa group plc 08 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report continued With its unique knowledge of both the for expensive, proprietary alternatives.
Fidessa will continue to keep a close buy-side and the sell-side, Fidessa is Fidessa will continue working with the watch on all the areas of regulatory able to utilise its position to deliver buy-side and sell-side community to change as they progress and expects innovative services which help both establish a low cost, best practice that these will gradually create sides to work together more for direct broker affirmation, which significant new opportunities.
Fidessa has already been will simplify post-trade workflow doing this for some time in the area of for customers and remove Outlook Coming into 2014, Fidessa is seeing an connectivity, allowing the buy-side unnecessary cost.
and sell-side to interact with each improvement across the markets in which it operates and this is reflected other to manage Orders, Indications Fidessas buy-side solutions continue Of Interest IOIs, Request for Quotes to win awards including for best in its current deal pipeline.
As this improvement starts to take effect, it RFQs and Streaming Quotes.
More buy-side order management system recently Fidessa has introduced its and for compliance services with should gradually result in a reduction in the headwinds faced by Fidessa, Global Trading Service which provides these awards spread across America buy-side firms with a flexible, serviceand Europe.
allowing the growth being generated through sales of its derivatives based solution, fully integrated into Fidessas global network, allowing Regulation platforms, its service-based platforms Fidessas customers are still facing an and its regional expansion to flow broad access to venues and broker services around the world.
The service uncertain and changing regulatory through into overall revenue growth environment with much of the new rather than being masked by the covers foreign exchange, fixed income, futures, options and equities, regulation that was proposed decline in equities.
Whilst Fidessa following the financial crisis in 2008 expects to see a positive effect from as well as providing a suite of analytics and performance benchmarking tools, still to be fully defined.
There are, this in 2014, its recurring revenue however, some areas where progress model has the effect that some of the and is becoming an increasingly popular choice for buy-side firms has been made, particularly in the impact from the attrition in 2013 will areas of reporting and transparency.
flow through into 2014, and this looking to reduce the complexity of their operations.
This has seen the establishment of the means that it expects modest Swap Execution Facilities SEFs and constant currency growth in 2014.
Another example where Fidessa is potentially some restrictions on unlit trading venues dark pools.
Looking further ahead, Fidessa able to leverage its knowledge of both the buy-side and the sell-side is in the believes that as stability and In a further area of regulatory change, opportunity return to the markets, area of post-trade confirmations and affirmations.
In August, Fidessa there has been some evidence that the headwind reduction, coupled the Chinese market may be starting to with further openings as its multiannounced the availability of its Post-trade Confirmation Hub which open up further to foreign firms.
The asset initiative gains momentum, will limit on foreign investment under the enable it to return to growth levels allows buy-side and sell-side firms to confirm trades between themselves Qualified Foreign Institutional Investor closer to those it has seen in the past.
QFII programme almost doubled Fidessa remains excited by the via the industry standard FIX protocol.
Fidessa has been working with some and proposals are in place to make potential for its service-based it easier for foreign banks to set up offerings across all asset classes and of the largest global asset managers helping to pioneer this work, enabling subsidiaries in mainland China.
Some segments of its market and believes of Fidessas customers are becoming that it will continue to play an them to send and receive allocation and confirmation instructions to their more optimistic about their prospects important role as customers focus on in China but Fidessa does not expect efficiency, transparency, compliance brokers via this open, low cost protocol thereby removing the need this process to proceed quickly.
