Fidessa group plc 06 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report continued Fidessa has continued to make Sell-side trading Fidessas derivatives Fidessas sell-side business has started progress with its new proprietary programme has made trading platform which included a new to see some improvement in line with good progress with market conditions.
In particular, there deal with one of the leading domestic proprietary trading firms.
However, has been a reduction in both price revenue more than pressure and in the number of the local Japanese market has doubling.
remained challenging and, coupled closures and consolidations within Fidessas customer base, with some with an adverse currency movement in the Yen, this has masked the firms beginning to look at a potential expansion in the services they take.
progress Fidessa has been making in the Asia region.
Fidessa has also seen an increase in the number of sell-side equity trading Across all the regions, the cost platforms and trader workstations sold, with 31 new deals signed, and pressures within sell-side firms are expected to continue despite these deals well distributed across the regions.
These new signings included improvements in market conditions.
This is causing Fidessas customers to customers who had previously taken solutions from other vendors but are look increasingly at a service-based model as the most cost effective way now looking to put in place a more sophisticated offering in order to to operate their platform.
This model has already been widely used by support the range of functionality they will need in the future and to ensure Fidessas smaller equities customers and across Fidessas derivatives they can meet their ongoing compliance obligations.
However, this approach is now gaining traction Excluding Japan, Fidessa has seen within larger equity firms as well and, as a result, Fidessa is becoming very strong growth across the Asia region with new wins in the Chinese involved in looking at the feasibility of this model for some of these larger banking sector, extensions into Indonesia and the development of an firms and, in some cases, is undertaking consultancy to examine ASEAN market trading service in partnership with a number of key the possibility in more detail.
The new signings in Asia included China Fidessas derivatives programme has made good progress during the year Securities International CSCI, who selected Fidessa to support their with revenue more than doubling and an additional nine firms taking Hong Kong institutional equities business, as they opened their first elements of this programme.
This includes deals with two large US wholly-owned subsidiary outside mainland China.
This major Chinese banks and another significant firm in derivatives trading.
Good progress has broker takes the number of significant Chinese firms using Fidessa for their also been made in rolling out Fidessas first large-scale global derivatives international operations to seven and positions Fidessa well for future platforms, with very good feedback being received from customers and a opportunities in this market.
