Fidessa group plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors and corporate governance report This section of the Annual Report outlines how the Board maintains high standards of corporate governance as well as providing a summary of how each of the Boards committees function.
As this is the first year the Annual Report contains expanded Directors Remuneration and Audit Committee reports, we have taken the opportunity to adjust the layout of the Annual Report.
The Board believes in good governance and recognises the importance of complying with the various aspects of the UK governance framework.
Crucial to good governance is a stable Board that contains the right balance of skills and experience: therefore, Board appointments are taken very seriously.
As previously notified to Fidessas largest shareholders, succession planning will continue into 2014 with the Nominations Committee seeking a successor to Philip Hardaker as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
This reflects his decision to step down as a non-executive director during 2014, following the appointment and handover to a new non-executive director after nine years of service to Fidessa.
The Nominations Committee report details the recruitment process.
The Board continues to welcome interaction with shareholders and I and the other non-executive directors are available for dialogue as an alternative to meetings with the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
John Hamer Chairman The directors present their report and the audited financial statements for Fidessa group plc company number 03234176 for the year ended 31st December 2013.
These will be laid before the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 30th April 2014.
All sections of the Annual Report and Accounts contain certain forward looking statements which by their nature involve risk and uncertainty.
The forward looking statements are based on the knowledge and information available at the date of preparation and on what are believed to be reasonable judgements.
A wide range of factors may cause the actual results to differ materially from those contained within, or implied by, these forward looking statements.
The forward looking statements should not be construed as a profit forecast.
Directors The Board currently comprises a Chairman, four independent non-executive directors and two executive directors.
During 2014 Philip Hardaker will stand down as a non-executive director see Nominations Committee Report.
The Board considers its overall size and composition to be appropriate, having regard to the experience and skills which the Board members bring together and the fact that the Board considers the non-executive directors to be independent of management.
The serving directors are: John Hamer age 54, Chairman John Hamer joined Fidessa in 1983.
in Computer Science from Leeds University and was Chief Executive of the Group between 1992 and 2001 when the Group had multiple divisions, each division having its own Chief Executive.
John became Chairman in 2001 when the Group focused on the Fidessa business by divesting the help desk and call centre software businesses.
The Board considers the Chairman role to be similar to that performed prior to 2001 when there were multiple businesses and there to be no conflict with Chris Aspinwall, the Chief Executive, who was already the Chief Executive of the Fidessa business prior to 2001.
He currently has no other material business commitments.
Fidessa group plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors and corporate governance report continued Chris Aspinwall age 50, Chief Executive Chris Aspinwall joined Fidessa in 1986 as a software engineer and was appointed to the Board in 1992.
He became Chief Executive of the Fidessa business in 1992 and has grown it to its current world leading position.
In 2001 he became Group Chief Executive.
in Computer Science from York University.
Andy Malpass age 52, Finance Director Andy Malpass joined Fidessa in 1995 as Finance Director and has over 25 years experience in the software industry, with both private and public companies.
in Accounting and Finance from Lancaster University and is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Ron Mackintosh age 65, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Ron Mackintosh was appointed to the Board in 2004.
Ron has held a number of senior executive positions in European technology companies.
Between 1992 and 2000 he was chief executive of Computer Sciences Corporations CSC European business which had revenue of $2.5 billion.
He is Chairman of CSR plc, a multifunction connectivity, audio and location platforms company that is a UK listed FTSE 250 company as well as being listed on NASDAQ.
He is also the former chairman of each of Smartstream Technologies Limited, Northgate Information Solutions plc and Differentis Limited and a former director of Gemplus SA.
He is currently Chairman of AlertMe.
Philip Hardaker age 66, Independent Non-Executive Director Philip Hardaker joined the Board as a non-executive director in February 2005.
Philip is an experienced Chartered Accountant who previously served for 20 years as a partner in KPMG UK.
As a partner he led teams providing audit, advisory and transaction due diligence services to a broad portfolio of clients.
In addition, he held a series of managerial and leadership positions in KPMG, both in the UK and overseas.
Philip is a Trustee of Charities Aid Foundation, chairing the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee, and is a non-executive director of CAF Bank Limited.
He previously served as Chairman of The St. John of Jerusalem Eye Hospital.
Elizabeth Lake age 71, Independent Non-Executive Director Elizabeth Lake was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director in October 2008.
Until June 2009, Elizabeth was a director and president of Securities Processing Solutions International, a subsidiary of Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc Broadridge, a global provider of technology based outsourcing solutions to the financial services industry.
She was a partner in the consultancy practice of KPMG and has also held senior executive positions at CSC Index within the financial services sector and at Ziff Davis Technical Information Company, where she was responsible for software products and services for the financial services industry.
Elizabeth is also an advisor to the Tokushukai Medical Group, a privately held Japan based organisation which has 68 hospitals, together with a number of primary care facilities, retirement homes and dialysis centres.
Mark Foster age 54, Independent Non-Executive Director Mark Foster was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director in October 2012.
Mark was Accentures Group Chief Executive, Global Markets and Management Consulting, where he had overall responsibility for Accentures global management consulting practice consisting of some 15,000 professionals and $4 billion of revenues.
Mark is also an independent director of Heidrick & Struggles International Inc, the NASDAQ-listed global search organisation.
Mark is one of four commissioners of the Independent Commission for Aid Impact, charged with overseeing the circa 10 billion of UK International Aid spend to ensure value for money on behalf of the UK Parliament and the tax payer.
In addition, Mark has been on the board of the Royal Shakespeare Company since 2005.
Fidessa group plc 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 In accordance with provision B.
7.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code Code, all the directors offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The biographies of the directors are set out above.
Andy Malpass, Finance Director, has informed the Board of his intention to retire in 2015.
Andy has been with Fidessa for nearly 20 years, having joined in 1995.
The Board will now commence the process of identifying a suitable replacement.
Andy has committed to continue to work with Fidessa for as long as is necessary to ensure an orderly handover takes place.
At the Annual General Meeting it will be nine years since Philip Hardaker was first elected.
He has informed the Board that he intends to step down as Chairman of the Audit Committee and as a non-executive director during 2014, following the appointment and handover to his successor.
At the 2014 Annual General Meeting it will be nine years since Ron Mackintosh was first elected as a non-executive director.
The Board has undertaken a rigorous review of his independence and contribution to the Board and concluded that he remains independent in character and judgement.
The Board found no information or circumstances to lead it to conclude otherwise than that he be reappointed as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director for a maximum of three years.
The Board considers his valuable contribution to, and in-depth understanding of, Fidessas business together with this fair and transparent participation in Board discussions as beneficial to the Board and Fidessa as a whole.
In October 2013 the Chairman consulted with the largest 13 shareholders holding over 60% of Fidessas shares at that time concerning the Boards desired intention to reappoint Ron.
After a formal review, the Board confirmed that Philip Hardaker, Elizabeth Lake and Mark Foster are independent in character and judgement.
When reaching its decision on independence, the Board considered the independence criteria set out in the paragraph B.
The Chairman confirms that the performance of each of the directors continues to be effective and that they continue to demonstrate commitment to their roles, bringing their considerable commercial experience to Fidessa: accordingly their re-election is recommended.
The Senior Independent Director, Ron Mackintosh, confirms that the performance of the Chairman continues to be effective and his re-election is accordingly recommended.
Directors interests in shares and share incentives in Fidessa group plc are detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
At the date of this Directors and Corporate Governance Report, indemnities are in force under which Fidessa has agreed to indemnify the directors and the Company Secretary to the extent permitted by law and by Fidessa group plcs Articles of Association in respect of all losses arising in their capacity as officer of any member of the Fidessa group.
In addition, Fidessa has purchased and maintained throughout the year, directors and officers liability insurance in respect of itself and its directors and officers.
