Fidessa group plc 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Service contracts executive directors The contracts of service for Chris Aspinwall and Andy Malpass were entered into on 2nd June 1997, and have been amended on three occasions in October 2003, January 2012 and February 2014 to reflect current market practice.
The key terms are shown in the table below: Provisions Summary Term Indefinite with 12 months notice from either party.
and notice Payment Salary and annual bonus.
Benefits Private medical insurance, life insurance and ill health income protection.
Entitled to participate in and other the SIP and MSPP and receive matching shares in relation to those share plans.
Entitled but not entitlements participating in Fidessas defined contribution pension plan.
Termination The executive director will be entitled to receive salary, pro-rata bonus for the period of time worked up to the date of termination and benefits during the notice period.
Alternatively, if Fidessa terminates the employment, the executive director will be entitled to receive in lieu of the required notice period, or unexpired part thereof, salary and the cash equivalent of benefits.
The executive director will also be entitled to receive a pro-rata bonus for the period of time worked up to the date of termination.
The executive directors are not entitled to receive any annual bonus payment in lieu of the required notice period or unexpired part thereof.
Where an e x ecutiv e director continues to w ork during his notice period it may be beneficial to Fidessa and its shareholders for the terms of the annual bonus to be varied.
If such circumstances arise, the Committee in its absolute discretion may determine that an alternative bonus for the executive director be paid.
The alternative bonus shall not exceed 125% of salary for the Chief Executive and 100% of salary for the Finance Director or such other limits as the directors remuneration policy shall permit and shall be in lieu of the executive directors entitlement to receive an annual bonus.
The remuneration policy relating to payments for loss of office sets out how the Committee may exercise its discretion.
For the avoidance of doubt, the executive directors are not entitled to receive an alternative bonus in lieu of the required notice period or unexpired part thereof.
Payments during the notice period or payments in lieu of notice will be payable in equal monthly instalments on the normal payroll date, except that any bonus shall be payable at such time as that bonus would otherwise have been payable.
Payments made in lieu of notice are subject to the executive director using reasonable endeavours to obtain suitable alternative employment: in the event that alternative employment is secured, amounts payable pursuant to the new employment shall be deducted from any payment made by Fidessa during the unexpired notice period.
Service contracts may be terminated without notice and without compensation for gross misconduct.
Further amounts may become due to settle statutory entitlements, compromise claims and legal expenses.
The executive directors do not hold any external non-executive positions.
