Fidessa group plc 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Key matters considered and activities during the year During 2013, the Committee met to review the results of the external audit for the previous financial year, the external auditors half year review and the half year results, the audit plan for 2013 and the internal auditors report for 2013.
In February 2014 the Committee met to receive KPMGs update and report on its audit activity and to review this Annual Report and the financial statements contained within it.
The Committees prime areas of focus have been: the integrity, completeness and consistency of financial reporting, including the adequacy, clarity and appropriateness of disclosures: the areas where significant judgements and estimates are required in the financial statements: the scope and programme of audits, along with the quality and effectiveness of audit processes so that they complement the other risk management activities within Fidessa: the materiality level to apply to the audit, concluding that it should be consistent with the previous year: whether the going concern basis of accounting should continue to apply in the preparation of the annual financial statements: and the appropriateness of transactions separately identified as exceptional in order to highlight the underlying performance for the periods presented in the financial statements.
The preparation of financial statements requires management to make assumptions, judgements and estimates which are detailed in note 4 to the financial statements.
The key areas of assumptions, judgements and estimates that have been monitored and considered by the Committee were: Revenue recognition in relation to significant fixed price implementation contracts, in particular those for multi-asset services.
The Committee assessed the extent of completion, the work remaining to complete, the technical and commercial risk remaining and in respect of these uncertainties the value of revenue being deferred.
For services post-implementation, the extent of commercial or other risk was assessed.
In addition, the Committee considered material cross-border contracts and the appropriateness of where and when revenue is recognised.
The Committee received updates throughout the year from the Finance Director and reports from the external auditor in advance of the interim and preliminary results being approved.
Development costs and the continued approach to their capitalisation.
The areas that the Committee reflected on during the year were the continual development programme, tightly integrated product set resulting from the ongoing development, consistency of treatment with prior years in the financial statements, appropriateness of the short amortisation period, the potential for impairments to have materialised and the overall carrying value compared to revenue being generated from the product set.
The technical feasibility of material elements of development and the ability to generate future economic benefit were also considered.
Also, the Committee reviewed and approved the appropriateness of Fidessas accounting for the continual development programme.
The tax complexity and risk related to the multinational operations of Fidessa and many of its customers.
The Committee considered Fidessas operations and how material contracts covering more than one country were delivered.
The recognition of tax assets and liabilities requires estimates of the likely outcome of decisions by tax authorities.
During the year the Committee received updates from the Finance Director as well as reports from the external auditor in advance of the interim and preliminary results being approved.
Also, the appropriateness of tax provisions and the recognition of deferred tax assets were discussed and considered fair and reasonable.
