Fidessa group plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors and corporate governance report continued Annual report on remuneration Membership, meetings and evaluation During the year the Committee comprised Ron Mackintosh, Philip Hardaker, Elizabeth Lake and Mark Foster.
All members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors.
None of the members of the Committee has any personal financial interest other than as shareholders, to the extent disclosed in this report, conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships, or day-to-day involvement in running the business.
The Chairman and executive directors may attend committee meetings by invitation.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the Board evaluation process during the year and the conclusion was that the Committee was functioning effectively.
Responsibilities The Committee operates within its terms of reference, which are reviewed and updated annually and are available at www.
The Committee is responsible for determining the policy and application for remuneration, other benefits and terms of employment, including performance-related bonus schemes and oversight of share plans, for executive directors, senior management and the Chairman.
Remuneration consultants During the year, the Committee took independent advice from New Bridge Street NBS, an Aon plc company.
NBS is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and has signed up to its Code of Conduct.
NBS provided advice on general remuneration matters.
NBS do not provide other services to Fidessa.
The Aon group provides other services to Fidessa, namely insurance broking and pensions provision, but the Committee continues to believe that this does not create a conflict of interest.
For the year under review, NBS received fees of 14,756 in connection with its work for the Committee.
Remuneration details In accordance with the Regulations, the tables below set out the remuneration for each director.
