Fidessa group plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors and corporate governance report continued The Board At 31st December 2013 the Board comprised the Chairman, two executive directors and four non-executive directors whose Board and Committee responsibilities are set out in the table below: Board Audit Remuneration Nominations John Hamer Chairman Chairman Chairman Chris Aspinwall Chief Executive Member Andy Malpass Finance Director Member Ron Mackintosh Senior Independent Member Member Chairman Member Non-Executive Director Philip Hardaker Independent Member Chairman Member Member Non-Executive Director Elizabeth Lake Independent Member Member Member Member Non-Executive Director Mark Foster Independent Member Member Member Non-Executive Director The Board meets formally on a regular basis to monitor operating issues, risk and trading performance, to review forecasts, strategy and policy, to consider key projects and major investments and to oversee appropriate shareholder reporting.
During 2013 the Board met on 10 scheduled occasions for this purpose.
In addition, if required, impromptu Board meetings occur to consider specific issues as and when necessary.
Meetings were held by the Chairman with the non-executive directors, without the executive directors present, to discuss the performance of management.
The Chairman and non-executive directors also held meetings throughout the year with various senior managers to improve insight into the business operations and marketplace.
The attendance of individual directors at Board meetings and Committee meetings is presented in the table below: Board meetings Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee attended meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended John Hamer 10 10 3 3 Chris Aspinwall 10 10 Andy Malpass 10 10 Ron Mackintosh 9 10 5 5 5 5 3 3 Philip Hardaker 10 10 5 5 5 5 3 3 Elizabeth Lake 10 10 5 5 5 5 3 3 Mark Foster 8 10 4 5 5 5 Absences were due to prior commitments or unavoidable circumstances.
The Board is responsible for corporate governance and delegates operational control to the executive directors.
At each Board meeting it considers strategic issues, finance, business development, governance and risks facing the business.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the decision of the Board that covers key areas of Fidessas affairs.
The schedule includes approval of the Annual Report and any other financial statements, the adoption of budgets or business plans, decisions on acquisitions and disposals, material financial commitments and the release of inside information.
Certain matters require Board approval and other matters may be approved by senior management, but
