Fidessa group plc 05 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 range of customers on both the of revenue.
Changes in the regulatory Business model and strategy Fidessas vision is to make it easier buy-side and sell-side means Fidessa environment have remained slow to has a unique understanding of the come through although some for firms to buy, sell and own financial assets of all types on a global basis.
elements are now starting to move into place, particularly in the areas Its mission is to deliver solutions that use technology to automate workflow Fidessa charges for its solutions on a of transparency and reporting.
rental and subscription basis which is Against this backdrop, Fidessa has and take cost out of the system, and so make clients business processes reflected in the high level of recurring continued its programme of revenue reported each period.
This investment, extending the range of easier, quicker and cheaper.
gives increased stability to the asset classes it supports, expanding business and allows Fidessa to its regional coverage and building out Fidessa provides its multi-asset trading, investment and information commit to the long-term development its global infrastructure.
The market of its products and services.
conditions mean that Fidessas solutions to both the buy-side and sell-side communities, and cover the customers continue to be very Fidessa has strong cash generation focused on cost, and this has led to complete lifecycle from investment decision through to actual trading in due to being consistently profitable increased interest in service-based and non-acquisitive in nature.
These solutions allow the marketplace.
These solutions are delivered either on a bespoke, annual dividend has a pay-out ratio of customers to make use of Fidessas approximately 45% which provides a sophisticated infrastructure, data enterprise basis or increasingly as managed services through Fidessas reasonable return to shareholders services and global support capability whilst also providing funds for to operate a platform on their behalf, own global connectivity network and data centres.
potential acquisitions and replenishing in a very cost effective manner.
However, in the shift in approach is already showing Fidessas buy-side solutions operate absence of acquisitions, Fidessa through in revenue, where around 70% has a track record of returning the of recurring revenue is now generated across all asset classes, whereas its sell-side solutions have historically additional cash to shareholders in the by service-based solutions.
However, form of special dividends.
as the number of larger platforms has focused on cash equities.
In recent years Fidessa has expanded its increased, financial pressure and Market review headcount reductions within smaller sell-side suite to cover listed derivatives as well.
Long-term Introduction workstation customers have given The improvements seen in the Fidessas user base a slightly different commitments are required for each asset class in order to build financial markets during the first half profile.
As a result the total number of of 2013 have continued, although Fidessa users has dropped slightly, to functionally rich offerings that are effective in all regions.
overall market conditions still around 24,000, whilst the total value remained changeable with volumes in of business going through Fidessas Fidessa maintains total ownership of some of the larger markets relatively connectivity network has increased flat and mixed results being reported by over 15% to around $1 trillion its product and service architecture and is committed to internal by our customers across the sector.
However, the market improvement development to obtain tight integration throughout its solutions.
has led to a welcome reduction in the headwind resulting from As a result of this approach, there have been only a very small number consolidations and business closures within Fidessas customer base, with of acquisitions.
Providing tailored products and services to a broad this headwind reducing from 7% to 5%
