Our markets We have market leading businesses in every sector in which we We are the leading passenger transport operate, active within differing regulatory regimes.
This gives us an company in the UK and North America, unrivalled breadth of knowledge and experience of many different commercial and governmental frameworks.
This provides us with operating in local markets across a range considerable scope to enhance our existing operations and also to of commercial and regulatory environments.
identify and develop new opportunities as they arise.
In North America, Greyhound is the only intercity coach company that has a network across the continent.
First Transit is a leading operator First Student accounts for nearly a third in all of its core segments, whilst First Student is over twice the size of of the outsourced school bus market in the next largest competitor.
North America In the UK, our bus division is one of the largest in the sector.
We arethe market leader in the passenger rail market, with a diverse First Transit is one of the largest portfolio encompassing intercity, regional, commuter, open access private sector providers of public and sleeper services.
We also have some minor operations in other transit management and contracting European countries, namely our Aircoach service in the Republic inNorthAmerica ofIreland and rail activities in Denmark in partnership with DSB.
Our unrivalled scale provides us with a wealth of expertise to Greyhound is the only national provider bestdeploy our people, assets and systems to deliver efficient of scheduled intercity coach transportation transport networks.
services in North America Increasing urbanisation and congestion are creating issues for UK Bus is one of the largest providers transport authorities in all of our markets.
Whilst the economic of bus services, operating around one situation remains challenging, we are well positioned to take advantage of our global breadth.
We will establish best practice and fifth of all local buses, in a primarily use our expertise to help us to deliver the most appropriate, efficient deregulated market solutions to the transport challenge in each local area.
UK Rail is the largest provider of passenger rail services in the UK, operating around Our unrivalled scale a quarter of the market provides us with a wealth Approximate Group revenue of expertise to best deploy by geography our people, assets and systems to deliver efficient UK 57% transport networks.
USA 35% Canada 8% 10 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview Linda Burtwistle President, First Student First Student Increasingly the market will place a The market Customers School buses provide home to School districts provide premium on those companies, such school transportation for millions transportation for students as First Student, which can offer value of students in the USA and depending on varying criteria Canada.
There are more than determined at state level.
addedbenefits to improve the 15,000 school districts in North Contracts are usually structured customerproposition.
America responsible for providing with fixed pricing, meaning that over 500,000 school buses.
The the private operators bear cost total North American market is risk.
These contracts are typically estimated to be worth around three to five years in duration.
It is estimated School districts receive their Approximate share of outsourced Market features that school districts operate funding from state and local market c. 36% of total market Contracted revenue approximately 64% of the market, sources, including tax receipts, with 36% outsourced to private and their budgets for all Typically high levels of contract operators.
Charter services are expenditure, including retention also operated on an ad-hoc transportation, tend to be linked Emphasis on safety and basis, separate from scheduled to economic factors.
In addition security school runs, and are typically of to school districts outsourcing limited duration and scope.
student transportation known as Reputation born from conversion, growth is driven by established relationships with First Student 28% inflation related escalators built National Express 11% local communities.
Changes in market into contracts and increased Student Transportation of America 5% student numbers leading to The weakness in the North Atlantic Express 3% additional routes being driven for Illinois Central 2% American economy is still being Krapf & Sons 1% a given school.
reflected in school board budgets Cook Illinois 1% Despite this, we have seen All other 49% signs of state and local finances Competitors beginning to stabilise, helping to The private outsourced market is create more certainty in respect highly fragmented with only ten of school district funding operators running more than First Student fleet footprint 1,000 buses.
Our largest Usage of buses for school and competitors include National non-school charter activities Expresss Durham School continues to increase Services, Student Transportation Signs of organic growth of America and Atlantic Express returning to the market Transportation Corp.
The next 40 largest contractors operate Interest in conversion continues a further 17,000 buses and the to be high, although it remains New York New Jersey remaining outsourced contracts the case that only a small Pennsylvania 21% are operated by several thousand proportion switch to outsourcing.
New England 15% small companies, often termed Ontario 12% Mom and Pop operators.
Illinois 8% California 7% All other 37% FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 11 Brad Thomas President, First Transit and First Vehicle Services First Transit We will continue to maximise our unrivalled The market Customers The transit market is worth Customers include transit reputation and experience in the transit and around $22bn per annum authorities, federal, state, and vehicle services markets to take advantage in the United States of which local agencies, and private approximately 30% is institutions including universities, of the new growth opportunities that are outsourced.
The vehicle hospitals and airports.
services market is worth vehicle fleet maintenance around$2.9bn per annum in services market includes theUnited States of which contracting for private and lessthan half is outsourced.
public sector clients including Thetransit contracting and municipalities and fire and Market features Approximate share of c. $22bn management market in North police departments.
US transit market Contracted revenue America includes theprovision of fixed route busservices, Typically high levels of paratransit bus services, private Competitors contract retention shuttle services and transit First Transit has approximately Typically low levels of capital system management.
Private 14% of the outsourced market investment transportation companies inthe United States, which manage, operate, maintain and accounts for approximately Competitive advantage from organise transportation services 30% of the total market.
The established credentials and Outsourced 30% under contracts which typically outsourced transit market is strong track record.
In-house 70% last for three to five years.
fragmented although First Transit has two large competitors, MV Transportation, Inc. and Veolia Changes in market Transportation.
The outsourced Approximate share of US fleet maintenance market is The North American economy outsourced transit market highly competitive and First continues to demonstrate Vehicle Services is estimated weakness to be one of the largest providers Despite this, state and local in the market, with Penske and finances have not seen Ryder being the principal wholesale reductions in competitors.
A number of small transport spending and medium sized companies represent a significant portion FirstGroup 14% Interest in outsourcing of the outsourced market.
Others 86% continues to be high as a result of budgetary pressure New entrants to market on a small scale.
12 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview Dave Leach President and CEO, Greyhound Greyhound Greyhound has a unique national network The market Customers From 2006 to 2012, the US Intercity coach firms in North and, having developed a more flexible and intercity bus transportation America serve a diverse, value agile operating model, has responded well industry grew between 5% and oriented customer base, whose 10% per year a reversal of the primary purpose is to visitfriends to the challenges of the weak economy position between 1980 and and family.
The development of with a portfolio of successful and 2006, when the industry declined new brands, such as Greyhound by an average of 2.9% a year.
Express which originates from popular brands.
Aswell as passenger revenues, major Greyhound hubs and income is generated from serves approximately 900 city Package Express services, pair journeys, is attracting users Approximate Greyhound revenue Market features charter and tour organisation and back to bus travel and split between USA and Canada Passenger, package, charter also catering outlets in terminals.
encouraging anew passenger and food service revenues Partnership between Greyhound demographic.
Traditionally and independent bus lines, customers bought walk up Value for money offering known as interlining, provides tickets but recent developments Under-utilised services may be complementary services to in technology areencouraging part funded by transport Greyhounds national network.
authorities Greyhound also partners with Amtrak to offer passengers Introduction of tailored brands USA 77% athrough ticket to their final Competitors for local markets, responding to Canada 23% destination if not served by rail.
In the US and Canada, intercity demand coach transportation competes Innovation and new technology with many other modes of mid to in areas such as ticketing and Changes in market long distance travel, including a Distribution of Greyhound sales and environmental initiatives.
number of other coach operators, The market as a whole has been passengers by mileage band private cars as well as budget the fastest growing intercity airlines.
The north east of the US travel sector in the United States is the most dense travel corridor for the last five years in the country and sees a highly Despite this, the weakness in competitive intercity coach the North American economy market competing with air and continues to have some impact rail services.
on patronage 1-200 miles 48% 201-450 miles 33% New entrants to local markets 451-1,000 miles 13% seek to establish sustainable 1,000 miles 6% services through discounted offers although increased competition has attracted new customers Point-to-point bus lines continue to expand across North America Several companies serving Chinatown passengers in the north east closed after the federal government increased enforcement of safety regulations affecting kerbside operators.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 13 Giles Fearnley Managing Director, UK Bus UK Bus While prolonged economic weakness and The market Changes in market Local bus services in the UK Economic weakness continues the impact on local authority budgets may operate on two very different in some of the UKs urban areas continue to present challenges, the models.
Outside of London, the Impact of reductions in local bus market hasbeen opportunity for buses to be the cost effective Government funding for local deregulated since the 1980s, with solution to congestion and an enabler of authorities, causing pressure most services being provided by onlocal transport budgets, private operators although some economic growth has never been greater.
began in April 2012 local authority owned operators exist.
Bus markets are local and Better Bus Area grants services operate on a flexible introduced by the DfT for Competitors Approximate share of the market model with operators setting specific partnership projects outside London The main competitor to bus fares, frequencies and routes on a around the country, with a services in the UK is the private commercial basis and operating second generation linked to car.
Outside London, the c. 4bn socially necessary services local devolution of the Bus UK bus market is deregulated under contract to local authorities.
Service Operators Grant BSOG and highly competitive with more Bus services in London are Introduction of premium high than 1,200 bus operators and in contracted by Transport for quality services serving all markets in which we operate London, typically for a duration distinct markets we face competition.
FirstGroup 20% of multi-regional operators have Focus on development of new Others 80% increased market share through The Transport Select Committees technology including smart acquisitions during the year and a report into the industry recognised ticketing and improved number of operators have both the role that partnership working passenger information entered and exited the market.
between local authorities and Increased use of operators has in delivering service environmentally friendly improvements without increasing Market features hybrid vehicles.
Local markets with individual, distinct characteristics Customers Partnerships with authorities and Bus customers in the UK are other local community groups diversified by journey purpose with significant proportions Introduction of new fleets with usingbus services for commuting high specification to work, school, college or Safety and security of university for shopping and for employees and passengers leisure purposes.
Revenues in a high priority the bus market outside London principally comprise passenger Investment to meet deadlines ticket sales and concessionary for buses to be fully accessible fare schemes payments by local for the disabled, as required by government authorities for EU legislation.
services for which passengers pay reduced or no fares.
Income may also be generated through operating tendered services.
In 2011 12, some 2.9 billion passenger journeys were made on local bus services outside ofLondon.
14 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview Vernon Barker Managing Director, UK Rail UK Rail We are the market leader with a diverse The market Changes in market Passenger rail services are Passenger numbers have portfolio of operations, and we are principally provided by private increased to 1.5 billion per committed to maintaining this position train operating companies TOCs annum across the UK as a through franchises awarded by result of improved rolling stock, bybuilding on our strong track record the relevant authority, but a marketing initiatives and of innovation and partnership as the small number are provided on additional services in some an open access basis without areas and despite ongoing DfT returns to rail franchising.
Many elements economic weakness of the service provided to The Government paused its passengers are mandated Approximate share of total market refranchising programme during Competitors as part of the franchise the year, including the outright The main competitor to rail contract and others are left cancellation of two of the four services is the private car.
We also to commercial judgement.
competitions InterCity West face competition on certain Total franchised passenger Coast and Great Western passenger flows from other rail revenues in the UK are services and, to a lesser extent, approximately 7bn per Independent reviews into the from long distance coach services annum.
Railway tracks and InterCity West Coast and wider and airlines.
We bid against infrastructure signalling and franchising competitions were FirstGroup 23% operators of current UK rail stations are owned and completed.
The DfT published Stagecoach 20% franchises and rail operators from managed by Network Rail.
a revised refranchising timetable Govia 20% other countries, principally from Operators typically lease rolling in March Deutsche Bahn Arriva 10% within the EU and Hong Kong.
Abellio 9% Government investment in The Office of Rail Regulation Directly Operated Railways 8% infrastructure across the country grants and enforces licences Virgin 5% is delivering improvements for Market features National Express, Serco, MTR 5% to operators and Network passengers, funded in part by Regulatory environment, Rail, regulates access to Source: Association of Train regulated fare increases.
including Government capped track, stations and depots Operating Companies regulated fare increases at and supervises the access RPI 1% relationships between Customers Network Rail, operators Alliances formed between Rail markets vary but are typically and others.
Network Rail and operators grouped into three sectors London and south east Historic highs of passenger commuter services, regional and numbers across the UK, long distance.
For our franchises operating on a smaller network in London and the south east of and with a smaller workforce England, the majority of our than at the time of the Beeching passengers are commuters to Report in 1963 and from the capital.
First Great Increasing operational Western and First Hull Trains also performance and customer have a large proportion of long satisfaction over recent years distance and leisure travellers.
First ScotRail and First New innovation including smart TransPennine Express carry a ticketing, social media and large number of commuters into mobile phone technology is the major towns and cities on being introduced their networks, and also serve a Since devolution, Transport significant leisure market.
Scotland has adopted a differing rail regime in Scotland.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 15
