Martin Gilbert LLD MA LLB CA 1.
Chairman Appointed to the Board: April 1995 Skills and experience: Chartered accountant Other appointments: He is one of the founders and Chief Executive of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC.
He is a director of a number of investment trusts and Non-Executive Director of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc.
Committee membership: Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Tim OToole CBE JD Chief Executive Appointed to the Board: May 2009 Skills and experience: He was, until the end of April 2009, Managing 2.
He joined Transport for London in 2003 prior to which he was president and Chief Executive of Consolidated Rail Corporation.
Other appointments: He is a Non-Executive Director of CSX Corporation, arail freight transportation company in North America.
Committee membership: Member of the Board Safety Committee and the Executive Committee.
Chris Surch B Com ACC ACA Group Finance Director Appointed to the Board: September 2012 Skills and experience: He was from May 2009 to August 2012 Group Finance Director of Shanks plc, also for a period of time serving as their acting 4.
Following an early career with  where he qualified as a chartered accountant he joined TI Group plc in 1995.
He held a number of senior roles there and following the merger of TI Group with Smiths Group plc he went on to hold further senior finance roles, latterly serving as Finance Director of their speciality engineering division.
Committee membership: Member of the Executive Committee.
Professor David Begg DSc BA Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board: August 2005 Skills and experience: He was, until 2010, Chairman of Tube Lines Limited.
He is a visiting professor at Plymouth University and an adviser to Greater Manchester Passenger Transport Executive.
7. the Commission for Integrated Transport and a Non-Executive Director of the Strategic Rail Authority.
Other appointments: He is Chief Executive of Transport Times and a Non-Executive Director of Heathrow Airport Holdings Limited, as well as Chairman of the Business Infrastructure Commission and a Director of Portobello Partnership.
Committee membership: Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Member of the Audit Committee and Nomination Committee.
52 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance 5.
Mick Barker Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Employee Director Appointed to the Board: May 2009 Appointed to the Board: January 2012 Skills and experience: He was, until November 2011, a Director and Chief Skills and experience: He has been a railwayman for 37 years and is Operating Officer of SSE plc.
currently employed as a train driver for First Capital Connect Limited, one of Other appointments: He is Chairman of Southern Water Services Limited, the Groups train operating companies.
aNon-Executive Director of HS1 Limited and is on the board of Glasgow 2014 Commonwealth Games.
Committee membership: Chairman of the Board Safety Committee.
Advisors Member of the Remuneration Committee, the Audit Committee and the Nomination Committee.
John Sievwright DHC MA CA 29th Floor Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 25 Bank Street Appointed to the Board: May 2002 Canary Wharf Skills and experience: He was, until 2008, a Senior Vice President and London Chief Operating Officer of International for Merrill Lynch & Co. A chartered E14 5JP accountant, he has held various senior management positions in banking in Goldman Sachs London, New York, Dublin and Japan.
Peterborough Court Other appointments: He is a member of the North American board of the 133 Fleet Street Michael Smurfit Business School, Dublin and a Non-Executive Director of ICAP plc.
London Committee membership: Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Member of the EC4A 2BB Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee.
Brian Wallace ACA 2 New Street Square Non-Executive Director London Appointed to the Board: August 2012 EC4A 3BZ Skills and Experience: He has held executive board positions within a number of FTSE 100 and FTSE 250 organisations, most recently as Group Solicitors Finance Director of Ladbrokes plc.
Prior to rejoining Ladbrokes he was Group Burges Salmon LLP Finance Director and Deputy Chief Executive of Hilton Group.
A chartered 1 Glass Wharf accountant, he began his career at Price Waterhouse and went ontoperform Bristol senior finance roles at Geest, APV and Schlumberger.
He previously served as BS2 0ZX a Non-Executive Director at Scottish & Newcastle plc, Hays plc, Merlin Burness Paull & Entertainment and Miller Group.
Committee membership: Member of the Audit Committee.
Jim Winestock BSc 1 Union Wynd Non-Executive Director Aberdeen Appointed to the Board: August 2012 AB10 1DQ Skills and experience: He served in a number of senior roles and was a Slaughter and May member of the management committee during his career at United Parcel One Bunhill Row Service, Inc. the worlds largest package distribution company and a global London leader in supply chain solutions.
Most recently he was Senior Vice President EC1Y 8YY and Director of US operations and global security with responsibility for all US operations and 360,000 employees.
Financial PR advisors Other appointments: He is a Non-Executive Director of YRC Worldwide, Brunswick Group LLP Inc. a Fortune 500 company and one of the largest transportation service 16 Lincolns Inn Fields providers in the world, and also serves on the Board of two not-for-profit London organisations in the US.
WC2A 3ED Committee membership: Member of the Remuneration Committee.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 53
