Our businesses We have five operating divisions and leading positions in all of our markets.
What we do First Student First Transit Greyhound UK Bus UK Rail First Student is the largest First Transit is one of the largest private Greyhound is the only national Our UK Bus division is one of the We are the UKs largest rail provider of student transportation sector providers of public transit operator of scheduled intercity coach largest bus operators in the UK operator with approximately a in North America over twice the management and contracting in North transportation services in the US and with a fleet of approximately quarter of the UKs passenger rail size of the next largest America.
Our Vehicle Services division Canada, serving 48 US States and 7,400 buses and an average fleet network, carrying more than competitor.
We operate a fleet is one of the largest private sector ten Canadian Provinces and age of 8.6 years.
We operate 310 million passengers per year.
ofapproximately 50,000 school providers of vehicle maintenance and Territories.
We provide passenger around a fifth of local bus We have a diversified portfolio of buses with an average fleet ancillary support services in North services to around 3,800 destinations services.
We carry around intercity, commuter and regional age of 7.3 years and carry America.
First Transit operates in via a fleet of approximately 1,700 2.3 million passengers per day franchises First Capital Connect, approximately six million approximately 240 locations in 39 US vehicles with an average fleet age of and serve a huge number of First Great Western, First ScotRail studentsper school day States, four Canadian Provinces, and ten years.
Approximately 18 million communities including 40 of the and First TransPennine Express across38 US States andeight Puerto Rico.
We carried around 317 passengers travel 5.5 billion miles UKs largest towns and cities.
We and one open access passenger Provinces and Territories in million passengers in 2012 13, across every year with Greyhound.
operate Greyhound UK providing rail service First Hull Trains.
We have more than more than 360 million miles and Greyhound Express now serves 900 regular intercity coach services.
operate the Tramlink service on 1,300 different contracts in nearly operate and manage more than city pairs in more than 100 markets.
We operate Aircoach in Ireland.
behalf of Transport for London 600 locations.
In addition to our 11,000 vehicles.
First Vehicle Services We operate services from the We also operate some yellow and the Heathrow Connect service main student transportation operates in approximately 80 locations southern USA into Mexico.
BoltBus, US-style school buses and have with Heathrow Airport.
Through contracts we also provide charter in 23 US States, Puerto Rico and the a joint operation with Peter Pan Bus a fleet of coaches available our joint venture with Danish State hire services for school and US Virgin Islands and maintains Lines, operates in both the north east for charter.
Railways DSB we operate some non-school activities.
around 38,500 vehicles and and north west USA, and YO!
Bus passenger rail services in the equipment.
serves Chinatown markets in the Oresund region of Denmark.
Clear market leader in highly A market leader in highly Iconic brand synonymous with A market leader with around a Leading provider of passenger Key characteristics fragmented $24bn marketplace, fragmented $22bn US transit affordable long distance travel fifth of the deregulated market, rail services in the UK of which only 36% is currently marketplace approximately 30% and a unique national network which is worth more than 4bn Highly experienced operated by the private sector is outsourced per annum New products such as Greyhound management team with unique Operates nearly one third of Established credentials and Express, BoltBus and YO!
Bus Traditionally strong, diversified expertise of diverse operations outsourced market, with proven track record are key are attracting users back to bus networks in good bus territories Experience of partnership on a diverse portfolio of around travel plus a new customer Clear market leader in college and Principal operator in major major infrastructure projects 1,300 medium term contracts demographic university campus shuttle services conurbations and in eight of the Clear focus on meeting needs Sustainable competitive and one of the largest providers of Unique scale drives success of 17 most densely populated cities of passengers, taxpayers and advantage from this scale, airport shuttle services in the USA Greyhound Express strong Bus travel diversified by delivering an economic return enabling us to develop value feeder traffic, quickly reaching More than 340 diversified contracts journeytype for shareholders added services for existing and sustainable flows with fewer new across core business segments potential customers including miles added enabling fast, Repositioned the portfolio to Consistent strong performance greater on-demand information, profitable expansion Scale and expertise enable us to focus on areas with greatest and highly successful track and operating efficiencies leverage existing relationships for growth potential and to record A more modern, efficient new business wins improve returns Industry leading safety business from a transformed Well placed to take advantage programmes, strong customer Strong returns from typically low operating model.
Better placed to Reforming business model to of upcoming franchise relationships and satisfaction capital requirement withstand economic cycle with achieve patronage growth with opportunities scores more flexible cost base.
Further scope to promote Committed to maintaining a Strengthened operating model outsourcing.
leading position in the market.
gives us a more agile and efficient business.
Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue 2012 13 performance 1,503.1m 814.6m 647.1m 1,128.2m 2,795.1m Operating profit Operating profit Operating profit Operating profit Operating profit 109.9m 49.1m 52.0m 90.7m 63.2m 08 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview Revenue What we do First Student First Transit Greyhound UK Bus UK Rail as % of Group First Student is the largest First Transit is one of the largest private Greyhound is the only national Our UK Bus division is one of the We are the UKs largest rail provider of student transportation sector providers of public transit operator of scheduled intercity coach largest bus operators in the UK operator with approximately a in North America over twice the management and contracting in North transportation services in the US and with a fleet of approximately quarter of the UKs passenger rail size of the next largest America.
We carry around intercity, commuter and regional First Student 22% age of 7.3 years and carry America.
First Transit operates in via a fleet of approximately 1,700 2.3 million passengers per day franchises First Capital Connect, First Transit 12% approximately six million approximately 240 locations in 39 US vehicles with an average fleet age of and serve a huge number of First Great Western, First ScotRail Greyhound 9% studentsper school day States, four Canadian Provinces, and ten years.
Approximately 18 million communities including 40 of the and First TransPennine Express UK Bus 16% across38 US States andeight Puerto Rico.
We and one open access passenger UK Rail 41% Provinces and Territories in million passengers in 2012 13, across every year with Greyhound.
We Group revenue of 6,900.9m also Canada.
operate the Tramlink service on includes 12.8m 0.2% of revenue 1,300 different contracts in nearly operate and manage more than city pairs in more than 100 markets.
behalf of Transport for London from Tramlink operations 600 locations.
Through contracts we also provide charter in 23 US States, Puerto Rico and the a joint operation with Peter Pan Bus a fleet of coaches available our joint venture with Danish State Operating profit as % of Group hire services for school and US Virgin Islands and maintains Lines, operates in both the north east for charter.
Clear market leader in highly A market leader in highly Iconic brand synonymous with A market leader with around a Leading provider of passenger Key characteristics fragmented $24bn marketplace, fragmented $22bn US transit affordable long distance travel fifth of the deregulated market, rail services in the UK of which only 36% is currently marketplace approximately 30% and a unique national network which is worth more than 4bn Highly experienced First Student 30% operated by the private sector is outsourced per annum New products such as Greyhound management team with unique First Transit 14% Greyhound 14% Operates nearly one third of Established credentials and Express, BoltBus and YO!
Bus Traditionally strong, diversified expertise of diverse operations UK Bus 25% outsourced market, with proven track record are key are attracting users back to bus networks in good bus territories Experience of partnership on UK Rail 17% a diverse portfolio of around travel plus a new customer Clear market leader in college and Principal operator in major major infrastructure projects 1,300 medium term contracts demographic university campus shuttle services conurbations and in eight of the Clear focus on meeting needs Sustainable competitive and one of the largest providers of Unique scale drives success of 17 most densely populated cities Number of employees of passengers, taxpayers and advantage from this scale, airport shuttle services in the USA Greyhound Express strong as % of Group Bus travel diversified by delivering an economic return enabling us to develop value feeder traffic, quickly reaching More than 340 diversified contracts journeytype for shareholders added services for existing and sustainable flows with fewer new across core business segments potential customers including miles added enabling fast, Repositioned the portfolio to Consistent strong performance greater on-demand information, profitable expansion Scale and expertise enable us to focus on areas with greatest and highly successful track and operating efficiencies leverage existing relationships for growth potential and to record A more modern, efficient new business wins improve returns Industry leading safety business from a transformed Well placed to take advantage programmes, strong customer Strong returns from typically low operating model.
Better placed to Reforming business model to of upcoming franchise First Student 49% relationships and satisfaction capital requirement withstand economic cycle with achieve patronage growth with opportunities First Transit 15% scores more flexible cost base.
Greyhound 6% Further scope to promote Committed to maintaining a UK Bus 19% Strengthened operating model outsourcing.
UK Rail 11% gives us a more agile and Employee numbers are calculated on a efficient business.
monthly average basis Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue Revenue 2012 13 performance 1,503.1m 814.6m 647.1m 1,128.2m 2,795.1m Operating profit Operating profit Operating profit Operating profit Operating profit 109.9m 49.1m 52.0m 90.7m 63.2m FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 09
