Our business model How we generate revenue FirstGroup Greyhound 2012 13 approximate revenue by type 2012 13 approximate revenue by type We operate five divisions which require similar core skills and expertise, and are diversified by geography, customer base and mix of contract backed and passenger revenue.
Passenger revenue 50% Passenger revenue 81% Our revenues are balanced between the UK 57% and North America Contract or franchise agreement 50% Package Express 9% 43%, together with some minor activities in other European Food service 2% countries.
Our customers include the national government, regional Charter 1% and local authorities in the UK, state and municipal authorities, local Other 7% school boards, universities and private companies in North America, and a diverse demographic mix of individual passengers in both the UK and North America.
Our passenger revenue is broadly spread between business, commuting, social and recreational travelling.
First Student UK Bus In all, approximately 50% of our revenues are derived directly from ourpassengers, while approximately 50% are backed by contracts 2012 13 approximate revenue by type 2012 13 approximate revenue by type orfranchise agreements.
Our broad footprint in the UK and North America also gives us profound experience of two of the most developed markets in the world for outsourced municipal transportation, and therefore a breadth of expertise across different regulatory and contractual structures.
As a result of the breadth and diversity of our operations, each of our businesses is typically moving through a different stage of the Contract 92% Passenger revenue 51% economic cycle.
This diversity helps to ensure that we are not 1 School and third party charter 8% London tenders 19% dependent on any one market, and weaker performance in one area Concessions 20% is more likely to be offset by stronger performances elsewhere in the Tenders 8% Other 2% portfolio.
These variations influence the way in which each business is managed, the range of KPIs that management work to and the local 1 In April 2013 we announced the sale of strategies that are applied.
eight of our London bus depots.
As a result of the breadth First Transit UK Rail 2012 13 approximate revenue by type 2012 13 approximate revenue by type and diversity of our operations, each of our businesses is typically Fixed route 33% Passenger revenue 64% 3 Paratransit 24% Government funding 29% moving through a Shuttle 20% Other revenue 7% Vehicle Services 11% 3 Government funding includes subsidies 2 Support Services 7% and revenue support.
It does not take different stage of the Call centre 4% into account total premium payments made to the Government during the Transit management 1% year of 663.5m.
2 In March 2013 we completed the economic cycle.
disposal of First Support Services.
06 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview E f o f f e a s c s s t s i e v e n t e i s s d u l a e e b n p d d e l o s o p r m y e e o m v p i e l D e n t K a H c U a i r r n n e i e e r m x s e A p s d i e a Our strengths How we create value Although our five main divisions have different operating Our objective is to create long term models, there are some common strengths that run through all of our businesses: value for shareholders and other stakeholders through the provision of Market leader in the UK and North America Our strengths in the UK bus and rail markets, and in the student sustainable, integrated transport services transportation, transit and intercity coach markets in North America that are safe, reliable and meet the needs offer excellent platforms to identify and develop other opportunities for future growth.
of our customers and communities.
Diverse business model Each of our businesses has market leading positions in a sector which is a key enabler of economic growth and essential to the creation of strong and sustainable communities.
The growth of urbanisation and the resultant congestion will lead to more complex transport demands.
Within this context, governments areincreasingly turning to private sector operators to deliver more efficient and innovative solutions.
The diversity of our business, together with our innovative transport solutions, means that we arewell placed to meet this need.
Our diverse portfolio also helps toensure that we are not dependent on any one geographic or customer market, as each of our businesses is typically moving through a different stage of the economic cycle.
How we create Unrivalled scale and breadth Our scale has allowed us to develop a range of expertise in different value markets and regulatory regimes.
We focus on engaging with different partners and stakeholders, building effective relationships and enhancing our ability to deliver transport solutions that are most appropriate to local needs.
Harnessing global expertise We harness the in depth knowledge and expertise of our experienced leadership teams across two continents to address the specific needs of individual markets.
Effective deployment of assets and people The scale of our activities means that employing and training professional, dedicated employees who are committed to our customers and their safety, and procuring, deploying and Our strategy for sustainable growth maintaining a wide variety of vehicle fleets and other physical We believe we are well placed to achieve sustainable growth from assets, are core skills.
We hire, train and manage around 120,000 delivering innovative and high quality transport solutions to the local employees to deliver our services.
We deploy and maintain combined markets we serve.
We expect to achieve that growth through a fleets of70,000 owned or managed vehicles.
balanced strategy of investing our resources in four areas: to drive Focused on enhancing operational excellence continued operational excellence, to deliver organic growth, to We strive to improve our performance by sharing best practice across continue to achieve contract wins and renewals, and to make our businesses to provide high quality, attractive services that are selected in-fill acquisitions.
In each case, we aim to deploy our safe, reliable and meet the needs of customers and the communities strengths and capabilities as a whole to generate an appropriate we serve.
economic return for our shareholders.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2013 07 h n r e t t g i l r s o t g e e N l k o r d b a n a M a l e c g n n i e c l U l n e n a c a r h i x n n v e d e a l l b n l a r e o n e d d o a i e d s t s t a c h u r a c e l o e p F o
