STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION DIRECTORS REPORT GOING CONCERN The Directors have assessed the future funding requirements of the Group and the Company and compared it to the level of long-term debt and committed back facilities for the 12 months from the date that the financial statements were approved.
The assessment included a sensitivity analysis on the key factors which could affect future cash flow and SIMON OHARA funding requirements.
Having undertaken this work the COMPANY SECRETARY Directors are of the opinion that the Group has adequate resources to fund its operations for the foreseeable future and so determine that it is appropriate to prepare the accounts on a going concern basis.
DIVIDEND The Board is recommending a final dividend in respect of The Directors submit their Annual Report together with the 2013 of 5.71 pence per ordinary share which, if approved, audited accounts of the Group and of the Company, will be paid on 19 June 2014 to shareholders on the register Alent plc, registered in England and Wales No.
DIRECTORS The Strategic Report, the Corporate Governance Report, and Board sections of the Annual Report, together with the Biographical information for all the current Directors of the Company is given on page 46 to 47.
All the Directors information on financial risk management objectives and policies contained in notes 25 of the consolidated financial will retire at the AGM and offer themselves for election.
Further information on the contractual arrangements of the statements, are each incorporated by reference into, and form part of, this Directors Report.
Executive Directors is given on page 80.
The Non-executive Directors do not have service agreements.
This Directors Report also represents the management Mr Mike Butterworth resigned as a Director upon the report for the purpose of compliance with DTR 4.1.
8R of appointment of Mr David Egan as Group Finance Director the UK Listing Authority disclosure rules.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT A responsibility statement of the Directors and a statement SHARE CAPITAL AND CAPITAL STRUCTURE As at the date of this report, the Company had an issued by the Auditor about its reporting responsibilities can be found on pages 87 and 88 respectively.
The Directors fulfil share capital of 278,460,707 ordinary shares of 10p each, being the total number of Alent plc shares with voting the responsibilities set out in their statement within the context of an overall control environment of central strategic rights.
All issued shares are fully paid.
There are no other classes of share capital.
Further information relating to the direction and decentralised operating responsibility.
Companys issued share capital can be found in note 21 The following additional disclosures are made in to the Company financial statements.
compliance with the Companies Act 2006, the Disclosure The Company operates a number of share-based and Transparency Rules and the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010. incentive plans further details about these are given in the Directors Remuneration Report.
For these plans the Company can satisfy entitlements either by the acquisition ACTIVITIES of existing shares or by the issue of new shares.
No ordinary Alent plc is a holding company.
A list of its principal shares have been issued in relation to the exercise of subsidiary companies is set out on pages 132. options granted under the Companys share option schemes.
Resolutions giving the Directors the authority to 2014 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING allot shares and make allotments of shares to persons other The AGM of the Company will be held at 11.00 am on than existing shareholders in certain circumstances will be Monday 19 May at the offices of UBS, 1 Finsbury Avenue, proposed at the AGM.
The notice of the 2014 AGM is contained in the circular EMPLOYEE SHARE PLANS to shareholders accompanying this Annual Report, Details of employee share plans are set out in note 27 to together with an explanation of resolutions to be the accounts.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 ALENT 85 DIRECTORS REPORT C ON T INUE D PENSIONS Current Number of % at In each country in which the Group operates, the pension Fund Manager rank Country shares 31 12 13 arrangements in place are considered to be consistent Cevian Capital 1 Jersey 61,088,726 21.94 with good employment practice in that particular area.
Franklin Templeton 2 USA 29,994,472 10.77 Independent advisers are used to ensure that the plans are Artisan Partners 3 USA 26,619,293 9.56 operated in accordance with local legislation and the rules of each plan.
Group policy prohibits direct investment Janus Capital 4 USA 15,963,651 5.73 Management of pension fund assets in the Companys shares.
Outside the UK and the US, the majority of pension plans in the Schroder Investment 5 England 13,440,765 4.83 Management Group are of a defined contribution nature.
Current active employees in the UK are offered membership of a defined Governance 6 England 10,799,126 3.88 contribution plan, which is operated on a contract basis, for Owners with oversight by a governance committee.
Dimensional 7 USA 9,802,631 3.52 Fund Advisers All US retirement plan assets are held in trust for the exclusive benefit of plan participants and their No material changes in the interests disclosed to the beneficiaries.
An independent financial institution acts as Company have been notified between 31 December 2013 the Trustee.
The trust assets are protected by law and by and 28 February 2014.
Federal Government Regulation and are subject to annual audit by an independent accountant, the Internal Revenue Information provided to the Company pursuant to the FSAs Service and the Department of Labor.
Further details of DTRs is published on the Regulatory Information Service pension arrangements are given in note 26. and on the Media News Regulatory News section of the Companys website.
APPOINTMENT AND REPLACEMENT OF DIRECTORS The interests of Directors and their connected persons The Directors shall not be fewer than five nor more than intheordinary shares of the Company as disclosed in 15 in number.
The Company may, by ordinary resolution, accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority from time to time vary the minimum number and or are as set out on page 81 and details of the Directors maximum number of Directors.
The Board may appoint long-term incentive awards are set out on pages 75 to79.
any person to be a Director so long as the total number of Directors does not exceed the limit prescribed in the Articles.
Any such Director shall only hold office until the AUDITORS next AGM and shall then be eligible for election.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO THE AUDITOR As at the date of this report, so far as each Director of the Company is aware, there is no relevant audit information ESSENTIAL CONTRACTS AND CHANGE ofwhich the Companys Auditor is unaware and each OF CONTROL DISCLOSURE Director hereby confirms that they have taken all the steps A small number of senior management employees within that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to the Group are entitled to receive payments of up to 12 make themselves aware of any relevant audit information months salary in the event that employment is terminated in certain circumstances within 12 months of a change and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
The Remuneration Committee has approved these arrangements as being in line with Alents APPOINTMENT OF AUDITOR wider Remuneration Policy, and no Director of Alent is KPMG LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in office entitled to any such payment.
as Auditor and a resolution for the reappointment of KPMG The terms of the Groups committed bank facility contain LLP and to authorise the Directors to determine its provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise remuneration are to be proposed at the AGM.
termination or other rights in the event of a change of The Directors Report was approved by the Board of control on takeover of the Company.
A number of other Directors on 4 March 2014 and signed on its behalf by: arrangements to which the Company and its subsidiaries are party, such asother debt arrangements and share incentive plans, mayalter or terminate on a change of control in the event ofa takeover.
In the context of the SIMON OHARA Group as a whole, these other arrangements are not COMPANY SECRETARY considered to be significant.
4 MARCH 2014 SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS INTERESTS IN VOTING RIGHTS The following information has been disclosed to the Company under the FSAs DTRs in respect of notifiable interests in the voting rights of the Companys issued share capital exceeding the 3% notification threshold: 86 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 WWW.
