OU R STRATEGY The key elements of our strategy are to: Continue to develop higher-margin products Focus on high unit growth end-markets Unit volumes are the underlying driver of NSV growth We continue to migrate away from lower-margin commoditised products to focus on higher-margin, for Alent.
Demand for our products is directly linked to demand for our customers end-products.
We specifically higher-value, innovative products.
The constant evolution through product innovation means that we expect further focus our sales, marketing and product development efforts on those high-demand end-products which in gradual mix improvement across our portfolio.
turn drive high unit count applications and demand Improve mix and operational efficiencies for our products.
We continue to develop operational excellence The electronics market is forecast to experience growth programmes to increase productivity and reduce costs in terms of value, and unit volumes over the medium to and have been incorporating Six Sigma practices into long-term.
Our leading positions across a very broad our operations since 2001.
We have continued to right size range of the electronics value chain, including the and streamline the business structure to optimise further personal computer, smartphone, tablet, automotive our manufacturing footprint, customer service and electronics, microelectronics, semiconductor and general administrative processes.
electronics end-markets means that we have significant Further invest in R&D to expand our market, exposure to this underlying growth trend.
technology and innovationleadership Similarly, the global automotive market is expected Continued investment in R&D ensures that Alent to experience continued unit growth.
This is enhanced remains ahead of emerging trends, delivering solutions by a growing trend in the automotive industry for to strengthen our leadership position in terms of innovation increased electronic content in cars, and increased and product development in our market niches.
use of functional coatings for decorative, wear-resistant We continue to strengthen our market leading positions.
and anti-corrosion applications, which is benefiting With a global presence, close proximity to customers and both of our strategic businesses.
leading technologies, we are constantly identifying new Leverage our differentiated value-add customer strategy opportunities in high unit growth complementary Alent has strong collaborative relationships with many end-markets.
Original Equipment Manufacturers OEMs who specify Leverage our financial strength to support organic which specialty materials, chemistries and technologies growth and acquisitions are used in their products.
We leverage these relationships Alent is an asset-light, strong free cashflow-generative to increase OEM qualification of our products.
We continue to invest in the business to support standing relationships provide a formidable barrier to organic growth and will pursue appropriately sized entry for competition.
acquisitions focusing on technology or bolt-on market Alongside this important differentiator, we continue to share-led consolidations.
We maintain a progressive focus on the value-add sales competencies across all dividend policy.
our people so as to realise the full margin potential of the products and technologies we offer our customers.
Equally important is the service element we provide through our technical process support and customer training academies.
The knowledge and expertise of our technical service organisation is highly valued by OEMs and subcontractors, and this further strengthens our customer relationships.
12 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 WWW.
