STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION 1.
A GLOBAL MARKETLEADER Alent is a global market leader operating in an industry with highbarriers to entry, comprising two focused specialty chemicals and materials business units with #1 and #2 global market share positions.
OUR END-MARKETS Unit volumes are the underlying driver of revenue Alent is a global provider of highly engineered growth for Alent.
Demand for our products is specialty chemicals and materials, servicing a directly linked to demand for our customers broad customer base, with our products being end-products.
We specifically focus our sales, used in the manufacture of a wide array of marketing and product development efforts on end-products.
Our products are an integral part those high-demand end-products, which in turn of products most of us use each and every day.
drive high unit count applications and demand for our products.
Overall, our revenue by end-market is approximately 70% electronics, with industrial and automotive making up the balance.
Our key sub-segments within these key end-markets are illustrated on pages 6 to 7 of this report.
CLOSE RELATIONSHIPS WE HAVE DEEP, COLLABORATIVE RELATIONSHIPS WITH OEMs.
VALUE SELL PRODUCT CUSTOMERS SUB TYPICALLY OEMs CONTRACTORS SUB CONTRACTORS CONTACT ALENT WITH PROBLEMS WWW.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 ALENT 15 1.
A GLOBAL MARKETLEADER CONTINUED Electronics Industry Automotive Industry The principal end-market for Alent is global As in the electronics end-market, volume is a key electronics production, which accounts for driver of demand for our products in the industrial approximately 70% of our revenue.
Automotive is a particularly OEM-driven segment and our strong reputation We operate within the electronics materials and relationships with those OEMs position us well.
segment of the electronics value chain, where According to IHS Global, vehicle volumes are we supply highly engineered specialty chemicals expected to grow approximately 4% CAGR from and intermediate materials to our customers.
On top of this, there is a strong trend We supply electronic component manufacturers for increased electronic content in vehicles and and OEMs, who, in turn, supply the electronic increasing demand for functional and decorative equipment manufacturers and suppliers.
coatings, which benefits both of our divisions.
This According to Prismark Partners, the electronics dynamic will enable us to benefit from a twofold materials segment is estimated in 2013 to be a increase, both in the number of units as well as $133 billion market and the overall market for the increased product content.
electronic products is estimated at $1,667 billion.
Our products end up in electronic systems across The need for improved corrosion-resistant and a very broad range of applications, and are used wear-resistant coatings, driven by the need to in essentially everything with an on-off switch.
provide longer warranty protection to customers, is driving demand for our products.
The improved In the electronics market, there is a strong trend quality of automobiles and requirement to reduce towards increased interconnect density and weight is also driving higher demand for portability in consumer electronics.
Consumer increasingly sophisticated decorative finishes, demand is for faster, smaller and lighter products, which both enhance customer perception of which is leading to increasing miniaturisation and the vehicle and enable lower weight materials complexity and the use of multi-layer circuit boards.
e. g. plastics to be used in their production.
Alent is at the forefront of this trend and a leading player in the development and supply of specialty MARKET-LEADING POSITIONS WITH GLOBAL materials that enable the design and manufacture MANUFACTURING PRESENCE of todays leading-edge electronic devices.
Alent has globally-recognised brands and a high number of market leading #1 and 2 positions in According to Henderson Ventures, the electronics our chosen end-market segments.
market is expected to grow 5.6% CAGR from 2013 to 2015.
It is the volume of electronic devices which is We continue to strengthen our market leading a key growth driver for our business.
With global presence, close proximity industry has historically been a price down to customers and leading technologies, we are industry, with reduced prices for each generation constantly identifying new opportunities in high of product.
This means that forecasts of market unit growth complementary end-markets.
growth by value tend to understate the market growth by volume, and volume is the key driver of demand for our products.
16 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION LONG-STANDING AND COLLABORATIVE TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIPS We continue to provide industry leading fast-cycle We attribute our market leading position to close R&D activities to our customers to ensure that we collaborative partnerships with industry-defining remain ahead of emerging trends and deliver customers.
These long-standing relationships solutions to maintain our leadership position in extend from the design stage through to extensive terms of innovation and product development post-sale technical support.
Our products are in our market niches.
Our goal is to quickly solve generally process critical, designed with and customer problems, either through our network customised for our customers, and hence there of experienced technical service engineers, or if is an extensive qualification process which required, a custom formulated product to meet the enhances customer relationships.
The cost of our unique needs of a specific customer or application.
products represents a small proportion of material GLOBAL FOOTPRINT cost to the customer but our products provide Our global presence gives Alent close proximity significant value through improved yield, reliability to our customers and high-growth end-markets.
and a lower total cost of ownership.
This allows us to deliver high-quality customer sales Alent has a strong reputation among OEMs who and post-sales service, just in time global low-cost often specify what specialty materials, chemistries manufacturing, efficient supply chains and fastand technologies are used in their products.
Our local presence and knowledge We will continue to leverage these relationships helps us to constantly evolve and extend our to increase OEM qualification of our products.
collaboration with our customers and strengthen Our long-standing collaborative relationships our relationships.
provide a formidable barrier to entry for competition.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 ALENT 17 2.
COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE suppliers, and which joining and other assembly Our competitive advantage is our materials will be used by the subcontractor to OEM-focused strategy backed up assemble the product.
by our R&D capabilities and our In this extreme case of control by the OEM, global manufacturing footprint.
they have oversight of all the materials and components used in the manufacture of their Client relationships and OEM strategy product.
They can therefore guarantee the Approximately 70% of sales of our products end quality and reliability of the finished product, up in electronic systems across a very broad thus preserving and enhancing their brand range of applications essentially everything with an on-off switch.
How these systems are actually image amongst global consumers.
built plays an important role in Alents strategy.
At the other end of the spectrum are OEMs Many OEMs whose branded electronic systems whose supply chain strategy is simply to procure are sold to consumers do not manufacture their everything at the lowest possible cost.
These OEMs own products but instead rely on subcontractors.
allow the assembly subcontractors to procure Each OEM develops their own unique supply printed circuit boards from whomever they wish chain strategy.
These individual OEM strategies and are only concerned about cost.
These OEMs span a very broad range.
do not specify who will build the circuit boards or which materials will be used.
Once the circuit At one end, there are OEMs that closely manage board is fabricated, the assembly subcontractor all aspects of their supply chain.
They design their procures the various components and assembly own circuit boards and control the selection materials strictly on the basis of cost with little of the printed circuit board fabricators who will regard for quality or reliability.
build those circuit boards and will specify which materials from specific suppliers are to be used Alent focuses its sales, marketing and product to fabricate those circuit boards.
development efforts on those OEMs who actively manage their supply chains.
It is our belief that, The completed printed circuit boards are then over the long-term, these OEMs will build and sold to an assembly subcontractor for final maintain their market share and be able to retain assembly.
Here again, the OEM specifies exactly and build upon their brand image with consumers.
which components will be used from which INVESTMENT IN NEW PRODUCTS 18 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION Alent strives to partner with these OEMs and Stage Gate, a decision is taken as to whether the become an indispensable part of their own new project is viable to proceed to the next stage.
Our mission is to The remaining 10% is allocated to new technology understand the manufacturing and assembly or new market development.
This involves challenges of new designs and to deliver new or brainstorming, idea generation and the exploration, modified materials, just in time to enable new selection and nurturing of emerging, breakthrough OEM product launches that deliver no sacrifice and disruptive technologies that will support our in quality, reliability or overall cost of ownership.
strategic initiatives and innovation pipeline over This focus on the right OEMs over the past the next several years.
decade has been one of the foundations for With our global presence and leading the improvement in Alents business.
These longtechnologies, we are regularly identifying new standing relationships provide a formidable opportunities in high-growth complementary barrier to entry for competition.
segments such as solar and LED.
Although these Research and Development markets are still at relatively early stages of their A key takeaway from our OEM-focused strategy development, our Board believes they could is the ability to listen to the customer and to provide significant additional sources of revenue translate this into an R&D project with very specific in the future.
The opportunity comes both from performance and time delivery milestones.
leveraging existing products and technologies in We then deliver the product, or the solution to these new markets and through developing new the problem, on time and supported by a data product solutions, as well as potentially through package detailing the productivity and reliability bolt-on acquisitions.
that this product will deliver in a high-volume Strategic proximity to customers manufacturing environment.
Alent must be able to manufacture a product We work very hard in our R&D laboratories to wherever in the world the OEM chooses to have demonstrate and prove the value that our products their product made, and Alent alone has the deliver.
We do this by replicating our customers global footprint to accomplish this.
manufacturing processes in our laboratories.
Not only does Alent deliver the product from This ensures that we can generate meaningful a local manufacturing site, we also provide the and relevant data on productivity and reliability assembly subcontractor or circuit board fabricator that is presented to the OEM.
These comprehensive with our local technical service support.
data packages show the OEM that our products This ensures that in a high-volume production lower their total cost of ownership whilst at the same environment, the product performs as designed time deliver improved reliability.
and delivers the productivity and cost of ownership Our global R&D spend falls into three categories: designed into the product.
Approximately 70% is allocated to customerThis OEM-focused strategy backed up by Alents specific development.
This involves incremental fast-cycle R&D capabilities and global copy exact enhancements to existing products at the manufacturing footprint provide tangible value to customers request.
go through a four-stage development process Alents motto has long been our products must of business justification, specification, execution deliver measurably better performance or we and commercialisation.
cannot expect to command a premium price A further 20% is allocated to new product versus the competition.
As good as our sales development the creation of new products or the people are, we cannot sell value to our customers provision of significant enhancements to existing if our products do not deliver value.
Thus, it is critical products.
These projects are managed by a Stage that our products and services are viewed by Gate process which approves, monitors and customers as delivering a tangible performance controls the project through its life cycle.
At each improvement versus the competition.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 ALENT 19 ALENT: SPOTLIGHT ADVANCED Product migration TECHNOLOGY The Problem There was a requirement for next-generation chips to be thinner to meet market demand for higher processing power in smaller form factors.
Thinner chips had excessive warpage during processing.
The Solution Alent developed an enhanced Solder Paste for the ever-evolving chip component market.
The Benefit Alent provided a rapid response in the short-term for first wave of implementation by OEMs, with continued iterative development to maintain performance on next-generation chips.
Toshiba THGVX1GD2GLA08 16GB MLC NAND Flash Memory 20 ALENT ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 WWW.
COM STRATEGIC CORPORATE FINANCIAL ADDITIONAL REPORT GOVERNANCE STATEMENTS INFORMATION 9 3 7 1 5 6 2 8 4 ALENT TECHNOLOGY IN ACTION: 1.
Critical safety systems ABS, airbag SPOTLIGHT 2.
Plating on plastics Plating on Plastics 3.
Decorative: The Problem Internal and external A major European plating shop needed a Anti-wear significant EU financial investment to enable 5.
Underhood controllers expansion of its plating on plastics chemical process manufacturing line to meet 6.
Entry exit security OEM requirements.
Aluminium wheels, The Solution plastic-clad wheels Championed by Alents R&D, a patented 9.
Side-view mirrors process for enhanced corrosion protection enabled the customer to resubmit an EU subsidy application.
The Benefit Secured investments of more than US $4m to allow for c7 times increase in production capacity.
COM ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2013 ALENT 21
