Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Following a comprehensive review of the Companys Summary of the Ejido El Bajo current and future financial requirements, we believe our current balance sheet is well placed to meet the Companys legal proceedings capital expenditure plans and positions us favourably As disclosed in the Companys 2012 annual report as well to take advantage of potential accretive acquisition as in its various market updates since then, the Company opportunities.
We remain committed to prudent financial faced a dispute originally presented by five members policies that ensure sufficient cash on hand to invest in the Claimants of the Ejido El Bajo the Ejido agrarian existing operations, pursue growth, and maintain a healthy community located in Sonora, northern Mexico, against dividend stream.
As a result of this dispute, Penmonts occupation Sustainable business strategy agreements over 1,824 hectares of agrarian land located We will continue to pursue operational excellence and within the Ejido were declared null and void by an Agrarian the disciplined development of new projects by investing Magistrate, who ordered Penmont to vacate the land in across price cycles, and I remain personally focused on mid-2013.
Penmont complied with this ruling and placed ensuring the Group adheres to responsible and sustainable Committed to the entirety of the disputed lands at the disposition of the business practices.
prudent financial Magistrate, who in turn placed them in deposit before a policies: US$225.0 joint commission comprised of both the Claimants and the It is therefore with deep regret that I report the two million allocated Ejido assembly, pending regulatory remediation activities fatalities that occurred during the year.
We have reviewed to exploration by Penmont over approximately 300 hectares of the land.
each of these incidents as well as the actions taken by and early project Penmonts Dipolos pit is located within these lands, and management to bolster safety policies, training procedures development operations at Dipolos were suspended.
Furthermore, managements remuneration in 2014 is tied to safety performance.
These proceedings also resulted in a temporary suspension by the Mexican Ministry of Defence MOD An area in which we continue to evolve and advance is the of two explosives permits held by Penmont: i the single diversity and development of our workforce, as well as the permit covering the Noche Buena mine: and ii the single range of measures on which we report in our Social and permit covering the Herradura and Soledad-Dipolos mines.
I encourage you to review our Given that Noche Buena is more than 20 kms away from new reporting practices as set out on pages 76-91. the Ejido, its permit was reactivated by the MOD.
I am grateful to my Board colleagues for their continued Various proceedings have since occurred.
On 11 February insight and engagement, and extend my deepest 2014, a district court issued a ruling denying the Ejido the appreciation to the people of Fresnillo plc for their dedication relief it was seeking, namely cease and desist proceedings and focus.
As we set our sights beyond the current horizon, in an attempt to judicially impede an uplifting of the I am confident in the capacity of this team and our Group suspended explosives permit at Herradura and Soledad.
to create continued value for all stakeholders.
On 24 February 2014, the MOD granted a new explosives permit for the Herradura mining unit, thereby allowing Penmont to resume the use of explosives at this mine.
Normal mining operations at Herradura resumed in March 2014 as preparations had been made in 2H 2013 for the lifting of the suspension of explosives, with holes for blasting having been pre-drilled at the mine.
Alberto Baillres As part of the on-going dispute with the Ejido, various Non-executive Chairman claims and counterclaims have been made between the relevant parties.
Penmont will continue to evaluate these issues and the Company will make such updates as is necessary to the market in relation to this ongoing dispute in the same way it has during the course of 2013.
The Company has no intention of reactivating explosives within the Ejido land affected by the ruling.
Furthermore, given that Soledad is not currently economically viable as a stand-alone mine independent of Dipolos, the Company has also suspended operations at that site whilst legal proceedings continue.
|| www www.. ffr re es sn niillllo op pllc c.. c co om m Fre Fres sn niill llo p o pllc c A An nnual nual r re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 13 3 11 11
