Our Projects in Development 2 Develop: Delivering Growth Through Development Projects Completed In process in2013 Dynamic leaching plant Saucito II This new facility at the Herradura mine is expected Ownership: 100% Fresnillo plc to increase gold production by an average of 28,000 Location: Zacatecas, 8 km SW of the Fresnillo mine attributable ounces per year over the 2014-2020 period, Facilities: Underground mine and otation plant and will play a key role in a possible expansion of the Commercial production: 4Q 2014 Centauro pit and development of Centauro Deep.
Anticipated production: Annual average production of 8.4 moz Tests with waste material were carried out in 4Q 2013 silver and 35,000 oz gold and commercial production is expected to begin once Capex: US$235.0 million sufficient ore is available with the resumption of normal mining activity at Herradura.
The vast amount of resources at the Saucito mine warranted an expansion into what is now known as Saucito II.
The new mine is expected to produce an average of 8.4 moz silver and 35,000 oz gold per year when it reaches full capacity, whilst maintaining low and competitive cash cost, thus it is a key contributor to the Groups long-term production and profitability goals.
Mineral resources at Saucito II are included in Saucitos total estimates.
The project comprises the construction of a beneficiation plant identical to the current one operating at Saucito, but with an additional circuit to produce pyrite concentrates, which will be processed to increase recovery rates of gold and silver.
What we did in 2013 Construction of the Saucito II plant The project commenced in 1Q 2013: detailed engineering, orders for and assembly ofcritical equipment critical equipment, and permits were all secured faster than expected, and construction progressed well.
This, combined with the synergies achieved from current infrastructure in the Fresnillo district and the expected profitability of the new mine led to a review of the projects timeline and the subsequent decision to bring forward its delivery from 2H2015 to 4Q 2014.
Resources in terms of tonnages slightly decreased as a result of lower prices and higher cut-off grades used in the calculation.
What we plan to do in 2014 Conclude construction and initiate start-up tests in the beneficiation plant Continue exploration, mine development and infrastructure work as well as mine stope preparation to secure ramp-up production targets and convert resources into reserves in order to maintain a steady ten years mine life | 70 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 www.
com Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Strategy Performance 1 2 3 4 San Julin Ownership: 100% Fresnillo plc Pending approval Location: Chihuahua Durango border Facilities: Underground mine, otation plant and a dynamic leaching plant in 2014 Commercial production: 2H 2015 Anticipated production: Annual average production of 10.3 moz Fresnillo pyrites treatment plant silver and 44,000 oz gold Ownership: 100% Fresnillo plc Indicated & inferred resources: 200.8 moz silver and 893 koz gold Location: Zacatecas, Saucito mine between the two Capex: US$515.0 million beneficiation plants Facilities: Leaching plant The San Julin silver-gold project is vital to advancing the Companys production goals, and management believes there is sufficient geological Commercial production: 2H 2016 potential in the region to establish a new mining district in the future.
Anticipated production: Annual average production of 4 moz silver The project includes construction of two plants: i a otation plant with and 18,000 oz gold 6,000 tpd capacity to process ore from the disseminated body: and ii a Capex: US$105.0 million dynamic leaching plant to treat 3,000 tpd of ore from the veins.
Once at full capacity, average commercial production is estimated at 10.3 moz This facility is expected to increase silver and gold recovery rates by silver and 44,000 oz gold per year, with cash costs in the lowest quartile processing tailings from the Fresnillo and Saucito mines.
The plant will of the international cash cost curve.
froth oat pyrite concentrates that will be leached in a 2,000 tpd dynamic leaching plant and Merrill-Crowe plant to produce precipitates.
Production What we did in 2013 is expected to total 4 moz silver and 18,000 oz gold per year, and advances our objective to maximise production in the Fresnillo district.
As with any greeneld project, unforeseen developments can influence scope and timelines.
In the case of San Julin, we identied the need to construct a water reservoir to complement underground water What we did in 2013 resources: encountered delays, now resolved, in obtaining environmental We continued engineering works and added otation cells to produce the and construction permits: and faced heightened security requirements iron concentrate for the pyrites treatment process in the layout of Saucito for our people and assets.
Project delivery has been deferred from IIs beneficiation plant.
4Q 2014 to 2H 2015 and capex increased slightly to US$515.0 million.
The original mining plan considered starting with the extraction of the What we plan to do in 2014 disseminated ore body first, followed by production from the veins: as such, development at the ore body had already progressed.
However, the Conclude detailed engineering plan has now been revised and reversed to reect that a source of water Submit the project for Board approval and subject to that approval, for the dynamic leaching plant has already been secured, while reservoir initiate construction construction must take place to support the otation plant.
Detailed engineering advanced in 2013, orders were placed for critical components and environmental and construction permits were ultimately secured.
Construction of the landing strip to facilitate the y-in y-out requirement of the mine was concluded in 2013 and construction of the workers encampment started.
Core drilling in the year signicantly increased total resources due to detailed underground information and the use of lower cut-off grades using realistic mining costs.
The 42,819 metres of drilling carried out in the year included strategically oriented holes to confirm the geological models.
Development drifts on both the disseminated and vein ore bodies have delivered higher than expected grades of silver and gold.
Additional resources were discovered on the Mireya and Calera veins.
Development work continues at an accelerated pace: mine workings and ventilation raises advanced 13,094 metres and 891 metres in 2013, respectively, totalling 40,095 metres and 10,300 metres in the project.
What we plan to do in 2014 Continue mining works at the veins Initiate construction of the dynamic leaching plant, tailings dam and water reservoir | www.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 71
