Directors Report Introduction Change of control significant agreements In accordance with section 415 of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors The following represents the likely effect on significant agreements with of Fresnillo plc present their report for the year ended 31 December 2013. the Company were it to be subject to a change of control: A number of provisions which the Directors are required to report in the The Penmont and MAG Silver agreements each contain provisions Directors Report have been included in the Strategic Report, these are ensuring that the interests of the shareholders may be transferred in the Companys disclosures on: accordance with their respective by-laws, subject to preferential rights Greenhouse gas emissions, which can be found on pages 84-87 of existing shareholders Employees, which can be found on pages 90-91 and in note 8 of the The New Services Agreement contains a discretionary provision financial statements on page 176 for Servicios Administrativos Peoles, S. A. fide C. V to terminate the agreement should they so wish if there is a change of control of Information regarding the Companys charitable donations can also Fresnillo plc befound in the Strategic Report on page 88: the Company did not There are no formal change of control provisions within the makeany donations to political organisations during the year.
Silverstream Contract or Met-Mex Arrangements The Groups mining concessions are held by several of its Mexican Directors subsidiary companies.
As long as the companies holding the mining The Directors of the Company during the year and summaries of their concessions remain Mexican resident companies, there are no experience and key strengths are set out on pages 109-110 of the provisions within the concession agreements which would be triggered Corporate Governance Report.
Other than two Directors who have by a change of control of the Company indicated that they do not intend to stand for re-election, the remaining The Company does not have any agreements with any Non-executive Directors will seek re-election by shareholders at the Annual General Director, Executive Director or employee that would provide compensation Meeting on 16 May 2014 in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance for loss of ofce or employment resulting from a change of control.
Two new Directors will be proposed for election to theBoard at theAGM.
Articles of Association Results and Dividends Any amendments to the Articles of Association of the Company may be made by Special Resolution of the shareholders.
Results for the year are set out in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 152.
Share Capital Structure, Rights and Restrictions An interim dividend of 4.90 US cents per share was paid on 10 September 2013 to shareholders on the register on 16 August 2013 and an extraordinary Details of the Companys share capital are set out in note 18 to the dividend of 22.39 US cents per share was paid on 11 November 2013 to Financial Statements on pages 185-186.
The Company has two classes shareholders on the register on 1 November 2013.
The Directors have ofshare capital: 736,893,589 ordinary shares of US$0.50 Ordinary recommended a special one-off dividend for the year ended 31 December Shares and 50,000 deferred shares of 1.00 each Sterling Deferred 2013 of 6.8 US cents per Ordinary Share, which will be paid on 22 May 2014 Shares.
The Ordinary Shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange to shareholders on the register on 2 May 2014, subject to the approval and the Mexican Stock Exchange.
The rights and obligations attaching of shareholders at the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
tothese shares are governed by UK law and the Companys Articles The dividend will be paid in UK pounds sterling unless shareholders elect ofAssociation.
Ordinary shareholders are entitled to receive notice and to attend and speak at any general meeting of the Company.
On a show of hands everyshareholder present in person or by proxy or being a corporation represented by a duly authorised representative shall have one vote, andon a poll every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy shallhave one vote for every share held.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting species deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing aproxy or proxies.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Ordinary Shares other than: The standard restrictions for a UK-quoted company set out in article 32 of the Articles of Association Where, from time to time, certain restrictions may become imposed bylaws and regulations for example, insider trading laws Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby certain Directors, ofcers and employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Ordinary Shares No shareholder holds securities carrying special rights as to the control ofthe Company.
There are no limitations on the holding of securities.
There are no restrictions on voting rights or any arrangements by which, with the Companys co-operation, financial rights carried by securities areheld by a person other than the holder of the securities.
There are noagreements between holders of securities that are known to the Company which may result in restrictions on the transfer of voting rights.
|| 14 144 4 Fre Fres sn niill llo p o pllc c A An nnual nual r re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 13 3 vwww www.. ffr re es sn niillllo op pllc c.. c co om m Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements The Sterling Deferred Shares only entitle the shareholder to payment of Financial risk management the amount paid up after repayment to Ordinary Shareholders on winding The Companys objectives and policies on financial risk management up or on a return of capital.
The Sterling Deferred Shares do not entitle the including information on the Companys exposures to Market risk, holder to payment of any dividend, or to receive notice or to attend and including foreign currency, commodity price, interest rate, ination speak at any general meeting of the Company.
The Company may also rateand equity price risks: Credit risk and Liquidity risk can be found at its option redeem the Sterling Deferred Shares at a price of 1.00 or, as innote 31 to the financial statements.
custodian, purchase or cancel the Sterling Deferred Shares or require the holder to transfer the Sterling Deferred Shares.
Except at the option of the Company, the Sterling Deferred Shares are not transferable.
Going concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Strategic Authority to purchase own shares Review on pages 12-53.
The financial position of the Group, its cash ows The Company was authorised by a shareholders resolution passed at and liquidity position are described in the Financial Review on pages the Annual General Meeting held in May 2013 to purchase up to 10% 92-103.
In addition, note 31 to the financial statements includes the of its issued Ordinary Share capital.
Any shares which have been bought Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its back may be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments immediately upon completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
amount of the Companys issued and authorised share capital.
This authority will expire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that a resolution to renew the authority for a further year will be proposed.
the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence Noshares were purchased by the Company during the year.
In making this assessment they have considered the Company and Group budgets, and cash ow forecasts for the period to December 2015, including the exploration and capital expenditure Directors interests plans and sensitivities around those plans and the assumptions underlying The number of Ordinary Shares of the Company in which the Directors the future trend on operating costs.
They have also considered the were beneficially interested at 1 January 2013, or date of appointment if sensitivities of the cash ow forecasts to movements in metal prices.
later, and at 31 December 2013 is set out in the Directors Remuneration The Company has considerable financial resources, which were Report on page 141. enhanced by the US$800 million Senior Note bond issue in November No Director had any dealings in the shares of the Company between 2013 and is operating within a sector that is experiencing relatively stable 31December 2013 and 3 March 2014. demand for its products, albeit at much reduced prices compared to the prior year.
The Directors therefore have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in Directors indemnities operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to The Company has deeds of indemnity in place with the Directors in adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual respect of a liability arising against them in connection with the financial statements.
Companys and any associated companys activities and if relevant where Directors act as pension trustees.
These deeds are in place at the Audit information date of this report and operate subject to the conditions set out in the Each of the Directors at the date of the approval of this report Companies Act 2006. confirms that: So far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit information Directors and Ofcers Liability Insurance of which the Companys auditors are unaware Directors and Ofcers Liability Insurance cover is in place at the date of He she has taken all the reasonable steps that he she ought to have this report.
A review of the cover was carried out in July 2013.
The Board taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit remains satisfied that an appropriate level of cover is in place and a information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware review of cover will take place on an annual basis.
of the information The conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with Major interests in shares the provisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
As at 3 March 2014, the Company had been advised, of the following notiable interests whether directly or indirectly held in its voting rights: Auditors Notication Number of received from: voting rights % The Auditors, Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in ofce and a resolution seeking to reappoint them will be Peoles 552,595,191 74.99 proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
1 BlackRock, Inc 43,719,310 5.94 Post balance sheet events 1 Includes interests held by BlackRock Global Funds.
No material post balance sheet events have occurred as at the date of this report.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 145 Directors Report continued Annual General Meeting The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at Linklaters, OneSilkStreet, London, EC2Y 8HQ on Friday 16 May 2014 at 12.00 noon.
Details of the meeting venue and the resolutions to be proposed are setout in a separate Notice of Meeting which accompanies the AnnualReport.
The Directors Report has been approved by the Board of Directors ofFresnillo plc.
Signed on behalf of the Board.
Lord Cairns Senior Independent Director 3 March 2014 Fresnillo plc Registered Ofce: 28 Grosvenor Street London W1K 4QR United Kingdom Company No: 6344120 || 14 146 6 Fre Fres sn niill llo p o pllc c A An nnual nual r re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 13 3 vwww www.. ffr re es sn niillllo op pllc c.. c co om m
