Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy The table below sets out the key elements of Executive Director pay set out in the Directors Remuneration Policy: Operation Maximum Value Performance Metric Discretion Base salary Provides the core reward for the role Reviewed annually and xed for The Chief Executives salary will be The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee will 12 months starting on1 April each reviewed taking account of the considers individual salaries at the establish the Companys comparator year and the review is influenced by: benchmarking information received by appropriate meeting each year by peer group in Mexico and the Remuneration Committee and the reference to the factors noted under internationally as part of the biennial Role, experience and performance maximum value of the Chief Executives theOperation heading in this table.
review which it will consider in Average workforce salary base salary will be positioned within the April 2014.
The peer group will be adjustments Details of the current remuneration of mid-range for companies in the peer reviewed again in April 2016 as part Mexican economic factors the Chief Executive officer is provided group of Mexican and international of the following biennial review.
inthe Annual Report on Remuneration.
Comparison with the Companys peer resources companies.
The Committee will report on the group in Mexico and internationally outcome of these reviews within Salaries are benchmarked bi-annually therelevant Annual Report on by reference to companies of similar Remuneration for the 2014 and 2016. size and complexity and will be positioned within a mid-range of the Companys comparator peer group in Mexico and internationally.
The next reviews will take place in April 2014 and April 2016.
Benets Help recruit and retain employees An Executive Director would be entitled The current benets are set out in None.
The Remuneration Committee may to life insurance, the use of a company the Annual Remuneration Report.
consider changes to the benets made car, the payment of premiums for available to Executive Directors in line The maximum value of benets will medical insurance covering limited with any changes in the policy for be determined by Company policy expenses and check-ups.
Benets may benets provided to all employees.
that is applicable to all employees.
be changed if Company policy on benets changes.
Pension Rewards continued employment and sustained contribution The Group operates a dened The maximum contribution for None.
Executive anyemployee may not exceed Directors are entitled to membership 16%ofsalary.
|| 13 134 4 Fre Fres sn niill llo p o pllc c A An nnual nual r re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 13 3 vwww www.. ffr re es sn niillllo op pllc c.. c co om m Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Operation Maximum Value Performance Metric Discretion 1 Annual Bonus Rewards the achievement of shortand long-term financial and strategic business targets and delivery of personal objectives Targets are renewed annually and The maximum percentage of salary The KPI targets focus on risks that are The Remuneration Committee relate to the strategic aims of the is50% six months salary and is paid within the control and influence of considers that the KPIs, upon which business as a whole.
A scoring system where Executive Directors achieve management.
Thus, the management bonuses are based, may need to is used for the plan.
Each objective set more than 115 points under the Annual of safety, security, project, human evolve from year to year in line with for the executive at the beginning of the Bonus Plan.
resource, exploration and environmental the strategy and therefore it retains year is allocated a points-rating which risks are all currently implicitly covered the discretion to adjust individual KPI represents a median performance within the KPIs.
The KPIs and targets weightings from year to year.
Upper and are also designed to ensure that both The Remuneration Committee retains lower point thresholds are set to allow short-term objectives and the long-term the discretion to adjust bonus for outstanding performance and development of the Fresnillo Group are payments to take account of the ensure that underperformance is not given equal priority.
For each member of the Details of the measures, targets Factors outside the control of Executive Committee including the and performance for the year ended Executive Directors e. g. force Chief Executive officer, a bonus is only 31 December 2013 are provided in majeure circumstances.
In deciding payable if the aggregate performance the Annual Report on Remuneration.
whether adjustment is merited, equals or exceeds 100 points.
Bonus the Remuneration Committee will payments are paid for aggregate consider the appropriateness of the performance against target at or above Executive Directors response to 100 points as follows: those circumstances: in this situation an upward adjustment may be Points Variable Pay Variable Pay considered Months Salary % of salary Poor executive response to adverse health, safety or environmental 100104 Two 16.67 performance during the year, in 105109 Four 33.33 which case a downward adjustment would be considered 110114 Five 41.67 Any such discretion will be fully explained in future Directors 115 Six 50.00 Remuneration Reports.
1 Fresnillo plc does not operate any share option or share-based long-term incentive plans.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 135 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Introduction Comparison of executive and This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out the widercompany remuneration Remuneration Policy of the Company and has been prepared in When setting pay and benets for Executive Directors and Executive accordance with The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Committee, the Remuneration Committee takes account of pay and Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the conditions across the Group.
It will consider the overall pay increase Regulations.
The policy has been developed taking into account the percentage negotiated with employee representatives as its starting principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2012 and the views point.
The Remuneration Committee may agree pay increases above of our major shareholders.
It describes the policy to be applied for the or below the agreed percentage in exceptional circumstances, where financial year ending 31 December 2014 and beyond.
The Policy Report in its discretion it considers such variance to the norm to be justied.
will be put to a binding vote at the 2014 Annual General Meeting, and, Other than the Towers Watson report specifically commissioned by the subject to it receiving majority shareholder support, the Effective Date Remuneration Committee, the same benchmark reports are used in the of the policy will be the date of the 2014 Annual General Meeting of the evaluation of executive and employee remuneration, thus providing a Company, 16 May 2014. common approach to both.
Below Board level, a statutory profit-sharing arrangement PTU is operated Remuneration Policy which in recent years has enabled employees within the operating The Groups Remuneration Policy seeks to ensure that the Company is companies to receive significant levels of bonus in line with the increased able to attract, retain, and motivate its executives and senior management.
profitability of the relevant operating company.
Neither the Chief Executive The retention of key management and the alignment of management officer nor any of the Non-executive Directors participate in a PTU scheme incentives with the creation of shareholder value are key objectives of within the Fresnillo Group.
The other members of the senior management this policy.
group below Board level are employed by Servicios Administrativos Fresnillo SA fide CV which pays annual PTU payments.
However such Setting base salary levels for Executive Directors at an appropriate level payments are modest.
is a key to managerial retention in Mexico.
Therefore, the Remuneration Committee seeks to ensure that salaries are market competitive both The Remuneration Committee does not consult with employees in setting within the Mexican context and internationally for comparable companies.
Total compensation is set within a range around the median level for the Companys peer group within Mexico and internationally, total Policy on recruitment remuneration is benchmarked biennially to ensure that the whole The Committee will consider the remuneration of new executive remuneration package is maintained at this level over the long term.
appointees to the Board by reference to the Remuneration Policy set Salaries are positioned within the range according to experience out above.
The Committee does not expect to pay sign-on payments or and service.
compensate new Directors for any variable remuneration forfeited from any employment prior to joining the Board.
Salary will be set so as to be Alignment of executive remuneration market competitive both within the Mexican context and internationally andthe market for comparable companies and taking account of the experience and seniority of the appointee coming into the new role.
The Committee is In setting the xed remuneration of the members of the Executive likely to set base salaries below median on appointment whilst retaining Committee, information relating to the mining company comparators discretion to award increases during the first and, possibly, subsequent is provided by various consultants.
Information relating to the Mexican years to bring salaries into the normal range expected for Executive economic metrics and internal benchmarking is collated by management Directors, in line with the Companys stated policy.
New Executive for the Remuneration Committee to consider.
In 2012, information Directors will receive benets and pensions in line with Companys showing the three-year trends for ination, market growth and pay existing policy and will be able to participate in the annual bonus scheme increases in Mexico was considered in setting salary increases for on a pro-rated basis for the portion of the financial year for which they members of the Executive Committee.
Whilst there is no expectation of changing this approach, A review conducted by Towers Watson in April 2012 enabled the the Remuneration Committee will bring any variation to this approach Remuneration Committee to validate the Companys policy towards to shareholders for approval prior to implementation.
short-term and long-term remuneration and ensure that it was globally as well as locally competitive.
The analysis evaluated the elements of base salary: short-term compensation guaranteed payments and short-term bonus and long-term compensation primarily stock programmes separately.
It concluded that the level of total remuneration for all of the members of the Executive Committee was set in line with the objective of the Remuneration Policy.
A further review by Towers Watson will be considered in early 2014 prior to the review of the Executive Committee members salaries taking effect from 1 April 2014.
Following this review, the Remuneration Committee will establish the peer group of companies for the purposes of validating the remuneration of Executive Directors.
|| 13 136 6 Fre Fres sn niill llo p o pllc c A An nnual nual r re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 13 3 vwww www.. ffr re es sn niillllo op pllc c.. c co om m Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Policy on loss of ofce External appointments Other than in circumstances of gross misconduct, Directors and senior It is the Boards policy to allow Executive Directors to accept directorships executives, including the Chief Executive officer, leaving employment of other quoted and non-quoted companies provided that they have from the Group, will be entitled to receive salary and pro-rated annual obtained the consent of the Chairman of the Company.
Any such bonus based on performance to the date of leaving.
Statutory directorships must be formally notied to the Board.
entitlements are payable according to Mexican labour law, based on length of service.
Mexican labour law does not make any provision for Chairman and Non-executive Directors employers and employees to give or receive notice of termination of The remuneration of the Chairman of the Company and the Non-executive employment.
Therefore the Committee will not make payments in lieu Directors consists of fees that are paid quarterly in arrears.
The Chairman of notice to departing executives unless required to do so by law.
and Non-executive Directors do not participate in any long-term incentive No contractual commitments concerning loss of ofce were entered or annual bonus schemes, nor do they accrue any pension entitlement.
into with any Director prior to 27 June 2012.
Neither the Chairman nor any of the Non-executive Directors has a service contract with the Company: however each has entered into Annual Bonus Plan and policy a letter of appointment with the Company.
onvariable remuneration It is the Companys policy not to use its equity to incentivise long-term Non-executive Directors letters of appointment performance by this means.
The Companys core strategy is one of On their initial appointment, each of the Non-executive Directors signed long-term sustainable growth.
Sustainable growth in mining requires a letter of appointment with the Company, for an initial period of three the steady and safe expansion of the Groups operations through the years.
Since April 2011, the letters of appointment all serving Non-executive discovery of new resources and construction, maintenance and or Directors have been drafted in accordance with provision B.
7.1 of the UK expansion of new mines.
No distinction is therefore made between Corporate Governance Code, thus obliging them to retire at each annual shortand long-term incentives.
general meeting and be subject to annual re-election by shareholders to serve for a further term of one year.
The amendments have been drafted The Company operates a single cash-based incentive plan for the members such that renewed appointment will not necessitate a new letter of of the Executive Committee, including the Chief Executive officer.
Each Non-executive Director is expected to commit a minimum of 14days Illustrations of the application of Remuneration per year in fullling their duties as a Director of the Company.
A base fee Policy for the Chief Executive officer of 30,000 is paid to each Non-executive Director to reect the time The following table sets out the xed and variable remuneration of the commitment and level of involvement they are required to make in the Chief Executive officer in the different scenarios where they receive activities of the Board as a whole.
There are no set fees for membership minimum, target and maximum variable pay.
of any Board committees or for the chairmanship of the Board.
Lord Cairns and Guy Wilson receive a higher fee to reect the additional time The Remuneration Committee keeps the policy under review and commitment that they make in order to travel to Board meetings in considers that the upper limit for cash-based remuneration incentives Mexico and to their responsibilities as respectively Senior Independent is appropriate.
In setting this level, the Remuneration Committee has Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in the case considered both local market practice and that within the global mining of Lord Cairns and Chairman of the Audit Committee in the case of industry.
The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that this has helped Guy Wilson.
to incentivise senior management in managing the Group sustainably and in meeting shareholders reasonable expectations.
Component Max Value Minimum Target Maximum US$k 1 Share Incentives Annual Bonus 327 Annual US$1,424,000 Variable US$1,206,000 2 23% Pay US$1,097,000 9% Pension Benets 88 100% 91% 77% Other Benets 116 Base Salary 893 Fixed 3 Pay 1 Fresnillo plc does not operate any share option of share-based long-term incentive plans.
2 Variable Pay consists only of remuneration where performance measures or targets relate only to one financial year.
3 Fixed Pay includes Salary, Benets and Pension.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 137 Directors Remuneration Report continued Remuneration Policy Unless otherwise determined, the Director concerned may give not less than three months notice of termination of the appointment.
Copies of the Directors letters of appointment and service agreements are available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce.
The key terms of the Non-executive Directors letters of appointment are as follows: Director Date of original Notice period from Duration Fees 1 letter of appointment Director to the Company of term p. a. Alberto Baillres 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year 30,000 Lord Cairns 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year 90,000 Juan Bordes 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year 30,000 Javier Fernndez 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year 30,000 Arturo Fernndez 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year 30,000 Rafael Mac Gregor 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year 30,000 Fernando Ruiz 15 April 2008 3 months 1 year 30,000 Guy Wilson 1 July 2008 3 months 1 year 90,000 Fernando Solana 18 February 2009 3 months 1 year 30,000 Alejandro Baillres 16 April 2012 3 months 1 year 30,000 Maria Asuncion Aramburuzabala 16 April 2012 3 months 1 year 30,000 Jaime Lomeln 15 August 2012 3 months 1 year 30,000 1 Unexpired term: the Non-executive Directors all have rolling contracts which are subject to the annual re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
The current term expires on 16 May 2014, being the date of the next Annual General Meeting but the appointment will continue after that date provided that each Director is re-elected at the AGM.
The Board have agreed that the aggregate fees of the Non-executive Directors excluding the reimbursement of expenses will be 480,000 per annum.
The Articles of Association of the Company require that the aggregate remuneration of Directors may not exceed 3,000,000 unless approved by an ordinary resolution of the shareholders of the Company.
|| 13 138 8 Fre Fres sn niill llo p o pllc c A An nnual nual r re ep po or rt t 2 20 01 13 3 vwww www.. ffr re es sn niillllo op pllc c.. c co om m
