Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Strategy Performance 1 Health 2 3 4 Our people are our most valuable asset.
The health and wellbeing of our workers is fundamental to protecting their safety and driving productivity.
We strive to limit new cases of occupational diseases and to promote healthier lifestyles, and recognise that the health of our employees is a key component of our social licence to operate.
What we said we would do in 2013 What we did in 2013 What we plan to do in 2014 Fully implement the AlertOn programme The AlertOn programme became a permanent Pursue our efforts to obtain the OHSAS 18001 programme in all our operating units to address the certications in all our operating units Consolidate the integration between health and safety risk of employees and contractors with health units, with joint inspections Launch the process in all our business units to conditions or substance abuse obtain the Healthy Company and Smoke-free Continue promoting a preventive culture Health and Safety have progressed in their integration Company certications of the Mexican Ministry and made significant progress in the OHSAS certication of Health Preventive care was supported by the Promoting Life Standardise all our occupational health processes awareness campaign and regular health check-ups across our business units Complete the implementation of the Health Information System to support all our processes Implement and monitor indicators to track the progress and coverage of our health training Launch a campaign to motivate healthier lifestyles that reduce obesity levels and comorbid conditions Health Strategy Our approach aims to pre-emptively identify and manage Occupational the health risks to which our workforce is exposed.
health Preventive care and the promotion of healthier lifestyles can limit certain chronic diseases and enhance overall Emergency Community preparedeness wellness and tness for work.
While our focus is set on prevention, emergency preparedness is a core Health and competence of our health teams across our business wellbeing units.
We work closely with local authorities and support health initiatives in the communities where we operate.
Preventive Healthier health and lifestyles wellness | www.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 79 Social and Sustainability Performance 4 Sustainability: Advance and Enhance the Sustainability of our Business Occupational health Healthier lifestyles The occupational health programme works proactively to eliminate Obesity and overweight are the main health problems in Mexico, work-related illnesses with robust risk analysis, guidelines, procedures, which ranks first in the world in overweight obese children and second protective equipment, awareness campaigns and customised training.
Poor dietary habits, sedentary lifestyles, and lack of access Our occupational health policies have also been adopted by our main to nutritious food are among the major determinants of excess weight contractors.
The main occupational health risks in our operations and obesity.
As part of our Promoting Life campaign we promote relate to: inhalable hazards mainly emissions and dust, noise, fatigue, healthier lifestyles raise awareness on a variety of health issues affecting ergonomic stress, vibrations, lighting, heat stress and contact with the regions where we operate.
We are launching an initiative in 2014 to chemicals.
Employee health is monitored with regular check-ups and reduce obesity rates among our workforce in order to prevent chronic vulnerable workers are relocated to reduce their exposure.
Our approach diseases and improve tness for work.
with exploration units, which often operate in remote locations, is to train and raise awareness on effectively dealing with therisks of Communities dehydration, venomous snakes and spiders.
We prioritise first aid We operate in some regions where appropriate access to healthcare training and compliance with vaccination schemes.
We collaborate regularly with neighbouring communities and health authorities to support preventive Emergency preparedness care initiatives in these communities.
Developing competent response teams is fundamental to ensuring effective emergency preparedness.
Our teams develop and practice emergency response strategies involving key functions in the Company.
We benchmark the skills of our teams against the industry by participating in national and international competitions and training.
Regular health check-ups at Cinega Preventive health and wellness Our preventive health programme seeks to prevent chronic diseases diabetes, high blood pressure, etc..
Psychological stress is addressed with behavioural change workshops facilitated by psychologists.
These workshops help workers address issues in their personal lives that could compromise awareness in the workplace and lead to accidents.
A set of preventive health indicators has been dened to monitor the effectiveness of our initiatives.
Certications Fresnillo Saucito Cinega Penmont OHSAS 18001 Certied In progress In progress In progress Sets out the criteria for occupational health and safety management best practice Investment in health New cases of occupational diseases US$ million 10.34 0 9.64 10.34 1 0 The increase in spending can be primarily attributed to the construction of a new clinic in our Cinega mine.
The Groups health and safety record allowed for savings in payments to the Mexican Social Security Institute IMSS.
Furthermore, improvements in health and a better An illness caused or safety record resulted in reductions aggravated by work activities 2012 2013 in the risk premium appraised by IMSS 2012 2013 or workplace conditions | 80 Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 www.
