Fresnillo Strategic Corporate Financial Today Report Governance Statements Remuneration Policy in Summary The Groups Remuneration Policy seeks to ensure that the Company The annual bonus rewards the achievement of shortand long-term isable to attract, retain, and motivate its executives and senior financial and strategic business targets and delivery of personal management.
The retention of key management and the alignment of objectives.
The KPIs and targets are also designed to ensure that both management incentives with the creation of shareholder value are key short-term objectives and the long-term development of the Fresnillo objectives of this policy.
Group are given broadly equal priority.
As a consequence, the Company does not use share-based forms of remuneration to incentivise long-term Setting base salary levels for Executive Directors at an appropriate level performance.
is a key to managerial retention in Mexico.
Salaries are therefore market competitive both within the Mexican context and internationally for The Annual Bonus Plan aligns incentives to the short-term and long-term comparable companies.
Total compensation is set within a range around KPIs in the following manner.
the median level for the Companys peer group within Mexico and internationally: total remuneration is benchmarked biennially to ensure that the whole remuneration package is maintained at this level over thelong term.
Salaries are positioned within the range according to experience and length of service.
Strategic objective Key Performance Timeframe Measure Weighting Indicator Production Short and long term Increase in equivalent ounces produced 26 Maximise the potential of existing operations Safety Short term Fatalities 5 Deliver growth through Increase in total resources 10 development projects Resources Long term Extend the Increase in resources upgraded 20 from inferred to indicated growth pipeline Stakeholders Long term Various 11 Advance sustainable development Financial Short and long term Net profit adjusted 17 Teamwork 11 All objectives | www.
com Fresnillo plc Annual report 2013 133
