Chief Executive Offi cers review continued FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE HEALTH AND SAFETY Demand for our services remained strong in 2013, particularly in During 2013, fi fty-fi five colleagues lost their lives in the line of duty, emerging markets where our revenue rose by 16%.
principally as a result of attacks by third parties and road traffi c accidents.
Their loss is deeply felt by their families and their colleagues Underlying profi t before interest, tax and amortisation PBITA was and is a matter of great concern for everyone at G4S.
This has caused 442 million and cash generated by operations increased by 36% to us to re-double our efforts to mitigate the risks faced each day by 460 million, primarily refl ecting improved working capital management many of our colleagues.
The Group Executive team is leading a which is described in more detail in the chief fi financial offi cers review.
programme to strengthen safety leadership and safety practices Our emerging market businesses in Africa, Latin America, Asia and the across the group, including: Middle East, converted strong revenue growth into very strong profi t Critical country reviews: conducting detailed assessments and progression and underlying PBITA from these businesses rose by 25% developing mitigation plans in those countries and operations to 216 million.
where we have identifi ed the greatest risks.
Our developed market businesses posted PBITA of 270 million as Establishing a new group wide standard for health and safety our businesses in Europe, UK and Ireland suffered from a weak trading management systems.
environment, unsatisfactory service delivery in some areas and an uncompetitive cost structure.
In the US, our sales in technology and Health and safety resource: We made a number of new secure solutions were adversely impacted by cuts in Federal appointments across the group and at the beginning of 2014 we government spending.
We have established restructuring programmes had 110 dedicated health and safety professionals, assisting us to in all of these businesses and, as previously mentioned, made a provision reduce health and safety risks.
for 68 million to cover the cost of these programmes.
Safety leadership training and awareness is now mandatory for all Having performed an extensive review of our UK Government senior managers.
In addition, each member of the Group Executive contracts we were pleased to conclude a settlement agreement with team and each of their teams has specifi c health and safety the Ministry of Justice MoJ.
Under this agreement we will refund performance objectives in 2014. approximately 96 million for amounts overbilled on three contracts In support of our health and safety programme, we have established and will compensate the UK tax payer for 12.5 million costs incurred a new group value called Safety First.
We believe that the settlement, together with We work in an inherently hazardous industry and health and safety is other actions we are taking, will help us to maintain our position as an enduring priority for me and my management team.
Our deepest a strategic supplier to the UK Government.
desire is to see every employee return to his or her family unharmed During the year, we conducted a comprehensive fi financial review of at the end of each day and we will always remain committed to our assets and liabilities and major contracts.
These reviews, together that objective.
with the MoJ settlement and our restructuring programmes, resulted in a 386 million charge to profi ts during 2013.
This contributed to a net loss of 24.9 pence per share and to a reduction in the book value of the group's net assets from 1,231 million to 919 million.
Having completed these reviews, we now have a solid baseline against which we can measure our progress.
The resulting total PBITA for the year was 56 million 2012: 364 million.
Underlying EPS was 14.7p against 15.8p in 2012 and total loss per share was 24.9p, compared with earnings per share of CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2.9p in 2012.
For more information The groups share placing, cash proceeds from portfolio disposals and G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Securing your world see our Corporate Social improved operating cash fl ow all helped to offset investment and other Investing in sustainable, Responsibility Report demands on our cash fl ow and we ended the year with net debt of profitable growth.
1.5 billion compared with 1.8 billion at the start of the year.
See page 42 for more information 6 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic report GROUP VALUES We updated and strengthened our group values, particularly in light of GROUP VALUES: SUPPORTING events surrounding our electronic monitoring contracts with the UK Ministry of Justice which are being investigated by the Serious Fraud OUR STRATEGY Offi ce SFO.
We commissioned an independent review of these contracts by a global law fi rm which has found no evidence of criminal CUSTOMER FOCUS wrongdoing.
We have also cooperated with the SFO to support its work.
With strong sponsorship from the Group Executive team, We have close, open relationships with our customers we are rolling out a programme in 2014 which is designed to which generate trust and we work in partnership for strengthen understanding of, and compliance with, our group values.
the benefi t of our organisations.
This programme addresses the values described opposite and includes training for senior managers and specifi c objectives in their 2014 BEST PEOPLE performance contracts.
We employ the best people, develop their competence, We developed and launched a new human rights policy and guidance provide opportunity and inspire them to live our values.
Given the services we provide and the sometimes challenging environments in which we work, this was a signifi cant priority for the Group Executive.
INTEGRITY Every two years, we conduct a group-wide management and employee We can always be trusted to do the right thing.
Feedback from our workforce is an important element of our management process and in 2013, 384,000 colleagues responded to EXPERTISE our global employee survey, providing us with a rich source of information about the business and our people which we are able to We develop and demonstrate our expertise through use in developing our plans and employee engagement programmes.
our innovative approach to creating and delivering the right solutions.
OUTLOOK PERFORMANCE The outlook for the group is positive.
There is strong demand for G4S services across the world, particularly in emerging markets, and we We seek to improve performance year on year to create have a clear and focused strategy to address this demand.
We have taken clear action to address long-standing issues and have introduced wide-ranging changes to strengthen our business.
We can TEAMWORK AND COLLABORATION now look to the future with increasing confi dence, focusing on the We collaborate for the benefi t of our customers and G4S.
growing demand for G4S services that underpins our plans to deliver sustainable, profi table growth.
That confi dence is refl ected in the boards recommendation to maintain the dividend.
SAFETY FIRST Ashley Almanza We prioritise safety management to protect the health and Group Chief Executive Offi cer well-being of our colleagues and those around us.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 G4S plc 7
