Executive committee 1 2 3 4 5 OUR EXECUTIVE TEAM 2.
IRENE COWDEN, GROUP HR DIRECTOR UK & IRELAND G4S is managed through a functional and Irene has spent her career in HR management, regional structure.
Eddie joined G4S in July 2013 as Group Chief specialising in employee relations, organisational Operating Offi cer and was appointed Regional development, talent management, employee Our structure enables us to deliver our CEO of UK & Ireland in October 2013. engagement, compensation and health and strategic objectives, maintain a strong safety matters.
governance framework, develop integrated Eddie held a number of senior executive roles solutions, target key regional markets and at Deutsche Post DHL, where he worked for 13 She has been involved in major change projects build customer relationships.
Most recently he was CEO Global Sectors.
including the cultural and integration aspects of mergers and acquisitions, as well as large scale 1.
ASHLEY ALMANZA, CHIEF EXECUTIVE His previous role was CEO Life Sciences and organisational change involving workforce OFFICER Public Sector, responsible for strategic and restructuring, working in partnership with operational leadership of a multi-billion turnover Ashley joined G4S as Group CFO in May 2013, major trade unions.
He also held a variety of managing and was promoted to Group CEO on 1 June director roles at the business.
Irene has worked in the security industry for 2013.
36 years and has held director level positions 3.
ANDY BAKER, REGIONAL PRESIDENT Ashley held a number of senior executive roles at business unit, divisional and corporate level.
AFRICA at BG Group from 1993 to 2012, including Chief She was appointed to the board of Securicor Financial Offi cer from 2002 to 2011 and Andy joined G4S as regional president for G4S plc in 2002 as group HR director.
Executive Vice President from 2009 to 2012.
Irene is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of As Executive Vice President he was accountable, He has wide ranging experience of managing and Personnel and Development FCIPD.
during 2009 and 2010, for the strategic and building sustainable businesses across Africa, with operational management of BG Groups UK, 5.
GRAHAME GIBSON, REGIONAL CEO a strong emphasis on technology and logistics.
European and Central Asian businesses which AMERICAS He joined G4S from Nashua Group, the second had combined annual profi ts of around $3 billion.
Grahame has been involved in the security largest ICT business in South Africa, where he He also led a consortium of global companies industry for 31 years, having joined Group 4s UK was Group Chief Executive Offi cer.
through complex government negotiations in operating company in 1983 as fi finance director.
Prior to this, he spent four years as Group Since that time, Grahame has held a number Chief Operating Offi cer of Altech, a JSE listed Ashley is a non-executive director of Schroders of operational, management and board positions technology group with revenues of $1.2bn plc and Noble Corporation.
He holds an MBA in the UK, USA, Denmark, the Netherlands and operations in 15 countries.
He holds an from the London Business School and was and Austria.
MBA from Cranfi eld University.
previously Chairman of the Hundred Group Grahame has broad experience of the security of Finance Directors.
industry and management of businesses across a diverse range of cultures has been invaluable to the group throughout its development.
Grahame joined the board of G4S plc in April 2005.
Grahame is a board member of the Ligue Internationale des Socits fide Surveillance.
50 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance 6 7 8 9 10 6.
DEBBIE WALKER, GROUP EUROPE FINANCIAL OFFICER COMMUNICATIONS DIRECTOR Graham became Regional CEO Europe in Himanshu joined G4S in October 2013 as Debbie is Group Communications Director, November 2013.
Graham has more than 20 Group Chief Financial Offi cer.
In addition to heading the corporate communications team years experience in the security industry, having his role as CFO, the following functions also which focuses on the groups key audiences joined Securicor Cash Services in 1994 as report to him: service excellence centres, risk investors, media, government, employees and general manager marketing.
management, group procurement and group IT.
Debbie is also responsible for the groups CSR and human rights strategies.
Since then, Graham has held a number of He joined the group from Misys where, as commercial and line management positions in CFO, he was responsible for fi finance, legal and Prior to the merger between Group 4 Falck both the cash and security lines of business.
and Securicor, Debbie was employed in a number Graham was responsible for the creation of the of senior marketing and communications roles Prior to Misys, Himanshu was CFO of Logica plc UK cash centres outsourcing business in 2001 within the Securicor group from 1993 to 2004. where he led the sale process that resulted in as managing director, before moving on to the company being acquired by CGI of Canada.
Debbie is also vice chairman of the CBI South become divisional managing director for G4S Himanshu also held senior executive positions East Regional Council the representative Cash Services UK, and then regional president at BT Group where he worked for more than 10 body for all CBI member companies based in Nordics.
He became group strategy and years in a number of divisional fi finance director the South East of England and the Thames development director in 2008 and joined the roles, including Chief Financial Offi cer of BT Valley, having previously served as chairman executive committee in 2010.
Global Services, BT Design, BT Operate and for two years.
Grahame is a fellow of the Chartered Institute BT Wholesale.
of Marketing and a director of COESS.
His early career included fi finance and systems 7.
SREN LUNDSBERG-NIELSEN, GROUP roles at Worldcom International, UUNET and GENERAL COUNSEL MFS Limited.
Sren began his career as a lawyer in Denmark Himanshu qualifi ed as a chartered accountant and since 1984 he has had a wide range of legal with Arthur Andersen and holds a law degree.
experience as general counsel for international 9.
DAN RYAN, REGIONAL CEO ASIA AND groups in Denmark, Belgium and the US before MIDDLE EAST joining Group 4 Falck in 2001 as Group Dan joined G4S in August 2010, from global General Counsel.
logistics and transportation company Neptune Sren has been involved in a wide range of Orient Lines NOL, where he was a member successful mergers and acquisitions during his of the group executive team and held a number career, including the acquisition of Wackenhut of senior management positions including and the Group 4 Falck merger with Securicor.
regional president roles for Greater China, Middle Sren has overall responsibility for all internal East and Europe during his 20-year career there.
and external legal services for G4S as well as the In his last position with the group, Dan led the groups insurance programme.
project to review, redesign and transform NOLs organisation across all its Americas divisions.
Sren is a member of the Danish Bar and Law Society, a member of the advisory board of the Dan is a charter member of the Middle East Danish UK Chamber of Commerce and author Logistics Supply Chain Management Forum, of the book Executive Management Contracts, Hong Kong Liner Shipping Association and the published in Denmark.
American Chamber of Commerce Shanghai.
He holds an MBA from the University of Notre Dame in Indiana and a B. S. Finance, from California State University, Sacramento.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 G4S plc 51
