Business model Our business model is market led: everything begins with the customer.
We seek to understand our customers strategic Robust business and commercial objectives so that we can design and deliver security solutions which support them.
Our aim is to model create sustainable shareholder value through the consistent achievement of excellence in three areas: customer service, operational performance and fi financial management.
We foster a high performance culture which focuses on service PERFORMANCE excellence, operational management and fi financial performance.
DELIVERY High performance leads to strong customer relationships, motivated employees and achievement of strategic goals critical elements of delivering sustainable, profi table growth.
By analysing customer needs and bringing together our expertise in SOLUTIONS DESIGN market sectors, technology, project management and service delivery we design solutions which help our customers to manage risks, improve service, protect people and assets and achieve their own organisational objectives.
Understanding customer needs is central to our success.
This enables CUSTOMER us to align our organisational objectives to those of the customer and UNDERSTANDING means we can help our customers to be successful.
See pages 10 and 11 for our customer segments.
Delivering high service levels across our core services helps us to deepen customer partnerships over the long-term and creates opportunities to work with customers to meet their existing and increasingly complex security needs.
There is strong demand for our core services of secure solutions, MARKET DEMAND cash solutions and care & justice services across the world.
See pages 10 and 11 for our market positions.
With 618,000 dedicated employees and operations in 120 countries, SCALE & CAPABILITIES our ability to deploy skilled staff on a global basis to support local and international customers is central to our business model.
This coverage means we can share learning and experiences across our markets to the benefi t of our customers and our business.
We work in line with relevant international standards and strive to achieve consistent high quality employee engagement, health and safety, training and ethical business practices across our operations.
Part of the group strategy is G4S CASH SOLUTIONS: UNIQUE BREADTH AND REACH to design and deliver more sophisticated security solutions for customers for both secure solutions and cash solutions.
In many of the Outsourcing services 14 countries in which we operate, there is still great potential to sell more ATM maintenance complex solutions which tend to 33 have longer contract terms and higher margins.
ATM replenishment 47 Cash processing 57 Secure transportation 61 Number of businesses around the world 14 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Increasing complexity, longevity & margin Strategic report Closely aligned to our values We seek to improve performance year on year PERFORMANCE to create long-term sustainability.
We develop and demonstrate our expertise through EXPERTISE our innovative approach to creating and delivering the right solutions.
We collaborate for the benefi t of our customers TEAMWORK & and G4S.
COLLABORATION We have close, open relationships with our CUSTOMER FOCUS customers which generate trust and we work in partnership for the benefi t of our organisations.
We prioritise safety management to protect the SAFETY FIRST health and well-being of our colleagues and those around us.
We can always be trusted to do the right thing.
INTEGRITY We employ the best people, develop their BEST PEOPLE competence, provide opportunity and inspire them to live our values.
G4S SECURE SOLUTIONS: POSITIONED FOR FUTURE DEVELOPMENT Risk services 10 System software integration 15 Consultancy services 18 Monitoring & response 71 System install & maintenance 81 Manned security 100 Number of G4S countries around the world Annual Report and Accounts 2013 G4S plc 15 Increasing complexity, longevity & margin
