Board of directors 1 2 3 4 5 He holds an MBA from London Business School General Manager IBM Global Solutions: 1.
JOHN CONNOLLY and was previously Chairman of the Hundred Managing Director of IBM Europe, Middle East Non-executive director Group of Finance Directors.
and Africa: member of the board of IBAX, a hospital software company jointly owned by Chairman of the board Current external commitments: Non-executive IBM and Baxter Healthcare: chairman of Reed Chairman Nomination and Risk Committees director of Schroders plc and Noble Elseviers remuneration committee: chairman of Joined G4S board: June 2012 Corporation.
the Deans Advisory Council of the Kelly School Key strengths and experience: Extensive of Business, Indiana University.
ADAM CROZIER experience of working in a global business Non-executive director Current external commitments: Non-executive environment and in sectors of strategic chairman of QinetiQ Group plc.
Member Audit and Nomination Committees importance to the group.
GRAHAME GIBSON Developing the board and its governance of Key strengths and experience: Wide-ranging the group.
Executive director experience of business transformation in a Regional CEO Americas A chartered accountant, John spent his career number of public and private sector organisations until May 2011 with global professional services Joined G4S board: April 2005 in the media, logistics and retail sectors and fi rm Deloitte, was Global Chairman between serving FTSE 100 CEO.
Key strengths and experience: Extensive knowledge 2007 and 2011, and prior to that Global of the group and its predecessor companies in Managing Director between 2003 and 2007.
Started his career with Mars before joining many different markets and in a number of the Daily Telegraph followed by Saatchi and He was Senior Partner and CEO of the UK executive functions.
In addition to his board role, partnership from 1999 until his retirement from Saatchi, where he became joint chief executive.
is also CEO of the Americas region.
He then became chief executive of the Football the partnership.
Association and was subsequently appointed Joined Group 4 in 1983, starting as fi finance Current external commitments: Chairman of chief executive of the Royal Mail Group, where director UK followed by a number of senior AMEC plc and of a number of private companies.
he oversaw an extensive programme of roles, including deputy managing director UK, Beyond commercial business roles, he is on the modernisation and change to enable the vice president corporate strategy, vice president Board of Governors of London Business School business to compete in the UK and international fi finance and administration, vice president and a member of the CBI Presidents Advisory marketplaces.
Since April 2010 he has been chief operations central and south eastern Europe Council.
He is also chairman of the appeal board executive of ITV plc and was a non-executive and UK and chief operating offi cer of Group for The Centre for Childrens Rare Disease director of Debenhams plc until 2012.
4 Falck A S. In 2004 he became the companys Research at Great Ormond Street Hospital.
divisional president for Americas and New Current external commitments: Chief executive Markets and was chief operating offi cer between 2.
ASHLEY ALMANZA of ITV plc.
MARK ELLIOTT Current external commitments: Board member Chief executive Non-executive director of the Ligue Internationale des Socits fide Member Risk Committee Surveillance, the international association of Senior independent director Joined G4S board: May 2013 leading security companies.
Chairman Remuneration Committee Key strengths and experience: Extensive board and Member Nomination Committee 6.
WINNIE KIN WAH FOK executive management experience and strong Joined G4S board: September 2006 track record working across international Non-executive director borders in complex businesses.
Key strengths and experience: Extensive Member CSR and Remuneration Committees international board and executive experience Joined G4S board: October 2010 Held a number of senior executive roles at having held a number of senior management BG Group from 1993 to 2012, including Chief Key strengths and experience: International board positions in IBM, including leadership of IBMs Financial Offi cer from 2002 to 2011 and and senior management experience with operations in Europe, the Middle East and Africa Executive Vice President from 2009 to 2012. extensive knowledge of Asian markets and with responsibility for operations in more than As Executive Vice President he was accountable strong involvement in Scandinavia.
during 2009 and 2010 for the strategic and Takes a particular interest in the groups operational management of BG Groups UK, Has particular involvement with the groups businesses in Asia.
European and Central Asian businesses.
He also businesses in the Americas region.
led a consortium of global companies through complex government negotiations in Central Asia.
48 G4S plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance 6 7 8 9 10 11 An auditor by training, was involved in Qualifi ed as a chartered accountant with Price Key strengths and experience: Considerable management positions in fi finance, audit and Waterhouse.
Senior roles at SG Warburg & Co experience in the public sector, the energy corporate advisory work and a wide range of Ltd and Barclays fide Zoete Wedd: Head of UK markets and the fi financial services sector as roles in asset management fi rms investing with Investment Banking at CSFB: Chairman of UK well as setting up and managing her own a focus in Asia.
Senior partner of EQT and Investment Banking at Credit Suisse: member of businesses.
Has particular involvement with the CEO of EQT Partners Asia Limited: managing the Credit Suisse Global Investment Banking groups businesses in the UK and Africa regions.
director of CEF New Asia Partners Limited.
Executive Board and senior adviser to Credit A mathematician and economist by training, Suisse Europe.
Current external commitments: Senior adviser to worked for the UK Treasury, director general of Foundation Administration Management Sweden Current external commitments: Alternate member Ofgas, the UK gas regulator: policyholder AB: non-executive director of Volvo Car of the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers: member advocate for Norwich Unions with-profi ts Corporation: non-executive director of SEB AB, of the Regional Growth Fund Advisory Panel: policyholders at Aviva: non-executive director Kemira Oyj and HOPU Investments Co Ltd. non-executive director and audit committee of Tullow Oil plc: and a member of the chairman for BG Group plc: and senior Independent Commission on Banking and the 7.
HIMANSHU RAJA independent director of Kingfi sher plc.
Executive director Current external commitments: Chairman of 9.
PAUL SPENCE Chief fi financial offi cer Gas Strategies Group, Energetix Group and Non-executive director Member Risk Committee Magnox Limited: non-executive director of Ilika Member Audit, CSR and Risk Committees Joined G4S board: October 2013 plc, Enquest plc, RBC Europe Limited and BW Joined G4S board: January 2013 Offshore Limited: and independent director Key strengths and experience: Strong track of the Payments Council.
Key strengths and experience: In-depth knowledge record as a fi financial executive in a global of outsourcing in both the public and private services business.
TIM WELLER sectors and extensive international experience Prior to joining G4S, Himanshu was CFO at Non-executive director in key developing countries such as India, China Misys, and from 2010 to 2012 he was CFO of Member Audit and Risk Committees and Brazil.
Himanshu worked for more than Joined the G4S Board: April 2013 A graduate of the Wharton School at the 10 years at BT Group in a number of divisional University of Pennsylvania with a degree in Key strengths and experience: Signifi cant fi finance director roles including Chief Financial economics and decision sciences: served a experience of the energy and utilities sectors Offi cer of BT Global Services, BT Design, BT 30-year career with Capgemini and its and serving FTSE 100 CFO.
Having started in the US and included fi finance and systems roles at An accountant by training, joined KPMG in become managing partner of mid-Atlantic Worldcom International, UUNET and MFS.
1985, rising to partnership in 1997 before joining information and technology for Ernst & Young, Granada plc as director of fi financial control.
Himanshu is a qualifi ed chartered accountant he went on to gain signifi cant international Between 2002 and 2010, he gained signifi cant and holds an honours degree in law.
experience for 16 years as managing partner further experience in the energy and utilities of Ernst & Young Consulting Australia, CEO Current external commitments: None sectors holding CFO positions with Innogy of Capgemini Ernst & Young in Asia and CEO one of the UKs leading integrated energy 8.
MARK SELIGMAN Capgemini Ernst & Young UK.
He then spent companies at the time, RWE Thames Water eight years serving on Capgeminis executive Non-executive director the worlds third largest water and wastewater management committee during which time his Deputy chairman service company and United Utilities Group roles included deputy group CEO and CEO Chairman Audit Committee PLC a UK-based water and wastewater service of Capgemini Global Outsourcing Services.
He was Chief Financial Offi cer of Member Remuneration Committee Current external commitments: None Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc between 2010 Joined G4S board: January 2006 and 2011.
CLARE SPOTTISWOODE Key strengths and experience: Extensive fi financial Current external commitments: CFO of Petrofac and management experience having worked in Non-executive director Limited, the FTSE100 international oil and gas the fi financial services sector, with a focus on Chairman CSR Committee service provider and a non-executive director investment banking.
Takes particular interest in Member Remuneration of the Carbon Trust.
the fi financial performance of the company, Joined G4S board: June 2010 including its fi nancing and transactional activity.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 G4S plc 49
