It is the committees belief that clear delivery against stretching Remuneration policy targets and industry and stock market outperformance merits Framework & Implementation corresponding reward.
The committee also acknowledges it is important that executive rewards are aligned with pay and conditions across the wider workforce.
There have been a number of changes to the senior management team this year, with the succession process managed smoothly.
During the year we have recruited a new finance director, Graham Prothero, and promoted from within the Group a new construction division chief executive, Ken Gillespie.
Both directors will be subject to the pre-existing remuneration policy and there have not been any sign-on payments in either case.
Performance during the year under review and during the last fewyears has been excellent.
Further details are provided in the implementation section of this report.
The committee is comfortable that this management team and our chief executive in particular should be rewarded well for this performance.
Accordingly annual bonus payments to executive directors for the year under review Letter from the Committee Chair were 141%, 83%and 83% of salary for Greg Fitzgerald, Graham Prothero and Ken Gillespie against a possible maximum of 150%, 100% and 100% respectively.
The debate regarding UK The committee specifically reviewed the market comparability of remuneration reporting and pay and conditions beyond the executive population and across the Group more widely this year.
Against difficult market practice has moved forward conditions in the sector, pay increases were awarded by the executive board at a level above inflation for those staff who considerably in the past 12 earned less than 23,000 per annum, and other staff benefited months.
The publication of new from salary uplifts appropriate to the markets, performance and prospects of their businesses.
regulations by the Department In a year when various succession issues were satisfactorily ofBusiness, Innovation & Skills managed and resolved the committee also considered and revised on the disclosure of and the remuneration of the Groups chief executive.
In consultation with our major institutional shareholders we have increased Greg votingprocess for executive Fitzgeralds base salary by 9.9% and increased his annual bonus potential from 100% to 150% of base salary, with effect from the remuneration has reshaped 2012 13 financial year.
This is in recognition of his outstanding expected standards.
contribution to the performance of the business, the increasing complexity of his role as a consequence of recent management changes and to ensure that his remuneration remains broadly Galliford Try is not required to comply with the new regulations competitive with the market.
However, the committee has considered the impact of the changes both in terms of the evolution of our remuneration A single advisory resolution on the adoption of the remuneration policy and how we disclose directors remuneration in this years report will be proposed at this years annual general meeting, before annual report.
In relation to disclosure the Group has applied the moving to a binding vote on our policy at next years meeting.
In the majority of the standards of the new regulations, recognising that meantime the board will take into consideration shareholders views some aspects of best practice around the regulations are yet to be on our policy and I will be happy to discuss with any shareholders finalised by investors and companies.
our remuneration policy at this years meeting.
The Groups approach to remuneration continues to be defined The committee encourages you to endorse the further progress bythe strong links between corporate strategy and remuneration made by the Group in 2012 13 by voting in favour of the policy.
Those links have enabled the Group to retain, recruit and remuneration report this year.
promote key executives during the financial year, and incentivise Amanda Burton Chair of the Remuneration Committee the executive and senior management teams to deliver the outstanding corporate performance witnessed over recent years.
Group market capitalisation million up 47.9% 2013 765.1 2012 517.3 2011 423.2 56 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Governance After careful consideration and following advice received from the Remuneration Policy & Framework committees independent advisers the committee decided to review Remuneration: Strategy the remuneration of the Groups chief executive, Greg Fitzgerald.
The Groups remuneration strategy is to appropriately incentivise The committee also held extensive discussions with the companys future executive performance, reward successful performance significant shareholders.
On the basis of the outstanding delivery and to ensure that we recruit and retain talented and performance of the Group, the delivery of significant value to experienced executives.
shareholders and the personal contribution of Greg Fitzgerald the committee approved a salary increase of 9.9% to 535,000 per Remuneration: Policy annum and an increase in the potential annual bonus of 100% to During the year, the committee reviewed and maintained the 150%.
The revised salary level was effective 1 January 2013. policy, which is: Ken Gillespies salary was set at 330,000 on his appointment as to ensure that remuneration packages are structured so that an executive director on 1 March 2013.
With effect from 1 July they can attract, retain and motivate the executives required to 2013 Graham Prothero, who joined the Group in February 2013, achieve the Companys strategic objectives and Ken Gillespie were awarded an increase of 1%.
to engender a performance culture which will position Galliford Try as an employer of choice and deliver shareholder value The executive directors approved increases of 2% to the standard to deliver a significant proportion of total executive pay through non-executive fee.
Following independent research, and based on performance-related remuneration and in share-based form performance since taking up the chairmanship, the executive to position performance related elements of remuneration so directors separately approved an increase to the chairmans fee that upper quartile reward may be achieved in circumstances totake effect from July 2013.
Further details are given in the where outstanding results and peer sector outperformance implementation section of this report.
have been delivered to ensure that failure is not rewarded.
The committees policy on salary increases for executive directorspermits increases broadly in line with the average The policy is shaped by environmental, social and governance acrossthe workforce generally, unless as a reward for exceptional factors, which help determine the design of incentive structures performance or there is a promotion or material change in role, in toensure that irresponsible behaviour is not encouraged.
which cases increases may be higher.
The committee reserves the Furthermore, recognising that even well designed incentives right to reduce salary levels and has done so in the past if cannot cater for all eventualities, should any unforeseen issues circumstances warrant.
arise that would make any payments unjustifiable the committee would use its discretion to address such outcomes, in particular Benefits provided to executive directors comprise entitlements to by scaling back payments.
a company car or cash equivalent allowance, private medical and permanent health insurance and life assurance.
The committee operates clawback provisions within both the Annual Bonus and Long Term Incentive Plans, which facilitate The executive directors each receive salary supplements equivalent theretrieval of payments made to directors and executive to 20% of basic salary in lieu of company pension contributions.
management in circumstances of error, financial misstatement ormisconduct.
Policy: Performance related remuneration Executive Annual Bonus Plan Consideration of senior management remuneration The Annual Bonus Plan enables executive directors and a selected The committee reviews and has delegated responsibility for senior management population, subject to invitation and approval making recommendations concerning the remuneration of the by the committee, to earn a maximum annual bonus of 100% of level of senior management immediately below the executive basic salary dependent on the achievement of specified financial directors.
To ensure executive remuneration is considered in the targets.
As discussed and agreed with significant shareholders context of the Group as a whole, the committee also reviews the inearly 2013, the annual bonus opportunity for Greg Fitzgerald policy on the pay and benefit structure, including bonus schemes, is150% of base salary with effect from the 2012 13 annual for all employees of the Group.
The views of divisional and bonusplan.
business unit management across the Group are sought as a matter of process when completing the annual salary review.
Where the bonus earned and payable equates to over 50% of the recipients basic salary in any one financial year, two thirds of the Salary, benefits and pension bonus earned in excess of that 50% salary threshold is required At the 2013 salary review completed in May, the directors carefully tobe deferred into restricted shares.
scrutinised pay and employment conditions across the Group.
The dual need to retain staff in specific areas of the Groups divisional, and in particular housebuilding operations, and to also reward key contributions to recent strong performance were particular priorities this year.
Average increases of between 1.5% and 3% across the Groups divisions were accordingly approved, with discretionary increases awarded for selected higher performing staff.
In a policy change for 2013, the committee also ratifiedabove inflation pay increasesto staff who earned less than 23,000 per annum to retain, motivate and incentivise these targeted groups of staff most likely to have been affected by the current economic climate.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 57 Executive Long Term Incentive Plans Remuneration policy Under the rules of the 2006 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, the continued committee is authorised to grant awards to invited participants annually.
The maximum value of a base award that may be granted in any financial year to any individual will not exceed 100% of their basic annual salary as at the award date, except in the event of outstanding performance where there is the potential to achieve super vesting of up to 200% of the base award i. e. 200% of base salary at grant.
The vesting of any base award depends on the achievement of performance conditions linked to specific grants over an associated three year plan cycle.
Performance conditions applying to awards granted between September 2009 and 2012 are summarised in the table below.
Executive shareholding guidelines The Companys share retention policy requires executive directors to build and maintain a shareholding over a five year period equivalent in value to 100% of basic salary or, in the case of the Although beneficially held by the participants, the allocated chief executive, 150% of base salary.
restricted shares are legally retained by the trustee of the Galliford Try Employee Benefit Trust for a period of three years, and are All employee schemes subject to forfeiture provisions, unless otherwise agreed by the All staff throughout the Group participate in an annual bonus committee in certain clemency situations.
Subject to continued scheme, with targets linked to performance of their particular employment, the restricted shares are legally transferred to responsibilities or business unit.
The scope and extent of these participants on the third anniversary of allocation.
schemes vary between levels of management and business sector.
All bonus schemes throughout the Group are subject to a The committee has decided that for the financial year to 30 June 50% reduction in payment if Group profit before tax does not meet 2014, the existing bonus structure remains appropriately aligned a pre-determined threshold, whatever the performance of the tocorporate strategy and will remain in its current form.
However, individual businesses may have been.
The health, safety and awards granted to Housebuilding and Construction Executive environmental matrix applying to the executive directors applies board members will be based 80% on divisional performance toall bonus schemes covering staff across the Group.
Long Term Incentive Plan Performance Conditions Performance Conditions, vesting of up to 200% of base awards dependent on Date of Grant achievement Comparator Group September 2009 Vested based on TSR and earnings per share performance for the three year period Balfour Beatty plc, Barratt Developments plc, Bellway to 30 June 2012 plc, The Berkeley Group Holdings plc, Henry Boot plc, Performance determined that 186.05% of awards vested to participants Bovis Homes Group plc, Carillion plc, T Clarke plc, The awards vested on 26 September 2012 at a share price of 7.33 Costain Group plc, M J Gleeson plc, Kier Group plc, Morgan Sindall Group plc, Persimmon plc, Redrow plc, Taylor Wimpey plc September 2010 Vesting based on TSR and EPS performance for three year period to 30 June 2013 Housebuilding: Vesting of up to 50% of the base award subject to EPS performance.
15% of the Barratt Developments plc: Bellway plc: The Berkeley award vests if there is aggregate EPS of 126p over the period increasing to 50% Group Holdings plc: Bovis Homes Group plc: Persimmon vesting for aggregate EPS of 154p plc: Redrow plc: Taylor Wimpey plc Vesting of up to 75% of the base award is subject to TSR performance relative to a comparator group of housebuilding companies.
7.5% of the award vests if Construction: the Companys TSR is median increasing to 25% vesting if TSR is upper quartile.
Balfour Beatty plc: Carillion plc: Costain Group plc: Vesting can increase to a maximum of 75% of the base award for 100th percentile Henry Boot plc: Keller Group plc: Kier Group plc: M J performance, although any vesting above 25% also requires maximum EPS to have Gleeson Group plc: Morgan Sindall Group plc been achieved Vesting of up to 75% of the base award is subject to TSR performance relative to a comparator group of construction companies on the same basis as for housebuilding companies September 2011 Vesting based on TSR and EPS performance for the three year period to 30 June 2014 Same as the September 2010 grant above, except that Performance conditions are the same as for awards granted in September 2010 M J Gleeson Group plc was re-classified as a member of except that the minimum aggregate EPS target is 171 pence and the maximum EPS the Housebuilding comparator group in 2013 target is 209 pence September 2012 Vesting based on TSR and EPS performance over the three year period to 30 June 2015 Housebuilding: Vesting of up to 50% of the base award will be based on EPS performance.
15% will Barratt Developments plc, Bellway plc, The Berkeley vest if aggregate earnings per share of 203 pence over the period increasing to 50% Group Holdings plc, Bovis Homes Group plc, M J Gleeson vesting for aggregate earnings per share of 248 pence plc, Persimmon plc, Redrow plc, Taylor Wimpey plc Vesting of up to 75% of the base award will be based on achieving: 7.5% for median performance against the housebuilding comparator group, increasing to 25% vesting Construction: if the Companys TSR is 24% 8% per annum higher than that of the median ranked Balfour Beatty plc, Carillion plc, Costain Group plc, comparator company.
Vesting can increase to a maximum of 75% of base award Henry Boot plc, Keller Group plc, Kier Group plc, Morgan 25% per annum for achieving a TSR that is 75% 25% per annum higher than the Sindall Group plc median ranked comparator company.
Any vesting above 25% also requires the maximum eps target to have been achieved September 2013 Vesting based on TSR and EPS performance over the three year period to 30 June 2016 Same as for the September 2012 grant with the addition Vesting of up to 50% of the base award will be based on EPS performance.
15% will of Crest Nicholson Holdings plc to the Housebuilding vest if aggregate earnings per share of287 pence over the period increasing to 50% comparator group to total nine vesting for aggregate earnings per share of315 pence.
Vesting of up to 75% of the base award based on the same TSR and EPS conditions for 2012 awards Following a review we discovered an inconsistency in the comparator peer group placing for the 2012 award.
This discrepancy was also disclosed in the remuneration report in the 2011 and 2012 Annual Reports whereby MJ Gleeson plc MJ Gleeson was included as a member of construction peer group despite being a member of FTSE Household Goods & Home Construction classification.
Although the committee made a decision to reclassify MJ Gleeson as a member of the housebuilding peer group, this change was not formalised untilMarch 2013.
58 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Governance The Group also operates an HM Revenue & Customs approved Policy for payments to departing Executive Directors sharesave scheme for the benefit of all staff.
The directors For the purpose of our policy the committee has classified three anticipate making a further grant under the scheme in 2014. main categories of leaver: Good Leaver, Bad Leaver and Departure on Agreed Terms.
Directors service contracts and exit payments The service contracts and letters of appointment for the board Criteria for Bad Leaver situations include normal resignation from directors serving or appointed since the end of the financial year the Group or termination for cause e. g. gross misconduct.
and as at the date of this report are detailed below: Criteria for Departure on Agreed Terms covers a wide range of Notice circumstances, including business re-organisation, changes in Contract date months reporting lines, change in need for role, termination as a result of Non-executive directors failure to be re-elected at an annual general meeting, and generally Ian Coull 8 November 2010 6 where the executive is no longer the right person for the role and is Amanda Burton 1 July 2005 6 asked to leave at the Groups instigation.
Peter Rogers 1 July 2008 6 Andrew Jenner 1 January 2009 6 Criteria for Good Leaver situations include an executive departure for compassionate reasons such as death in service, serious Executive directors illness, injury, disability, or retirement.
Greg Fitzgerald 1 July 2003 12 Graham Prothero 18 June 2012 12 The overriding principle will be to honour contractual remuneration Ken Gillespie 19 February 2013 12 entitlements and determine on an equitable basis the appropriate treatment of deferred and performance-related elements of 1 Contract dates shown are the directors initial contract as an executive director or remuneration, taking into account the circumstances.
Failure will non-executive director of the Company.
Executive directors have a rolling notice not be rewarded.
Non-executive appointments are reviewed after a period of three years: their appointment is subject to a rolling notice period as stated.
All serving directors will stand for re-election at the 2013 annual general meeting.
Further details of the policy are set out below: 2 There are no contractual provisions requiring payments to directors on loss of office or termination, other than payment of notice periods.
The committee will seek to mitigate as and where appropriate.
For executive directors, at the companys discretion a sum equivalent to 12 months salary may be paid in lieu of notice.
In thecontracts of Graham Prothero and Ken Gillespie there are provisions to pay any such lump sum in monthly instalments, subject to offset against earnings elsewhere.
Policy for payments to departing Executive Directors Bad leaver Departure on agreed terms Good leaver Salary after Nil Up to one years base salary paid in equal Nil cessation of monthly instalments subject to offset against employment earnings from elsewhere during the notice period Company may pay in lieu of notice an amount equivalent to 12 months salary Pension & benefits Nil Up to one years benefits and pension Nil Bonus Nil For the proportion of the financial year worked, For the proportion of the financial year worked, bonus may be payable pro-rata at the discretion bonus may be payable pro rata at the discretion Deferred bonus shares from prior years of the Committee of the Committee bonuses lapse No bonus payment in respect of any period of Deferred bonus shares vest early notice not worked Deferred bonus shares vest early Long Term All awards, including those which have vested Awards will lapse upon cessation of Awards may be exercised within 12 months of IncentivePlan but are unexercised will lapse immediately upon employment unless the Committee decides the vesting date cessation of employment otherwise in which case awards may vest Where employment ends before the vesting Where employment ends before the vesting date awards may be exercised at the normal date awards may vest at the normal time vesting time other than by exception and only other than by exception to the extent that the to the extent that the performance conditions performance conditions have been satisfied have been satisfied The level of vested award will be reduced The level of vested award will be reduced pro-rata based upon the period of time after pro-rata based upon the period of time after the grant date and ending on the date of the grant date and ending on the date of cessation of employment relative to the three cessation of employment relative to the three year performance period unless the Committee, year performance period unless the Committee, acting fairly and reasonably, decides that acting fairly and reasonably, decides that such a scaling back is inappropriate in any such a scaling back is inappropriate in any particularcase particularcase Other payments Depending upon circumstances the Committee may consider payments in respect of an unfair dismissal award, outplacement support and assistance with legal fees Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 59 The committee may make use of the flexibility provided in the Remuneration policy Listing Rules to make such awards outside the existing Long Term continued Incentive Plan if it deems such an award to be appropriate in the circumstances to replace forfeited deferred variable pay, securing the preferred candidate, relocation expenses, recruitment from abroad or for any other reason.
For internal promotions to executive director positions, the committees policy is for legacy awards or incentives to be capable of vesting on their original terms or, at the discretion of the committee, they may be amended to bring them into line with the policy for executive directors.
Policy: reward, potential and mix The committees objective is to design performance related elements of pay that account for a significant proportion of total pay, at a targeted level of performance.
Individualised potential executive reward charts demonstrate application of the policy in2013 14: Policy on recruitment Greg Fitzgerald Graham Prothero Ken Gillespie In cases where the Company recruits a new executive director, the committee will aim to align the new executives remuneration package with the approved remuneration policy.
In arriving at a 4 value for the package the committee will take into account the 1 1 2 skills and experience of the candidate, the market rate for a 000m 000m 000m 4 candidate of that experience as well as the importance of securing 3 1 2 2 the preferred candidate.
In exceptional circumstances the committee will award additional remuneration in excess of policy at appointment, primarily to replace lost reward or benefits.
Details of the policy are set out below: Salary 511k Salary 140k Salary 322k Pension 102k Pension 28k Pension 58k Annual Bonus 766.5k Annual Bonus 140k Annual Bonus 318k Element General Policy Specifics LTIP potential 903k LTIP potential n a LTIP potential 589k Salary At a level required Discretion to pay lower Other 28k Other 2k Other 13k toattractthe most base salary with appropriate candidate incremental increases as External Directorships new appointee becomes With prior written approval of the board in each case, executive established in the role directors are permitted to accept external appointments as a Pension & benefits In line with policy for non-executive director and retain any associated fees.
Greg Executive Directors Fitzgerald serves as a non-executive director of NHBC the Bonus In line with existing Specific targets could be National House-Building Council, for which he receives and schemes introduced for an individual retains an annual fee of 33,600.
During the year Ken Gillespie where necessary within the annual bonus limit 150% of became a non-fee earning director of the Scottish Contractors base salary for Chief Group, a non-profit making industry body.
Executiveand 100% for other directors Pro rating applied as Policy: Shareholder consultation and voting analysis appropriate for intra year The committee actively consults with relevant institutional joiners shareholders regarding and in advance of substantial changes to Long term Incentive In line with Company An award may be made in remuneration policy or individual executive salary packages.
Plan policies and LTIP rules the year of joining or, During the year the committee approached the Groups largest alternatively, the award can shareholders to seek opinions on, and approval for, the proposed be delayed until the changes to the chief executives remuneration package detailed following year, within the exceptional circumstances above.
All views were taken into account in the committees limit under the plan rules formulation of the revised package.
Targets would normally be the The implementation policy report which follows from page 61 same as for awards to other directors onwards has been subject to audit.
Other Share awards The Committee may make Awards would, where an incentive award to possible, be consistent replace deferred pay with the awards forfeited in forfeited by an executive terms of structure, value, leaving a previous vesting periods and employer.
performance conditions 60 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Governance The Groups TSR over the last five financial years relative to the Implementation of our policy & framework in 2012 13 FTSE 250 and FTSE All Share indices, based on the 30 trading day Committee: composition average values, is shown below: The committee is chaired by Amanda Burton, the senior independent director, and during the financial year the other Galliford Try plc Total Shareholder Return members comprised Peter Rogers, Andrew Jenner and the FTSE 250 Source: Thomson Reuters FTSE All Share chairman Ian Coull.
The company secretary acts as secretary tothe committee and the chief executive has a standing invitation 500 to attend all committee meetings.
No director, or the company secretary, is present when his or her own remuneration is 400 beingconsidered.
300 During the financial year, the committee prioritised the following calendar of key activities and areas of focus: 200 100 Calendar of 2012 13committee activities and 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 areas of focus This graph shows the value, by 30 June 2013, of 100 invested in Galliford Try plc Month Activity or area of focus on 30 June 2008 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index or FTSE All Share Index on the same date.
The other points plotted are the values July 2012 Approach to shareholder consultation regarding Frank at intervening financial year-ends.
Nelsons retirement and remuneration Update on Group total shareholder return performance to 30June 2012 Profit before Tax, earnings per share and total dividend per share Preparatory approval of 201213 Annual Bonus Plan targets growth over the 2012 13 financial year represented increases of and metrics 17%, 18% and 23% against the prior year respectively.
Those September Approval of 2012 grants under the Annual Bonus & Long increases compare to a 6.4% annualised increase in total Group Term Incentive Plans Approval of 2012 sharesavegrant remuneration to 192.5 million for the year ended 30 June 2013.
December Review of market comparability of Chief Executives Individual Executive Directors actual reward and mix remuneration and institutional shareholder opinion Approval of proposed remuneration for Construction Division For the year ended 30 June 2013, performance related executive Chief Executive remuneration represented approximately 65% of total reward.
Update on the Association of British Insurers Principles Thisratio represented a slight decrease to the 77% mix in 2012, ofRemuneration 201213 reflecting the higher proportion of Long Term Incentive Plan March 2013 Proposed remuneration for Group Managing Director, awards achieving super vesting in comparison to March 2012but Housebuilding appointment alsothe impactof changes to the executive directors during the Revision of Chief Executives remuneration following shareholder consultation year.
Further detail is given in the following individualised total Review of 2011 & 2012 Long Term Incentive Plan comparator remuneration charts for 2013: groupings Employee Benefit Trust projected share requirements Greg Fitzgerald Graham Prothero Ken Gillespie Ad hoc administrative matters, primarily relating to the rules of the Group incentive plans Review of the Department of Business, Information and Skills 4 remuneration reporting requirements 1 2 1 May Group & Senior Management Remuneration Review 000m 000m 000m Preparatory approval of 201314 Annual Bonus Plan targets 4 3 and metrics 1 2 2 Performance The Company has continued the strong financial performance Salary 511k Salary 140k Salary 322k Pension 102k Pension 28k Pension 58k established in 2011 12.
The closing mid-market quotation for the Annual Bonus 754k Annual Bonus 116k Annual Bonus 266k Companys shares on 30 June 2013 was 9.345 2012: 6.32.
The LTIP actual 841k LTIP actual n a LTIP actual 548k range high and low during the financial year were 9.99 and 6.06 Other 28k Other 2k Other 13k respectively 2012: 6.53 and 3.8375.
The market value of shares vesting to Greg Fitzgerald and Ken Gillespie during the financial year were 1.46m and 953k respectively.
Comparative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance across the financial year, reflecting share price movements plus dividends reinvested, ranked the Company as 49.8% and 130.4% above median, equivalent to between first and second and first places, against its established dual comparator groups drawn from the housebuilding and construction industries.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 61 Remuneration policy continued Directors Remuneration The remuneration of the directors serving during the financial year was as follows: Salary and Annual Total Total fees bonus Benefits Pension 2013 2012 Director 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Greg Fitzgerald 511 754 28 102 1,395 1,016 Graham Prothero 140 116 2 28 286 n a Ken Gillespie 322 266 13 58 659 n a Frank Nelson 426 n a 47 10 483 611 Non-executive Ian Coull 105 105 105 Amanda Burton 44 44 44 Peter Rogers 40 40 40 Andrew Jenner 40 40 40 The salary supplement paid to the directors by the Company in lieu of direct pension contributions is shown in the column headedPension.
Implementation of policy on exit payments in year As disclosed in this report in 2012, the Group reached an agreement with Frank Nelson, following over 24 years service, under which hewould be contractually entitled to take early retirement at the age of 62 with effect from 30 September 2012.
Contractual payments were made in September 2012 in full and final settlement of all cash amounts payable under that agreement.
In accordance with the committees policy on exit payments, the agreement reached reflected his individual circumstances and significant contribution to the Group in over 24 years service.
The total remuneration received by Frank Nelson for the 2013 financial year, payable as salary and under the Groups share plans, is disclosed in both the Directors remuneration table above and the Directors interests in share plans table which follows.
The taxable value attributed to the entitlement to his company car awarded at retirement is included in the Benefits column in the remuneration table.
As a good leaver Frank Nelson retains entitlement to an outstanding award granted under the Long Term Incentive Plan in 2011, scaled back to reflect the proportion of the three year performance period completed.
Annual bonus plan The committee considered the performance in line with the targets set for the profit before tax, cash flow and other performance metricsset at the start of the year, and looked at a broader assessment of management and business performance.
Recognising the outstanding management performance in delivering a very successful outcome for shareholders, including profit towards the top end of the target range and success on a number of strategic fronts, all notwithstanding the impact of the unexpected loss through ill health of the managing director of housebuilding early in the financial year, the Committee determined that bonuses should be payable to Greg Fitzgerald of 141% of salary out ofa maximum of 150%, Graham Prothero 83% of salary out of a maximum of 100%, pro-rata from 1February 2013 and Ken Gillespie of 83% of salary out ofa maximum of 100%.
The Committee is comfortable that this outcome represents a robust link between reward and performance.
62 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Governance Percentage change in remuneration of Chief Executive compared to the average change in the workforce 2012 13 2013 14 Change Change 1 % increase in Chief Executivesfixed remuneration 12.6% n a % average increase in Group fixed remuneration 2.7% 2.5% 1 The increase in the Chief Executives  increases of 2.54% effective 1 July 2012 and 9.9% effective 1 January 2013.
Relative importance of spend on pay 2012 13 2012 13 1 2 1 2 Percentage changein Group profit before tax and full year dividend 17% 23% 1 2 Group income tax expense2013, andeffective taxrate 15.9m 21.5% 1 2 Total and percentage change in overall spend on pay 192.5m 6.4% The equivalent total overall spend on pay in 2012 is disclosed in Note 3 to the financial statements on page 84.
The total overall spend on pay equates to average remuneration per staff member of 48,500 per annum as at 30 June 2013 2012: 46,800.
Directors share plan interests Long term incentive plan Further detail regarding the proportion of awards subject to the three year performance period ending 30 June, and vesting in September 2013, is given in the Policy on Executive Long Term Incentive Plans table on page 58.
Further details are provided in the share plans table above.
There were no changes in the directors interests from 30 June 2013 to the date of this report.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 63 Remuneration advice and advisers Remuneration policy The Committee is informed of key developments and best practice continued in the field of remuneration and regularly obtains advice from independent external consultants when required on individual remuneration packages and on executive remuneration packages in general.
New Bridge Street NBS are appointed as the committees sole remuneration consultant, and representatives of NBS were in attendance atone committee meeting during the financial year.
Services provided to the committee by NBS encompassed remuneration market analysis and benchmarking, committee presentation and guidance, design of recruitment and retention packages, regulatory guidance and share plan related consultancy.
Fees paid to NBS for services provided to the committee during the financial year were 73,291.
NBS do not provide any other services to the Group, although NBS is part of the AON Corporation Aon.
Aon were engaged during the financial year, and continue to provide advice to the Compliance with executive shareholding policy Group specifically relating to group private medical insurance As at1 July2013, Greg Fitzgerald and Ken Gillespie were both policies.
The committee is satisfied that these services do not compliant with the policy, having legally held shareholdings impinge on the independence of NBS.
representing 847% and 549% of their respective base salaries.
The company secretary also advises the committee as necessary Following his appointment in February 2013, Graham Prothero has and makes arrangements for the committee to receive independent five years to acquire the required holding and has undertaken to legal advice at the request of the committee chair.
retain future shares vesting to him under the long term incentive plan for this purpose.
Shareholder voting on the directors remuneration report The committee takes account of annualised shareholder voting Chairman and non-executive fees trends in connection with the remuneration report advisory vote.
The chairman, Ian Coull, received a fee of 105,000 per annum for Votes cast in support of the annual resolution to approve the the 2012 13 financial year.
Following an independent benchmarking remuneration report over the previous five years are: 99.16% 2012, exercise against a comparator group of similar FTSE 250 groups 87.66% 2011, 95.38% 2010, 97.10% 2009 and 97.68% 2008. completed in May 2013, and taking into account performance since taking up the chairmanship, the executive directors separately Remuneration: Compliance and audited information approved an increase to the chairmans fee to 150,000 for 2013 14.
The remuneration report has been prepared in accordance with This places the chairmans fee broadly in line with, but no higher the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts than, comparable businesses.
Ian otherwise received no other and Reports Regulations 2008 and the Financial Services benefits in connection with his position.
The auditors are required to report on the remuneration data disclosed in the Implementation section of the The standard non-executive fee was 40,000 per annum report and state whether, in their opinion, that part of the report duringthe financial year.
Amanda Burton receives a 4,000 fee has been properly prepared in accordance with relevant provisions supplement in recognition of her appointment as the Companys of the Companies Act 2006 as amended.
The committee is governed by formal terms of reference agreed Employee benefit trust and dilution bythe board and is composed solely of non-executive directors.
The Companys Employee Benefit Trust EBT is the primary The latest terms of reference are available on the Group website.
mechanism by which shares required to satisfy the executive incentive plans are provided.
During the financial year the EBT For and on behalf of the board purchased a further400,000 shares in the market at an average price of 9.47, which resulted in a balance held at 30 June 2013 Amanda Burton Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of878,353 shares.
17 September 2013 The Company accordingly provided net additional funds to the EBT during the financial year of 3.79 million by extending the existing EBT loan facility.
In only issuing23,048 new shares during or since the financial year, the Company has complied with the dilution guidelines of the Association of British Insurers.
Applying the guidelines, the Group has 7.21% headroom against the 10% in ten years rule and 5% headroom against the 5% in ten years rule for discretionary plans.
64 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
