Business review Strategy Divisional review Our strategy is to bid for PPP projects that create investment PPP Investments opportunities and offer the chance to secure construction and maintenance contracts for the Group.
To date, we have arranged and financed 30 PPP projects, with a total funding requirement in excess of 1.9 billion.
Market The PPP market in England is limited.
While the Government has announced its intention to invest in infrastructure, its focus is on deficit reduction and substantial levels of investment cannot be expected until after the next general election.
One exception is the Priority Schools Building Programme, which is a 700 million procurement project to address the condition of schools in most Galliford Try is an urgent need of repair.
We are reviewing the programme and expect to be active participants.
industry leaderin The market in Scotland remains positive and there are a number of arranging public private PPP projects in the pipeline.
During the year, we sold our remaining equity interest in the Ealing Care Homes project.
The directors valuation of our PPP portfolio We draw ona broad at30 June 2013 was 4.5 million, compared to a value invested of 2.9million 2012: valuation 4.9 million: value invested 2.9 million.
range of project The valuation is carried out using discounted cash flows.
We have a 49% share of the 300 million hub South East Scotland management skills, and are making good progress with a number of design and build and design, build, finance, maintain projects.
To date, more aswell as theGroups than40 million of projects have been completed or are under construction, and we are developing solutions with the client for more than 110 million offurther projects.
We were pleased that our Alliance Community Partnerships consortium with Equitix Holdings Ltd, Kier Projects Investments Ltd and John Graham Holdings Ltd, reached financial close on the hub South West Scotland initiative, to deliver 600 million of public Our success is based on our ability to partner with all our sector infrastructure projects over the next ten years.
We are also stakeholders, including clients, consortium members and advisers.
in joint venture with Balfour Beatty and Carillion, as one ofthree We also have a full range of resources and experience within bidders for the 550 million Aberdeen Western Peripheral Route.
Galliford Try, as well as a developed and professional supply chain.
Outlook We have arranged and funded two of the largest multi-school PPP The outlook for the PPP market in England islimited but prospects projects in the UK, have award-winning capabilities in health and continuein Scotland.
The lending market remainsrestricted but have delivered one of the worlds most sustainable public the strength of the Groups balance sheet means that we expect buildings, The Hive in Worcester.
tosecure the funding we need for our projects.
2013 2012 Revenue m 6.7 13.8 Profit loss from operations m 3.2 1.1 Directors valuation m 4.5 4.9 Outstanding quality The Hive has been delivered by our Building division, working closely with Investments.
Its many awards include Sustainable Project of the Year at the Building Awards 2013 and a Public Private Partnership Award for Best Sustainability in aProject Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 33
