Governance Share capital, authorities & restrictions Directors report The Company has one class of ordinary share capital, having a and other statutory information nominal value of 50 pence.
The ordinary shares rank pari passu in respect of voting and participation and are listed for trading on the London Stock Exchange.
The directors are authorised on an annual basis to issue shares, toallot a limited number of shares in the Company for cash other than to existing shareholders, and to make market purchase shares within prescribed limits.
Resolutions to be proposed at the 2013 Annual General Meeting AGM will renew all three of the authorities which are further explained in the Notice of AGM sent separately toshareholders.
Other than usual activity in connection with the Groups share plans, no shares have been issued or purchased by the Company under the relevant authorities either during the financial year or to the date of this report.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of the Companys shares, with the exceptions that certain shares held by the Galliford Try The directors present their Annual Report and audited financial Employee Benefit Trust EBT are restricted for the duration of the statements for the Group for the year ended 30 June 2013. applicable performance periods under relevant Group share plans, and directors and persons discharging managerial responsibility Principal activities are periodically restricted in dealing in the Companys shares Galliford Try is a housebuilding and construction group primarily under the Group Dealing Code, which reflects the requirements of operating in the United Kingdom.
Galliford Try plc, registered in the Model Code published by the UK Listing Authority under its England and Wales with company number 00836539 is the group Listing Rules.
In certain specific circumstances the directors are parent company.
More detailed information regarding the Groups permitted to decline to register a transfer in accordance with the activities during the year under review, and its future prospects, Companys articles of association.
There are no other limitations isprovided on pages01 to 45.
The principal subsidiaries and on the holding of securities, and no requirements to obtain the associates operating within the Groups divisions are shown in approval of the Company, or other holders of securities in the note12 to the financial statements on page 91.
Company, prior to share transfers.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in Enhanced business review restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
The Group is required to include an enhanced business review within its Directors Report, which provides the information and There are no securities carrying specific rights with regard to further analysis required under s. 417 Companies Act 2006.
The control of the Company, with the exception that the EBT holds directors consider that these requirements are fulfilled by the shares in the Company in connection with Group share plans inclusion in this Annual Report and Financial Statements of the which have rights with regard to control of the Company that are business review, the corporate governance report and the not exercisable directly by the employee.
The EBT abstains from remuneration report, which all form part of this Directors Report voting in respect of any shares so held.
1.32% of the issued share by reference.
The Corporate Governance Report is a statement capital of the Company is currently held within theEBT for the forthe purposes of Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2.
1. purposes of satisfying employee share options or share awards 2012: 1.27%.
The Annual Report and Financial Statements use financial and non-financial key performance indicators wherever possible Articles of Association andappropriate.
The Articles of Association, adopted in 2009 to reflect the Companies Act 2006, set out the internal regulations of the Further information on the Groups employees and employment Company, and define various aspects of the Companys practices and its approach to environmental, social and community constitution including the rights of shareholders, procedures for matters, including a consideration of the impact of the companys the appointment and removal of directors, and the conduct of both business on the environment, is provided in the sustainability directors and general meetings.
section of the business review on pages36 to 45.
In accordance with the Articles, directors can be appointed or Results and dividends removed either by the board or shareholders in general meeting.
The profit for the year, after tax, of 58.2 million is shown in the Amendments to the Articles require the approval of shareholders consolidated income statement on page 69.
The directors have in general meeting expressly by way of special resolution.
Copies recommended a final dividend of25.0 pence per share, which of the Articles are available by contacting the company secretary together with the interim dividend of 12.0 pence declared in and legal director at the registered office.
February results in a total dividend for the financial year of 37.0pence.
The total dividend for the financial year will distribute Significant direct & indirect holdings atotal of 30.2 million.
Subject to approval by shareholdersat the As at17 September 2013, being the date of this Report, the annualgeneral meeting, the final dividend will be payable on29 Company had been made aware, pursuant to the FSAs Disclosure November 2013, to shareholders on the register at close of & Transparency Rules, of the following beneficial interests in 3% or business on18 October 2013. more of the Companys ordinary share capital: Shareholder Interest % capital Standard Life Investments 8,171,113 9.98 F&C Asset Management 4,976,447 6.08 Old Mutual Global Investors 3,677,763 4.49 Aberforth Partners LLP 3,535,408 4.32 Norges Bank 2,546,040 3.11 There were no material changes in any of the significant holdings between financial year end and the date of this report.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 65 amounts owing to trade creditors as at 30 June 2013 2012: Nil.
Directors report Trade creditors for the Group as at 30 June 2013 represented an continued average of41 days 2012: 35 days.
Financial instruments Further information regarding the Groups financial instruments, related policies and a consideration of its liquidity and other financing risks can be found in the finance review on page 14, andin note26 to the financial statements on page 99.
Important developments since year end There have been no material events or developments affecting the Company or any of its operating subsidiaries since 30 June 2013.
Going concern In accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Going Concern and Liquidity published in 2009, the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code and Listing Rule 9.8.
6R 3, the directors have conducted a rigorous and proportionate assessment of the Groups ability to continue in existence for the Change of control provisions foreseeable future.
This has been reviewed during the financial There has been no change in the Groups contractual change year, taking into account the Groups continuing access to its core ofcontrol provisions during the financial year, further related revolving credit facility agreed in 2011, and the directors have information can be found in the related disclosure on page 58 concluded that there are no material uncertainties that may cast ofthe 2012 Annual Report and Financial Statements.
significant doubt on the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Furthermore, the Group has adequate resources and Board and directors interests visibility as to its future workload, as explained in this Annual Summary biographies of the board directors as at the date of this Report.
It is therefore justified in using the going concern basis in report are on pages46 to 47.
The Group Finance Director, Graham preparing these financial statements.
Prothero, was appointed as the Groups Senior Accounting Officer with effect from his appointment on 1 February 2013 and Greg Independent auditor Fitzgerald, the Group Chief Executive, and Graham Prothero both Each of the directors at the date of approval of this Report act as the Groups chief operating decision-makers, further details confirms that: of which are provided in note 2 to the financial statements on page81.
so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditor is unaware: and The interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company the director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a are set out in the Directors Remuneration report on pages56 to director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit 64, where details of executive directors service contracts and information and to establish that the Companys auditor is non-executive directors letters of appointment can also be found.
The Company continues to operate a formal ongoing procedure This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance for the disclosure, review and authorisation of directors actual and with section 418 of the Companies Act 2006. potential conflicts of interest in accordance with the Companies Act, 2006.
In addition, conflicts of interest are reviewed, and as A resolution is to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM for the necessary further authorised, by the board on an annual basis.
re-appointment of  LLP as auditor of theCompany, at a rate of remuneration to be determined by the Significant agreements audit committee.
Excepting the agreements underpinning the Groups four year revolving credit facility, which will require renewalby 2015, there AGM are no persons with which it has contractual or other The AGM will be held at the offices of Royal Bank of Scotland, 3rd arrangements which are essential to its business.
Floor Conference Centre, 250 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 4AA on 19 November 2013 at 11am.
The notice convening the AGM, Charitable and political donations sent to shareholders separately, explains the items of business Contributions for charitable purposes during the year amounted which are not of a routine nature.
Charities that benefited continued to include those carrying out potential projects to assist homeless Approval of report people, those providing benefit to workers in the industry who are This Directors Report, including by reference the Business in need, and a significant number of small local charities in the Reviewon page 08 to 45 and the Corporate Governance and areas within which the Group operates.
Remuneration Reports, was approved by the board of directors on17 September 2013.
It is Group policy to avoid making political donations of any nature and accordingly none were made during the year.
However, the For and on behalf of the board Group notes the wide application of Part 14 of the Companies Act 2006, but does not consider the housebuilding and construction Kevin Corbett Company Secretary& Legal Director industry bodies of which it is a member to be political organisations for the purposes of the Act.
17September 2013 Creditor payment policy Group policy regarding creditor payment is to agree payment terms contractually with suppliers and land vendors, ensure the relevant terms of payment are included in contracts, and to abide by those terms when satisfied that goods, services or assets have been provided in accordance with the agreed contractual terms.
Galliford Try plc, as the group parent company, did not have any 66 Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Governance The directors are responsible for keepingadequate accounting Directors report records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys Statement of directors responsibilities transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company andthe Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the remuneration policy comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity oftheCompanys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of thedirectors, whose and functions arelisted on pages46 and 47, confirm that, to the best of his and her knowledge: the Group financial statements, set out on pages69 to 109, The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSsas  and thefinancial statements in adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, accordance with applicable law and regulations.
liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and the Business Review contained in pages08 to45 includes a Company law requires the directors to prepare financial fairreview of the development and performance of the business statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors and the position of the Group, together with a description of the have prepared the Group and Company financial statements in principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law For and on behalf of the board the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of Ian Coull Chairman affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
17September 2013 In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: Forward looking statements Forward looking statements have been made by the directors select suitable accounting policies and then apply them ingood faith using information up until the date on which they consistently: approved this Report.
Forward looking statements should be make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and regarded with caution due to uncertainties in economic trends and prudent: business risks.
The Groups businesses are generally not affected state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European by seasonality.
Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 67
