strateGic PrOGress GeNus Pic ExTENDING OUR LEADERSHIP The porcine industrys globalisation continues to create significant opportunities for Genus PIC to deliver added value to the leading producers of today and tomorrow.
Although 2013 was a very challenging Despite the difficult economic year, with record feed input costs environment for many of our causing many producers to lose customers, Genus PIC grew its money, we continued to invest in profit by 4% on volume growth of product development and technical 3% in the year.
We also made strong services initiatives required to progress against our strategic help our growing global customer objectives, as detailed below.
base become stronger and more differentiated in their regions.
Bill christianson Chief Operating Officer, Genus PIC Increasing Genetic Control Targeting Key Markets Tailoring the Business Strengthening andProduct Differentiation andSegments Model Core Competencies Progress against 2013 Objectives Progress against 2013 Objectives Progress against 2013 Objectives Progress against 2013 Objectives we aimed to: we aimed to: we aimed to: we aimed to: invest in proprietary technologies to accelerate genetic improve our understanding of customer needs and reinforce our leading position in key markets across the use our technical service group to realise our genetics progress: use imputation in genomics to differentiate Americas, especially the US: and expand our presence tailor our offering to them: establish a global technical full potential: and continue to attract and retain the our products: and reduce the time to get our genetics service team: and expand our royalty model outside in Brazil, Russia, Germany, Spain and China.
During the year, we: During the year, we: During the year, we: sustained our US market position and grew share in During the year, we: improved pigs per sow per year by over 3%, compared were the first in the world to implement single step established a global technical service team, which Brazil, China, Russia, Germany and Spain: and with more than 600,000 sows that we have measured genomic evaluation, delivering the highest rates of leveraged our new organisational structure and global is delivering the best product and service to key historically: and genetic improvement in our history, for example more customers and markets: functions to implement best practices in key markets.
bolstered our team with 18 new hires, with a focus on than doubling the rate of improvement in sow expanded our royalty model in key markets in Latin Europe, technical services and product development.
prolificacy in the year: and America, Europe and Asia, with 74% of our volumes implemented our genetic dissemination plan, reducing nowunder royalty contracts, compared with 69% the genetic lag by 0.6 years to 3.9 years, with Russia, last year: and China, Spain, Chile and Germany achieving the restructured our European business, to better align largest reductions.
it with global best practice.
2014 Priorities 2014 Priorities 2014 Priorities 2014 Priorities we will: we will: we will: we will: further reduce genetic lag by tightly integrating our further develop key account plans for our strategic capitalise on growth opportunities for terminal sires by leverage our product validation process and dissemination plan with our global supply chain: global customers, allowing us to tailor delivery of developing consistent product offerings, aligning supply infrastructure across Europe and Asia, enabling us to aggressively implement imputation and develop tools products and services maximising customer by chain capacity and applying value-based business demonstrate the increasing value of our genetic to maximise the robustness of our diverse global customer success: and models: products in key growth markets: evaluations: and support the expansion of genetic production and gilt continue to expand the royalty model: and expand our ability to effectively work with key accounts develop new terminal sire products, which will continue supply that will allow us to provide high merit animals develop targeted combinations of products and and identify and deliver on opportunities to increase to lead the industry to higher levels of robust and intargeted growth markets, such as the US, Russia services that allow us to further grow our business customer success: and efficient growth.
and expand our value proposition with the largest build on our talent management process, to strengthen production companies around the globe.
the team further and develop staff.
22|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013 strateGic cOrPOrate FiNaNciaL review GOverNaNce stateMeNts Case studies Family Farms averaged the implementing our breeding equivalent of 31 pigs weaned programme.
Podelzig is per sow per year, 3.5 higher now one of Europes key than 2010.
The farm is on production nucleus multiplier track to market more than units, allowing us to serve 8,000lbs of pork per sow, customers in the main up 10% on three years ago.
Steady production improvements Over 21 years ago I chose mean Frank is now achieving to start using PIC genetics an impressive 29.2 weaned on our farm, said Pat pigs per sow per year.
As he adding value for supporting Our Hord.
This team gives states, We made absolutely hordFamily Farms europeanGrowth us the opportunity to be the right decision to partner Ohio-based Hord Family Since 2000, Frank the best in the world.
We have achieved Farms has around 17,500 Tiggemann has produced our goals and are convinced PIC females, allowing it to breeding stock animals we will continue to do so.
market more than 500,000 for us in Podelzig, eastern pigs each year.
His farm has help it achieve outstanding grown to hold 1,850 pure performance.
In the first line PIC sows and become five months of 2013, Hord known for excellence in Increasing Genetic Control Targeting Key Markets Tailoring the Business Strengthening andProduct Differentiation andSegments Model Core Competencies Progress against 2013 Objectives Progress against 2013 Objectives Progress against 2013 Objectives Progress against 2013 Objectives we aimed to: we aimed to: we aimed to: we aimed to: invest in proprietary technologies to accelerate genetic improve our understanding of customer needs and reinforce our leading position in key markets across the use our technical service group to realise our genetics progress: use imputation in genomics to differentiate Americas, especially the US: and expand our presence tailor our offering to them: establish a global technical full potential: and continue to attract and retain the our products: and reduce the time to get our genetics service team: and expand our royalty model outside in Brazil, Russia, Germany, Spain and China.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2013|23 strateGic PrOGress GeNus aBs STRENGTHENING OUR CORECAPABILITIES Genus ABS leads the world in dairy and beef semen genetics.
We have a strong development programme and unrivalled global coverage.
By acting locally, we make the most and value of improved genetics of our strengths in people and in their herds.
Despite adverse technology, delivering the highest weather and market conditions, standards of innovation and service.
particularly in Latin America, we have strengthened our core We are seeing continuous customer capabilities in technical services, consolidation in most of our markets, marketing and supply chain to take which offers exciting opportunities advantage of these opportunities.
for growth as our customers continue During the year, profit in Genus to professionalise and become better ABS declined by 3% in constant positioned to recognise the benefit currency, on 1% lower volumes.
saskia Korink romani Acting Chief Operating Officer, GenusABS Increasing Genetic Control Targeting Key Markets Tailoring the Business Strengthening andProduct Differentiation andSegments Model CoreCompetencies Progress against 2013 Objectives Progress against 2013 Objectives Progress against 2013 Objectives Progress against 2013 Objectives we aimed to: we aimed to: we aimed to: we aimed to: deliver the industrys best genetics: sustain our product tailor our product offering to customer segments: expand in developing markets: sustain our successes in develop skills in key account management, technical leadership: and continue to meet demand for the competitive countries: and accommodate the differing establish a global technical service team: establish a service, product development and the supply chain.
global marketing team: and support the co-ordination needs of traditional farmers and large dairy systems.
During the year, we: During the year, we: During the year, we: developed core competencies globally in technical launched a proprietary Real World Data RWD index, conducted extensive market research in 11 key markets, During the year, we: services, supply chain and marketing, by appointing focused on sire fertility: designed business models to be implemented in our to deepen our understanding of our customers buying talent to key leadership positions and putting resources initiated an elite female programme, to increase genetic behaviours and identify target customer segments: key markets, by leveraging local knowledge in our in place: control and improve selection tailored to the future subsidiaries around the world and applying best leveraged our Jersey line-up and expertise to increase improved the flexibility and speed of product needs of our customers: and trading by 25% in the competitive North American practices globally: distribution, by integrating product forecasting sustained product leadership for proven bulls and utilised our Mexican operating model and experience market: and with production and inventory management: and constructed a new globally qualified facilities barn, despite adverse conditions, we gained market share to establish technical services across ABS globally: and established a global Technical Services training to support global demand for genomic young sires.
leveraged our UK Beef on Dairy In-Focus model in in our key Latin American markets.
facility, by partnering with a dairy farm with more North America, to create premium dairy beef while than 12,000 cows.
helping dairy producers maximise their profit.
2014 Priorities 2014 Priorities 2014 Priorities 2014 Priorities we will: we will: we will: we will: expand the RWD platform by developing additional pilot a new business model with selected target develop a differentiated approach for our target develop a globally aligned approach to key account indexes tailored to our target customers economic customer segments in two key countries, and prepare customer segments, enabling us to meet the specific management and implement the capability in our needs and breeding objectives: for further deployment: needs of each segment: key markets: further strengthen both the male and female genetic position ourselves better with dairy processors in implement best practices in customer interfacing teams, continue to develop and implement systems to improve platforms: and North America, through increased understanding to increase efficiency and effectiveness and to better supply-chain effectiveness and better integrate product strengthen our proven bull portfolio and enhance our of their needs regarding the quality and composition align with respective customer needs: and development into the ABS organisation: and genomic bull offering, tailored to the needs of our of milk: and focus on value creation as one of the future drivers of continue to roll out technical services and tools across customers.
implement our global customer segmentation in the our business growth.
24|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013 strateGic cOrPOrate FiNaNciaL review GOverNaNce stateMeNts Case studies head since 2008, improved immediately helped improve calving ease on young heifers on-farm processes, which without compromising halved cow containment feedlot performance, and times, increased daily reached daily liveweight milk production by two gains of more than 400 litres per cow per day and grams per head, compared generated an extra 175,000 with calves from other of annual revenue.
A higher several months, Azienda carcass yield and superior SAPARs pregnancy rate beef quality have also rose from 13% to 16%, which helping cOMPaL to enhancing Farm allowed COMPAL to succeed will offer further production achieve itsBusiness Profitability for in the highly competitive improvements.
As herd Objectives azienda saPar elite restaurant market.
As manager Franco Pittalis Our beef genetics have When parmesan cheese COMPALs Pedro Gatti says, commented, Genus ABSs helped COMPAL S. A. producer Azienda SAPAR By using ABS genetics, we commitment to tailor a of Argentina to achieve needed to increase its farm have reached our production solution to the specific goals significant improvements in profitability, our valueand distribution objectives.
of my farm separates them its beef production.
COMPAL added services were key to from the other options.
has increased its average it choosing our Reproductive weaning weight by 20kg per Management Service.
We Increasing Genetic Control Targeting Key Markets Tailoring the Business Strengthening andProduct Differentiation andSegments Model CoreCompetencies Progress against 2013 Objectives Progress against 2013 Objectives Progress against 2013 Objectives Progress against 2013 Objectives we aimed to: we aimed to: we aimed to: we aimed to: deliver the industrys best genetics: sustain our product tailor our product offering to customer segments: expand in developing markets: sustain our successes in develop skills in key account management, technical leadership: and continue to meet demand for the competitive countries: and accommodate the differing establish a global technical service team: establish a service, product development and the supply chain.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2013|25 strateGic PrOGress GeNus asia SEIzING THE OPPORTUNITY Asia covers 30% of the worlds land mass and is home to 4.2 billion people, or60% of the global population.
That population is growing, as are incomes and appetites, creating unrivalled opportunities for Genus.
China alone accounts for almost national plans.
Genus Asia is 50% of the worlds pigs, while India becoming an increasingly significant has 15% of the global dairy cow feature in those plans, building our population.
Russia, which spans business in pork, dairy and beef.
Europe and Asia, is still one of the largest animal-protein importers In 2013, Genus Asia grew profits globally.
Food availability, food by 14%, despite challenging market safety and food quality are critical conditions and while investing heavily to each of these countries, with in both people and supply chain self-sufficiency in animal protein initiatives, to increase our ability to being an important part of their seize this long-term opportunity.
Jerry thompson Chief Operating Officer, Genus Asia Increasing Genetic Control Targeting Key Markets Tailoring the Business Strengthening andProduct Differentiation andSegments Model CoreCompetencies Progress against 2013 Objectives Progress against 2013 Objectives Progress against 2013 Objectives Progress against 2013 Objectives we aimed to: we aimed to: we aimed to: we aimed to: develop a differentiated product pipeline for key pursue joint ventures in China: expand our dairy increase our focus on our key Asian markets of China, leverage the knowledge of Genuss global teams: and countries and ensure the latest genetics are available Russia and India.
distribution by targeting large accounts: develop ensure we have the right resources to support our to our customers through rapid dissemination.
production and distribution in India: and roll out growth plans in Russia, India and China.
During the year, we: specialist technical services.
During the year, we: continued to grow in each of these key markets, During the year, we: produced the first of a series of bulls from imported achieving record sales volumes and revenues, and During the year, we: filled key leadership roles across the region and embryos in India, made history by becoming the first announced a new porcine joint venture with Shennong growing our business with the leading integrated strengthened the teams in key markets, including company to have bulls genomically tested, and producers in Russia and China: and made strong operational progress in our joint employing expatriates to head the health and technical implanted a further pipeline of embryos for bull venture with Besun: developed two strategic joint ventures and increased services teams in China and to work together to train a production in India, as well as in Australia for export supply capacity in China: and continued to successfully implement our dairy strong local team: toChina: strategies, selling record semen volumes across Russia, achieved growth in the Philippines of over 100%, by developed strong links with the Genus PIC and Genus populated a new nucleus farm in China by importing remodelling the business around a key account strategy.
India and China: and ABS global technical teams, enabling us to provide pigs, which will produce tailored dam and sire lines and continued to develop our technical service offering and outstanding technical services through local and update the genetics at our other breeding farms: and capability for key accounts.
international experts: and flew pigs into Russia, the Philippines, Japan and Korea, implemented performance management consistently to provide genetic updates and populate customer across all operating units.
farms, as well as populating the new PIC breeding herds of our partner in Vietnam, GREENFEED.
2014 Priorities 2014 Priorities 2014 Priorities 2014 Priorities we will: we will: we will: we will: expand our portfolio of tailored bulls in India and import leverage our strong positions in Russia, India and China.
continue to pursue further joint ventures in China and build on the sound platform established in our key bulls into Russia and China to strengthen our line up of To do this, we have clearly segmented the markets and expand our semen production capacity in India, to meet markets.
This will include strengthening our teams, with locally produced semen: our team is focused on developing our business with increased demand: a focus on training and developing the necessary key make porcine genetic updates in Russia, China and key accounts across the region, with a continuously implement our new strategy in the Philippines, following account and technical service skills.
other key Asian markets through live boar imports: and improving range of products and services.
the reorganisation: and consider options for dedicated sire line nucleus units continue to simplify our operations and focus on inRussia, China and the Philippines, to increase the growth, through our key account strategy.
availability of differentiated boar products.
26|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013 strateGic cOrPOrate FiNaNciaL review GOverNaNce stateMeNts Case studies with the funding, animals and people, the first batch of technical support they need breeding animals arrived in to upgrade, expand or build August 2012, with the first a new world-class pig farm.
Genus supplies genetically By the end of June 2013, improved breeding stock, we had sold nearly 1,200 specifies suppliers, buildings breeding gilts and more and equipment, helps to than 4,300 weaned piglets, design the farm and provides and the sow inventory the borrower with training was at its capacity of unique Partnership to a strong start for and advice, to maximise the 4,250.
Performance has help Feed a Growing OurJointventure herds performance.
The been excellent, with pigs Population In July 2012, we announced partnership is proceeding weaned per sow per year Our partnership with Bank a joint venture with Shaanxi well and by the end of of 25.9, well above the of the Philippine Islands Yangling BeSun Agricultural June 2013, we had held industry average of 18.
BPI reflects our leadership Group Co. to operate a three regional launches, in pig genetics and BPIs nucleus farm in China.
The attended by farmers and position as a major national venture has made rapid investors nationwide.
Having recruited agricultural entrepreneurs and trained a team of 32 Increasing Genetic Control Targeting Key Markets Tailoring the Business Strengthening andProduct Differentiation andSegments Model CoreCompetencies Progress against 2013 Objectives Progress against 2013 Objectives Progress against 2013 Objectives Progress against 2013 Objectives we aimed to: we aimed to: we aimed to: we aimed to: develop a differentiated product pipeline for key pursue joint ventures in China: expand our dairy increase our focus on our key Asian markets of China, leverage the knowledge of Genuss global teams: and countries and ensure the latest genetics are available Russia and India.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2013|27 strateGic PrOGress GeNus r&D MEETING CUSTOMERS NEEDS, TODAY AND TOMORROW Genus is passionate about exceeding customers expectations.
We incorporate cutting-edge technology into our R&D, so our porcine, dairyand beef customers always have the industrys best products andservices.
We work customers needs over the next closely with our customers, as well five to ten years, while making sure as marketing, sales and technical that we are aligned with Genuss services, to advance our R&D long-term business strategies.
To maintain our competitive edge and leadership Our focused research programme position, we anticipate our is centred on three core platforms: Dr Denny Funk Chief Scientific Officer, Genus R&D Disease Gender Genomic Resilience Skewing Selection Genus and The Roslin Genus is actively pursuing Genomic selection Institute, University sexed semen R&D to uses genetic markers, of Edinburgh, have deliver an improved and called single-nucleotide embarked on a multi-year more efficient bovine polymorphisms, to increase collaborative research product offering, as well the frequency with which we agreement, focusing on as enabling a practical identify elite individuals to genetic improvement in method for producing use in breeding programmes.
We are working on research projects Sexed semen has great potential We genotype tens of thousands of to deliver animals that are more value in countries like India, where animals each year, combining genetic robust or less affected by diseases demand for milk is growing at 4% per markers with traditional performance such as porcine reproductive and year.
Our aim is to double the number and pedigree information in state-ofrespiratory syndrome PRRS, porcine of heifers available for replacement the-art genetic evaluation programmes, influenza and African swine fever.
or herd expansion, while minimising called single-step genomic evaluations.
the number of male calf births.
These sophisticated computer programs accurately rank individual animals genetic merit for traits of high economic value to our customers, such as prolificacy and robustness.
28|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013 strateGic cOrPOrate FiNaNciaL review GOverNaNce stateMeNts Case studies of animals.
Combining all rankings for both Holstein Top 10% 23% points the data is complex but it and Jersey bulls, the two above average fertility has increased the accuracy primary dairy breeds 20% of estimates for traits such that we market.
We are 40% Average fertility as pig litter size by 68%.
continuing to build a global database of management 20% Dr Selma Forni is one and performance RWD from Bottom 10% 23% points of the scientists leading our customers around the below average fertility our single-step genomic world, which we will use in evaluations.
Iwas developing customised and challenged to transform proprietary management the Power of single-step using Data to increase complex genome data into tools, to help increase our Genomic evaluations customers Profitability a simple tool, to deliver customers profitability.
We Genomics helps us to Genus ABS launched the value to our customers.
are also developing further estimate an animals genetic first Genus Real World It is a great example proprietary indices, which merit more accurately, so we Data RWD Bull Fertility of Genus transforming will be unique to Genus.
We rankings in December 2012, scientific knowledge into consider more than 35,000 utilising our proprietary real-world solutions.
genetic markers, creating database of more than billions of data points 12 million insemination across tens of thousands records.
RWD provides Margin Above Feed and Top 100 Net Merit Rankings the Genus Product advantage Housing Costs Daughter Proven Our research is all about turning US$ Number of bulls science into differentiated and valueadded products for our customers.
25 30 We frequently benchmark ourselves 25 20 against our competitors, to ensure we 20 are delivering the product advantages 15 15 our customers expect from us.
10 For example, when we compare 10 the economic advantages from 5 5 weaning through carcass value, PICs 0 0 genetics consistently outperform our competitors, generating more profit for our customers.
Dairy customers also look to ABS for the best and most reliable genetics in the industry.
ABS has more high-ranking daughter proven bulls than any of our competitors.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2013|29 PIC A PIC B PIC C PIC D Competitor 1 Competitor 2 Competitor 3 Competitor 4 ABS Competitor 1 Competitor 2 Competitor 3 Competitor 4 21.25 19.85 19.00 18.22 17.99 16.85 15.88 12.52 28 20 17 13 15
