strateGic FraMewOrK A STRATEGY FOR GROWTH Increasing Targeting Key Tailoring the Strengthening Genus has a robust strategy to capture Genetic Control Markets and Business Model Core the very significant and Product Segments Competencies growth opportunities in the animal genetics Differentiation market, particularly in the BRIC countries.
Aim: to maintain our Aim: to make sure we Aim: to adapt our approach Aim: to have the core Our strategy for products lead over have the right offer for to suit different markets competencies we need to growth has four our competitors.
elements: We do this by: We do this by: We do this by: We do this by: understanding our ensuring we have the right developing products that developing our customers requirements products, in the critical meet each markets specific marketing capability and and building an R&D geographies, to meet requirements, such as a strengthening our key programme and supply the needs of our target need for leaner meat or account management: chain to support them: customers, typically: better flavour in porcine, or strengthening our supply increased milk yields in dairy: enhancing our use of integrated pork producers chain allowing us to be genomics in our breeding and farrow-to-finish ensuring we have the right more cost effective and able programmes, to strongly pig producers commercial model, notably: to deploy genetics more accelerate the rate of efficiently to our customers: enterprise and large evaluating carefully when genetic improvement: commercial dairies to transition from direct stepping up our technical investing in proprietary sales to royalties in our support to customers: and aligning our products and technologies, with a focus porcine business: and services to key customer enhancing our people on disease resistance and segments, which value our adjusting our dairy and through performance and gender skew, to boost genetics and value-added beef customer interface, talent management, and commercial viability technical services: and based on cost to serve and by transferring people and and productivity: and customer segmentation skills to key target markets.
seeking further growth collaborating with in the BRIC economies, working with joint venture universities, research while strengthening our partners to access or institutes and biotechnology position with customers in create capacity to serve companies, to explore more mature markets such new markets such as the latest developments as the US and Europe.
in quantitative and molecular genetics.
18|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013 strateGic cOrPOrate FiNaNciaL review GOverNaNce stateMeNts Increasing Targeting Key Tailoring the Strengthening Find Out More Market Overview Genetic Control Markets and Business Model Core Our strategy takes account of the long-term drivers of our markets.
and Product Segments Competencies See pages 16 and 17.
Differentiation strategic Progress Each of our divisions and our R&D function has strategic Aim: to maintain our Aim: to make sure we Aim: to adapt our approach Aim: to have the core priorities that support our Group strategy.
See pages 22 to 29. products lead over have the right offer for to suit different markets competencies we need to our competitors.
Performance Our key performance indicators We do this by: We do this by: We do this by: We do this by: measure how well we are implementing our strategy.
See pages 30 and 31. understanding our ensuring we have the right developing products that developing our customers requirements products, in the critical meet each markets specific marketing capability and Risk and building an R&D geographies, to meet requirements, such as a strengthening our key We look to understand and programme and supply the needs of our target need for leaner meat or account management: mitigate the risks to achieving chain to support them: customers, typically: better flavour in porcine, or strengthening our supply our strategic goals.
See pages increased milk yields in dairy: enhancing our use of integrated pork producers chain allowing us to be 40 and 41. genomics in our breeding and farrow-to-finish ensuring we have the right more cost effective and able Remuneration programmes, to strongly pig producers commercial model, notably: to deploy genetics more Our managements accelerate the rate of efficiently to our customers: enterprise and large evaluating carefully when remunerations reflects the genetic improvement: commercial dairies to transition from direct stepping up our technical success of our strategy.
investing in proprietary sales to royalties in our support to customers: and aligning our products and See pages 61 to 73. technologies, with a focus porcine business: and services to key customer enhancing our people on disease resistance and segments, which value our adjusting our dairy and through performance and gender skew, to boost genetics and value-added beef customer interface, talent management, and commercial viability technical services: and based on cost to serve and by transferring people and and productivity: and customer segmentation skills to key target markets.
Genus plcAnnual Report 2013|19 Pioneering Improved Genetics in India BG Chitale is the largest dairy processor in the Maharashtra region of India, which has a population of 112 million.
The company has a passion for making Indian dairy farmers more productive, through technology and the best genetics.
The US achieves 10,000 litres of milk per cow but India BG Chitale facility isat about 2,000 litres, explains Vishvas Chitale, CEO, BGChitale.
We have around 50,000 farmers supplying us with milk.
If we can reduce the number of animals they need, they will remain in business and get better returns.
And fewer cows means lower greenhouse gas emissions and a greener world.
To do this, BG Chitale is focused on improving genetics and operates one of Indias few private artificial insemination studs.
For the last three years, it has worked with Genus to increase annual semen production from 200,000 to 1.8 million units.
We need a partner who can help us improve animal productivity through the best genetics, says Vishvas.
It was a natural choice to go with the best in the field.
Our strategy is to deliver value-added and differentiated products for India.
We have created a pipeline of new bulls by importing embryos from North America, with the first bull Pioneer born in August 2012.
We have also genomically tested several young bulls a first for the Indian dairy industry.
Using Genuss expertise, Chitales animal semen has increased from 200,000 to 1.8 million units 20|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013 Our vaLues PiOneeRinG Genus plcAnnual Report 2013|21
