MarKet Overview CHALLENGING CONDITIONS IN 2013: FAVOURABLE LONG-TERM GROWTH DRIVERS 2013 Global trends Porcine The Food and Agriculture Despite this favourable long-term The global pork sector has Organization of the United backdrop, market conditions in 2013 experienced one of its most turbulent Nations FAO predicts that were especially challenging for our years in history, with dramatically global demand for animal protein customers.
The US drought and contrasting price movements among poor harvests in other countries the pork producing regions.
During will double by 2050, driven by contributed to a worldwide surge the first half of our financial year, population and income growth in input cereal prices.
During the large price drops occurred in the US, in developing countries, as well first half of our financial year, wheat Canada and South Korea, due to a as urbanisation and changing prices increased by 21%, soybean relatively large seasonal supply boost prices went up by 29% and US and the beginning of herd liquidation, consumption patterns.
China, India corn prices rose by 18% compared as hog farmers looked to limit their and Russia are also striving to with the previous six months.
losses as a result of high feed costs.
become self-sufficient in protein, 3-Year Corn Prices Key Markets 3-Year International Pork Markets making protein production a per tonne per Kg growth industry in these countries.
00 At the same time, protein demand in developed countries is generally 150 1.5 1.50 subdued, as a result of ageing and 100 1.0 1.00 slowly growing populations, together 50 0.50 0.5 with policy changes in areas such as 0 0 0.0 animal welfare.
On the supply side, Aug 10 Aug 11 Aug 12 Aug 13 Aug 10 Aug 11 Aug 12 Aug 13 high feed grain prices have reduced livestock producers margins, and livestock inventories have fallen in Brazil USA China EU Brazil USA China EU Source: China Swine, CIRCA, CME and IEA some of the major meat-producing countries, such as the US.
Tight margins in both bovine and During the second half of our In contrast, prices strengthened in porcine production are accelerating financial year, grain and soybean Brazil and the EU.
In Brazil, prices the trend for industry consolidation.
prices started to ease and most increased due to supply reductions The need for production yield returned to the levels seen at the following herd liquidation, combined increases is also pushing the start of the year.
This should bring with normal seasonality.
In the EU, industry towards larger production some relief to the livestock industry, poor profitability in recent years units and more sophistication and although profit margins are not all and new regulations banning professionalism, increasing the need positive yet.
Over the next harvest crate gestation, which became for enhanced farming systems, season, we expect ending stocks to effective on 1 January 2013, have nutrition, bio-security and more recover in the northern hemisphere, driven heavy herd liquidation, with efficient farming practices in general.
which should mitigate some of the the sow population down 3.5%.
volatility experienced over the last These trends create favourable five years.
As a result, the outlook In China, hog prices were below long-term growth opportunities for input prices is better for our last years record levels.
A price for our value-added genetics.
customers in the year to come.
rally towards the Chinese New Year 16|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013 strateGic cOrPOrate FiNaNciaL review GOverNaNce stateMeNts Tight margins in both bovine and porcine production are accelerating the trend for industry consolidation.
3-Year International Dairy Markets Pence per litre 40 30 20 10 0 Aug 10 Aug 11 Aug 12 Aug 13 Brazil USA China EU Russia In the beef market, the Rabobank Global Cattle Price Index was down 6% relative to Q1 2013 after a period of some stability.
This was the festival was short-lived and the result of a worldwide downtrend Dairy and Beef government intervened in the At the start of our financial year, dairy in cattle prices, particularly in two market to stabilise prices important export countries, Australia farmers were left between breakin late spring.
even and loss-making, depending and Brazil.
Worldwide, industry performance has been mixed, with on the region and their exposure to Demand for pork continues feed.
This was a result of low milk some companies in Brazil and other to grow, with global consumption Latin American countries achieving prices and high feed costs.
Global rising by 2% per annum.
The dairy commodity prices saw a strong reasonable margins due to relatively strong exports to China on the back OECD-FAO Agricultural Outlook recovery during the course of our 2013-2022 report shows that in financial year.
The Fonterra auction of a weakening Real.
In the US, high feed cost reduced performance 2022, China will overtake the price, for example, peaked at 83% EU as the largest per capita above June 2012 price levels.
In all and supply decreased, driven by drought-induced herd liquidations.
consumer of pig meat, at 34kg markets, reduced supply was the main per person.
The Chinese cause of rising prices, with drought European demand for real beef was boosted by the horse-gate scandal.
government continues to use in New Zealand the largest milk subsidies to accelerate local exporter a particular contributor.
In China, beef demand is strong, pulling in imports from countries like production of more competitive Milk production is expected to return and food-safe pork, although to modest growth in most regions, Uruguay, Australia and New Zealand.
environmental policy on reducing given higher farmgate milk prices ammonia and nitrogen emissions compared to twelve months ago and However, the broader picture for demand still points to tempered from animal husbandry will make lower feed costs.
Demand will recover pig production more costly.
In these to 0% to 2% growth, depending on consumer appetite, as beef prices have risen relative to chicken conditions, larger farming systems the region, led by emerging markets are expanding and the outlook and the US.
In the EU, demand and pork, while increases in disposable income worldwide for pork prices seems stable will be subdued given higher dairy to positive.
