Genus executive Leadership team Left to right: GELT is focused on delivering the divisional structure Tom, Saskia, Denny, Jerry, Bill, following: In FY 2013, we implemented a Catherine, Stephen and Karim.
corporate strategy developing new divisional structure, which and implementing our strategy to is aligned to our strategy.
This achieve sustained growth, and has proved highly effective, Over the last year, we have strengthening key capabilities such supporting the acceleration of our enhanced the Genus Executive as our world-class product strategy and growth, particularly Leadership Team GELT, appointing development: in developing markets.
Through a executives who bring new skills operations management driving matrix design, we have leveraged and expertise to an already strong organisational results, with our global expertise to network team.
GELT sets our vision and operational excellence: ensuring best practice, set global standards culture, leads our strategic delivery core processes are reliable and and raise performance across the and demonstrates the values efficient: regularly reviewing R&D business units and Asia.
This has at the heart of our business.
plans: managing risk, including risk enabled us to deliver a solid year of mitigation: and managing the performance in the following areas: GeLts responsibilities Genus balanced scorecard, insight-driven research: In 2012, GELT developed Genuss including customer equity metrics: strong product development: vision and values, which are people developing highstrategic marketing: described on pages 1 and 6. performing teams by rigorous sales and technical services, We have now fully embedded selection, development and setting targeted at key customer them in the business, giving the stretching goals, together with segments: entire Genus team a clear and nurturing talent to bring through supply-chain optimisation: and compelling purpose and direction.
the next generation of leaders: and continued focus on developing resources astute and judicious markets.
GELT ensures organisational investment in the business, alignment, engagement and efficient including capital expenditure GELTs members are as follows: execution throughout the Group.
Karim bitar This involves crucial commercial, chief executive scientific, operational and people decisions.
Equally important is GELTs stephen Wilson stewardship of Genuss reputation, Group finance director ethical working and compliance.
tom Kilroy Group General counsel & company secretary See pages 50 and 51 for Karims, Stephens and Toms biographies.
52|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013 strateGic corporate financiaL revieW Governance statements bill christianson Jerry thompson catherine Glickman chief operating officer, Genus pic chief operating officer, Genus asia Group human resources director Bill has doctorates in Veterinary Jerry graduated with a BSc Hons Catherine joined Genus in January Medicine and Philosophy from in Agriculture from Seale Hayne 2012, in the newly created role of the University of Minnesota.
He College, Devon, and has worked for Group HR Director.
For the previous joined Genus in 1993.
Before his PIC and subsequently Genus for 20 years, she worked for Tesco plc current appointment in July 2012, over 20 years.
After two years in the in a variety of positions.
For the he held various operational roles UK business, he moved to Eastern last four years she was Group HR within Genus, including serving Europe where he has held a number Director, where she focused on as General Manager of the PIC of roles including Key Account talent development, succession and North America business in 2007 Manager in Siberia, and Managing leadership development.
She held and as Chief Operating Officer of Director for PIC Romania and for HR Director roles supporting Tescos the Americas from March 2010. the Central and Eastern European roll-out into Asia, Central Europe PIC business.
In 2008, Jerry moved and the United States, and led HR saskia Korink romani to the position of Regional Director for the UK stores during a period acting chief operating officer, for PIC Europe.
He became Regional of major expansion.
Prior to Tesco, Genus abs Director for the Russia and Asia she worked in HR for Somerfield Saskia joined Genus in January Pacific Region, based in Shanghai plc and Boots plc.
For the previous ten years, she in 2010, before being appointed a degree in English Language and worked for Cargill Inc. most recently to his current role on 1 July 2012.
Literature from Durham University as the Vice President of Marketing and is a member of the Institute for Cargills animal nutrition business.
dr denny funk of Personnel and Development.
Prior to this, she ran their Cocoa chief r&d and scientific officer and Chocolate Business Unit in Denny has a strong genetics Latin America.
Saskia has a broad background, with a PhD in animal international background, working breeding from Iowa State University.
across Europe, Latin America He joined Genus in 1995 and and North America, and brings prior to his role as Chief Scientific significant business experience Officer, held various positions in having been at Boston Consulting research, product development and Group for seven years, with her production.
Before joining Genus, last position being principal at the he was an Associate Professor Sao Paulo office.
She is originally a with tenure at the University of physicist, beginning her career in Wisconsin, Madison for seven engineering and packaging design years, following five years with with Unilever PLCs former Van den the US Holstein Association.
Bergh Foods business, now part of their Foods division.
She has an MBA from Columbia Business School.
