board of directors & company secretary bob Lawson Karim bitar stephen Wilson nigel turner mike buzzacott professor barry furr, obe tom Kilroy non-executive chief executive Group finance senior non-executive non-executive non-executive Group General counsel chairman director director director director & company secretary board appointment November 2010 September 2011 January 2013 January 2008 May 2009 December 2006 July 2013 experience Bob Lawson was Nigel Turner joined Karim Bitar joined the Stephen Wilson joined Mike Buzzacott is a Professor Furr retired as Tom Kilroy joined Genus appointed Chairman Board in September the Board in January the Board in January qualified accountant.
He Chief Scientist and Head in July 2013.
He was of the Board and the 2008 and is Chairman 2011.
He worked for 2013 and was appointed joined the Board in May of Project Evaluation previously Executive Nomination Committee over 15 years with Eli Group Finance Director of the Remuneration 2009 and is Chairman for AstraZeneca plc in Vice President, General in November 2010.
He was Lilly and Company and on 1 March 2013.
He was of the Audit Committee.
2005 after 34 years of Counsel & Company He is Non-Executive was President of Lilly previously Executive Chairman of Numis He spent 34 years at BP service.
He is a NonSecretary of Misys plc, Chairman of Barratt Securities Ltd and Europe, Canada and Vice President and Chief prior to his retirement Executive Director the financial services Developments plc Australia before joining Financial Officer of Deputy Chairman of in 2004, holding a of the Medicines and software company, and a director of Numis Corporation plc Genus.
An ex-McKinsey Misys plc, the financial number of international Healthcare Products and also for a period The Federation of & Company consultant, services software from December 2005 roles including Finance Regulatory Agency was Acting CEO.
to November 2007. he worked across Asia provider that was a & Control Director and the American to that, he spent a His career has spanned and in Europe, and FTSE 250 company until He is currently a NonAsia Pacific, CFO Pharmaceutical number of years with GE several UK and Executive Director of also held management its acquisition by Vista BP Nutrition and company GTx Inc. Healthcare, a division continental groups roles at Johnson & Equity Partners.
Previously he Group Vice President He was awarded an of the General Electric including ten years was Vice Chairman of Johnson and the Dow to Misys, Stephen was Petrochemicals.
He began as Chief Executive of Chemical Company.
Vice President and CFO ABN AMROs Wholesale is currently a Nonservices to cancer drug his legal career in the Electrocomponents plc and Investment Bank in of IBM United Kingdom Executive Director of discovery.
He joined City of London and is leading its successful Limited.
He is a Fellow which he had specific Scapa Plc.
He retired the Board in December admitted as a solicitor in expansion into new responsibility for the of the Chartered as a Non-Executive 2006 and acts as England and Wales.
He international markets, Institute of Management Global Corporate Director of Croda plc Scientific Advisor to graduated from Oxford and three years as Finance and Equity Accountants and is a in August 2011 and Genuss Research & University with a BA Managing Director Non-Executive Director businesses.
He joined was formerly a NonDevelopment Portfolio Hons in Metallurgy of Vitec Group plc.
and Chairman of the the Dutch bank in 2000 Executive Director Management Team, & Materials Science.
Audit Committee of from Lazard, where he of Rexam plc and which replaced the Xchanging plc.
He holds was a partner for 15 Chairman of Biofuels plc.
Science Committee a degree in Mathematics years and also sat on with effect from 1 July from the University its Supervisory Board.
He is the author of Cambridge.
of more than 160 papers on reproductive endocrinology and antihormones.
committee memberships Chairman of the Member of the Chairman of the Chairman of the Audit Member of the Audit, Nomination Committee Nomination Committee.
Remuneration Committee and member Remuneration and and member of Committee and member of the Remuneration Nomination Committees.
the Remuneration of the Audit and and Nomination Committee.
50|Genus plcAnnual Report 2013 strateGic corporate financiaL revieW Governance statements bob Lawson Karim bitar stephen Wilson nigel turner mike buzzacott professor barry furr, obe tom Kilroy non-executive chief executive Group finance senior non-executive non-executive non-executive Group General counsel chairman director director director director & company secretary board appointment November 2010 September 2011 January 2013 January 2008 May 2009 December 2006 July 2013 experience Bob Lawson was Nigel Turner joined Karim Bitar joined the Stephen Wilson joined Mike Buzzacott is a Professor Furr retired as Tom Kilroy joined Genus appointed Chairman Board in September the Board in January the Board in January qualified accountant.
