OUR RECENT HISTORY SUSTAINED ANNUAL GROWTH We have made substantial progress over the past five years, delivering on a clear strategy and achieving sustainable growth.
Our objectives of being leaders in our chosen markets, with a broad global footprint, innovative technologies and continued operational excellence, have been supported by a number of key strategic milestones.
GKN Driveline established its position as a global leader in the engineering, manufacture and vehicle integration of all-wheel drive systems, through the acquisition of Getrag Driveline Products.
Dual clutch for industrial GKN Land Systems accessed a number of new transmissions customers and industrial segments, as well as broadening its product offering in existing markets, 2011 through the acquisition of Stromag Holding.
GKN Aerospace was awarded the contract to 6,112m produce the all-composite fuselage for the HondaJet light business jet and announced plans for a new Total sales aerospace facility in South Carolina, US, where assembly operations take place.
A new, purpose built Aerospace facility in Bristol, UK, began manufacturing the first A350 XWB rear wing spar.
The GKN Land Systems division was created to focus on exploiting competencies in existing markets, such as agriculture, mining and construction, and build positions in new industrial sectors.
2010 High levels of new driveshaft business in GKN Driveline led to the launch of an expansion programme in India, 5,429m China and North America to increase capacity by 60% Total sales over the following four years.
2009 GKN Driveline extended its joint venture and expanded capacity in China with a new plant in Wuhan and plans for an additional facility in Changchun.
4,454m The acquisition of the Airbus wing component and sub-assembly facility in the UK positioned GKN Aerospace as one of Europes leading Total sales aerostructures companies.
In response to the global economic downturn, GKN launched a rights issue to strengthen its financial position, and implemented a restructuring programme to cut its fixed cost base these actions provided a strong foundation on which new business was won and subsequent growth delivered.
As restated following the decision to exit the Axles business of the former OffHighway segment Front sideshaft 4 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The acquisition of Volvo Aero, the aero engine division of AB Volvo, made GKN Aerospace a global leader in aero engine components, with complementary technology and engineering that strengthened relationships with customers and enhanced its position as a leading tier 1 aerospace supplier.
GKNs capacity in Mexico grew as GKN Driveline commissioned its third precision forging press and GKN Aerospace established a new composite aerostructures manufacturing facility.
The ground breaking for a new plant in Yizheng, with a capacity of 100 million components per year, signalled GKN Powder Metallurgys commitment to development in China.
Turbine exhaust case 2012 6,904m GKN Driveline further extended its Total sales long-standing joint venture in China to cover the complete GKN Driveline capability including all-wheel drive and eDrive components and systems.
GKN Aerospace inaugurated an advanced engineering centre in 6,112m Bangalore, India, to extend its global Total sales engineering strength and design expertise in international aero engine activities.
GKN Powder Metallurgys facility in Bonn, Germany, was expanded with the installation of state-of-the-art advanced sintering process equipment 2013 to manufacture high precision components used in electronic suspension for customers such as 7,594m BMW, Mercedes and Jaguar Land Rover.
Total sales Rear drive unit TWINSTER LOOKING FORWARD ENGINEERING THAT MOVES THE WORLD GKN has a positive effect on the lives of hundreds We are building solid foundations for future growth.
of millions of people across the world every day Excellent market positions across the businesses, through the technologies we engineer, the solutions a strong focus on technology, together with a we create and the products we manufacture.
culture of operational excellence, provide a solid platform for continued strategic progress.
Sales figures above are presented on a management basis.
