SUCCESSFULLY INTEGRATING GKN AEROSPACE ENGINE SYSTEMS GKN Aerospace Engine Systems was formed following the acquisition of Volvo Aero, the aero engine division of AB Volvo, in October 2012.
The acquisition positioned GKN clearly at the forefront of future aero engine technology and has created a new global leader in aero engine structures.
The successful integration of the business into GKN was a vital part of realising the value of the acquisition and creating a platform for future growth.
The task was to bring 3,000 people from four operating sites in Sweden, Norway and the US into GKN and integrate the business systems, processes and ways of working.
This had to be accomplished within tight timescales and with no disruption to customers, whilst also achieving significant cost savings.
The integration was a complex 15 month programme and included 12 different functional areas.
The aim was to improve GKN Aerospace Engine Systems competitive position, helping secure future business.
This has been realised through a number of key achievements: Culture Recognising the cultural differences between the two businesses, early in the process we worked to build an awareness of the key cultural factors within the Integration synergies acquired business.
Two-way cultural sessions were Significant savings have been achieved by run for management teams within the newly created leveraging the combined purchasing power of division to gain a better understanding of how each GKN Aerospace and the newly acquired business, business operated and the typical ways of working including through the consolidation of supply in within them.
some areas and improved contract terms.
An early Safety separation of functional IT systems from AB Volvo to Safety is a top priority across GKN.
Our approach a standalone platform within GKN Aerospace Engine to safety was applied quickly across the newly Systems has also resulted in significant savings.
Within six months, the thinkSafe!
The successful integration of the business could not programme had been implemented, with safety have been achieved without the active participation corners and policies in place, and the GKN safety and co-operation of the workforce and the unions.
culture was visible across the plants and fully embraced by employees.
Structure A new organisational structure was implemented to help resize the business, resulting in the loss of approximately 400 people some 13% of the workforce.
The new structure aligns the business with customers, with each key customer having a dedicated customer account team which takes full responsibility for that relationship.
30 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 BUILDING A LEADER The acquired business has brought a strong set of The nature of engine programmes often requires initial engineering capabilities.
A high level of technical and cash investment for participation and development costs manufacturing expertise, as well as design and technical which can take many years to recover.
As programmes competency in aero engines, complements capabilities mature and the aftermarket becomes more significant, the that already existed within GKN.
It has provided GKN with cash flow and margin profile become more advantageous.
skills in lightweight metallic technologies, such as laser As well as a large portfolio on many commercial engine and electron beam welding, which facilitate its ability to programmes, GKN Aerospace Engine Systems also has create complex engine structures, as well as capabilities a military and space business: it is the OEM for the RM12 in new technologies such as additive manufacturing.
engine that powers the Gripen C D fighter and participates The acquisition has enabled us to expand the products in the European Ariane 5 rocket launcher programme.
and services that we offer, resulting in stronger and Having improved its competitive position, the next step broader customer relationships and an increase in is to align the engine portfolio currently within GKN enquiries about work content with many of these key Aerospace with GKN Aerospace Engine Systems and customers.
GKN Aerospace Engine Systems supplies build on its offering to the marketplace to deliver all the major aero engine manufacturers and has long continued customer value and remain at the forefront term relationships with companies such as GE, Pratt & of this growing market.
Whitney, MTU, Snecma and Rolls-Royce.
There is a strong business pipeline from both increased build rates on existing programmes and the potential For more information about the financial performance to win content on new commercial aerospace platforms.
of GKN Aerospace Engine Systems, see pages 28-29. www.
com 31 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED GKN DRIVELINE As a global business serving the worlds leading vehicle manufacturers, GKN Driveline develops, builds and supplies an extensive range of automotive driveline products and systems for use in the most sophisticated premium vehicles, that demand complex driving dynamics, to the smallest ultra low-cost cars.
Products Strategy Constant velocity jointed systems including CV joints Our strategy is to leverage our market leading presence and sideshafts.
and superior technology to: All-wheel drive AWD systems including propshafts, provide innovative driveline systems and solutions, couplings and final drive units.
supporting developing market trends for more fuel Trans-axle solutions including open, limited slip efficient vehicles: and locking differentials and electronic torque increase our business in high growth regions: and vectoring products.
serve the needs of strategic customers through a market eDrive systems including electric axles, transmissions leading global footprint.
24,000 45 manufacturing locations Number of employees in 22 countries GKN Driveline sales by region of origin GKN Driveline sales by product group 3,416m 3,416m Europe 1,228m CVJ Systems 2,136m North America 1,032m AWD Systems 975m South America 208m Trans-axle Solutions 231m China 362m eDrive Systems 26m Japan 341m Other 48m India 76m Other 169m PRODUCT HIGHLIGHT: FINAL DRIVE UNITS BMW has selected GKN Driveline to manufacture front Final Drive Units FDUs for a number of its X Series vehicles.
FDUs are an integral part of the drivetrain and help create an innovative all-wheel drive system for the X3 and X6 models.
The GKN Driveline plant in Newton, North Carolina, US, has responded rapidly to this important contract and is now supplying front FDUs to BMW.
32 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION The major automotive markets of China, North America and Brazil experienced increased production relative to 2012, while Europe was flat and Japan and India declined.
Overall, global production volumes increased 4% to 84.8 million vehicles 2012: 81.5 million.
For more information on Automotive markets the automotive Car and light vehicle production rounded millions of units 2013 2012 Growth % markets see page 11 Europe 19.5 19.3 1.1 North America 16.2 15.4 4.8 Brazil 3.5 3.2 8.9 Japan 9.1 9.4 -3.9 China 20.9 18.2 14.7 India 3.6 3.8 -4.1 Others 12.0 12.2 -1.0 Total global 84.8 81.5 4.0 Source: IHS Automotive Growth is derived from unrounded production figures The key financial results for the year are as follows: Trading profit increased 11 million.
The impact of currency translation was 1 million adverse.
Change % The organic improvement in trading profit was 2013 2012 Headline Organic 12 million, after incurring 16 million of Sales m 3,416 3,236 6 7 restructuring charges in Europe and Japan and Trading profit m 246 235 5 5 absorbing operational inefficiencies in Brazil Trading margin % 7.2% 7.3% and Thailand.
GKN Drivelines trading margin Return on average invested capital % 17.0% 16.0% was 7.2% 2012: 7.3%, or 7.7% excluding restructuring charges.
GKN Drivelines sales increased 180 million 6%.
The adverse effect of currency translation Capital expenditure on tangible fixed assets was 35 million and the impact from disposals was was 142 million 2012: 159 million, 1.2 times 2 million, being the proportionate loss of sales 2012: 1.3 times depreciation.
Return on average from a wholly owned business in China which invested capital was 17.0% 2012: 16.0%.
was transferred into our Shanghai GKN HUAYU During the year, a number of important milestones Driveline Systems Co Ltd joint venture in that and new business wins were secured by GKN country.
Organic sales increased by 217 million Driveline, including: 7% compared with global vehicle production which was up 4%.
Constant Velocity Jointed CVJ Celebrating its 25 year anniversary in China by Systems accounted for 63% of sales and non-CVJ extending its joint venture agreement to include sales were 37%.
the full driveline product range and opening an extension to the Wuhan forge: GKN Drivelines market outperformance was broad Significant customer wins in AWD systems, based across most markets including North notably the final drive unit FDU for the BMW X For more America, China, Europe and Japan reflecting recent series in the US: information on market share gains, a stronger position in premium Continued strong wins for CVJ products GKN Driveline vehicles, demand for which continued to be good, and systems: visit www.
com and GKN Drivelines broadening product mix, Further expansion of manufacturing facilities driveline particularly with all-wheel drive AWD systems.
in Mexico and in Poland: and Contract to supply a disconnect AWD system for the 2014 Range Rover Evoque.
com 33 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED GKN POWDER METALLURGY GKN Powder Metallurgy comprises Hoeganaes and GKN Sinter Metals.
Hoeganaes is one of the worlds largest metal powder manufacturers and produces the metal powder that GKN Sinter Metals and others use to manufacture precision automotive components as well as components for industrial and consumer applications.
Our strategy is to exploit powder metal technology, working closely with our customers to develop Design for Powder Sintered components for engines and transmissions, Metallurgy applications to: as well as pumps, bodies and chassis, and compressors.
meet the rapidly developing requirements for high efficiency engines, advanced transmission applications, Metal injection moulded components.
weight reduction and evolving emissions standards: and Soft magnetic components for use in electric motors.
expand the business in high-growth markets, supporting Sintered components for numerous industrial customers globally.
6,600 34 manufacturing locations Number of employees in 10 countries GKN Powder Metallurgy sales GKN Powder Metallurgy 932m sales by product type 932m GKN Sinter Metals Americas 382m Sintered components Europe 325m Automotive 653m Rest of World 75m Industrial 129m Hoeganaes Hoeganaes 150m Metal powder 150m GKN Sinter Metals sales by region of origin PRODUCT HIGHLIGHT: START-STOP TECHNOLOGY Start-stop technology is increasingly being used in cars as vehicle manufacturers seek to reduce CO emissions.
One of the main components in the starter motor 2 is the ring gear, typically made from plastic.
However with start-stop, the starters are activated significantly more often, and all gears need to be stronger and more durable to withstand ongoing stress.
By manufacturing ring gears using powder metal, GKN provides a lightweight, high-performing solution, which is more resistant to wear and can achieve tighter tolerances.
During 2013, several first tier suppliers chose GKN to supply ring gears for start-stop technology in vehicles such as VW Passat, Nissan Serena and Peugeot 508.
34 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION During the year GKN Powder Metallurgy continued The key financial results for the year are as follows: its strong product development, particularly with Change % advanced products and powders, and was awarded 2013 2012 Headline Organic 144 million of annualised sales in new business.
Sales m 932 874 7 6 Notable milestones included: Trading profit m 94 87 8 7 Trading margin % 10.1% 10.0% Opening a new sintering plant in Yizheng China: Return on average invested capital % 21.1% 19.8% Receiving the Award of Distinction for its rear camshaft cap component used on Chrysler GKN Powder Metallurgy sales increased 58 million four-cylinder engines in the Dodge Dart: 7%.
The positive impact of currency translation Good progress in developing transmission was 6 million.
Organic sales increased by gears which were validated by a major European 52 million 6%, despite a fall in material For more transmission manufacturer: and surcharges, with strong growth in North America, information New products to aid fuel efficiency, such as: Europe and China but with a more modest on automotive helical pulley gear for electric power steering improvement in India, where vehicle markets markets system for ZF Group: pump components for remained volatile.
Sales in Brazil fell due to weaker see page 11 a global double clutch transmission DCT industrial markets.
and the table programme for Getrag: high strength ring gear on page 33 component for Start-Stop systems for Valeo: Trading profit increased 7 million.
The positive and components for a number of variable valve impact of currency translation was 1 million and timing VVT systems.
the organic increase in profit was 6 million, after including a 5 million restructuring charge.
The divisional trading margin was 10.1% 2012: 10.0%, or 10.6% excluding restructuring charges.
Capital expenditure on tangible fixed assets was 51 million 2012: 47 million.
The ratio of capital expenditure to depreciation was 1.5 times 2012: 1.5 times.
Return on average invested capital was 21.1% 2012: 19.8%, reflecting the improvement in profitability.
For more information on GKN Powder Metallurgy visit www.
com powdermetallurgy Hardness testing of sintered parts at GKN Powder Metallurgy, Bonn, Germany www.
com 35 BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED GKN LAND SYSTEMS GKN Land Systems is a leading supplier of engineered power management products, systems and services.
It designs, manufactures and supplies products and services for the agricultural, construction, mining and utility vehicle markets and key industrial segments, offering integrated powertrain solutions.
Products Strategy Electro-mechanical power management devices such Our strategy is to be a global leader in high technology as electromagnetic brakes, flexible couplings, clutches, power management solutions to the worlds original driveshafts and gear technology.
equipment manufacturers including: Sensors, actuators and controls.
deploying new technologies to advance the penetration Custom designed wheels of single-piece or multi-piece of our electro-mechanical products and systems: design for arduous applications.
positioning our strong brands outside our traditional Advanced structures and chassis systems for a variety home markets into new and emerging growth markets: of vehicle types.
providing better customer solutions based Aftermarket parts and remanufacturing for passenger upon a detailed understanding of their needs and cars, commercial trucks, agricultural and construction future strategies.
5,400 34 manufacturing and service locations Number of employees in 15 countries GKN Land Systems sales by market GKN Land Systems sales by business 899m 899m Agriculture 402m Power Management Devices 376m Industrial 204m Wheels and Structures 294m Automotive 171m Powertrain Systems Construction and mining 122m and Services 229m PRODUCT HIGHLIGHT: PTO DRIVESHAFTS Power take-off PTO driveshafts transmit power through the driveline system in agricultural vehicles, and the new wide-angled PTO driveshaft from GKN Land Systems is its most powerful yet.
Providing a number of advanced technical developments and special design features, it is able to transmit 35% more power than previous models.
It was developed for use in heavy-duty agricultural applications and has been selected by customers such as Claas, delivering benefits in reliability, durability and versatility.
36 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Sales in GKN Land Systems were lower than the prior year due to weaker Capital expenditure on tangible fixed assets construction, mining, European aftermarket and industrial markets while was 20 million 2012: 20 million, 1.1 times the agricultural equipment market remained relatively stable.
Return on average structures activity declined due to expected programme cessations invested capital was 18.3% 2012: 21.3%.
representing around 45 million of annualised sales, which required Good progress was made towards winning new some restructuring activity.
business and implementing the GKN Land Systems The key financial results for the year are as follows: strategy through broadening its product offering and geographic footprint.
Specific areas of Change % success included: 2013 2012 Headline Organic Sales m 899 933 4 6 A new venture established in Donghai, China Trading profit m 75 88 15 16 to manufacture agricultural wheels: Trading margin % 8.3% 9.4% Reorganising marketing and customer account Return on average invested capital % 18.3% 21.3% management to enable cross-selling of the full GKN Land Systems power management product GKN Land Systems sales in the year fell 34 million range and holding the first integrated customer 4%.
The positive impact of currency translation technology days: was 24 million, the establishment of a new wheels Winning a contract to supply wheels to Armstrong venture in China had sales of 3 million and the Tyres and its subsidiary Agritech Wheels for For more disposal of an aftermarket branch in the fourth distribution in the Australian and Pacific Islands information on quarter of 2012 reduced sales by 4 million.
agricultural markets: and the land systems The organic decrease in sales was 57 million, markets Supporting a hybrid bus project with the provision a fall of 6%, including around 25 million due see page 11 of the drive train EVO motor, gearbox and drive to the cessation of two chassis contracts.
The shafts and systems integration with the carbon ending of these contracts will further reduce sales fibre flywheel energy storage system.
Trading profit was 13 million lower, including 3 million of restructuring charges.
The positive impact of currency translation was 3 million, acquisition and divestment activities reduced For more profit by 1 million and the organic decrease information on in trading profit was 15 million.
Trading margin GKN Land Systems was 8.3% 2012: 9.4%, or 8.7% excluding visit www.
landsystems OTHER BUSINESSES GKNs Other Businesses comprise Cylinder Liners, Sales in the year were 104 million which is mainly a 59% owned venture in China, 2012: 86 million, reflecting an improvement manufacturing engine liners for the truck market in the commercial vehicle market.
GKNs Other in the US, Europe and China and a 50% share in Businesses reported a combined trading profit Emitec, which manufactures metallic substrates of 5 million 2012: trading loss of 4 million, for catalytic converters in Germany, the US, China after 1 million of restructuring charges.
The activities relating to our joint venture stake in EVO Electric, a developer of axial flux motors, are also included.
