ADDITIONAL INFORMATION The trustee of the Trust does not exercise any voting rights Annual General Meeting in respect of shares held by the Trust.
Once the shares are The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at transferred from the Trust to share scheme participants, the 2.00 pm on Thursday, 1 May 2014 at the Cavendish Conference participants are entitled to exercise the voting rights attaching Centre, 22 Duchess Mews, London W1G 9DT.
The notice of to those shares.
meeting, which includes the business to be transacted at the meeting, is included within the AGM circular.
The circular also The Trust waived payment of the 2012 final dividend in May contains an explanation of all the resolutions to be considered 2013 and the 2013 interim dividend in September 2013. at the AGM.
Full details of the rights and obligations attaching to the Dividend Companys shares are contained in the articles of association.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 5.3p per ordinary share in respect of the year ended 31 December 2013, payable Restrictions on the transfer of securities to shareholders on the register at the close of business on Whilst the Board has the power under the articles of 11 April 2014.
This, together with the interim dividend of association to refuse to register a transfer of shares, there 2.6p paid in September 2013, brings the total dividend for are no restrictions on the transfer of shares.
Under the Companys articles, the Directors have power to Issued share capital suspend voting rights and the right to receive dividends in At 31 December 2013, the issued share capital of the Company respect of shares in circumstances where the holder of those consisted of 1,660,529,859 ordinary shares of 10p 2012: shares fails to comply with a notice issued under section 793 1,660,529,859 shares, of which 20,558,781 shares 1.24% of the Companies Act 2006. were held in treasury 2012: 28,243,201 shares: 1.70%.
During the year a total of 7,684,420 ordinary shares were transferred The Company is not aware of any agreements between out of treasury in connection with the exercise of options shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer by participants under the Companys share option schemes of securities or voting rights.
Substantial shareholders GKN operates an Employee Share Option Plan Trust the Trust As at 31 December 2013, the Company had been notified to satisfy the vesting and exercise of awards of ordinary shares of the following holdings of voting rights in its shares under made under the Groups share-based incentive arrangements.
Rule 5 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the As at 31 December 2013, the Trust held 1,887,665 shares Financial Conduct Authority: 2012: 3,111,998 shares, being 0.11% of the Companys issued Shareholder Nature of interest % of voting rights share capital 2012: 0.19% including treasury shares.
A total Standard Life of 1,768,040 shares with a nominal value of 176,804 were Investments Ltd Direct 5.64% purchased by the Trust in the open market during 2013 for a Indirect 3.28% cash consideration of 4.6 million 2012: 1,300,000 shares Total 8.92% with a nominal value of 130,000 were purchased for a cash Ameriprise Financial Inc Direct 0.15% consideration of 2.7 million.
During the year 2,992,373 2012: 407,118 shares were transferred out of the Trust to Indirect 4.98% satisfy the exercise of awards.
Contracts for difference 0.02% Total 5.15% The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock see footnote on page 100.
In addition, GKN has a sponsored Level 1 American Depositary Receipt ADR programme for which the Bank of New York Mellon acts as Depositary.
The ADRs trade in the US over-the-counter market where each ADR represents one GKN ordinary share.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends when declared, to receive the Companys annual report, to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
On a show of hands at a meeting of GKN, every member present holding ordinary shares has one vote.
On a poll taken at a meeting, every member present and entitled to vote has one vote in respect of each ordinary share held by him.
In the case of joint shareholders only the vote of the senior joint holder who votes and any proxy duly authorised by him may be counted.
Shares held in treasury carry no voting rights.
98 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Directors The Directors who served during the financial year were as follows: Position as at Service in the year ended Name 31 December 2013 31 December 2013 Michael Turner Chairman Served throughout the year Nigel Stein Chief Executive Served throughout the year Marcus Bryson Chief Executive Aerospace Served throughout the year and Land Systems Angus Cockburn Independent non-executive Director Served throughout the year Tufan Erginbilgic Independent non-executive Director Served throughout the year Shonaid Jemmett-Page Independent non-executive Director Served throughout the year Richard Parry-Jones Senior Independent Director Served throughout the year Andrew Reynolds Smith Chief Executive Automotive Served throughout the year and Powder Metallurgy William Seeger Finance Director Served throughout the year John Sheldrick N A Retired on 2 May 2013 Membership of the Board and biographical details of the of 54,425,589.
These authorities will remain valid until the Directors in office at the date of this report are shown on pages 2014 AGM or 1 July 2014, if earlier.
Resolutions to renew these 60 and 61.
Further details relating to Board and Committee authorities will be proposed at the 2014 AGM.
composition are disclosed in the corporate governance Directors indemnities statement on pages 62 to 69.
Pursuant to the articles of association, the Company has executed Following his appointment to the Board in January 2014 a deed poll of indemnity for the benefit of the Directors of the and in accordance with the Companys articles of association, Company and persons who were Directors of the Company in Adam Walker will retire and offer himself for election at the respect of costs of defending claims against them and third party 2014 AGM.
With the exception of William Seeger, who will liabilities.
These provisions, deemed to be qualifying third party retire from the Board on 25 February 2014, all other Directors indemnity provisions pursuant to section 234 of the Companies will retire and offer themselves for re-election in accordance Act 2006, were in force during the year ended 31 December 2013 with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The indemnity provision in the Companys articles of association also extends to provide a limited indemnity The articles of association provide that a Director may be in respect of liabilities incurred as a director, secretary or officer appointed by an ordinary resolution of shareholders or by the of an associated company of the Company.
existing Directors, either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director.
Further information on GKNs internal procedures A copy of the deed poll of indemnity is available for inspection for the appointment of Directors is given in the corporate at the Companys registered office during normal business hours governance statement.
and will be available for inspection at the Companys AGM.
The Directors remuneration report, which includes details of The Company has also arranged appropriate insurance cover service agreements and the Directors interests in GKN shares, for legal action taken against its Directors and officers.
Conflicts of interest Copies of the service contracts of the executive Directors Under the Companies Act 2006, Directors have a statutory duty and the letters of appointment of the non-executive Directors to avoid conflicts of interest with the Company.
As permitted are available for inspection at the Companys registered office by the Act, the Companys articles of association enable during normal business hours and will be available for Directors to authorise actual and potential conflicts of interest.
inspection at the Companys AGM.
Formal procedures for the notification and authorisation Directors powers of such conflicts are in place.
These procedures enable The Board of Directors may exercise all the powers of the non-conflicted Directors to impose limits or conditions Company subject to the provisions of relevant legislation, the when giving or reviewing authorisation and require the Board Companys articles of association and any directions given by to review the register of Directors conflicts annually and on the Company in general meeting.
The powers of the Directors an ad hoc basis when necessary.
Any potential conflicts of include those in relation to the issue and buyback of shares.
interest in relation to newly appointed Directors are considered by the Board prior to appointment.
At the 2013 AGM the Directors were authorised to exercise the powers of the Company to purchase up to 163,228,666 Articles of association of its ordinary shares.
No shares were purchased under this The Companys articles of association can only be amended authority in 2013.
The Directors were also authorised to allot by special resolution of the shareholders.
GKNs current shares in the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount articles are available on our website at www.
com 99 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION CONTINUED The Groups US Aerospace business has a Political Action Change of control Committee PAC which is funded entirely by employees and As at 31 December 2013, the Companys subsidiary, GKN their spouses.
No funds are provided to the PAC by GKN and Holdings plc, had agreements with 16 banks for 23 bilateral any administrative services provided to the PAC by the US banking facilities totalling 837 million and an 80 million Aerospace business are fully charged to and paid for by the loan facility with the European Investment Bank.
Each of these PAC, and the Company does not therefore consider these agreements provides that, on a change of control of GKN plc, to be political donations.
Employee contributions are entirely the respective bank can give notice to GKN Holdings plc to voluntary and no pressure is placed on employees to repay all outstanding amounts under the relevant facility.
Under US law, an employee-funded PAC must The Company has in issue 450 million fixed rate notes paying bear the name of the employing company.
5.375% semi-annual interest and maturing on 19 September 2022 under a euro medium term note programme established by Research and development GKN Holdings plc the Notes.
Pursuant to the terms attaching Group subsidiaries undertake research and development work to the Notes, a holder of the Notes has the option to require GKN in support of their principal manufacturing activities.
Further Holdings plc to redeem or at GKN Holdings plcs option purchase details of the Groups research and development activities can the holders Notes at their principal amount if there is a change be found throughout the strategic report.
of control of the Company and either i the Notes are unrated or Financial instruments do not carry an investment grade credit rating from at least two Details of the Groups use of financial instruments can be ratings agencies: or ii if the Notes carry an investment grade found in Note 19 to the financial statements.
credit rating from at least two ratings agencies, the Notes are downgraded to a non-investment grade rating or that rating Strategic report is withdrawn within 90 days of the change of control and such Pursuant to section 414C of the Companies Act 2006 the downgrade or withdrawal is cited by the ratings agencies as strategic report contains details in relation to the likely being the result of the change of control.
future developments of the business of the Group and the Companies in the Groups Aerospace division are party to disclosure of greenhouse gas emissions for which the long term supply contracts with customers which are original Company is responsible.
equipment manufacturers of aircraft and aero engines.
Certain Auditors & disclosure of information of these contracts contain provisions which would entitle the Resolutions to reappoint  LLP as customer to terminate the contract in the event of a change of auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to control of the Company, where such change of control conflicts determine their remuneration will be proposed at the 2014 AGM.
with the interests to the customer.
Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions of this Directors report confirms that, so far as he she is relating to a change of control.
Outstanding options and aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the awards normally vest and become exercisable on a change of Companys auditors are unaware.
Each Director has taken control subject to the satisfaction of any performance all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director conditions at that time.
in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit Payments to suppliers information and to establish that the Companys auditors It is Group policy to abide by the payment terms agreed with are aware of that information.
suppliers, provided that the supplier has performed its obligations The strategic report comprising the inside front cover and under the contract.
In support of this policy, the Company is a pages 1 to 59 and this Directors report comprising pages 60 signatory to the UK Governments Prompt Payment Code.
to 101 have been approved by the Board and are signed on its behalf by Branches GKN, through various subsidiaries, has established branches in a number of different countries in which the business operates.
JUDITH FELTON Donations COMPANY SECRETARY In 2013, charitable donations made by Group companies around the world totalled 731,000 of which 101,000 was to 24 February 2014 UK registered charities.
As at 27 February 2014, the Company had not been advised of any further changes or additions to the interests notified under Rule 5 of the Disclosure In accordance with the Groups policy, no political donations were Rules and Transparency Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority as set out on page 98. made and no political expenditure was incurred during 2013.
100 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity the Directors remuneration report and the Group and of the corporate and financial information included on the Company financial statements in accordance with applicable Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the law and regulations.
preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under Each of the Directors as at the date of the annual report, whose that law, the Directors are required to prepare the Group names and functions are set out on pages 60 and 61, confirm financial statements in accordance with applicable law and that to the best of their knowledge: International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted the Group financial statements, prepared in accordance with by the European Union EU and have elected to prepare the IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the Company financial statements in accordance with applicable assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the law and United Kingdom UK Accounting Standards UK Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
taken as a whole: and the strategic report includes a fair review of the development Under company law, the Directors must not approve the and performance of the business and the position of the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing risks and uncertainties that they face.
each of the Group and Company financial statements the Directors are required to: In addition, the Directors consider that the annual report select appropriate accounting policies and apply them and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and consistently: understandable and provides the information necessary for make judgements and estimates that are reasonable shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business and prudent: model and strategy.
for the Group financial statements, state whether they Approved by the Board of GKN plc and signed on its behalf by have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Company financial statements: and MIKE TURNER CBE prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis CHAIRMAN unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Company will continue in business.
24 February 2014 The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and the Companys transactions, disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the Company, and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
