STRATEGIC REPORT OTHER INFORMATION DELIVERING OUR STRATEGY GKN is a global engineering group.
We aim to create long-term and sustainable shareholder value in the form of steadily growing earnings and dividends through the delivery of sustained growth in sales, profitability and cash generation.
We have excellent positions in long-term global growth markets: aerospace, automotive and land systems, and we build strong relationships with international original equipment manufacturers OEMs and prime contractors.
To create value we have five strategic objectives: Through innovation, enhanced customer service and scale 1 LEADING IN OUR we are focused on creating a strong business with significant opportunities for growth, both organically and through CHOSEN MARKETS value-enhancing acquisitions.
See pages 16-17 GKN is an international business with a global footprint 2 LEVERAGING A STRONG from which we serve our customer base.
By further developing our geographic spread we will continue our expansion into GLOBAL PRESENCE growing markets and build long-lasting and mutually beneficial See pages 18-19 customer relationships that increase our market share.
GKN delivers innovative technologies that help our customers 3 DIFFERENTIATING stay ahead in their markets and enable us to maintain our competitive edge, ensuring we remain in higher value markets.
OURSELVES THROUGH We work with our customers to develop new technologies, TECHNOLOGY driven by global trends such as the low-carbon agenda, See pages 20-21 electrification, urbanisation and population growth.
We have a strong culture of operational excellence and, through 4 DRIVING OPERATIONAL continuous improvement processes, we focus on delivering exceptional quality and customer service.
At the same time, EXCELLENCE we aim to be an employer of choice with a high-performance See pages 22-23 culture, motivated people and outstanding leaders.
We believe that growth, at a manageable rate, 5 SUSTAIN ABOVE is essential to our success.
MARKET GROWTH Find out about the progress made during 2013 in the case studies on pages 16-23. www.
com 15 1 LEADING IN OUR CHOSEN MARKETS Focusing on innovation and delivering exceptional customer service enables us to lead in our markets, creating a strong business with significant opportunities for growth.
GKN Aerospace is a tier 1 supplier to the global aerospace industry.
It is a market leader in the manufacture of high value composite and metallic aerostructures and engine products, as well as transparency solutions and other niche technologies.
Advanced design and manufacturing, continued innovation and strong customer partnerships help ensure that we offer valuable solutions for our customers.
GKN Aerospace sales by product 2,243m Engine components and sub-systems 50% Aerostructures 45% Special products 5% INTEGRATED AEROSTRUCTURES ENGINE SYSTEMS FROM NOSE TO TAIL LIGHTWEIGHT, HIGH PERFORMANCE The all-composite rear wing spar on the Airbus A350 XWB, Over 90% of commercial aircraft take off every day the advanced winglets on the Bombardier CSeries and with technology from GKN Aerospace helping to power the lightweight HondaJet fuselage are just some of the their engines.
aerostructures manufactured by GKN Aerospace that are As a global leader in aero engine components, GKN Aerospace helping to make aircraft across the world lighter and more Engine Systems designs, engineers and manufactures fuel efficient.
components and sub-assemblies for aircraft engine turbines.
GKN Aerospace is a global provider of highly complex It has strategic partnerships with all the major aero engine composite and metallic aerostructures.
Its capabilities in OEMs, including Rolls-Royce, GE and Pratt & Whitney, and integrated aerostructure design and manufacture position a broad range of advanced capabilities in composite and GKN at the forefront of aerospace technology.
Its breadth metallic engine components.
of expertise in composite and metallic materials, automated manufacturing processes and assembly technologies ensure the best solutions for its global customers.
16 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION TRANSPARENCIES ICE PROTECTION SYSTEMS A CLEAR VISION FOR DEVELOPMENT ELECTRO-THERMAL TECHNOLOGIES From the extra-large cabin windows on the Boeing 787-9 Advanced fide-icing systems from GKN Aerospace prevent Dreamliner to the canopy on the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter, the in-flight build-up of ice on external aircraft surfaces such GKN Aerospace provides a diverse range of innovative as the wing leading edges on the Boeing 787-9 Dreamliner, transparency solutions.
fan inlets for the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter and engine inlets on the Bell-Boeing V-22 Osprey.
It is the worlds leading provider of military transparency systems and is second in the commercial aircraft transparency As an industry leader in ice protection, GKN Aerospaces market.
Its advanced transparent coatings and aerospace electric systems provide controllable surface heating and grade acrylic material are at the heart of our strong market result in a lighter aircraft structure.
It offers full design position, supported by extensive expertise in the design and and test capability, as well as high volume manufacturing, manufacture of high strength, lightweight products.
for electro-thermal ice protection systems.
com 17 2 LEVERAGING A STRONG GLOBAL PRESENCE Our strong global presence positions us well to serve our international customer base and creates a platform from which we can participate in fast growing markets.
GKN Driveline is a global business that provides an GKN DRIVELINE extensive range of automotive driveline products PRODUCTION LOCATIONS IN CHINA and systems to leading vehicle manufacturers around the world, from 45 manufacturing locations in 22 countries.
Our sales are split relatively evenly Changchun between Europe, Asia and the Americas.
Rising automotive production offers substantial growth opportunities for GKN Driveline.
In recent years expansion has focused on emerging markets with half of all global light vehicle production now located in Asia.
Reflecting this, GKN Driveline currently has manufacturing facilities in China, India, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Taiwan and Thailand.
It is continuing to invest in other regions, with growing capacity in North America and sideshaft production beginning in Russia in the near future.
In addition, increased consumer demand for all-wheel drive AWD has brought rising demand Shanghai for small sport utility vehicles SUVs and crossover vehicles.
Driving this demand is recognition from Wuhan consumers that improved performance and driving Chongqing experience, together with enhanced safety, can be combined with the improved fuel efficiency that AWD can offer compared with traditional four-wheel drive.
Through an extension of Shanghai GKN HUAYU Driveline Systems Co Ltd, GKN Driveline sales by region our joint venture in China, GKN Driveline has full driveline capability in the worlds largest car market.
In addition to driveshafts, it is now able to supply AWD and eDrive systems to the fast growing SUV and AWD segments of the Chinese car market.
This positions GKN well to support 3,416m global customers in China, as well as Chinese domestic manufacturers, with enhanced operational and technical capability.
Europe 37% Americas 36% Asia Paci c 27% 18 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION POWER TRANSFER UNIT Power Transfer Units PTU provide torque distribution in innovative AWD systems.
Production of this PTU for the Mitsubishi ASX was localised in China last year: GKN Driveline currently produces these from one of its facilities in Shanghai.
com 19 3 DIFFERENTIATING OURSELVES THROUGH TECHNOLOGY Delivering innovative technology is an important driver of success and ensures we can remain in higher value markets.
HELICAL GEARS GKN POWDER METALLURGY GKN Powder Metallurgy produces In addition, our technically enhanced lightweight, high-performing helical powders provide further customer gears for use in car transmissions benefits by optimising or, in some cases, to transmit torque.
eliminating a subsequent hardening operation, further reducing production The shape of these gears means they time and investment requirements.
are typically complex to manufacture, but applying a Design for Powder The first helical gears have passed Metallurgy approach offers not only customer long-life durability tests and a simpler manufacturing process but are now capable of serial production and also increased freedom of design.
application in the automotive market.
The result is a lighter, stronger product with high durability, at a lower cost for the customer.
The powder metallurgy process, in which metal powder is compacted and pressurised in a helical die and then sintered to a near net-shape component, significantly reduces the need for machining and reduces the amount of energy required during the manufacturing process, as well as almost eliminating material waste.
20 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION 7.5m Inner fixed trailing edge 10.4m Mid fixed trailing edge 9.3m Outer fixed trailing edge A350 XWB REAR WING SPAR GKN AEROSPACE Rear wing spars are now making their way from GKNs Western Approach facility in Bristol, UK, to the Airbus facility in Broughton, where it is assembling the composite wings for the A350 XWB aircraft.
GKN Aerospaces double award-winning spar is the result of advanced technology and manufacturing.
Working closely with the Airbus engineering team, GKN achieved demanding weight, strength and flexibility targets for the 27 metre composite rear wing spar.
Innovations across product design, manufacture and assembly at the facility optimised the complex spar structure.
Advanced automated fibre placement machines use robotic heads to lay down carbon fibre reinforced plastic material at more than eight times the maximum hand lay-up speed with a consistency and accuracy that is impossible to achieve manually.
The result is higher production rates, lower manufacturing costs and a spar which supports increased aircraft performance, with reduced weight, fuel consumption and emissions.
com 21 4 DRIVING OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE At the heart of GKN is a strong culture of operational excellence.
Based on innovative engineering capability and GKN Lean manufacturing skills, this enables us to produce high quality components and systems that are efficient, sustainable and cost effective for our customers.
DRIVING EXCELLENCE GKN DRIVELINE MEXICO GKN Driveline Mexico supplies sideshafts for automotive Safety and quality have been key areas of focus manufacturers in Mexico and North America.
The growth throughout this process.
The plant has achieved single in these key markets has resulted in a significant increase digit parts per million defects since 2010 and an accident in production to support its customers.
The plant has risen frequency rate of less than 1.
The strive to maintain to this challenge and, despite a considerable increase in excellence across the operation is ongoing, including capacity, has also achieved improvements in both quality even further improvements in health and safety and safety.
performance, as growth looks set to continue in this key market over the coming years.
This has been accomplished through the commitment of the shop floor employees who, working in self-directed teams, have delivered an increase in production from 1.9 million sideshafts in 2005 to 7.8 million in 2013.
7.8m 1 Single digit accident frequency rate sideshafts manufactured in 2013 parts per million defects since 2010 Number of lost time accidents per 1,000 employees 22 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 STRATEGIC REPORT OTHER INFORMATION 50 600,000 Single digit parts per million defects customers driveshafts manufactured in 2013 since 2011 DELIVERING VALUE GKN LAND SYSTEMS BRUNECK GKN Land Systems Bruneck facility in Italy manufactures The team achieved their goal of single digit parts per million driveshafts for agricultural machinery.
The plant has seen defects.
This quality performance has been sustained through significant operational improvements over the past five years, the adaptation of an existing GKN safety assessment tool.
The particularly in the area of customer quality.
easy to use tool involves employees proactively identifying quality issues and highlighting preventative actions to improve The team at Bruneck set themselves the challenge of achieving quality at all levels of the business.
near perfect customer quality to exceed existing industry standards and world class performance.
Supplying over 50 different customers with more than 600,000 driveshafts per year, it was a challenge that required immense effort and teamwork from everyone involved.
