BUSINESS CONTEXT GLOBAL MARKET TRENDS Our customers are leading aircraft, vehicle and machinery manufacturers across the world and we aim to deliver technology to help them meet the challenges facing their industries and the demands of end consumers.
With ever increasing pressure on the planets finite natural resources and an ever growing population, Increased fuel economy targets driving business opportunities 280 there is a continual drive to improve the efficiency 260 of aircraft, cars and other vehicles.
We work with 240 our customers to help them reduce their carbon 220 footprint, with solutions that are lighter and more 200 180 fuel efficient.
160 140 There are a number of key global trends that drive 120 our technology development: 100 80 Lightweight materials 60 The use of lightweight materials has become 40 20 increasingly important, with manufacturers opting 0 for composite or lightweight metallic alternatives 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 2025 to more traditional, heavier materials such as steel.
1 US Composite materials are especially important in The International Council on Clean Transportation, August 2013 2 China 1 US is for light-duty vehicles, including light-commercial vehicles the aviation industry, with composite aerostructures 2 Chinas target reflects gasoline vehicles only EU and engine components already relatively common Japan Solid lines: historic performance Dashed lines: actual targets on new platforms.
In the automotive industry, Dotted lines: proposed targets or targets under study India composites are currently focused on high performance vehicles, with development work underway to increase opportunities across the sector.
Levels of air passenger traffic are increasing, with demand for more flights and larger aircraft to carry 9.6bn Electrification more people.
There will be changes in the types Global population High fuel prices and concern over pollution levels 1 of car people drive and the number of cars on the by 2050 mean that demand for lower emission solutions roads, as well as a call for more mass transit to has never been higher.
Replacing more traditional cater for the increased number of people.
mechanical processes with advanced electric alternatives is becoming more common.
GKN has How we manufacture 2 3 specific expertise in electric and hybrid vehicle We work closely with our customers to ensure we of the global population technology, electrically-driven machinery and manufacture in an efficient and sustainable way will live in urban areas 2 electrification in specific aircraft systems which and, through continuous improvement, strive to in 2050 help our customers meet this challenge.
improve our methods and processes.
Minimising the energy used in manufacturing processes and Population and urbanisation reducing the time, waste and resources involved The world population is expected to reach over are key areas of focus across GKN.
nine billion by 2050, an increase of more than two billion from todays level, with growth mainly in urban Advanced production technologies in our areas.
This trend presents challenges across our operations, such as additive manufacture and markets, requiring a doubling in global agricultural Design for Powder Metallurgy, is helping to reduce production to meet demand, calling for increased the weight and change the overall design of our farming efficiency.
Urbanisation is leading to products, so we are able to offer a more efficient infrastructure development in cities, with the need solution for our customers.
Increasingly we deliver for roads, power grids, water containment and our technological solutions via integrated systems distribution systems, as well as buildings and housing.
10 GKN plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Grams CO2 per kilometre normalised to NEDC STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION Key market drivers Pricing pressure through the supply chain.
Airbus and Boeing Continued growth in air passenger traffic.
Emergence of new competition among deliveries in 2013 Record level of aircraft and engine backlogs.
1,274 Crude oil and jet fuel prices.
The overall aerospace market is strong, driven Airbus and Boeing by commercial production rates which more commercial backlog Environmental impact reduction programmes.
than compensate for a reducing military sector.
Recent trends 10,787 World aircraft production expected to grow Drive to develop technology to improve aircraft at 3-4% over the next five years.
Boeing and Airbus forecast a global demand New fuel efficient aircraft such as the A350 of between 29,000 and 35,000 large XWB, Boeing 737 Max, A320 neo and commercial aircraft over the next 20 years.
Source: GKN Aerospace forecast Light vehicle Key market drivers European vehicle production benefited from production in 2013 Demand for more fuel efficient vehicles.
the demand in major overseas markets for premium vehicles, while in North America Electric hybrid applications.
84.8m there was a move to localise production Demand for personal mobility in from overseas.
in global vehicle Outlook Customer preference for quality and safety.
production in 2014 External forecasts indicate that global Recent trends vehicle production in 2014 will increase by 2.9% Overall, global light vehicle production approximately 2.9% to 87.3 million vehicles.
increased by 4% in 2013 to 84.8 million The fastest growth is expected in China 9% vehicles, whilst sales of light vehicles and India is forecast to increase by 5%.
North America is forecast to grow at a China, Brazil and North America saw the similar rate to 2013, and Europe is expected largest production growth in 2013 due to to continue its long, slow recovery from market recovery and, in the case of Brazil, recession with an increase of 1%.
Source: IHS Automotive Production in Europe remained broadly flat, up 1%, while Russia, India, Japan and South Korea declined.
Growth in world Key market drivers The market for construction and industrial 1 population by 2050 Regulatory and economic pressures equipment has been weak but some signs to increase energy efficiency and reduce of stability returning to these markets were 2.4bn CO emissions leading to adoption of evident in the latter part of 2013.
2 alternative fuel and more efficient power Global demand Mining equipment markets have seen for agricultural management technologies.
significant reductions in activity as 3 equipment in 2016 Demand for more efficient agricultural mining companies have reduced their equipment to improve yields and meet capital expenditure.
$175bn an increased food demand stemming from Outlook population growth and the trend towards Agricultural equipment markets are higher protein diets as standards of expected to decline slightly in 2014 living increase.
Infrastructure development and global Construction and industrial equipment demand for commodities.
markets are expected to stabilise, Need for significantly increased safety, particularly in Europe.
Source: Recent trends 1 UN World Population Prospects: The 2012 Revision Global demand for agricultural equipment has 2 UN World Urbanisation Prospects: The 2011 Revision 3 recently stabilised at historically high levels.
Freedonia Group: World Agricultural Equipment 2012 www.
com 11 LAND SYSTEMS AUTOMOTIVE AEROSPACE
