Strategic report Chairmans statement Chairmans statement To shareholders The value of the significant changes that have been made in recent years is evidenced in our performance this year It is clear from the following pages that Through the Audit & Risk Committee, we Since Sir Andrew became the Group made good progress against oversee the issues and challenges faced by CEO, the company has its strategy in 2013. management, and encourage the creation of an environment in which GSK can achieve The Board believes the business is seeing returned 30 billion its strategic ambitions in a responsible and the benefits of the significant changes the sustainable manner.
management team has driven over recent years to deliver sustainable growth, reduce I have no doubt that commercial success is risk and enhance returns to shareholders.
directly linked to operating in a responsible way and which meets the changing expectations of The notably strong performance from the society.
In this respect, the company continues R&D organisation in 2013 with six major to adopt industry-leading positions on a range new product approvals in areas including of issues.
respiratory disease, HIV and cancer is critical to the longer-term prospects of the The announcement of plans during 2013 Group.
That this has been achieved at the to evolve the way the business interacts with same time as R&D is effectively managing its healthcare professionals and pays sales staff cost base to deliver an improved estimated rate are developments I was particularly pleased of return of 13% is particularly encouraging.
It is worth noting that since Sir Andrew In the same way the Board strongly supports the commitments the company has made to became CEO, GSKs market capitalisation has grown from approximately 55 billion advance transparency around clinical trial to around 80 billion and the company has data, and welcomes the subsequent actions returned some 30 billion to shareholders of other companies in this field.
Over time, via 20 billion of dividends and 10 billion it is to be hoped these steps will advance of share buy-backs.
medical science and improve patient care.
The allegations of fraudulent behaviour by Risk management and commitment certain employees within our business in to ethical behaviour China are wholly contrary to the companys The Board aims to assure the integrity of values.
In addition to the Chinese Government GSKs business operations through rigorous investigation, we have commissioned an processes and systems and during the year, independent review of our Chinese operations risk management was once again a key part by the law firm Ropes and Gray, and we will of the Boards discussions.
implement all appropriate actions as necessary on conclusion of these investigations.
