Remuneration policy report Remuneration policy The total remuneration for each Executive Director comprises the following elements: Value earned Annual from long-term Total Salary Benefits Pension bonus incentive remuneration awards The Committee may, in specific circumstances and in line with stated principles, apply clawback malus as it determines appropriate.
Future policy table The companys Remuneration policy from 7 May 2014 in respect of each of the above elements is outlined in the table below.
Salary Benefits International assignment policy Purpose and link to strategy Purpose and link to strategy Purpose and link to strategy To provide a core reward for the role.
Levels are set to recruit and retain high calibre GSK may require Executive Directors to relocate individuals to execute the business strategy.
in order to meet business requirements.
Set at a level appropriate to secure and retain high calibre individuals needed to deliver the Groups Operation Operation strategic priorities.
Executive Directors are eligible to receive In line with the policy for other employees, benefits in line with the policy for other employees secondment and travel expenses are provided Operation which may vary by location.
These include car for executives on overseas placement to facilitate Individuals role, experience and performance allowances, healthcare, life assurance death the relocation process and to provide a continued and independently sourced data for relevant in service where not provided as part of the standard of living while on assignment.
comparator groups considered when determining individuals pension arrangements, personal salary levels.
International assignment allowances cover: financial advice and contractual post-retirement relocation costs: accommodation based on Salary increases typically take effect in the first benefits.
Executive Directors are also eligible to size of family with appropriate security: location quarter of each year.
participate in all-employee share schemes eg allowance: relocation-specific tax and financial ShareSave and ShareReward Plan, under which Salaries are normally paid in the currency of the advice: school fees: and tax equalisation.
they are subject to the same terms as all other Executive Directors home country.
Opportunity Opportunity In order to recognise the high business and travel Relocation benefits are dependent on a number of requirements of the role, Executive Directors are There is no formal maximum limit, however, factors such as home and host country, family size also entitled to car travel and may be accompanied ordinarily, salary increases will be broadly in line and duration of the assignment.
by their spouse partner on business trips.
Other with the average increases for the wider GSK It is therefore not possible to provide typical values benefits include expenses incurred in the ordinary workforce.
course of business, which are deemed to be However, increases may be higher to reflect taxable benefits on the individual.
a change in the scope of the individuals role, Performance measures Benefit provision is tailored to reflect market responsibilities or experience.
Salary adjustments None practice in the geography in which the Executive may also reflect wider market conditions in the Director is based and different policies may apply geography in which the individual operates.
if current or future Executive Directors are based Salary levels for 2014 are set out on page 98. in a different country.
Performance measures Opportunity The overall performance of the individual is a key There is no formal maximum limit as benefits costs consideration when determining salary increases.
can fluctuate depending on changes in provider cost and individual circumstances.
Details of current benefits and costs are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Performance measures None GSK Annual Report 2013 117
