Adviser to the Committee The Remuneration Committee The Committee has access to external advice as required.
During the year, the Committee carried out a formal review of the independent Role of the Committee advisers to the Committee.
As a result of this review, the Committee The role of the Committee is to set the companys remuneration decided to reappoint Deloitte LLP to provide it with independent advice policy so that GSK is able to recruit, retain and motivate its on executive remuneration.
The Committee Chairman agrees the executives.
The remuneration policy is regularly reviewed to protocols under which Deloitte provides advice and the Committee ensure that it is consistent with the companys scale and scope is satisfied that the advice they have received from Deloitte has been of operations, supports the business strategy and growth plans objective and independent.
and helps drive the creation of shareholder value.
Deloitte is a member of the Remuneration Consultants Group and, Terms of reference as such, voluntarily operates under the code of conduct in relation The Committees full terms of reference are available on the to executive remuneration consulting in the UK.
The code of conduct companys website.
The terms of reference, which are reviewed can be found at www.
at least annually, were last revised in December 2013 in light of Deloitte provided independent commentary on matters under best practice and the new remuneration regulations.
consideration by the Committee and provided updates on market practice and legislative requirements.
Deloittes fees for advice Governance provided to the Committee in 2013 were 328,000.
Fees were The Board considers all of the members of the Committee to be charged on a time and materials basis.
Deloitte LLP also provided independent Non-Executive Directors in accordance with the UK other consulting, tax and assurance services to GSK during the year, Corporate Governance Code, with the exception of Sir Christopher however, the Committee are satisfied that this does not compromise Gent, Chairman of the company, who was considered independent the independence of the advice they have received from Deloitte.
Towers Watson provided additional market data to the Committee.
The Committee met six times in scheduled meetings during 2013, with each member attending as follows: Commitment to shareholders Attendance The Committee engages in regular dialogue with shareholders and Committee at full holds annual meetings with GSKs largest investors to discuss and member meetings take feedback on its remuneration policy.
In particular, the Committee Members since during 2013 discusses any significant changes to the policy or the measures used Tom fide Swaan 20 May 2009 6 6 to assess performance.
Chairman from 1 January 2013 Dr Stephanie Burns 1 May 2013 3 3 Shareholder votes on remuneration matters Sir Christopher Gent 1 January 2007 6 6 Votes Judy Lewent 1 January 2013 6 6 Total votes Total votes Total votes withheld AGM cast Billion for % against % Million Sir Deryck Maughan 1 July 2012 5 6 2013 3.8 94.6 5.4 34.4 Hans Wijers 10 October 2013 0 1 Sir Deryck Maughan and Hans Wijers were each unable to attend one Committee meeting due to prior business commitments.
In addition to the six scheduled meetings, the Committee met in full on three occasions to further consider the remuneration matters under review in the year including the review of long-term incentive design and the 2013 Remuneration Report under the new regulations.
The Committee also met on a quorate basis on two occasions to approve the formal grant of long-term incentive awards to employees below the Corporate Executive Team.
Committee meetings usually include a closed session, during which only members of the Committee are present.
Other individuals may also be invited to attend Committee meetings during the year.
Executives and other Committee attendees are not involved in any decisions, and are not present at any discussions regarding their own remuneration.
Other attendees at Committee meetings include: Regular Attends Attendee attendee as required CEO CFO Head of Human Resources Head of Reward Secretary to the Committee Committee Adviser Deloitte LLP GSK Annual Report 2013 107 Governance & remuneration Directors Remuneration Report Principal activities and matters addressed during 2013 The Committees principal activities and matters addressed during 2013 are set out below: Remuneration Month Overall Incentives Governance and other matters January Approve executives 2013 remuneration, Review and approve executives 2012 Review draft 2012 Remuneration Report including salaries of CEO, CFO and bonuses Chairman, Global R&D & Vaccines Set 2013 bonus objectives Remuneration environment update February Review LTI performance outcomes and Approve 2012 Remuneration Report approve vesting of outstanding 2009 LTI awards 2009-2012 and 2010 LTI awards 2010-2012 Approve LTI measures and targets for 2013 awards 2013-2015, and grant awards to Executive Directors and below March Remuneration environment update, Review shareholder feedback including consideration of new reporting Set Committees agenda for 2013 regulations July Update on new remuneration reporting Review of long-term incentive design Review AGM feedback and external regulations, including early draft of 2013 performance measures, comparator environment Remuneration Report group and time horizons Approve Committee evaluation process CET remuneration review Review of independent adviser July Grant interim 2013 LTI awards below executives August Grant main 2013 Share Value Plan awards below executives September Review of pay comparator groups Continuation of review of long-term Review of external remuneration incentive design performance measures, environment comparator group and time horizons October Update on executives pension Update on LTI vesting for 2011 awards Review of Chairmans fees arrangements 2011-2013 Review draft disclosures for 2013 Remuneration Report November Review of terms and conditions and Approve materials for annual investor policies meeting November Annual meeting with investors December Annual pay review Review feedback from shareholder meetings Approve Executive Directors 2014 salaries Review findings from Committee evaluation Review draft 2013 Remuneration Report 108 GSK Annual Report 2013
