Strategic report Our financial architecture Our financial architecture Our financial architecture is designed to support the execution of our strategy and to enhance returns to shareholders GSKs financial architecture is focused on The 280 million contribution from structural Earnings per share four key priorities: delivering sustainable benefits in 2013 which related to savings In 2013, the significant progress in improving sales growth, improving operating leverage, in our long-term employment costs through our financial efficiency, together with our improving financial efficiency and converting restructuring of our post-employment medical continued share buy-back programme, enabled more of our earnings into cash.
benefits was approximately 115 million lower us to deliver core EPS up 4% to 112.2p which than in 2012 when we restructured our pension was at the top end of our EPS guidance range Our financial architecture is designed to obligations.
ensure we are maximising the returns from more sustainable sales growth.
To do this We remain focused on managing our cost In 2014, we expect to deliver core EPS we continue to simplify our business, allocate base more effectively.
Our Operational growth of 4-8% CER, on turnover growth of our resources more efficiently and flexibly Excellence programme was initiated in 2007 around 2% CER, on an ex-divestment basis and build leverage across the P&L to drive and remains on track to deliver annual savings 2013 EPS base of 108.4p, turnover base earnings per share faster than sales and in of 2.8 billion in 2014.
In addition our new 25.6 billion.
turn convert more of those earnings into cash major change programme, announced in that we can reinvest in the business and return 2013 is on track to deliver pre-tax savings Cash conversion to shareholders, wherever the returns look of at least 1 billion by 2016.
The business remains highly cash-generative most attractive.
We continue to balance cost savings with and we continue to focus on improving By applying this architecture consistently, continued investment in the business to conversion of earnings into cash through we are driving better and more consistent support the new launches of our R&D pipeline, greater focus on cash generation and capital decision making across the company.
which will be a key driver of future sales allocation.
A particular focus is on working Our capital allocation decisions are growth.
With increasing contributions from capital and in 2013 we continued to make rigorously benchmarked using a Cash Flow pipeline sales in 2014 onwards, we remain progress.
Excluding the distorting impact Return on Investment CFROI framework.
confident that we can drive improvement in the of disposals and intangible write-offs, we core operating margin over the medium term.
reduced the working capital conversion cycle by ten days in 2013.
Sales growth Financial efficiency Reported sales in 2013 grew 1% to 26.5 billion.
On a cash basis, we delivered an additional Excluding the impact of product disposals Despite the pressure on the operating margin 46 million of savings despite renewed growth made in 2012, sales grew 3%.
Five businesses in 2013, financial efficiencies delivered in many of our businesses and the need to start respiratory, oncology, Vaccines, ViiV significant value during the year and building inventory behind our new launches.
Healthcare and Consumer Healthcare contributed positive leverage to our reported We are developing an end-to-end supply chain accounted for around 70% of sales in 2013 core earnings per share EPS.
that joins our manufacturing and commercial and grew by 4% CER.
As we move into 2014, businesses to increase visibility, accountability We made further financial efficiency gains we expect to deliver sales growth of around and flexibility, hence reducing the inventory in 2013, taking advantage of an era of low 2% CER excluding products divested in 2013. required and releasing cash.
interest rates to secure more attractive long-term funding rates, without losing Operating leverage Returns to shareholders flexibility.
Overall we have reduced net funding In 2013, core operating profit was flat at CER.
costs by 3 percentage points since 2010 Free cash flow is available to invest in On a reported basis, the core operating margin while maintaining our targeted credit rating the business or to return to shareholders declined by 1 percentage point of which of A1 P1 to preserve access to short-term consistent with protecting our credit profile.
0.5 related to negative impact from currency.
The priority is to cover the dividend but free The operating margin benefited from reduced cash flow above and beyond this requirement We also continue to align our tax strategy R&D costs and higher royalty receipts offset is available for share buy-backs or bolt-on with our future business profile and have by expected upward pressure on cost of sales acquisitions, wherever the most attractive implemented a number of measures to from the unwinding of costs of manufacturing returns are available.
centralise our Pharmaceutical intellectual volume shortfalls, adverse mix and the impact property and product inventory ownership in The decision as to how to allocate such of preparing for the launches of new pipeline the UK.
This allowed us to reduce our 2013 cash flow is rigorously benchmarked using products.
The Groups continuing restructuring core tax rate to 23.0% from 24.4% in 2012, a returns-based framework based on CFROI programmes contributed incremental year-onwhich is ahead of our expectations at the comparisons.
year savings of around 400 million from both beginning of the year.
We continue to expect ongoing and structural initiatives.
In 2013 we returned 5.2 billion of cash to improvements in the tax rate, especially as shareholders.
We paid 3.7 billion in dividends new products come through which will with our ordinary dividend up 5% to 78p per benefit from the newly introduced patent share.
In addition we bought back 1.5 billion box arrangements in the UK.
Our core tax of shares as part of the long-term programme rate in 2014 is expected to be around 22%.
In 2014 we expect to deliver continued dividend growth and we are currently targeting share repurchases of 12 billion.
48 GSK Annual Report 2013 Financial architecture to drive improved returns Focus on returns Sales growth EPS Returns to shareholders Operating Free cash leverage flow Financial efficiency Cash flow growth Measurement and reporting From January 2014, the Group will report the Established Products Portfolio of more than 50 tail brands with sales totalling 4.2 billion in 2013 3.9 billion excluding divestments as a separate segment.
We have set up this segment to bring greater focus on how we optimise value and in particular profits and cash from this group of products.
Where we can realise more attractive value than our own efforts we will also consider further divestments.
