Governance & remuneration Directors Remuneration Report Long-term incentive measures The Committee has selected three equally weighted performance measures to focus Executive Directors long-term remuneration on the delivery of GSKs key strategic priorities.
From 2014, PSP and DABP awards made to Executive Directors are based on R&D new product performance, adjusted free cash flow and relative TSR.
In addition to setting robust targets, the Committee has implemented a number of safeguards to ensure the targets are met in a sustainable way and any performance reflects genuine achievement against targets and therefore represents the delivery of value for shareholders.
For each performance measure, the impact of any acquisition or divestment will be quantified and adjusted for after the event.
Any major adjustment in the calculation of performance measures will be disclosed to shareholders on vesting.
The principal safeguards are detailed under each measure below.
The Chairman of the Audit & Risk Committee and other members, who are also members of the Remuneration Committee, provide input on the Audit & Risk Committees review of the Groups performance and oversight of any risk factors relevant to remuneration decisions.
The rationale behind each performance measure and how it is calculated are as follows for vesting schedules please see page 103 of the Annual Report on Remuneration : Performance measure Rationale Calculation methodology R&D new Recognises the importance of R&D to future business The target is based on sales of new products launched in the product growth performance period and the preceding two years.
performance One of the key indicators used to assess performance in the The aggregate three-year revenue target should reflect growth pharmaceutical industry is the strength of a companys product on historic performance.
The R&D new product performance measure recognises the importance of R&D to future business growth and has been Vesting may be reduced if insufficient progress has been made included as a measure in order to incentivise R&D performance during the performance period towards GSKs target return on and drive the development and sales of new products.
Committee believes that it is a robust and appropriate measure The Committee recognises that, from time to time, it may be as it reflects actual delivery from the pipeline and launch appropriate for the company to respond to an emerging pandemic, excellence.
as this supports GSKs ethical responsibilities and values.
The impact of such revenue will be included, unless the Committee considers that this did not add to shareholder value and provided that underlying performance was sufficiently positive.
Adjusted free Recognises the importance of effective working capital Aggregate three-year adjusted free cash flow target.
cash flow and cash management Adjustments may be made for materially distorting items which performance The use of cash flow as a performance measure is intended to may include exchange rate movements, major legal and taxation recognise the importance of effective working capital management settlements and special pension contributions.
and of generating cash from assets for future value-creating investments and for returns to shareholders.
Relative TSR Focuses on delivery of value to shareholders Relative TSR is measured over three years, using a 12-month performance The Committee recognises that the delivery of value to averaging period.
TSR is measured in local currency.
Relative total shareholder return against a peer group of global pharmaceutical companies was selected in order to closely align the interests of Executive Directors with those of our investors.
The Committee regularly reviews the composition of the TSR comparator group.
