Strategic report Our business model Our business model How we create value We continute to adapt our business model to deliver sustainable performance through innovation and expanding access Our people Our insights Our mission Our people are critical to our ability to achieve We continuously investigate the needs of We have a challenging and inspiring mission: our mission.
We rely on their knowledge, patients and consumers.
This understanding to improve the quality of human life by enabling expertise and ability to innovate.
Every helps us ensure our medicines and products people to do more, feel better, live longer.
employee is asked to perform with ethical meet the requirements of those they are intended This mission gives us the purpose to develop integrity.
We strive to create a workplace for while also addressing the specific needs of innovative medicines and products and make culture where employees feel valued and the markets where we make them available.
them available to as many people who need able to take ownership of their professional them as possible.
development and maximise their potential.
Our business model Our mission is underpinned by a number See Responsible Business on page 50 of key factors: We have a broadly based and balanced business across pharmaceuticals, vaccines Our strategic priorities Our values and consumer healthcare.
At the core of our Our three strategic priorities are to grow business model are the concepts of innovation We put our values of patient focus, a diversified global business, deliver more and access.
We create value by researching transparency, integrity and respect for products of value and simplify our operating and manufacturing innovative products and people at the heart of every decision we model.
These have been in place since making these accessible to as many people make.
We are focused on integrating these 2008 and are designed to help us produce who need them as possible.
values into our culture, decision-making and sustainable growth and improved operational how we work.
As well as meeting the quality Improving healthcare and making it affordable and and financial performance.
We have reshaped and policy controls required of us, we continue our business to better align to this strategic accessible to more people is a huge challenge, to review and challenge our practices to and one that requires a combined effort.
approach and we are now a substantially ensure that our actions meet or exceed the different company in terms of geography, expectations of society.
products and capabilities than we were five years ago.
See Responsible Business on page 50 See Strategic Priorities on page 14 Our mission Our business model Outputs To improve the quality R&D Benefits to patients of human life by enabling Discovering and and customers developing innovative people to do more, medicines feel better, live longer.
Cash and profit Underpinned by generation Manufacturing Our values Making and shipping Shareholder value high standard products around the world and returns Our people Our strategic priorities Wider benefits Commercialisation and distribution to society Our insights Increasing access to our products Reinvestment 12 GSK Annual Report 2013 To meet this challenge, everyone involved We have also increased the work we do We have taken a strategic decision to industry, healthcare professionals, universities, alongside external partners, capturing the introduce more flexible approaches to pricing healthcare funders including governments, scientific diversity that exists across academia, that reflect a countrys wealth and ability charities and regulators need to work research charities and within other companies to pay.
In the poorest countries, this has together.
With this in mind, partnership and sharing the inherent risks of R&D.
included capping prices at 25% of developed and collaboration is a key principle of our market levels, and forming alliances with nonIn the process of our research, we grow business approach.
governmental organisations to reduce prices knowledge and expertise and create intellectual through high-volume contracts.
We continue to reform our business model.
Our business model ultimately relies For example, we have taken industry-leading on an environment that appropriately protects In developed markets, we have pioneered novel positions to improve global public health this intellectual property and provides us with reimbursement approaches to widen access through our pricing and access strategies, an opportunity to earn a reasonable return to our newer medicines and priced these at on our R&D investment.
increase transparency of our clinical trial or below current treatments.
data, and modernise our commercial See Deliver section on page 32 See Grow section on page 20 practices and interactions with customers.
Manufacturing Outputs R&D Our ability to consistently produce high quality Discovering and developing new medicines Delivering innovation and maximising access products and distribute them through our is a long, expensive and uncertain process to our products generates value for patients, global network is a key part of our business that requires us to be highly selective in where shareholders, and society more widely.
Our extensive manufacturing we invest our resources.
Our primary goal in organisation and supply chain makes and Our primary contribution is to make products R&D is to develop innovative new medicines distributes our products to over 150 countries that provide benefits to patients and consumers.
that offer significant improvements over around the world.
existing treatments and so we focus our efforts Successful delivery of this generates profitable See Simplify section on page 44 on areas where the science presents new and sustainable performance.
In turn, this opportunities most likely to lead to significant allows us to generate value and returns for medical advances.
Commercialisation and distribution our shareholders and enables us to reinvest Our commercial success depends on market in the business.
As a large research-based company, we presence and customer understanding.
have significant scale, resource and expertise We also create value by making direct and With our focus on expanding access, that we can bring to the search for new indirect economic and social contributions we seek to make our products as widely medicines.
In recent years we have challenged in the countries where we operate.
These accessible as possible to countries at all the traditional hierarchical R&D business wider benefits to society include contributions levels of income and development.
model by creating smaller, more agile and through tax, employment and enhancing the accountable early-stage R&D groups.
A GSK presence in a market is frequently well-being of local communities through our These groups are tasked with seeking out a requirement before a medicine can be global community initiatives.
the biological targets involved in disease and made available, so our wide geographical creating the molecules or biopharmaceuticals spread helps with this.
In addition, this allows that will ultimately become new medicines.
us to understand the unique characteristics of each marketplace and adapt our business model to address specific healthcare needs and requirements.
