Remuneration policy report Remuneration policy The total remuneration for each Executive Director comprises the following elements: Value earned Annual from long-term Total Salary Benefits Pension bonus incentive remuneration awards The Committee may, in specific circumstances and in line with stated principles, apply clawback malus as it determines appropriate.
Future policy table The companys Remuneration policy from 7 May 2014 in respect of each of the above elements is outlined in the table below.
Salary Benefits International assignment policy Purpose and link to strategy Purpose and link to strategy Purpose and link to strategy To provide a core reward for the role.
Levels are set to recruit and retain high calibre GSK may require Executive Directors to relocate individuals to execute the business strategy.
in order to meet business requirements.
Set at a level appropriate to secure and retain high calibre individuals needed to deliver the Groups Operation Operation strategic priorities.
Executive Directors are eligible to receive In line with the policy for other employees, benefits in line with the policy for other employees secondment and travel expenses are provided Operation which may vary by location.
These include car for executives on overseas placement to facilitate Individuals role, experience and performance allowances, healthcare, life assurance death the relocation process and to provide a continued and independently sourced data for relevant in service where not provided as part of the standard of living while on assignment.
comparator groups considered when determining individuals pension arrangements, personal salary levels.
International assignment allowances cover: financial advice and contractual post-retirement relocation costs: accommodation based on Salary increases typically take effect in the first benefits.
Executive Directors are also eligible to size of family with appropriate security: location quarter of each year.
participate in all-employee share schemes eg allowance: relocation-specific tax and financial ShareSave and ShareReward Plan, under which Salaries are normally paid in the currency of the advice: school fees: and tax equalisation.
they are subject to the same terms as all other Executive Directors home country.
Opportunity Opportunity In order to recognise the high business and travel Relocation benefits are dependent on a number of requirements of the role, Executive Directors are There is no formal maximum limit, however, factors such as home and host country, family size also entitled to car travel and may be accompanied ordinarily, salary increases will be broadly in line and duration of the assignment.
by their spouse partner on business trips.
Other with the average increases for the wider GSK It is therefore not possible to provide typical values benefits include expenses incurred in the ordinary workforce.
course of business, which are deemed to be However, increases may be higher to reflect taxable benefits on the individual.
a change in the scope of the individuals role, Performance measures Benefit provision is tailored to reflect market responsibilities or experience.
Salary adjustments None practice in the geography in which the Executive may also reflect wider market conditions in the Director is based and different policies may apply geography in which the individual operates.
if current or future Executive Directors are based Salary levels for 2014 are set out on page 98. in a different country.
Performance measures Opportunity The overall performance of the individual is a key There is no formal maximum limit as benefits costs consideration when determining salary increases.
can fluctuate depending on changes in provider cost and individual circumstances.
Details of current benefits and costs are set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Performance measures None GSK Annual Report 2013 117 Governance & remuneration Directors Remuneration Report Pension US: Purpose and link to strategy Opportunity Pension arrangements provide a competitive Pension arrangements for existing Executive Eligible for the same benefits as other US level of retirement income.
Directors are as follows: senior executives: Sir Andrew Witty is a member of the legacy Cash Balance Pension Plan and Operation Glaxo Wellcome defined benefit plan with an Supplemental Cash Balance Pension Plan, Pension arrangements are structured in accrual rate of 1 30th of final pensionable salary including Executive Pension Credit, provide accordance with the plans operated in the per annum.
From 1 April 2013, pensionable maximum contribution of 38% of base salary country in which the individual is likely to retire.
earnings increases are limited to 2% per annum across all pension plans.
Where the individual chooses not to become a for all members, including Sir Andrew Witty.
GSK 401 k plan formerly the US member of the pension plan, cash in lieu of the Simon Dingemans is not a member of any GSK Retirement Savings Plan and the Executive relevant pension contribution is paid instead.
pension plan for pension contributions and Supplemental Savings Plan with core New Executive Directors in the UK will be instead receives a cash payment of 20% of contributions of 2% of salary and bonus entitled either to join the defined contribution salary in lieu of pension contribution.
and matched contributions of 4% of salary pension plan or to receive a cash payment in and bonus.
Dr Moncef Slaoui is a member of the US Cash lieu of pension contribution.
Balance Pension Plans, the GSK 401 k plan Global: Where an individual is a member of a GSK and the Executive Supplemental Savings Plan.
Eligible for appropriate equivalent legacy defined benefit plan, a defined He is also a deferred member of the Belgium arrangement not in excess of the contribution plan or an alternative pension plan Fortis Plan.
arrangement and is subsequently appointed to The policy for a new external recruit is: the Board, he or she may remain a member of that plan.
Performance measures UK: None 20% of salary contribution to defined contribution plan and further 5% in matched contributions in line with the policy for other members of the plan: or 20% of salary cash payment in lieu of pension contribution.
Annual bonus Purpose and link to strategy Opportunity Performance measures To incentivise and recognise execution of the The threshold and maximum bonus opportunities Based on financial targets and individual business strategy on an annual basis.
for Executive Directors are as follows: performance objectives.
Rewards the achievement of stretching annual 25% based on core Group profit before interest Threshold Maximum financial and strategic business targets and and tax for all Executive Directors.
For the CEO bonus as bonus delivery of personal objectives.
a % of as a and CFO, the balance is based on core Group base % of base operating profit.
For other Executive Directors, salary salary the balance is based on relevant business unit Operation CEO 40 200 performance.
Financial, operational and business targets are set at the start of the year by the Committee and CFO 26 180 Individual performance objectives bonus levels are determined by the Committee A multiplier, based on the achievement of Chairman, Global based on performance against those targets.
R&D & Vaccines 27 200 individual performance targets, is applied to the bonus awarded for performance against Individual objectives are set at the start of the the financial or operational targets.
year by the Committee and performance against objectives is assessed by the Committee.
Executive Directors are required to defer 25% of any bonus earned into shares, or ADS as appropriate, for three years.
They may defer up to an additional 25% of bonus earned, i. e. up to an overall maximum deferral of 50%.
Deferred shares vest at the end of the three year performance period.
Deferred bonus shares are eligible for dividend equivalents up to the date of vesting.
The Committee may apply judgement in making appropriate adjustments to individual annual bonus amounts.
Clawback and or malus provisions apply as described on page 119.
118 GSK Annual Report 2013 Deferred Annual Bonus Plan DABP and Performance Share Plan PSP Purpose and link to strategy Opportunity Performance measures To incentivise and recognise delivery of the DABP Three equally weighted performance longer term business priorities, financial growth Maximum bonus deferral of 50% of annual bonus measures: and increases in shareholder value compared 25% mandatory and up to an additional 25% R&D new product performance to other pharmaceutical companies.
Adjusted free cash flow In addition, to provide alignment with Maximum matching opportunity level is on a one shareholder interests, a retention element, Relative TSR share for one share basis subject to performance to encourage long-term shareholding and criteria over three years.
25% vests at threshold up to 100% for maximum discourage excessive risk taking.
performance PSP The normal maximum award limit is six times Against comparator group currently comprising Operation base salary per annum on the maximum initial GSK and nine other global pharmaceutical DABP value of performance shares that may be companies, with 30% vesting at median, rising Deferred shares may be matched subject to granted under the PSP to an individual in any to 100% vesting for upper quartile performance.
the achievement of performance conditions one year.
For details of unvested 2012, 2013 and 2014 over three years.
Matching awards may be The PSP rules allow for the Committee to awards, see pages 102 and 103, and pages conditional shares or nil-cost options and are make awards of more than 600% of salary in 112 to 114. eligible for dividend equivalents in respect of exceptional circumstances.
Current award levels for each of the Executive PSP Directors are as follows: Conditional awards are made annually with vesting dependent on the achievement of % of salary performance conditions over three years.
CEO 600 From 2015 awards onwards, vested awards must be held for a further two years, i. e. five CFO 400 years in total, prior to release.
25% of the CEOs Chairman, Global 2012, 2013 and 2014 PSP awards are subject R&D & Vaccines 500 to an additional two-year vesting period.
Awards are eligible for dividend equivalents up to the date of vesting.
Performance targets for the DABP and PSP are set at the start of each performance period.
Clawback and or malus provisions apply as described below.
Clawback and malus With effect from the 2013 annual bonus payable in 2014, Executive Directors are required to defer a minimum of 25% of their annual bonus into the DABP.
In the event of a triggering event eg significant misconduct by way of violation of regulation, law, or a significant GSK policy, such as Code of Conduct the company will have the ability to claw back up to three years annual and deferred bonuses as well as vested and unvested LTIs.
A separate Recoupment Committee has been established to investigate relevant claims of misconduct.
Additionally, where there has been continuity of responsibility between initiation of an adverse event and its emergence as a problem, the adverse event should be taken into account in assessing annual bonus awards and LTI vesting levels in the year the problem is identified and for future periods.
The Committee may make appropriate adjustments to individual annual bonuses as well as grant and vesting levels of LTI awards to reflect this.
ments to individual annual bonus amounts.
