Governance & remuneration Directors Remuneration Report Operation and scope of Remuneration policy Basis of preparation The current Remuneration policy the Policy is set out on pages 117 The Directors Remuneration Report has been prepared in to 125 and it is intended that the Policy for GSKs Executive and accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and The Large and Non-Executive Directors will apply from the close of the companys Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Annual General Meeting on 7 May 2014 after it has been submitted Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations.
In accordance by the Committee for approval by shareholders.
The Committee with the Regulations, the following parts of the Annual Report on currently intends to operate in accordance with this Policy prior to Remuneration are subject to audit: total remuneration figures for the Annual General Meeting, with the exception of the additional Executive Directors including further details for each element of two-year holding period for Performance Share Plan awards which remuneration salary, benefits, annual bonus, long-term incentive will apply to awards made in 2015 onwards.
awards and pension : Non-Executive Directors fees and emoluments received in the year: Directors interests in shares, including interests The Committee has written this Policy principally in relation to the in GSK share plans: payments to past directors: payments for loss of remuneration arrangements for the CEO, CFO and Chairman, Global office: and share ownership requirements and holdings, for which the R&D & Vaccines whilst taking into account the possible recruitment opinion thereon is expressed on page 129.
The remaining sections of of a replacement or an additional Executive Director during the the Directors Remuneration Report are not subject to audit nor are operation of this Policy.
The Committee intends this Policy to operate the pages referred to from within the audited sections.
for the period set out above in its entirety.
However, it may after due consideration, seek to change the Policy during this period, but only The Directors Remuneration Report has been approved by the if it believes it is appropriate to do so for the long-term success of the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by company, after consultation with shareholders and having sought shareholder approval at a general meeting.
In drafting this Policy, the Committee reserves the right to make any remuneration payments and payments for loss of office including Tom fide Swaan exercising any discretions available to it in connection with such Remuneration Committee Chairman payments notwithstanding that they are not in line with the Policy 26 February 2014 set out above where the terms of the payment were agreed i before the policy came into effect or ii at a time when the relevant individual was not a director of the company and, in the opinion of the Committee, the payment was not in consideration for the individual becoming a director of the company.
For these purposes payments includes the Committee satisfying awards of variable remuneration.
In relation to an award over shares, the terms of the payment are agreed at the time the award is granted.
The Committee may also make minor amendments to the Policy set out in this report for regulatory, exchange control, tax or administrative purposes or to take account of a change in legislation without obtaining shareholder approval for such amendments.
Statement of consideration of shareholder views The Committee engages in regular dialogue with shareholders and holds annual meetings with GSKs largest investors to discuss and take feedback on its remuneration policy and governance matters.
The annual meetings were held in November 2013, at which Tom fide Swaan, Committee Chairman, shared updates on remuneration matters in the last 12 months and proposals for 2014 onwards.
In particular this covered the changes to performance conditions applying to long-term incentives, the introduction of an additional two-year holding period for performance share awards i. e. five years in total which will apply to Executive Directors for awards made in 2015 onwards and policies that are now required to be disclosed in the Remuneration Policy Report.
