Strategic report Deliver Vaccines R&D Prevention efforts Our vaccines R&D is centred on discovering and developing prophylactic and therapeutic vaccines to protect people against infectious diseases, cancers and chronic disorders Our R&D effort within vaccines is focused Our research on vaccines can be divided on the development of new prophylactic into early-stage research and later-stage Highlights and therapeutic vaccines while stringently development.
Our aim is to identify and managing and prioritising our investment develop vaccines that can help the body raise decisions.
Our core R&D investment in 2013 an immune response against an infective was 496 million, down 3% against 2012. organism or with our newer-stage research 1,600 We have more than 1,600 scientists working diseased cells.
Scientists working on new on the development of new vaccines.
As with pharmaceuticals R&D, the resources vaccines We currently have around 16 vaccines in required and length of time it takes to discover development for a range of diseases and and develop new vaccines means it is essential received a number of approvals and new that we are highly selective in where we indications this year see pages 34-35. concentrate our efforts.
We focus on those A key part of our approach in vaccines R&D areas where advances have opened up new 16 is expanding our access to new vaccine scientific opportunities that we consider most Vaccines in development technologies.
Our acquisition this year of the likely to lead to significant medical advances.
Swiss-based company Okairos is an example of this.
This purchase provided us with access Discovery and development to a novel vaccine platform technology that The discovery and development of a new could play an important role in the development vaccine is a complex process that typically of new prophylactic vaccines as well as takes between 10 and 12 years.
new classes of therapeutic vaccines.
This Vaccine discovery begins by identifying new acquisition also brought in early-stage assets antigens, which are specific structures on for diseases such as respiratory syncytial virus, pathogens viruses, bacteria or parasites hepatitis C virus, malaria, tuberculosis, ebola or on cancer cells that are recognised by and HIV.
We then produce these A highlight from 2013 were the results from a pathogens in yeast, bacteria or mammalian large-scale phase III trial of our malaria vaccine cells and genetically manipulate them so candidate, RTS, S. This demonstrated that the that they can be purified and formulated vaccine continued to protect young children in to a vaccine.
It is the antigen that creates and infants from clinical malaria up to 18 months the bodys immune response.
Vaccines research and development cycle Registration Identify Produce Pre-Clinical Proof of Phase I Phase II Phase III File Post marketing Antigens Antigens Testing concept surveillance Research including Immunology Pre-clinical development Clinical development including Post marketing surveillance Transfer process to manufacturing 1-10 years 2-3 years 2-4 years 1 year 40 GSK Annual Report 2013 In some cases, the formulation of the vaccine into clinical lots involves mixing antigens with our proprietary adjuvant systems.
We use adjuvants to improve the immune systems response to antigens contained in vaccines and we have been innovating in the area of adjuvant systems for more than 20 years.
Candidate vaccines are usually a combination of several antigens, and the final composition of the vaccine antigens and adjuvant may change over time.
Traditionally, vaccines have been used to prevent illness.
However, we are pioneering a different approach designed to programme the bodys immune system to fight existing diseases and this represents a new treatment model as a therapeutic vaccine.
We are evaluating the immunotherapeutic concept against a variety of tumour types.
The first read out on phase III data from our investigational MAGE-A3 antigen-specific cancer immunotherapeutic in melanoma The science of the supply chain patients came through in 2013.
While the trial did not meet its first co-primary endpoint, we will be continuing the trial until the second Many vaccines need to be kept at a constant This initiative is part of a vaccine discovery co-primary endpoint is assessed, with results temperature between 2C and 8C from partnership that was unveiled in October expected in 2015.
The same asset is also in manufacture up until administration.
This 2013 in Brazil, which would also fund development in lung cancer, and phase III cold-chain, as it is known, is considered by research into other biomedical technologies data for this indication will read out in 2014. many to be the biggest challenge in getting that have the potential to overcome a Partnerships and collaborations, both with vaccines out to people around the world, significant and long-standing barrier to scientific partners and funding bodies, play particularly in hot, remote and resourcevaccine access in developing countries.
an increasingly important role in our vaccines limited regions.
Overall the partnership aims to integrate research.
An example of our collaborative key players in vaccine development In an effort to overcome this challenge, we approach is a new research agreement with biotechnology institutions, pharmaceutical signed an early stage research partnership the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation BMGF companies, non-government organisations with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation which aims to accelerate advances in vaccine NGOs and academia to drive advances BMGF this year.
The $1.8 million agreement R&D that have the potential to transform in vaccine R&D that have the potential to will support research into seeing if we global health.
can make some of our vaccines more Our R&D efforts also include the lifecycle heat stable, thus reducing the need for management of vaccines already on the market continuous refrigeration.
and those that we anticipate will emerge from the pipeline.
We do this to increase the value our products can bring, by extending their reach and adapting them to ensure they There are several key decision points in the The board has an overall view of both early and meet the needs of patients.
vaccine development process: commit to advanced projects.
It is chaired by our senior research decide to initiate full research vice presidents for discovery and development.
Governance programme, commit to candidate development All VDCB recommendations to progress In 2012 we further consolidated the organisation decide to invest resources to move to clinical projects are submitted to VIB.
of vaccine discovery and development teams, development : commit to early clinical to simplify the infrastructure, focus on timely The VIB is chaired by our President of Vaccines.
development: commit to phase III: registration decision making and enhance clarity and This board makes the final decision on whether and launch.
Since then, we have continued to invest in a project, by evaluating the VDCBs Oversight of these key decisions rests with to improve efficiency through investment in recommendation alongside public health operational transformation programmes.
two bodies the Vaccine Development and benefit, business opportunity, development Commercial Board VDCB and the Vaccine costs and risks, the project timing and overall We have continued to emphasise the Investment Board VIB.
evolution of our portfolio of vaccines.
importance of our Project teams and Vaccine Leadership Teams, which are responsible The VDCB reviews the research project for day-to-day progress of our research strategy and advises on its scientific, technical and development, including identifying and commercial feasibility.
GSK Annual Report 2013 41 GAVI Adrian Brooks
