Strategic report Financial review Financial review The Financial review summarises the performance of the Group for the year, in comparison with the results of the previous year.
The Financial review also sets out the balance sheet position of the Group at 31 December 2013 Major restructuring costs charged in Working capital conversion cycle Group performance arriving at operating profit include costs The working capital conversion cycle is Our financial review discusses the operating arising under the Operational Excellence calculated as the number of days sales and financial performance of the Group, the restructuring programme, initiated in 2007 outstanding plus days inventory outstanding, financial outlook and our financial resources.
and expanded in 2009, 2010 and 2011, less days purchases outstanding.
We compare the results for each year the Major Change restructuring programme primarily with results of the preceding year initiated in 2013 and restructuring costs CER growth and on a CER basis.
In this review we following the acquisitions of Human In order to illustrate underlying performance, discuss the results on both a core basis Genome Sciences, Inc. in August 2012 it is our practice to discuss the results in and a total basis.
and Stiefel Laboratories, Inc. in July 2009. terms of constant exchange rate CER growth.
This represents growth calculated All growth rates included in this Report Reconciliations of core results to total as if the exchange rates used to determine are at constant exchange rates CER results are presented on page 65. the results of overseas companies in unless otherwise stated.
CER growth is Core results reporting aligns business Sterling had remained unchanged from discussed below.
performance reporting around the those used in the previous year.
CER% We use a number of adjusted measures underlying trading performance of the represents growth at constant exchange to report the performance of our business.
Group and its primary growth drivers rates.
% represents growth at actual These measures are used by management by removing the volatility inherent in many exchange rates.
for planning and reporting purposes and of the non-core items.
in discussions with and presentations to Restatement of comparative Core results reporting is utilised as the investment analysts and rating agencies and information basis for internal performance reporting and are defined below.
These measures are not the core results are presented and As set out in Note 1 to the Financial defined in IFRS and may not be comparable discussed in this Financial review as we statements, Presentation of financial with similarly described measures used by believe that this approach provides investors statements, an amendment to IAS 19 other companies.
with a clearer view of the underlying trading Employee benefits has been implemented performance of the Group.
We also believe in the year.
The effect has been to reduce Core results reporting that this approach should make the Groups total operating profit for 2013 by 160 Core results exclude the following items results more comparable with the majority million 2012 92 million: 2011 from total results: amortisation and of our peers, many of which use similar 73 million.
Comparative information impairment of intangible assets excluding forms of underlying performance reporting has been restated accordingly.
computer software and goodwill: major to discuss their results, although the precise restructuring costs, including those costs calculations may differ.
The Financial review following material acquisitions: legal charges also presents and discusses the total results net of insurance recoveries and expenses of the Group.
on the settlement of litigation and government investigations: other operating Free cash flow income other than royalty income: disposals Free cash flow is the net cash inflow from of associates, products and businesses, operating activities less capital expenditure, and acquisition accounting adjustments interest and dividends paid to nonfor material acquisitions, together with controlling interests plus proceeds from the the tax effects of all of these items.
sale of property, plant and equipment and dividends received from joint ventures and associated undertakings.
Free cash flow growth is calculated on a sterling basis.
A reconciliation is presented on page 72.
