Annual bonus measures The annual bonus is designed to drive the achievement of GSKs annual financial and strategic business targets and the delivery of personal objectives.
The majority of the annual bonus opportunity is based on a formal review of performance against stretching financial targets.
This outcome is then adjusted to reflect individual performance by applying an individual performance multiplier.
For reasons of commercial sensitivity, specific personal objectives are kept confidential.
Financial performance Individual performance The Committee believes that it is important for the majority of the CEO CEO and the CFOs financial targets to be based on core Group operating profit Individual performance objectives for Sir Andrew Witty are set by the with a smaller element based on core Group Profit Before Interest and Tax Board in January each year.
The Board focuses on the strategic priorities to reflect their wider responsibility for driving profitable investments that have been developed for the Group.
Following the end of the in associates and joint ventures.
financial year, the Board reviews his performance generally and against the set objectives to determine the appropriate bonus payable for his Bonus measures for R&D employees, including Dr Moncef Slaoui, are performance.
A robust governance structure has been established to ensure that the bonus payable fairly reflects R&D Other Executive Directors productivity and performance.
The CEO sets individual objectives for the other Executive Directors in line with company strategy and makes recommendations to the To recognise Dr Moncef Slaouis current dual responsibility for Global Committee regarding their performance against those objectives at R&D & Vaccines, an element of his bonus is currently based on Vaccines the end of the year.
Those recommendations are then considered by performance.
Consistent with the other Executive Directors, an element the Committee before it determines the level of bonuses payable.
of his bonus is also currently based on core Group Profit Before Interest and Tax.
Approach to recruitment remuneration The Committee determines the remuneration package of new The Committee is mindful of the sensitivity relating to recruitment Executive Directors on a case-by-case basis depending on the packages and, in particular, the buying out of rights relating to role, the market from which they will operate and their experience.
previous employment and sign-on payments.
It will therefore seek Total remuneration levels will be set by reference to a relevant pay to minimise such arrangements.
However, in certain circumstances, comparator group and, where appropriate, will allow for future to enable the recruitment of exceptional talent, the Committee may development in the role.
determine that such arrangements are in the best interests of the company and its shareholders.
Such arrangements will, where It is expected that new Executive Directors will participate in short possible, be on a like-for-like basis with the forfeited awards.
and long-term incentive plans on the same basis as existing directors.
Arrangements will therefore vary depending on the plans and However, in exceptional circumstances, the Committee reserves the arrangements put in place by the previous employer and may be flexibility to set the incentive limit for a new Executive Director at up in the form of cash or shares and may or may not be subject to to an additional 50% of the existing limits.
Explanations will be provided where The Committee retains this flexibility in recognition of the high payments are made either as compensation for previous remuneration levels of variable pay in GSKs global pharmaceutical competitors.
forfeited or as a sign-on payment.
However, the Committee will only use this flexibility when it is The remuneration arrangements for any newly appointed Executive considered to be in the best interests of the company and its Director will be disclosed as soon as practicable after the investors.
Furthermore, it will only use this flexibility in relation appointment.
to external recruits, and any such awards will be in line with the principles in the future policy table and subject to performance The following policy and principles apply to the roles of Chairman conditions.
Pension arrangements for external appointments as an Executive Chairman Director will be as set out in the remuneration policy table on Fees will be set at a level that is competitive with those paid by other page 118. companies of equivalent size and complexity.
Fees will be paid partly Other benefits will be provided in line with the policy for existing in shares.
Non-Executive Directors Where required to meet business needs, relocation support Fee levels for new Non-Executive Directors will be set on the same will be provided in line with company policy.
basis as for existing Non-Executive Directors of the company.
Subject For any internal appointments, entitlements under existing to local laws and regulations, fees will be paid partly in shares.
remuneration elements will continue, including pension entitlements In the event of a Non-Executive Director with a different role and and any outstanding awards.
However, where not already the case, responsibilities being appointed, fee levels will be benchmarked and internal appointments will be required to move to Executive Director set by reference to comparable roles in companies of equivalent size contractual terms, including termination provisions.
