Governance & remuneration Our Corporate Executive Team Our Corporate Executive Team Sir Andrew Witty Simon Bicknell Deirdre Connelly Roger Connor Chief Executive Officer Senior Vice President, President, North America President, Global Governance, Ethics and Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing & Supply See Our Board on page 76.
Assurance Deirdre joined GSK as President, Roger is President, Global North America Pharmaceuticals Manufacturing & Supply GMS.
Simon was appointed Senior Vice in February 2009 after working at He was appointed to this role in President, Governance, Ethics and Eli Lilly and Company for 24 years.
January 2013, after working for a Assurance in January 2011 and he She held a variety of positions year as President Designate, GMS.
is responsible for risk management, including President of US Operations, compliance and strategic auditing.
Roger joined GSK in 1998 from Senior Vice President of Global AstraZeneca and has worked in a Simon joined the Company Secretariat Commercialisations for Womans number of roles within finance and in 1984 and became Deputy Company Health and Senior Vice President manufacturing strategy, including Secretary of Glaxo Wellcome in 1995. of Human Resources.
at GSK sites at Cork in Ireland and He was appointed Company Secretary Deirdre is a native of San Juan, Puerto Ware in the UK.
Prior to his role in of GlaxoSmithKline plc in May 2000 Rico.
She holds a Bachelors degree GMS, Roger was Vice President, and combined this position with his in Marketing and Economics from Office of the CEO and Corporate role as Corporate Compliance Officer Lycoming College in Pennsylvania.
Strategy from February 2010. from 2006 until his current appointment.
She graduated from Harvard He holds a Degree in Mechanical After gaining his Law degree, Simon Universitys Advance Management and Manufacturing Engineering from qualified as a barrister in 1983 and Programme in 1999.
Queens University Belfast and a is a member of Middle Temple.
Deirdre serves as a Director on the Masters in Manufacturing Leadership PhRMA Board, the Board of Macys from Cambridge University.
He is also Inc. and the Harvard University Public a Chartered Accountant.
Simon Dingemans Abbas Hussain Bill Louv David Redfern Chief Financial Officer President, Europe, Japan and Senior Vice President, Core Chief Strategy Officer EMAP Business Services David was appointed Chief Strategy See Our Board on page 76.
Officer in May 2008 and is responsible Abbas was appointed President, Bill was appointed to create and lead for proactive exploration of new Europe and EMAP in September 2012 Core Business Services CBS in business opportunities, strategic and became responsible for Japan in April 2010.
CBS integrates the shared planning and the leadership of the March 2013.
He joined the company services of the global support dermatology business.
In addition to as President, Emerging Markets & functions.
He was previously Chief his current role, he was appointed Asia Pacific in June 2008.
Chairman of the Board of ViiV Previously Abbas spent 20 years Bill joined the company in 1994 as Healthcare Ltd. in April 2011. at Eli Lilly where he held positions Vice President of Medical Data Previously, he was Senior Vice including President, Europe and before Sciences, and has held a number of President, Northern Europe with that Vice President, Europe with increasingly senior roles in R&D and IT.
responsibility for managing GSKs specific responsibility for the Western Bill has a Bachelor of Science degree pharmaceutical businesses in that European mid-size countries, Africa in Biology from the College of William region and prior to that Senior Vice & Middle East Area Commonwealth and Mary, and Master of Science and President for Central and Eastern of Independent States and Central & Doctor of Philosophy degrees in Europe.
David joined the company Eastern Europe regions.
He also held Statistics from the University of Florida.
in 1994 and held a series of finance positions in sales and marketing across roles before becoming Finance Australasia and India.
Director of the European business Abbas was appointed to ViiV from 1999-2002.
Healthcare Ltd. Board in October David has a Bachelor of Science 2009 and the Aspen Board in degree from Bristol University in the December 2009.
UK and is a Chartered Accountant.
Born in Madras, India, Abbas has a degree in Medicinal Chemistry & Pharmacology from Loughborough University.
80 GSK Annual Report 2013 Dr Moncef Slaoui Claire Thomas Phil Thomson Chairman, Global R&D Senior Vice President, Senior Vice President, & Vaccines Human Resources Global Communications See Our Board on page 77.
Claire was appointed Senior Vice Phil was appointed Senior Vice President, Human Resources in May President, Global Communications 2008 and is responsible for GSKs in August 2010.
He has responsibility Environmental Sustainability Strategy.
for Media Relations, Investor Relations, She was previously Senior Vice Corporate Responsibility, Internal President, Human Resources, Communications and Product Pharmaceuticals International.
Claire joined the company in 1996 Phil joined Glaxo Wellcome as a and was appointed Senior Vice commercial trainee in 1996, moving President, Human Resources, and from pharmaceutical brand marketing Pharmaceuticals Europe in 2001, to product communications.
In 1999 where she successfully led the he became a Director of Media HR function through the merger.
Relations for Glaxo Wellcome plc and in 2001, took up the position of Prior to joining the company she Director, Investor Relations for GSK.
worked for Ford Motor Company, In 2004, he returned to Corporate holding various positions in Human Media Relations as Vice President.
Phil earned his degree in English and Claire has a Bachelor of Science History from Durham University.
degree in Economics, Management and Industrial Relations from the University of Wales.
Claire was honoured as an Outstanding European Woman of Achievement in 2007.
Dan Troy Patrick Vallance Emma Walmsley Senior Vice President & President, Pharmaceuticals President, Consumer General Counsel R&D Healthcare Worldwide Dan joined the company as Senior Patrick was appointed President, Emma assumed the role of President, Vice President & General Counsel Pharmaceuticals R&D, in January Consumer Healthcare Worldwide in in September 2008.
Prior to his appointment he October 2011 after joining GSK in was Senior Vice President, Medicines May 2010 as President of Consumer He was previously a Partner at the Discovery and Development.
Washington law firm Sidley Austin LLP, where he represented mainly Patrick joined the company in 2006 Under Emmas leadership the business pharmaceutical companies and trade as Head of Drug Discovery.
He has a new strategic direction to associations on matters related to the focused the organisation on science become the first and best fast moving US Food and Drug Administration that has the best chance of leading Consumer Healthcare company, driven FDA and government regulations.
to new medicines, and created by science and values, combining Dan was formerly Chief Counsel for small, multidisciplinary teams called the very best of GSKs scientific the FDA, where he served as a primary Discovery Performance Units.
He is knowledge with the speed and liaison to the White House and the transforming the way in which we marketing excellence of the fast US Department of Health and Human approach late stage clinical trial moving consumer goods world.
Prior to joining GSK, Emma worked Dan is a graduate from Cornell Prior to joining GSK Patrick was a with LOreal for 17 years where she Universitys School of Industrial and clinical academic at University College held a variety of marketing and general Labor Relations, and earned his law London.
Patrick is a member of the management roles in Paris, London degree from Columbia University Board of the Agency for Science, and New York.
From 2007 she was School of Law.
Technology & Research A STAR based in Shanghai as General and is a director of Genome Manager, Consumer Products, Research Limited.
She has a degree in Classics and Modern Languages from Oxford University.
