Strategic report Our strategic priorities Our strategic priorities How we deliver Our strategy is designed to deliver sustainable growth, reduce risk and improve long-term financial performance and returns to shareholders Our aim Our progress We have been creating a more balanced Total sales grew 1% to 26.5 billion Grow business and product portfolio, capable in 2013 3% excluding divestments.
of delivering sustainable sales growth.
Performance was generated from multiple a diversified This is centred on our three business businesses and geographies reflecting areas of Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines business successful implementation of the strategy.
We have changed our R&D organisation During 2013, we received approvals so that it is better able to sustain a for six major new products and several Deliver pipeline of products that offer valuable new indications for existing medicines more products improvements in treatment for patients and vaccines.
We also generated a high volume of phase III of value This is underpinned by a focus on data on key assets in our pipeline.
improving productivity and rates Our estimated return on R&D investment of return in R&D.
As our business continues to change We have several restructuring programmes shape, we are transforming how we operate which are on track to deliver total annual Simplify so that we can reduce complexity and savings of 3.9 billion by 2016 compared with the operating become more efficient.
During 2013 we delivered incremental savings of 400 million.
This frees up resources to reinvest model elsewhere in the business.
We are also making good progress transforming our manufacturing network, supply chain and enterprise wide processes.
Being a responsible business is central to In 2013 we have made considerable further our strategy, and how we deliver success progress on our agenda to operate responsibly.
Responsible is just as important as what we achieve.
Specifically, we took action to increase business Ensuring our values are embedded in our transparency of clinical research data and culture and decision-making helps us better modernise our commercial operations and meet the expectations of society.
We also made progress on driving access to medicines in the poorest countries and passed a key milestone in the development of a potential vaccine against malaria.
14 GSK Annual Report 2013 Highlights Our priorities Financial architecture Successful launch and commercialisation of new Our financial architecture is 26.5bn products from our pipeline designed to support the delivery of our strategy and to enhance Group turnover Continue to invest in key returns to shareholders.
It is growth businesses including focused on four key priorities: Emerging Markets, Vaccines delivering sustainable sales and Consumer Healthcare growth, improving operating 39% Look for further opportunities leverage, improving financial to increase focus and optimise Group turnover outside USA and Europe efficiency and converting more value of our product portfolio Read more on page 20 of our earnings into cash.
By applying this architecture consistently, we are driving better and more consistent decision Delivery of phase III data for making across the company six potential new medicines and improving delivery of our key 6 and vaccines and around financial objectives of earnings 10 NME phase III starts Significant new product approvals per share growth and free cash in 2013 across 2014 2015 flow generation, which can then be returned to shareholders or Continued focus on increasing R&D rate of return reinvested in bolt-on acquisitions, wherever the most attractive 40 returns are available.
Potential medicines in phase II III development Implementing this financial Read more on page 32 architecture helped us to return 5.2 billion to shareholders through dividends and buy-backs in 2013.
Further cost savings delivery from our restructuring Outlook 400m programmes For 2014, we are targeting Incremental savings in 2013 Further roll-out of standardised core earnings per share growth enterprise platforms and delivery of 4-8% CER from 2013 base of an integrated supply chain of 108.4p adjusted for divestments completed during 2013 on sales growth of around 2% CER 10 from 2013 base of 25,602 Days reduction in working capital million adjusted for divestments Read more on page 44 completed during 2013.
The range in our guidance reflects the transition we expect to see in File our RTS, S malaria vaccine our portfolio during the year as we roll-out new products but also face candidate for approval in 2014 60% and, if approved, offer at a notpotential competition from generics to older products such as Lovaza.
for-profit price Increase in the volume of medicines supplied to Least Developed Countries Implement changes on how since 2010 we incentivise our sales teams and work with healthcare professionals 1st Pharmaceutical company to sign AllTrials campaign for research transparency Read more on page 50 GSK Annual Report 2013 15
