Pay for performance audited Annual bonus The majority of the annual bonus opportunity is based on a formal review of performance against stretching financial targets.
This outcome is then adjusted to reflect individual performance by applying an individual performance multiplier.
For the financial measures, the bonus threshold is 90% of target, with the maximum being payable for achievement of 110% of target.
The bonus threshold of 90% reflects the stretching nature of the bonus targets.
2013 performance against targets For 2013, the annual bonus was based on the following performance measures.
As the actual targets are linked to the companys financial and strategic plan, the Committee believes that the targets remain commercially sensitive.
The 2013 targets are therefore not disclosed.
Financial performance Personal performance Sir Andrew Witty 75% on core Group operating profit 25% on core Group profit Simon Dingemans Individual objectives before interest and tax Dr Moncef Slaoui 50% on R&D and 25% on Vaccines performance For further details see page 118 of the Policy Report.
Financial Core Group operating profit and core Group profit before interest and tax performance The companys performance in 2013, both in terms of core Group operating profit and core Group profit before interest and tax, represented further strong delivery for the Group despite some unexpected challenges and reflected the improving balance of our sales base.
This reflects improvements in our US and European businesses, as well as effective cost control and financial efficiencies.
R&D and Vaccines performance Targets for the year around pipeline growth and value were exceeded.
This reflects the most productive period of R&D output in the companys history.
Six major new products were approved Breo Ellipta, Anoro Ellipta, Tafinlar, Mekinist and Tivicay as well as a new injectable quadrivalent flu vaccine launched in the US with five additional regulatory filings completed.
The companys pipeline remains extensive with 40 new molecular entities NMEs in Phase II III clinical development.
GSK remains on track to deliver its target long-term rate of return on R&D spend of 14%.
Targets for the year around Vaccines performance were also exceeded reflecting strong sales, in particular, of Infanrix Pediarix, Fluarix FluLaval and Boostrix.
The table below sets out the matters the Committee considered in respect of the individual objectives set for each Executive Director.
Personal performance Sir Andrew Witty Sir Andrew continued to demonstrate strong leadership of GSK in what remains a challenging operating environment for healthcare.
For 2013, Sir Andrews remuneration reflects strong delivery of the Groups strategy across all areas of the business and the subsequent realisation of returns for shareholders.
GSK delivered sales and earnings growth in 2013, with core EPS of 112.2p up 4% on 2012 at CER and in line with market guidance.
Sales growth was generated from multiple businesses and geographies reflecting successful implementation of the Groups strategy to source growth more broadly.
2013 was a year of exceptional R&D productivity.
GSK led the industry in new product delivery with six major products approved and five additional regulatory filings completed.
This productivity was set against a backdrop of continued improvement in the estimated rate of return for R&D, now at 13%.
The new product launches will strengthen businesses in Respiratory, Vaccines, HIV and Oncology.
The Groups pipeline opportunity also remains substantial with a total of 40 NMEs currently in Phase II III development and with Phase III starts planned for ten potential new products in 2014 2015.
Under Sir Andrews leadership, the Group generated its best TSR performance, in 2013, since the formation of GSK.
5.2 billion of cash was returned to shareholders with a full-year dividend of 78 pence up 5% on 2012 and share repurchases of 1.5 billion.
Sir Andrew continued to strengthen and focus GSKs core business areas.
In 2013, the Group divested non-core products and other assets for proceeds of 2.5 billion.
GSK also increased its shareholding in its Indian Consumer subsidiary.
Ongoing organic structural initiatives delivered incremental year-on-year savings of around 400 million and new efficiencies resulting from the Groups strategic priority to simplify its business are increasingly evident in manufacturing, supply chain and core business services.
Sir Andrew continued to adopt industry-leading positions on multiple corporate responsibility issues in 2013.
During the year, GSK was widely acknowledged to have taken further innovative steps to improve global public health in developing countries, to increase access and transparency of its clinical data and to modernise its commercial practices and interactions with customers.
At Sir Andrews request, the impact of the ongoing investigation by Chinese authorities into the Groups subsidiary business in China was also considered by the Board in their evaluation of his performance for 2013.
