Governance & remuneration Directors Remuneration Report Loss of office payment policy The following table sets out the contractual framework for Executive Directors.
The terms specifically relating to termination are set out in more detail below.
Policy Duration of The company does not have a policy of fixed term contracts.
Generally, contracts for new appointments will expire in line with the contracts applicable policy on retirement age, which since 2009 has been 65.
Contracts for existing Executive Directors will expire on the dates shown on page 123.
Notice period Notice period on termination by employing company or Executive Director is 12 calendar months.
Mitigation The ability to impose a 12-month non-compete period and a non-solicitation restriction on an Executive Director is considered important by the company to have the ability to protect the Groups intellectual property and staff.
In light of this, the Committee believes that it would not be appropriate to provide for mitigation in the contracts.
Termination of employment In the event that an Executive Directors employment with the company terminates, the following policies and payments will apply.
Element of Remuneration Loss of office payment policy Termination Termination by notice: 12 months annual salary payable on termination by the company pro-rated where part of the notice payment period is worked.
No termination payment is made in respect of any part of a notice period that extends beyond the contract expiry date.
A bonus element is not normally included in the termination payment.
However, the terms of the contracts seek to balance commercial imperatives and best practice.
If the company enforces the non-compete clause for the current CEO and Chairman, Global R&D and Vaccines, up to 12 months on-target bonus will be payable.
Redundancy: As above, for termination by notice.
In the UK, only statutory redundancy pay will apply.
In the US, general severance policy does not apply.
Retirement, death and ill-health, injury or disability: No termination payment.
LTI awards PSP and DABP matching awards are governed by the Plan Rules as approved by shareholders.
Termination by notice: Unvested awards lapse.
Redundancy and retirement: Generally, awards vest over the original timescales, subject to the original performance conditions.
Awards made in the last 12 months are forfeited.
Death and ill-health, injury or disability: Generally, awards will vest following the end of the financial year, normally taking into account performance to that date.
Awards may be pro-rated for time.
In the event of a change of control, PSP and DABP matching awards will vest, taking into account performance to date and normally taking into account the proportion of the performance period that has elapsed.
Alternatively, the awards may be exchanged for new awards.
Annual bonus Termination by notice by individual: If an individual serves notice and the termination date falls before 31 December, the bonus is forfeited.
Termination by notice by the company, redundancy, retirement, death and ill-health, injury or disability: If the termination date falls during the financial year, eligible for pro-rated on-target bonus if employed on 31 December, bonus payable based on actual results.
DABP deferred Termination by notice: Deferred shares vest in full on the date of termination.
bonus awards Redundancy, retirement, death and ill-health, injury or disability: Generally, deferred shares vest in full at the end of the financial year in which the termination date falls.
Benefits Generally, benefits will continue to apply until the termination date.
Termination by notice by the company and retirement US executives : In line with the policy applicable to US senior executives, the Chairman, Global R&D & Vaccines may become eligible, at a future date, to receive continuing medical and dental insurance after termination retirement.
Termination by mutual agreement: In certain circumstances it can be in the best interests of the company for the Board to manage proactively succession planning and the development of the senior talent pipeline.
In such circumstances, the Board may therefore agree that an executives departure will be by mutual agreement.
In order for this to apply, the Committee will need to be satisfied that the executive has demonstrated performance in line with expectations, where required they should have contributed to an orderly succession, and they should have completed at least 20 years service with the Group on the termination date.
In the case of an Executive Director, they would then be treated as a good leaver for the purposes of GSKs long-term incentive plans.
If the termination date falls during the financial year, they would be eligible for a pro-rated on-target bonus and if they are employed on 31 December, the bonus payable would be based on actual results.
In the case of the CEO, as a member of the UK defined benefit pension scheme, his pension would then be payable from the later of his termination date and age 55 without actuarial reduction.
