Governance & remuneration Corporate governance The Non-Executive Directors, led by Sir Deryck, met separately, Relations with shareholders without Sir Christopher being present, to discuss his performance.
We work to engage effectively with shareholders through our regular They considered his leadership, performance and overall contribution communications, the AGM and other investor relations activities.
We announce our financial results on a quarterly basis.
The annual The Chairmen of each of the Board Committees undertook separate results are included in our Annual Report.
All shareholders receive evaluations of their Committees and the outcome of each evaluation an Annual Summary which advises them that our Annual Report and was reported and discussed with the respective Committee and the Notice of our Annual General Meeting are available on our website.
During the year, Sir Andrew Witty and Simon Dingemans gave In addition, Sir Christopher met with all the Non-Executive Directors presentations to institutional investors, analysts and the media independently of the Executive Directors.
on the full year results, which are also available via webcast and teleconference.
After the first, second and third quarter results, Accountability we hold webcast teleconferences for the same audience.
Our results are available on our website.
Internal control framework The Board recognises its responsibilities to present a fair, balanced and Our Investor Relations department, with offices in London and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
Philadelphia, acts as a focal point for communications with investors.
Sir Andrew, Simon and Sir Christopher maintain a continuous The Board has accountability for reviewing and approving the dialogue with institutional shareholders on performance, plans and effectiveness of internal controls operated by the Group, including objectives through a programme of regular meetings.
During the year financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk management.
they held over 90 individual meetings with investors and they have The internal control framework the Framework has been in operation also hosted approximately 29 group meetings with investors and for the whole of the year and continues to operate up to the date of potential investors.
approval of this Annual Report.
The Framework is the process by The Company Secretary acts as a focal point for communications which compliance with laws and regulations, the reliability of financial on corporate governance matters.
We also have a small central reporting and the effectiveness and efficiency of operations are Corporate Responsibility CR team which co-ordinates strategy, reviewed.
The Framework assists in the identification, evaluation, policy development and reporting specifically with respect to CR and management of principal risks as required by the UK Corporate matters.
The team communicates with socially responsible investors Governance Code the UK Code, and is designed to manage and other stakeholders.
rather than eliminate the risk of not achieving business objectives.
We believe the Framework provides reasonable, but not absolute Sir Christopher also meets regularly with institutional shareholders assurance against material misstatement or loss.
to hear their views and discuss issues of mutual importance, and communicates their views to the other members of the Board.
The The Audit & Risk Committee the Committee receives reports on SID and all the Non-Executive Directors are available to meet with areas of significant risk to the Group and on related internal controls.
Following consideration of these reports, the Committee reports annually to the Board on the effectiveness of controls.
The Remuneration Committee Chairman, the Chairman and the Head of Human Resources held their annual meetings with major The Board, through the Committee, has reviewed the assessment shareholders in November to discuss executive remuneration.
of risks and the Framework, and has considered the effectiveness of the system of internal controls in operation in the Group for the year In addition, the Chairman, Audit & Risk Committee Chair and covered by this Annual Report and up to the date of its approval by the SID held separate meetings with major UK shareholders in the Board.
The Boards review focuses on the company and its December, and with major US shareholders in January 2014 on subsidiaries and does not extend to material associated undertakings, governance matters.
joint ventures or other investments, although it considers the risk of We have a briefing process in place for Non-Executive Directors, the companys participation in these activities.
There are established managed by Sir Christopher, to focus on sector specific issues and procedures and controls in place to identify entities whose results general shareholder preferences.
must be consolidated with the Groups results.
We believe the process followed by the Board in reviewing the Remuneration Report system of internal controls accords with the guidance on internal Our Remuneration Report comprises the Remuneration Committee control issued by the Turnbull Committee.
Chairmans Annual Statement, the Annual Report on Remuneration This is in accordance with the provisions of the UK Code, which and the Remuneration Policy Report, and is set out on pages 96 provide that the Board is responsible for determining the nature to 126. and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
The Board provides oversight to help ensure Committee Reports that the Group maintains sound risk management and internal The reports on the Audit & Risk, Nominations and Corporate control systems.
Responsibility Committees describing the activities of those A review of the Groups risk management approach is further Committees during the year, are set out on pages 89 to 95. discussed in the Risk Management section on pages 18 to 19.
Our management of each principal risk is explained on pages 232 to 241.
