Overview Overview of 2013 Our performance in 2013 was defined by remarkable R&D output and further delivery of sustained financial performance for our shareholders.
Please go to page 4 for more More at gsk.
com Performance highlights 26.5bn 8.0bn 7.0bn 5.2bn Group turnover Core operating profit Total operating profit Returned to shareholders 6 112.2p 112.5p 13% Major medicines approved Core earnings per share Total earnings per share Estimated return on R&D investment 10 6 1st 1st Potential phase III study starts in 2014 15 Potential medicines with phase III data in Access to Medicines Index Pharmaceutical company to sign AllTrials expected 2014 15 campaign for research transparency Front cover story Betty, aged 65, pictured has Chronic Health is important to me, Obstructive Pulmonary Disease COPD.
She only has 25% lung capacity.
This means I try to take care of my she finds even everyday tasks difficult, but health with all the tools medicines and inhaled oxygen allow her to live as normal a life as she can.
Bettys mindset I have and do the best is to stay busy and active, so every week she that I can with it.
goes to rehab exercise classes.
COPD is a disease of the lungs that leads to Betty, COPD patient, damaged airways, causing them to become North Carolina, USA narrower and making it harder for air to get in and out.
210 million people around the world are estimated to have COPD.
Patients like Betty are the reason GSK has been investing more in respiratory research than any other healthcare company over the past 40 years.
For more on our research into new medicines see page 34.
Cautionary statement regarding forward-looking statements The Groups reports filed with or furnished to the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC, including this document and written information released, or oral statements made, to the public in the future by or on behalf of the Group, may contain forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements give the Groups current expectations or forecasts of future events.
An investor can identify these statements by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.
They use words such as anticipate, estimate, expect, intend, will, project, plan, believe and other words and terms of similar meaning in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance.
In particular, these include statements relating to future actions, prospective products or product approvals, future performance or results of current and anticipated products, sales efforts, expenses, the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings, and financial results.
The Group undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent risks and uncertainties.
The Group cautions investors that a number of important factors, including those in this document, could cause actual results to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statement.
Such factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed under Risk factors on pages 232 to 241 of this Annual Report.
A number of adjusted measures are used to report the performance of our business.
These measures are defined on page 58 and a reconciliation of core results to total results is set out on page 65.
