Strategic report Deliver Consumer Healthcare R&D Product innovation Our ongoing commitment to innovation, creating new, scientifically differentiated products, is demonstrated by the 13% contribution to global sales from these products in 2013 Our innovation portfolio is critical to how Sensodyne Repair & Protect we continue to grow our Consumer Healthcare Highlights Our Oral Care innovation continued to lead the business.
Our focus is on creating a continual sensitive teeth category with the introduction pipeline of new, scientifically differentiated of Sensodyne Repair & Protect in the USA.
products which define our four Consumer By developing a novel non-aqueous stannous Healthcare categories.
fluoride formulation, our Oral Care R&D team 178m were able to help consumers who deal with Through new technologies and formulations R&D investment in 2013 dentin hypersensitivity.
The active ingredient we provide products that meet the needs of in Sensodyne Repair & Protect, stannous consumers and are valued by experts.
These fluoride, builds a repairing layer over the reinforce our leadership positions, particularly vulnerable areas of teeth, to help protect from in areas such as sensitive teeth, family nutrition pain.
Due to its instability in water, it has not and smoking cessation.
been used in oral health products for many Our commitment to innovation was reflected 13% years.
Addressing the stability issues and in our investment of 178 million in core incorporating into the product formulation, of global sales from innovative products Consumer Healthcare R&D in 2013, which Sensodyne Repair & Protect provides proven increased 14% from 2012.
Overall, 13% of and effective lasting relief from the twinge of sales came from innovative products launched sensitivity and offers everyday cavity protection in recent years.
Key contributions came from: with fluoride.
NiQuitin Strips Womens Horlicks Launched in 2013, NiQuitin Strips is the first Continuing the success of our range of and only oral stop-smoking aid in a strip format Horlicks across the Indian sub-continent, designed for light smokers.
The patented we launched Womens Horlicks.
This formula that suspends nicotine in a polymer scientific formulation specifically meets system water soluble matrix, combined with the unique nutritional needs of women in the thin format, enables it to dissolve in the the region.
Designed to include 100% of mouth in approximately 3 minutes.
Clinical the daily requirements of iron, calcium, studies have shown its effectiveness in folate and other vital nutrients, the product relieving the urge to smoke in 50 seconds, has become the first health drink for women allowing consumers to benefit from fast, in India with the complete list of macronutrients effective craving relief in a discrete format.
to be recommended by the World Health We have already launched this product in Organization.
The study of human performance The GSK Human Performance Lab is a With this scientific data and performance leading science facility focused on applied results, our scientists can apply the research and discovery research.
It combines our to developing new products that not only science expertise, external advisors and meet, but anticipate the health needs of the cutting-edge technology to deepen our wider population.
By working in partnership with individuals and organisations committed to elite human performance professional athletes, sports governing bodies, sports teams, extreme explorers we will be able to improve our understanding of how the body and brain function and what can be done to drive improvements in human performance.
