Strategic report Deliver Investment in R&D Focus on productivity We remain committed to improving productivity in research and development, so we can develop more innovative new products with greater efficiency Core R&D expenditure Our primary goal in R&D is to discover and This rate of return is determined by assessing develop new medicines that provide advances the R&D costs involved in discovering and 5% on current treatments and are valued by both developing our late stage pipeline projects patients and payers.
against the profits of newly approved medicines and vaccines as they achieve Over 12,300 people work in our R&D 15% regulatory approval and become available organisation and our core R&D spend to patients.
Careful allocation of R&D was 3.4 billion on R&D during the year.
Our R&D spend is spread across our three In 2010, we calculated that our estimated businesses: Pharmaceuticals, Vaccines R&D internal rate of return IRR was 11% and Consumer Healthcare.
and stated a long-term aim of increasing 80% The R&D process for pharmaceuticals and this to 14%.
The combination of innovation, vaccines is long, expensive and uncertain, effective asset progression and successful and it is difficult to predict which products approvals with reductions in R&D spend has will succeed or fail.
It is therefore important led to an improvement in the current estimated Pharmaceuticals to drive efficiencies wherever possible to IRR to 13%.
We continue to target 14% Vaccines offset these risks.
A key priority in 2013 on a longer-term basis.
Consumer Healthcare continued to be implementing improvements This improvement in estimated IRR is an across our R&D organisation, so that increasing important measure of our financial discipline levels of output could be maintained without and our strategic progress to improve the increased expenditure.
economics of research and development.
The level of regulation and the approvals It also underpins our strategy to create processes for consumer healthcare products more flexibility around the pricing of our differ from those in pharmaceuticals and new medicines.
vaccines research as the development times Calculation of our IRR incorporates actual and are shorter and the costs are significantly less.
predicted sales figures based on probabilities Innovation in consumer products is based of success for medicines in the pipeline.
on developing new products and formulations We also take into account an estimate of that meet customers needs.
attributable R&D costs, estimated profit Across all three areas, we make decisions margins, capital investment and working about our R&D investment based on where capital requirements.
we see the best opportunities, both in the The calculation for 2013 includes products market and in the science.
We believe this launched from 1 January 2012 to 31 December is more effective than determining investment 2013 and compounds in phases IIb and III requirements on the basis of a fixed proportion of the development process.
is based on actual sales from 2011 to 2013, and forecast sales up to 2034, adjusted to Calculating the rate of return in R&D reflect expected failure rates, which are broadly Declining R&D productivity is an issue that in line with standard industry failure rates.
the pharmaceutical industry as a whole has The cost base used in this calculation faced over the past decade.
As a result it comprises an estimate of attributable R&D has become more important for companies costs and actual and projected milestone to provide a greater level of transparency on payments where appropriate.
the returns that their R&D organisations make to determine capital investment allocation.
