Strategic report Grow Consumer Healthcare Consumer Healthcare performance was strong, particularly in our Oral Care and Nutrition areas, and was boosted by our renewed focus on core brands Turnover bn Skin Health sales grew 5% to 272 million, Marketplace led by Abreva in the USA.
The global consumer healthcare marketplace 08 is wide and diverse, with each individual At a regional level, excluding the non-core 07 20% marketplace or region presenting its own OTC products divested in 2012, US sales challenges and opportunities.
% of group turnover grew 2% to 951 million, led by strong 06 contributions from Oral Care brands, alli In the developed economies of Europe, Asia 05 5.3 5.2 5.2 and Abreva.
This was partially offset by and North America, competition is intense as declines in gastro-intestinal products, due 04 the main market players strive to gain market 2% to increased competitor activity, and in share via innovation and aggressive marketing.
Reported growth CER% 03 smoking control products.
Increasingly, premium-branded competitors 02 must drive market value by offering consumers In Europe, sales grew 3% to 1.8 billion, superior, clearly differentiated products to helped by strong growth in products for 01 compete with own-label offerings.
Oral Care sales 0 in Europe were flat, as strong growth in Growth slowed slightly in the emerging markets.
2011 2012 2013 Sensodyne and denture care brands was In the long term, prospects remain strong, driven offset by a decline in Aquafresh, which was by an emerging middle class, greater disposable Operating profit bn impacted by some supply issues in Q4.
05 Rest of World markets, which include India, Performance China, Latin America and Africa, grew 6% to 04 0.9bn 2.4 billion, reflecting growth across most Overall, Consumer Healthcare turnover grew Operating profit categories and markets.
Performance in 03 2% to 5.2 billion in 2013.
Excluding the India was particularly strong with sales up non-core OTC brands that were divested 02 16%.
India remains an important market for in the first half of 2012, turnover grew 4%.
01 the business and this was reinforced by our 3% Operating profit for Consumer Healthcare 1.1 0.9 0.9 investment in our publicly-listed Consumer grew 3%.
Reported growth CER% 0 Healthcare subsidiary as we brought our 2011 2012 2013 Our Consumer Healthcare business is holding share to 72.5% during the year.
structured around four categories: Total Breakdown of turnover Wellness, Oral Care, Nutrition and Skin Health.
Other developments m Growth Total Wellness sales, excluding the non-core We extended our approach to innovation OTC brands that were divested in the first CER % with the launch of the Shopper Science Lab half of 2012, grew 1% to 1.9 billion.
A severe see case study and the Human Performance Total Wellness 1,935 5 cold and flu season in early 2013 helped drive Lab more on this on page 42.
Oral Care 1,884 6 growth of several respiratory brands.
This was These two world-class facilities enrich our offset by a 40% reduction of Total Wellness Nutrition 1,096 7 ability to better serve our consumers, by sales in China, driven by regulatory changes.
Skin Health 272 5 deepening our understanding of what influences A 6% increase in Oral Care sales to their decision at shelf, and improving our R&D 1.9 billion was driven by growth of Sensodyne capability by working with elite performers to toothpaste for Sensitivity and Acid erosion understand human performance and applying which was up 15% and denture care brands that to new products for mass consumers.
We also continued with our strategy to Our Nutrition category grew 7% with emerging increase the focus on a core portfolio of markets recording a 14% increase.
Family Consumer Healthcare brands, with a particular Nutrition Horlicks was up 14%, due to emphasis on emerging markets.
An element of increased consumer access in India and this was the sale of our Lucozade and Ribena geographic expansion into Bangladesh and drinks brands to Suntory Beverage & Food Ltd, Pakistan.
In addition, Functional beverages the Japanese consumer goods company, for grew by 11% in emerging markets, and 3% 1.35 billion.
We completed the sale at the in Europe.
30 GSK Annual Report 2013 Shopping the habits of shoppers At GSK, innovation isnt limited to our We can use the Shopper Science Lab to R&D organisation.
We also see how explore habits and behaviours to understand technological innovation could allow us what influences consumer choices.
The to deepen our understanding of what flexibility of the facility allows us to analyse influences consumer decisions.
This will different store layouts, shelf enhancements enable us to improve the experience for and packaging displays to improve the our consumers and ultimately increase shopper experience at point of purchase.
The opening of our high tech shopper Through this, we can collaborate with our research facility, the Shopper Science Lab, retail partners to identify the best joint value is a significant step towards this.
It is the largest and most advanced Investing in facilities such as the SSL, shopper insight and collaboration facility allows GSK to stay at the forefront of the in Europe, fitted out with cutting-edge science of shopping, giving us a competitive technology including a virtual insight and advantage in the fast-paced world of engagement touch screen wall, eye-tracking consumer healthcare.
This is completely in and skin sensors to monitor consumers keeping with our aim of becoming the first emotional reactions and a mock retail and best fast-moving consumer healthcare and pharmacy store.
company driven by science and values.
