Strategic report Financial review Treasury operations Counterparty risk management The objective of treasury activity is to manage the post-tax net cost GSK sets global counterparty limits for each of our banking and or income of financial operations to the benefit of earnings.
We use investment counterparties based on long-term credit ratings from a variety of financial instruments to finance our operations and Moodys and Standard and Poors.
Corporate Treasurys usage of derivative financial instruments to manage market risks from these these limits is monitored daily by a Corporate Compliance Officer operations.
These derivatives, principally comprising forward foreign CCO who operates independently of Corporate Treasury.
Any currency contracts and interest rate swaps, are used to swap breach of these limits would be reported to the CFO immediately.
borrowings and liquid assets into currencies required for Group The CCO also monitors the credit rating of these counterparties and, purposes and to manage exposure to financial risks from changes when changes in ratings occur, notifies Corporate Treasury so that in foreign exchange rates and interest rates.
changes can be made to investment levels or to authority limits as appropriate.
In addition, relationship banks and their credit ratings are We do not hold or issue derivatives for speculative purposes.
Our reviewed regularly and a report is presented annually to the TMG for Treasury policies specifically prohibit such activity.
in financial instruments are undertaken to manage the risks arising from underlying business activities, not for speculation.
Group reporting in 2014 Interest rate risk management During 2014, GSK intends to report core results performance GSKs objective is to minimise the effective net interest cost and to measured against 2013 core results excluding divestments balance the mix of debt at fixed and floating interest rates over time.
The divestments include the disposals of The policy on interest rate risk management limits the amount of Lucozade and Ribena, the anti-coagulant products and several other floating interest payments to a prescribed percentage of operating minor products.
Summary restated 2013 core results excluding profit.
divestments for 2013 are set out below.
We use interest rate swaps to redenominate one of our bonds into Core results floating interest rates.
The duration of these swaps matches the Core Divested excluding results businesses divestments duration of the principal instrument.
These interest rate derivative m m m instruments are accounted for as fair value hedges of the relevant Turnover 26,505 903 25,602 liability.
Cost of sales 7,549 474 7,075 Foreign exchange risk management Selling, general and administration 7,928 179 7,749 Foreign currency transaction exposures arising on internal and Research and development 3,400 6 3,394 external trade flows are not generally hedged.
The Groups objective Royalty income 387 387 is to minimise the exposure of overseas operating subsidiaries Operating profit 8,015 244 7,771 to transaction risk by matching local currency income with local currency costs where possible.
Our internal trading transactions are Profit before tax 7,366 244 7,122 matched centrally and we manage inter-company payment terms to Profit after tax 5,671 184 5,487 reduce foreign currency risk.
Foreign currency cash flows can be Profit attributable to shareholders 5,421 184 5,237 hedged selectively under the management of Corporate Treasury Earnings per share pence 112.2p 3.8 p 108.4p and the TMG.
Where possible, we manage the cash surpluses or borrowing requirements of subsidiary companies centrally using A reconciliation of core results to total results is set out on page 65. forward contracts to hedge future repayments back into the originating currency.
Strategic Report In order to reduce foreign currency translation exposure, we seek to The Strategic Report was approved by a duly authorised denominate borrowings in the currencies of our principal assets and Committee of the Board of Directors on 26 February 2014 and cash flows.
These are primarily denominated in US dollars, Euros and signed on its behalf by: Sterling.
Certain borrowings can be swapped into other currencies as required.
Borrowings denominated in, or swapped into, foreign currencies that match investments in overseas Group assets may be treated Simon Dingemans as a hedge against the relevant assets.
Forward contracts in major Chief Financial Officer currencies are also used to reduce exposure to our investment in 26 February 2014 overseas Group assets.
The TMG reviews the ratio of borrowings to assets for major currencies monthly.
