Strategic report Deliver Pipeline progress New treatment options Our R&D organisation performed exceptionally well in 2013, with a record number of approvals, and encouraging evidence of our ability to sustain this output Of the six major new medicine files we profiled Initial phase III data were also received for HIV Aids at the start of 2013, five were approved: Breo darapladib in chronic coronary heart disease ViiV Healthcare, the company we established and Anoro for respiratory disease, Tafinlar and the therapeutic vaccine MAGE-A3 in with Pfizer in 2009 to focus on HIV treatment and Mekinist for melanoma skin cancer and melanoma.
While the primary endpoint in and research, gained approval for Tivicay in the Tivicay for HIV.
We are expecting regulatory the darapladib study and the first co-primary USA and Europe.
Tivicay is the first once-daily decisions for albiglutide, the remaining asset in endpoint in the MAGE-A3 study were not integrase inhibitor that does not need to be this group, in the first half of 2014.
In addition, met, we are in the process of further analysing used in conjunction with a booster drug, and we launched our new injectable quadrivalent these data to determine whether there are it has been approved for use both in treatmentflu vaccine in the USA.
patient sub-groups which would benefit from naive and  patients.
Further phase III studies of This is the most productive period in the MAGE A3 in lung cancer and darapladib for Vaccines companys history.
Overall GSK accounted acute coronary syndrome will read out in 2014. for 19% of FDA new drug approvals during During the year we gained approvals for two 2013 and since 2009 we have achieved more We handed back rights to partner companies new quadrivalent flu vaccines: Flulaval in the approvals for new molecular entities in the USA and Fluarix in Europe.
These four-strain for four assets in 2013: IPX066 in Parkinsons USA then any other company.
disease was returned to Impax Pharmaceuticals vaccines provide added protection versus traditional trivalent vaccines.
due to delays in the anticipated regulatory approval and launch dates: and disappointing Respiratory In Europe, our HPV vaccine, Cervarix, received phase III data prompted us to return rights Within respiratory, Breo Ellipta, a once-daily approval for a two-dose schedule, in addition for migalastat in Fabry disease to Amicus combined steroid and long-acting beta to the existing three doses.
The European Therapeutics, for vercirnon in Crohns disease agonist, was approved in the USA as a Medicines Agency also approved an additional to Chemocentryx, and for drisapersen in treatment for COPD, and the same product, indication against pnuemonia for Synflorix Duchenne muscular dystrophy to Prosensa.
under the name Relvar Ellipta, was approved in infants and children.
Pneumonia continues We also decided not to pursue development for the treatment of asthma in Japan.
Relvar to be one of the leading causes of death in of Tykerb in either head and neck or gastric Ellipta also received marketing authorisation children under five.
cancer, after studies of this medicine in these in Europe for both COPD and asthma.
indications failed to meet their primary endpoints.
A strong pipeline Another new product for COPD, Anoro Ellipta, We remain confident that we are capable was also approved in the USA.
Anoro Ellipta Promising progress was made in 2013 with of delivering a strong, sustainable pipeline is the first once-daily product to reach the a number of phase III assets progressing to of potential new medicines.
We have market in the USA that combines two longregulatory filing by years end.
around 40 new molecular entities NMEs acting bronchodilators in a single inhaler.
Files were submitted in the USA and Europe in phase II III clinical development and in Both Relvar Breo and Anoro are administered for albiglutide, a treatment for type 2 diabetes, 2014 2015 expect phase III read-outs for using our novel inhaler device, Ellipta.
a single tablet combination of Tivicay and 6 NMEs including MAGE-A3, darapladib, ViiVs Kivexa for the treatment of HIV, Arzerra and mepolizumab in severe asthma.
Oncology as a first line treatment for chronic lymphocytic Phase III studies will also start for around Our oncology business was strengthened leukemia CLL and umeclidinium, the longten new assets.
by a number of regulatory approvals in 2013. acting muscuranic antagonist component Two new products, Tafinlar and Mekinist, were of Anoro, for COPD.
approved in the USA for use singly in In the USA we filed fluticasone fuorate, metastatic melanoma and, under the FDAs the steroid component of Relvar Breo, as accelerated approval process, for use as the a monotherapy in asthma and in Europe first combination of oral targeted therapies.
submitted Votrient for ovarian cancer.
This accelerated approval is contingent on the results of the phase III trial, which is We expect regulatory decisions in Europe designed to evaluate the clinical benefit of in 2014 on Anoro Ellipta, Incruse, Mekinist the combination in this patient population.
and Mekinist Tafinlar combination use.
Tafinlar also gained European approval, 2013 was an important year for our malaria and we expect a decision in Europe in 2014 vaccine candidate, with phase III data showing on both Mekinist and the combination use.
that over 18 months of follow-up, the vaccine New indications for two existing products in almost halved the number of malaria cases our portfolio Tyverb and Revolade were in young children, and reduced by around a also approved by regulators.
quarter the number of malaria cases in infants.
Using these data, we intend to submit a regulatory file in Europe for this asset in 2014.
34 GSK Annual Report 2013 Six significant new product approvals Relvar Breo Ellipta Anoro Ellipta Tivicay fluticasone furoate vilanterol umeclidinium and vilanterol dolutegravir Combination once-daily inhaled First once-daily dual bronchodilator An integrase inhibitor approved in corticosteroid and long-acting beta-2 to treat chronic obstructive pulmonary the USA and Europe for the treatment agonist bronchodilator disease COPD in the USA of HIV in combination with other antiretroviral therapy Approved in the USA to treat COPD, Combines two long-acting in Europe to treat asthma and COPD, bronchodilators in one device First integrase inhibitor that does not and in Japan to treat asthma need to be used in conjunction with New dry powder inhaler Ellipta, enables a booster drug Offers 24-hour efficacy from a oncesimultaneous delivery of both medicines daily dose Approved for patients new to treatment 27 million people in the USA are and those who have already received New dry powder inhaler Ellipta, enables estimated to be affected by COPD other HIV medicines simultaneous delivery of both medicines National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute Globally, 35 million people were living Despite medical advances, more than half with HIV at the end of 2012 WHO of asthma patients continue to experience poor control and significant symptoms 1.7 million people died of AIDS-related European Respiratory Review illnesses worldwide in 2011 WHO 235m 4th 35m leading cause of death worldwide is people currently have asthma WHO people living with HIV WHO COPD International COPD coalition Tafinlar Mekinist Fluarix Flulaval dabrafenib trametinib quadrivalent influenza vaccine A pill for metastatic melanoma, approved A first-in-class targeted treatment for A seasonal influenza vaccine that in the USA and Europe melanoma, approved in the USA protects against four different strains of the virus Medicine targets patients with the The median age of a newly diagnosed genetic mutation BRAF V600E metastatic melanoma patient is almost Offers additional protection compared a decade younger than that of patients to traditional three-strain vaccines Approximately half of all people with with other cancers Cancer Network metastatic melanoma have a BRAF Influenza is a serious public health mutation The only FDA-approved MEK inhibitor problem that can cause severe illness for patients with BRAF V600E and and even death Melanoma causes 75% of all skin V600K mutations cancer-related deaths Epidemics occur yearly during autumn American Cancer Society The number of people worldwide and winter diagnosed with melanoma in 2015 In the USA, there were an estimated Vaccination is the most effective way will be 233,000 WHO 9,480 deaths from melanoma in 2013 to prevent infection National Cancer Institute Only one in two patients worldwide with metastatic melanoma is expected to survive for a year after diagnosis 50% 500k 1st of all malignant melanoma cases have in class MEK inhibitor seasonal influenza may cause up to a BRAF mutation Lancet Oncology 500,000 deaths per year worldwide WHO GSK Annual Report 2013 35
