Pharmaceuticals R&D Our search for new medicines Our pharmaceuticals R&D organisation has been restructured to create research groups that are more agile, autonomous and outward-facing.
We believe this structure is key to building a strong pipeline of innovative new medicines Core Pharmaceutical investment More than 10,500 people are employed in Early-stage research our Pharmaceuticals R&D business.
In 2013 In early-stage research drug discovery, our our pharmaceuticals core R&D expenditure aim is to identify the biological targets involved was 2.7 billion, a decline of 5% compared in the development of diseases and then to to the previous year.
When this is viewed in 17% create small molecules or biopharmaceuticals 27% the context of the record number of approvals that interact with these disease targets, we gained and our strong pipeline outputs ultimately leading to new medicines.
this year, we believe this is evidence that In recent years we have transformed our our strategy of increasing R&D productivity pharmaceutical R&D organisation with the aim is working.
of enhancing efficiency and productivity.
Our The length of time and costs involved in drug new approach has three key elements.
First, 56% discovery and development make it essential we have broken up the traditional hierarchical that we are highly selective in where we invest R&D business model and created smaller, our resources.
We distribute expenditure more agile early-stage R&D groups called across early stage research and late-stage Discovery Performance Units DPUs.
Second, Discovery development, and we focus on those areas we have changed our processes so that we are Development where scientific advances have opened up progressing only those experimental medicines Facilities and central support new opportunities that we consider most that are significantly differentiated from existing likely to lead to significant medical advances.
Third, we are increasing the amount We also ensure we evaluate all experimental of research we do with external partners, products at key points in the development enabling us to access new areas of science pathway, so we can be confident we are and to share the risk of development.
putting resources in the projects we believe Our DPU structure helps us to maintain have the highest probability of succeeding.
flexibility in our discovery research investment, Our key R&D centres are in the UK, USA, while focusing on the most promising scientific Spain and China.
plans to significantly expand and rejuvenate We had 42 DPUs in 2013.
Each DPU has some of these facilities most significantly between 5 and 70 scientists who all work in Pennsylvania in the USA to ensure we on a particular disease pathway or area of are well placed to maintain our position as science.
The DPU is responsible for discovery a leader in R&D and to attract new talent.
and development of potential new medicines through to early stage clinical trials up to the completion of phase lla.
Timeline and development stages for pharmaceutical research Regulatory Approval Post-marketing Preclinical Drug discovery Clinical trials review and launch surveillance Phase I Phase II Phase III 5,000-10,000 compounds 250 compounds 5 compounds 1 approved new medicine 20-100 20-100 20-100 Number of patients subjects 3-6 years 6-7 years 0.5-2 years IND submitted NDA submitted GSK Annual Report 2013 37 Pre-discovery Strategic report Deliver Pharmaceuticals R&D continued DPUs are given their own budget, and This is also known as commit to medicine Governance progress against DPU business plans is development.
This decision is typically The R&D governance structure aims to regularly reviewed by the Discovery Investment made after phase IIa trials, during which the ensure clear accountabilities and product Board DIB.
Membership of the DIB includes compound is tested in a small number of reviews.
The oversight of strategic issues senior R&D and commercial management, and human volunteers.
At this point, we will devise and overall budget management across R&D external individuals with expertise including and instigate larger-scale studies in humans is owned by the R&D Executive team.
There life science investment experience and an using the investigational medicine to further are three governance boards that determine understanding of payer perspectives.
It is investigate its efficacy and safety.
investment over the lifecycle of R&D and early chaired by the President of R&D.
commercialisation, beginning with the DIB, At the same time, we work to optimise as described earlier.
In 2013 we continued to be active in deal the compounds physical properties and making and collaborating with external its formulation so that it can be produced Our Portfolio Investment Board PIB assesses companies, individuals and academics.
efficiently and in sufficient quantities through the technical, commercial and investment case In particular we have been active in venture the manufacturing process.
In some cases, for each project to progress in development.
funding and were instrumental in the start up of our research may include developing new The PIB is co-chaired by the Chairman of four venture funds during the year focusing on devices to deliver these medicines see R&D and the President of North America different areas of science or regions see below, case study, Patient-centric design.
Pharmaceuticals, and includes the heads Nurturing the biotech ecosystem.
In 2013, we of each pharmaceutical region along with If all of these stages are successful, also ran two competitions one with the goal the head of global manufacturing.
we can use the results of our studies to of increasing understanding in the nascent field submit a regulatory file for approval with The PIB is accountable for investment of bioelectronics, and the other with a view to regulatory agencies.
decisions and funding allocation across forming partnerships with academia.
all late-stage Pharma R&D investments, The responsibility for guiding an investigational Our core discovery expenditure was Medicines Discovery and Development, medicine through the later stages of 742 million in 2013, down approximately Biopharm R&D, Oncology, Stiefel, Rare development to filing rests with our Medicines 7% against 2012.
Development Teams MDTs, small units This allows investment decisions to be made of six to ten people.
Late-stage development in a holistic way, ensuring a balance and We now have around 40 new molecular diversity of assets of differing risk profiles, When a compound has demonstrated entities in phase II III clinical development.
novelty, opportunity, development cost and a potential proof of concept in how it potential to be reimbursed by payers.
works, we make a decision on whether to advance it into late-stage development.
Nurturing the biotech ecosystem Discovery research is exciting and innovative In 2013 alone, we have been instrumental but also time consuming and high risk.
in the start-up of four venture funds focusing Those factors, along with the global on different areas of science rare diseases economic downturn, have resulted in fewer and bioelectronics or regions west coast investments in early-stage life sciences of the USA.
companies over the past several years.
One of those funds, with San Diego-based A number of venture capital firms have Avalon Ventures, is ground-breaking in stopped investing altogether in the sector: its efforts to fund and launch up to ten there are fewer investments and the average early-stage life science companies.
The amount invested has fallen.
first company to be formed out of that To fill those gaps and ensure that innovative collaboration was announced in December, ideas dont get lost because of a lack less than nine months after the fund was of financing, we have taken a creative formally launched.
approach to early research investment Through our participation in these venture through the creation of and participation funding activities, we gain access to a broad in a number of venture capital funds, range of early research programmes and in including one fund with a pharmaceutical some cases have an option to buy companies industry competitor.
38 GSK Annual Report 2013 Projects are reviewed by the PIB at certain key decision points: commit to medicine development, commit to phase III and commit to file.
Funding is generally allocated up to the next key decision point, typically between two and four years ahead.
The PIB also carries out an annual late-stage funding review, where investment in all projects is reviewed, adjusted if necessary and prioritised.
No individual latestage project has incurred annual expenditure of more than 10% of the total annual R&D expenditure.
Our Commercial Accountability Board CAB is responsible for commercial alignment and investment decisions on our innovative marketed products portfolio, governing the transition from R&D portfolio to our commercial operations.
CAB reviews individual assets at the commit to launch milestone and beyond, including endorsement of the commercial strategy and global targets for assets.
CAB also approves investments in phase IIIb IV evidence generation, conducts post-launch reviews and annual reviews of reimbursement decisions against predicted performance.
Other important governance boards in R&D include the Scientific Review Board SRB, the governing body accountable for the scientific Patient-centric design assessment of the R&D portfolio to support investment decision making at the Portfolio Investment Board PIB.
At the SRB, there A key challenge in designing inhalers for The Ellipta inhaler is unusual in that will be a debate, review and endorsement of asthma and COPD treatments is to make the two compounds that make up the a unified R&D view on the scientific aspects the delivery mechanism as simple and Relvar Breo, fluticasone furoate and of all assets.
The SRB establishes a view on reliable as possible for patients, while vilanterol, or Anoro, umeclidiminum and the overall scientific promise of the asset: ensuring it effectively delivers each dose vilanterol, are stored separately within development plan to deliver the asset: cost of medicine.
the inhaler, rather than being combined effectiveness of the clinical plan: opportunities and stored together.
The compounds and risks to the likely product profile: and GSK has been at the forefront of respiratory only come into contact when the dose is gaps where evidence is missing or remains science since the launch of Ventolin over administered, or actuated, by the patient.
The SRB view is the formal R&D 40 years ago.
This year we unveiled the This means that for two medicines, there position communicated at the PIB.
new Ellipta multi-dose dry powder inhaler, is no need to blend them together, which marking the next generation of GSK Two other important governance boards in R&D would require a new formulation being innovation in inhalation devices.
are the Technology Investment Board TIB, developed for each new dual combination.
which makes investment decisions for new The Ellipta inhaler is the result of more This separate storage is especially platform technologies and licensing or optionsthan ten years of design, development important as not all combinations of based collaborations up to the point of entry and planning, which involved testing and medicines can be blended due to physical into clinical trials: and the New Product Supply tailoring our designs based on patient or chemical interactions.
Where medicines NPS Board, which is the governing body experience.
It is designed to be easy for can be blended, the Ellipta has the accountable for the technical feasibility and patients to use, with the minimum number potential to allow three or more compounds infrastructure assessments covering all aspects of steps: open, inhale & close.
It will be to be stored and delivered.
Potentially this of the physical product and supply chain.
used across all our new inhaled respiratory could enable new treatment combinations medicines.
The Ellipta inhaler was recently Our Regulatory Governance Board, launched in a single inhaler.
approved to deliver the Relvar Breo and in 2012 and led by the Chief Regulatory Anoro inhalation products.
Officer, operated throughout 2013 with its focus on enhancing compliance with companywide standards, increasing efficiency of regulatory services, and aligning capabilities with business needs both globally and locally.
