Strategic report Simplify Simplify Reducing complexity in our business remains a central element of our strategy.
In doing so we can stop waste and inefficiencies and reinvest savings elsewhere in the business.
Over the last six years we have been implementing We are also investing in new technology significant restructuring programmes.
to streamline different parts of the business including manufacturing, supply chain, We are transforming our global manufacturing finance and HR.
network and supply chain to make it more efficient and better able to respond to the needs of our customers and patients.
Restructuring annual savings bn Progress summary 07 We are undertaking a broad range of restructuring 3.0bn 06 change programmes which began from 2007 onwards restructuring savings and are simplifying many areas of our business from 05 in 2013 supply chains to finance, HR and R&D.
04 3.9 In total, our ongoing restructuring programmes 03 delivered annual savings of 3.0 billion in 2013 and are 3.0 expected to deliver 3.9 billion of annual savings by 2.5 02 2016.
Year on year incremental savings from ongoing 01 and structural programmes were 400 million in 2013.
0 Safety and quality remain the priority of our 2012 2013 Target manufacturing and supply organisation.
We are 2016 transforming our operations to improve service for end customers and ensure safety and sustainability Working capital days in our operations.
210 We have created six regional business centres across 202 the globe to bring together support functions in order 194 10 180 to streamline and standardise functional support to 176 working capital 150 the businesses.
days improvement in 2013 adjusted for Our global ERP system deployment made significant 120 divestments in 2013 progress in 2013, with 70% of our European and intangible asset 90 Pharmaceutical revenue and 25% of our European impairments Consumer Healthcare revenue now on the system.
60 The creation of the Established Products Portfolio 30 allows us to better allocate resources to the new 0 portfolio of medicines while also achieving reduction 2011 2012 2013 in inefficiencies and realising some opportunities for reinvestment.
44 GSK Annual Report 2013 Proximity production Sales of our Oral care products, Polident and Poligrip, increased by 10% in 2013 and are projected to grow significantly over the coming years.
As part of our ongoing efforts to create a streamlined and flexible supply chain, we moved the manufacturing of the active ingredient in Poligrip and Polident from a factory in the USA to Cork, Ireland in 2013.
Now the ingredient travels just 50 miles down the road to where the products are manufactured in Dungarvan.
This is expected to produce a 17% reduction in the Poligrip cost of goods by 2017 and will also reduce carbon emissions.
Pictured: One of our employees at our Dungarvan site in Ireland.
The production of the active ingredient in Cork will dramatically increase the speed of response to any changes in customer demand, as well as reducing the cost of production and delivery.
Joe Power, VP and site director, Cork Our priorities We continue to restructure and simplify our business to reduce the long-term cost base.
In manufacturing we will continue to focus on delivering products of value at optimal cost and reduce pack presentations, manufacturing defects and waste.
We will fast track the implementation of the integrated supply chain supported by enterprise resource planning ERP in order to improve supply service levels, reduce stock outs and reduce the cost of the supply chain.
In Core Business Services we will continue to migrate services and focus on improving service efficiency and effectiveness.
We will also manage our Established Products Portfolio to reduce complexity, enhance profitability and optimise the value of this group of products.
GSK Annual Report 2013 45 Strategic report Simplify Simplify Our operating model In 2013 we continued to transform our operating model to reduce costs and complexity and improve efficiency The transformation of our operating model and We have 86 sites in 36 countries manufacturing Further simplification in our supply chain is processes remains a key business strategy, our pharmaceuticals, consumer healthcare driving greater efficiency in areas including enabling us to standardise and streamline products and vaccines.
Our GMS division is logistics and warehousing, procurement, important aspects of our business, including responsible for 72 of these sites, employing portfolio simplification and manufacturing.
more than 27,000 people who make and These programmes are at an early stage but supply our Pharmaceutical and Consumer have already reduced volatility and improved Our restructuring programmes are continuing Healthcare products.
The remaining 14 sites, responsiveness allowing better inventory to contribute and support the delivery of employing 7,500 staff, are run by our management which has already delivered significant savings.
These savings are then Vaccines business.
100 million of benefits in our Pharmaceutical available to be re-invested in our priority supply chain in 2013. growth businesses, new product launches, We continue to review this network and or returns to shareholders.
seek opportunities to optimise its operations.
We have also been reducing the complexity During 2013, we closed three smaller of our portfolio of existing products.
By manufacturing sites in Singapore, USA and discontinuing unprofitable packs and Restructuring progress Mexico, sold our Coleford site in the UK as standardising pack presentation formats we We began our Operational Excellence part of the divestment of our Lucozade and are improving operational efficiency while restructuring programme in 2007.
This Ribena brands and announced that one further ensuring patient and customer needs are met programme remains on track to deliver site would leave our network in 2014.
We also see case study opposite.
This year we have 2.8 billion of annual savings in 2014. completed the integration of the former Human reached our target of 10% discontinuations by In 2013 as this programme was coming to Genome Science manufacturing site in the year end and remain on target to achieve the a close, we announced a new Major Change USA, and acquired the DeMiclen Consumer reduction of 25% of packs in our portfolio over programme with a focus on improving supply Healthcare manufacturing facility in Slovakia the four-year period to 2016. chain processes, building capabilities in to support growth.
manufacturing and R&D, and restructuring Core Business Services We have invested in our manufacturing network our European business.
This programme is The Core Business Services CBS group throughout the year, with commitments totalling in its early stages and remains on track to was set up in 2011 to bring together support more than 300 million being announced deliver 1 billion of annual savings by 2016. functions including facilities management, HR, across key centres such as the UK and India Together, these two restructuring programmes IT, finance and procurement, into a centralised to implement improvements and technological produced annual savings of 3.0 billion in 2013. team to streamline and standardise these advances into our manufacturing processes.
In addition to these programmes, we began operations.
Our aim is to increase productivity, a separate structural initiative in 2012 to and free up time in the businesses so they can Supply chain progress reshape our long-term operating expenses and focus on the execution of business strategy in GMS has aligned organisationally to a liabilities.
In 2013 this produced a reduction their local markets, and reduce the number of new model with responsibility for the entire of approximately 280 million in our long-term global support staff.
Pharmaceutical and Consumer Healthcare employment costs through restructuring of our supply chains from the supplier through We have invested in a global enterprise post-employment medical benefits.
In 2012 to delivery to the customer creating a fully resource planning ERP system which is there was a benefit of 395 million when we integrated supply chain.
playing an important role in reducing costs, restructured our pension obligations.
improving service levels and reducing working Since 2011 our Consumer Healthcare Taking these ongoing and structural initiatives capital in manufacturing, the supply chain and business has been reforming and simplifying together in 2013, we delivered incremental commercial operations.
Roll-out of the ERP is its supply chain model to implement this year-on-year savings of around 400 million on time and on budget.
This has delivered over with a similar amount expected in 2014 helping 300 million in savings since it began and Following the positive start made in 2012, to offset mix pressure and fund ongoing created greater operating flexibility, allowing further progress was made through 2013 in investment requirements.
us to deliver products to customers more enrolling our European pharmaceutical and We have also continued our integration of quickly and efficiently.
vaccines markets on our commercial ERP Human Genome Sciences into the business, system.
70% of our European Pharmaceuticals We have transferred the learnings from and restructuring benefits in 2013 from this revenues and 25% of our Consumer this during 2013 to our Pharmaceuticals were around 130 million.
Healthcare revenues are now on the system.
manufacturing operations, creating supply chain structures aligned from supplier through In 2013, we completed advance deployment Global manufacturing and supply to delivery to customer.
of the forecasting and planning element of the The global manufacturing and supply ERP system to markets in Latin America.
Now Our Vaccines supply chain is also GMS division is focused on delivering all GSK businesses in the region forecast and implementing an end-to-end transformation a transformational plan to enable us to plan on the same system to the same data programme to improve customer service, manufacture and supply both the new standards.
This has enabled the consolidation reduce inventories through lead-time reduction, product portfolio and our existing products of reporting and business analysis.
and to improve forecast accuracy.
In 2013 our to consistently high quality and with key priorities here were the implementation of increased efficiency.
end-to-end inventory management, and of a new sales and operational planning process.
These are well underway and will be finalised by the end of 2014.
46 GSK Annual Report 2013 Cutting variation in a drive to enhance productivity At the beginning of 2013, we conducted an As a result, we were able to discontinue 8% This initiative is particularly important for audit which identified that our manufacturing of the Imigran pack formats during 2013 our Established Products Portfolio EPP.
group was making our migraine treatment, and expect to cut a further 5% in 2014.
EPP comprises around 50 products, as Imigran, in more than 360 different packs We achieved these cost reductions with well as our branded generics business and of varying size and quantity of tablets.
no change in total supply of the medicine.
other local products that, together, make up Each different pack format required a unique By discontinuing the least popular pack annual sales of around 4 billion.
Many of manufacturing process, meaning that the formats, we have more resource to ensure these products are no longer promoted, and more pack formats we make, the greater we continue to meet demand for the most so it is important that operating costs and the cost and complexity of manufacturing.
processes for these products are simplified as far as possible, to allow us to focus on In a bid to reduce these costs, we looked at The reduction in pack formats for this new product launches and products with ways to simplify the number of pack formats.
product was just one part of an overall the greatest growth potential.
This involved a review of all of the Imigran global initiative that we started in 2013 packs and listening to patients to find out to reduce our number of packs by around which pack formats they liked best.
In 2013, we discontinued 10% of our pack formats and we are aiming to cut a further 9% of our overall number of pack formats by the end of 2014.
We are also accelerating the deployment of Under the umbrella of CBS we have also improved forecasting and planning processes conducted a number of targeted programmes across the Group, enabled by ERP.
This should to simplify our business and take out costs.
result in a reduction in supply chain operating In IT, for example, the introduction of new costs, reduced inventory levels, and improved global platforms to run standard .
The roll out is expected to be wide processes and reduce the number of completed by mid 2015. individual business applications has seen the organisation decommission 407 applications A key element of the CBS approach has been since the beginning of 2012 8% of the total.
the creation of six regional multifunctional business service centres that will focus on By developing global category strategies, delivering robust and effective services to we have begun to standardise the material the markets, sites and regions.
In 2013, we specifications and removed complexity from opened four centres one in Costa Rica, two our supply base.
in the USA and one in the UK complementing In HR, we started implementing the people those in Kuala Lumpur and Poland that began management element of the system globally.
This global network is the By the end of 2013, all the GSK and agency foundation for standardising and continuously employees in Canada and Latin America were improving the support services offered to all on the system.
This centralised model will improve process efficiency and effectiveness and free up time in the businesses so they can focus on the execution of business strategy in their local markets.
