Strategic report The global context The global context Opportunities and challenges Despite continuing macro-economic and market challenges around the world, there remains a significant need for medicines and healthcare treatments.
Based on IMF assessments, the outlook for Global economic overview Regional pharmaceutical global economic growth in 2014 is 3.7%, Global economic growth for 2013 continued to market sales with the highest rates likely to be seen in the be affected by the fallout from the international developing economies of India, other Asian financial crisis that began in 2008.
At 3%, regions and sub-Saharan Africa see Figure 1. performance was slower than the 3.5% Factors such as political turbulence within originally predicted by the International the European Union and instability in the Monetary Fund IMF, and also just below Middle East are likely to continue to affect growth in the preceding year of 3.1%.
In the USA, the economy grew at an annual 511bn rate of 1.9%.
Indicators suggest an underlying The global healthcare market Total global pharmaceutical market sales recovery, supported by a rebound in the Sales in the world pharmaceutical market housing market and a continued fall in the Source: IMS data 2013 rose slightly to 511 billion CER in the year unemployment rate, from a peak of 10% in to September 2013, from 499 billion in 2009 to 6.7% by the end of 2013.
Despite the previous year, according to the industry earlier announcements, the Federal Reserve information company IMS.
held off tapering its quantitative easing measures in the year.
Emerging markets and Asia Pacific saw the largest sales growth at 10%, pushing the In the Eurozone the economy remained weak, proportion of total sales from this region up unemployment high and labour markets to 22% for 2013.
Sales from Europe were depressed.
largely unchanged, at 24% of the total.
The stringent fiscal reforms introduced in North American pharmaceutical sales were a number of Eurozone countries caused 219 billion, representing 43% of the market.
The top therapeutic classes by sales were In Japan, the governments fiscal stimulus unchanged in terms of positioning.
Oncology and monetary easing to support private immunomodulatory represented 16% of total consumption and investment appears to sales 10% growth, central nervous system be having an effect.
The economy grew had 15% a decline of 1%, while other areas 1.7% during the year.
also had declines see Figure 2.
Performance of emerging markets and other The IMS Institute for Healthcare Informatics regions was highly variable.
In China, growth predicts that annual spend on prescription remained stable at 7.7%, with much of this medicines will grow slowly between 1-4% growth coming in the second half of the year in North America, Europe and Japan, whereas from inward investment.
spending in emerging nations will grow 10-13% Growth was subdued in the economies of the overall as a result of economic expansion and Middle East and North Africa, Latin America and population changes in these markets.
Many currencies were put under pressure by the US Federal Population growth and Reserves tapering announcements in May 2013. evolving lifestyles Figure 1: Current and predicted growth rates % Population growth, increasing prosperity in emerging markets, global changes in lifestyle 6 and governments responses to these dynamics are all likely to expand the need for medicines 5 and other healthcare products in the future.
The United Nations forecasts that the global 4 USA population will reach 9.6 billion in 2050 US sales were steady in 2013. compared with 7.2 billion in 2013.
While birth This was partly a result of 3 rates decline in Europe and Japan, this is likely patent expiries on blockbuster to be offset by the sharp rise in populations medicines.
However, the North 2 elsewhere, particularly in the Middle East American region still remains the top pharmaceutical market and southern Asia.
1 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 World output Advanced economies 219bn Emerging market and developing countries sales in 2013 Source: WEO Update, January 2014 IMF 8 GSK Annual Report 2013 Figure 2: Total global sales of medicines by therapeutic classes % People are also living longer, partly as a result of medical advances like vaccination that have prevented or treated diseases that previously Oncology Immunomodulatory 9.5% caused a significant number of deaths.
As Central Nervous System -1.0% 15.8% Alimentary Tract and Metabolic 6.5% people live longer, they are more likely to Cardiovascular System -6.8% develop diseases of ageing, leading to Respiratory System -2.3% greater demand for medical treatments.
38.5% All other therapy areas combined 14.8% Countries with rising populations are many % growth of global sales at CER of the same economies that are experiencing improved economic outlooks.
As prosperity increases, we have seen trends towards 12.3% more sedentary lifestyles, increased 6.6% 12.0% consumption of food, alcohol and tobacco Reference: IMS data 2013 Data does not include vaccines sales.
and a corresponding rise in chronic, noncommunicable diseases NCDs such as type 2 diabetes and heart disease.
These diseases Europe already disproportionately affect low and Overall performance was better in middle-income countries, where nearly 80% Europe than in 2012, with sales up of deaths from NCDs occur.
Austerity measures WHO projected a global increase in deaths and fiscal issues in many countries are EMAP from NCDs of 17% by 2018, with the greatest the main drivers for continued slow Emerging markets continue to grow growth in the region.
increase in the African 27% and the Eastern quickly with sales up 10% in 2013.
Sales in these diverse areas are predicted to continue to grow strongly.
Governments around the globe are under pressure to improve healthcare provision.
Where a strong healthcare infrastructure is absent, people often purchase medicines themselves, and households in developing countries spend a greater proportion of their 124bn income on healthcare than their counterparts sales in 2013 in more developed markets.
A recent Pharma Futures report estimates these out-of-pocket costs can be as high as 40% in China and India, and 25% in Brazil.
Economic growth in emerging markets is likely to be mirrored by increased spending on healthcare from both governments and individuals.
Demand for medicines, vaccines and consumer healthcare products is expected to continue to grow significantly faster in these regions than in more mature markets over the next few years.
A number of non-governmental organisations 113bn and the World Health Organization, are leading sales in 2013 efforts to support regions and countries in prioritising and introducing wider healthcare provision.
There is a particular emphasis on infant immunisations, which ultimately have the potential to prevent millions of deaths see Figure 3 on page 10.
Price controls and regulatory pressures The prescription medicines and vaccines industry is highly regulated.
Individual governments have overall responsibility for determining which products can be marketed in their countries and in many cases, through state-regulated systems, how these products are priced.
The wide variations in regional and country-specific laws around regulations of medicines can present challenges to the availability of new products in different markets.
As many governments have been Japan While mandatory price cuts of seeking to control costs and reduce spending, 5-6% have been imposed in national healthcare budgets particularly alternate years, sales in Japan the proportion spent on medicines have saw approximately 2% growth in been squeezed.
2013 and the market continues to be supportive of new medicines.
55bn sales in 2013 GSK Annual Report 2013 9 Strategic report The global context The global context continued USA For both industry and regulators this legislation created new resourcing needs, as the The US regulatory agency, the Food and Figure 3: The best chance requirements around monitoring, reporting Drug Administration FDA, approved 27 for childhood and managing of safety issues expanded.
new molecular entities in 2013, down from According to the World Health 39 in 2012.
Many of these approvals marked The year saw further debate on EU proposals Organization WHO, a wide range of the first approval of the medicine in any market.
to improve the regulations around conducting vaccines are available for, or contribute A number of experimental medicines had clinical trials, with the aim of boosting clinical to, the prevention and control of 25 their development and review expedited research in EU member states.
The proposals under the breakthrough therapy designation vaccine-preventable infections.
As are nearing finalisation and could simplify programme, as a result of the 2012 Safety birth rates rise in developing countries, clincial trials processes in Europe when and Innovation Act.
This Act was designed there is a tremendous opportunity to they come into effect in 2016. to speed up the approvals process for offer children protection from the many Austerity programmes and restricted budgets medicines intended to treat serious or life infections common in childhood and continued to create challenges for healthcare threatening conditions, and is enabling preventable by these vaccines.
In its systems across Europe.
In most countries, medicines to reach patients sooner see Global Vaccine Action Plan from 2011- the pressure on drug prices remained high Figure 4 Expedited development.
2020, the WHO predicts that widening and governments used a range of cost In the USA, there are no government price access to vaccines could prevent containment measures, such as International controls on private sector purchases.
between 24.6 25.8 million deaths Reference Pricing, to squeeze efficiencies However, pharmaceutical manufacturers by the end of the decade.
are required by federal law to provide rebates Overall, access for patients to treatments to the government on certain medicines in remains variable.
Increasing use of managed order to qualify for reimbursement under entry schemes for launching new products, various healthcare programmes.
These significant reforms of pricing systems eg in rebates are shared between the states and France, UK and Sweden and industry-wide the federal government to offset the overall stability agreements to manage the entire cost of prescription drugs provided through drugs budget have all helped to some extent.
the Medicaid insurance programme for lowFigure 4: Expedited development Furthermore, in some countries, policies have income Americans.
Rebates were increased been implemented to reduce shortages of and expanded through the Affordable Care medicines, while in others, patients have Act ACA.
Although the increase means seen their payments for prescription additional costs for pharmaceutical products increase.
manufacturers, it is also allowing Medicaid to provide greater access for patients to Japan 5yrs prescription medicines.
The Japanese regulator, the Pharmaceutical and Medical Device Agency PMDA, This expansion of the Medicaid programme, The expedited review process was approved 17 medicines containing new together with new health insurance introduced by the US Food and active ingredients in the six months from marketplaces and a financial penalty for Drug Administration in 2012 as April to September 2013. certain Americans who choose not to purchase a way of speeding up the availability insurance, which launched on 1 January 2014, In April 2013, the PMDA produced a roadmap of medicines intended to treat caused a great deal of uncertainty in the outlining its desire to further strengthen serious or life-threatening conditions.
insurance market through 2013. partnerships with foreign regulatory agencies A recent review found it had reduced including the FDA, the EMA and agencies in Europe the number of years required for Asia.
This heightened spirit of co-operation The European Medicines Agency EMA, clinical testing.
Candidate medicines should speed up regulatory approvals, improve which regulates new medicines for the with breakthrough therapy the quality of safety measures, as well as European Union, approved 38 medicines designation had an average of improve the quality and quantity of research containing new active substances in 2013.
5.1 years of clinical testing before and the speed at which information can be This compared with the 35 novel medicines being approved, compared with shared globally.
Europe also had the first 7.5 years for those that underwent The government in Japan continues to progress two approvals for biosimilar monoclonal a standard review.
a number of additional initiatives that are likely antibodies mAbs.
to affect the prescriptions medicine industry.
The Pharmacovigilance Risk Assessment These include the goal of having 60% of all Committee PRAC, introduced as part of prescriptions filled by generic medicines by the revised EU pharmacovigilance legislation, March 2018, and the introduction of health completed its first year of operation in 2013 technology assessments for evaluating and led to an increase in the amount of pharmaceuticals and medical devices.
information available to the public about regulators scrutiny of the safety of medicines.
10 GSK Annual Report 2013 Emerging markets Countries such as India, Brazil and Argentina have introduced or are considering practices Across emerging markets, prescription that may restrict the grant of patents for certain medicines are regulated in a variety of ways types of inventions that are commonly available in different countries.
For the industry, this in developed countries.
There are also can present significant challenges, such as indications that some countries are considering a requirement for additional market-specific more widespread use of compulsory licensing, documentation.
For example, markets such where essentially, an individual or company as China, India, Russia, Vietnam and Nigeria seeking to use anothers patents can do so now require local clinical data in order to without seeking the rights holders consent, meet regulatory requirements.
and pays the patent owner a set usually Marketing authorisation application MAA low fee for the license.
requirements continue to evolve in the When patents expire on medicines, these emerging markets to align more closely with medicines can be subject to competition those in Europe, the USA and Japan, in terms from generic products.
The effect of this of both format and content.
is particularly acute in Western markets, Many governments in the region, including where generic products can rapidly capture Indonesia, China and India, are looking a large share of the market.
As generic to expand the population covered by the manufacturers typically do not incur significant government-funded health schemes.
This costs for R&D, they are able to offer their could increase the opportunities for highproducts at considerably lower prices than volume tenders but also impact pricing.
Although the specific tools and methods The same pressures for generic competition each country implements to control health do not apply as significantly to vaccines and spending varies, governments everywhere other biological products, or to products where continue to seek ways to manage healthcare patents exist on both active ingredients and spending, including spending on medicines.
In emerging markets, a In many of the larger emerging markets, known heritage or brand for existing medicines whether on patent or not is also valued such as Brazil, Russia, China and India, governments are attempting to manage costs by patients.
In several markets, the authorities are looking for ways to control Consumer healthcare or help manage the out-of-pocket spending The development timelines for consumer by patients themselves.
For example, India is healthcare products are significantly shorter introducing price controls on both patented and the intellectual property protections are and non-patented products.
International not the same as for prescription medicines.
reference prices remains a frequent approach However, consumer healthcare products are to reducing pricing in countries like Turkey, also subject to national regulation comparable Brazil and Australia.
China and Russia are for the testing, approval, manufacturing, also expected to introduce this soon.
Other labelling and marketing of products.
High trends in the emerging markets include standards of technical appraisal frequently protectionist policies that favour local or involve a lengthy review and approval process, domestic suppliers.
which can cause delay to our product launches.
Cutting red tape Consumer healthcare products also have New European proposals to Intellectual property and patent a greater reliance on brand loyalty and cut clinical trial regulation could protection trademark protection to create value across simplify R&D requirements in The journey from scientific breakthrough all markets, not just those in developing EU member states to approved new medicine or vaccine countries.
This market is becoming more takes many years and can incur significant challenging.
To ensure a reasonable reward for and globalised, which is strengthening their this expertise and investment, researchnegotiating powers.
based pharmaceutical companies rely on the protection of their intellectual property Competition via patents, trademarks, regulatory data Our main consumer healthcare competitors protection, registered designs, copyrights include Colgate-Palmolive, Johnson & Johnson, and domain name registrations.
Procter & Gamble, Reckitt Benckiser, Unilever, Patents generally have a 20-year term from Pfizer and Novartis.
filing but, because of the long development Competition for our prescription products time for medicines, patent life is significantly comes from other companies researching eroded before launch.
In some countries, and making patent-protected medicines with some of the lost time can be restored.
indications to treat similar diseases to our Sometimes, patents may be challenged medicines.
Our principal research-based before they expire.
Courts may determine pharmaceutical and vaccines competitors that a patent is invalid, non-infringed or include AbbVie, Amgen, AstraZeneca, Bayer, unenforceable, leading to the loss of Bristol-Myers Squibb, Eli Lilly, Johnson & protection on that innovation in that legal Johnson, Merck & Co, Novartis, NovoNordisk, jurisdiction.
Significant litigation for GSK Pfizer, Roche Holdings, Sanofi and Takeda.
is summarised in Note 44 to the Financial statements, Legal proceedings.
In addition, many other locally-operating References Fig 3 GVAP plan: http: www.
int immunization global companies compete with GSK in certain We operate in markets where intellectual vaccine action plan DoV GVAP 2012 2020 en index.
property rights, particularly patents and Fig 4 FDA review process approvals: http: www.
data protection, are less enforceable as reuters.
com article 2013 10 29  governments seek to control prices and increase access to medicines for their population by limiting such rights.
