Governance & remuneration Our Board Our Board Diversity Experience International experience Number of directors with this experience % Scientific Global 20 11 % Finance USA 27 15 % Industry Europe 53 14 EMAP 10 Tenure Composition Non-Executives % % Executive 0-3 years 20 42 % % Non-Executive 4-6 years 8 80 % 7-10 years 50 % Male 67 The Board considers each of its Non-Executive Directors to be % Female independent in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
33 Skills and experience Sir Christopher Gent 65 Sir Christopher has many years of experience of leading global Chairman businesses and a track record of delivering outstanding performance in highly competitive industries.
He was appointed Managing Director of Nationality Vodafone plc in 1985 and then became its Chief Executive Officer British in 1997 until his retirement in 2003.
Appointment date External appointments 1 June 2004 and as Chairman Sir Christopher is a Non-Executive Director of Ferrari SpA, a Senior on 1 January 2005 Adviser at Bain & Co and a member of the British Airways International Committee membership Business Advisory Board.
Chairman of the Nominations and Corporate Responsibility Committees and a member of the Remuneration and Finance Committees Sir Andrew Witty 49 Skills and experience Sir Andrew joined GSK in 1985.
He has worked in the UK, South Africa, Chief Executive Officer the USA and Singapore in various senior roles.
In 2003, he was appointed President of GSK Europe and joined GSKs Corporate Executive Team.
Nationality British In 2003 he was awarded the Public Service Medal by the Government of Singapore and in August 2012 was also awarded the Public Service Star.
Appointment date In the 2012 New Year Honours list, he was awarded a Knighthood for 31 January 2008 and as Chief services to the economy and to the UK pharmaceutical industry.
He Executive Officer on 21 May 2008 served as the Lead Non-Executive Board member for the Department of Committee membership Business, Innovation and Skills to December 2013.
He was also Member of the Finance Committee President of the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations until July 2013.
External appointments Sir Andrew is a member of the UK Prime Ministers Business Advisory Group and was appointed to the UK Business Ambassador Group in January 2014.
Skills and experience Simon Dingemans 50 Prior to joining GSK, Simon had over 25 years of experience in Chief Financial Officer investment banking at SG Warburg and Goldman Sachs.
During this time, he advised a broad range of large corporates across a number of Nationality industry sectors, including pharmaceuticals and consumer healthcare.
British Simon advised GSK for over a decade before his appointment and was Appointment date closely involved in a number of GSKs key strategic projects, including the 4 January 2011 and as Chief establishment of ViiV Healthcare.
Financial Officer on 1 April 2011 External appointments Committee membership Simon is a member of the Corporate Development Council for the Member of the Finance Committee National Theatre and Deputy Chairman of the 100 Group.
76 GSK Annual Report 2013 Skills and experience Dr Moncef Slaoui 54 Moncef joined GSK Vaccines in 1988 where he engineered the Chairman, Global R&D & development of a robust vaccines pipeline.
He then led Worldwide Vaccines Business Development for pharmaceutical products before his appointment to lead R&D in 2006.
He was also given overall responsibility Nationality for GSKs Oncology Business in 2010: for GSK Vaccines in 2011: and for Moroccan, Belgian & American all Global Franchises in 2012.
He has a PhD in Molecular Biology and Appointment date Immunology from Universit Libre fide Bruxelles and has published more 17 May 2006 than 100 scientific papers and presentations.
Prior to joining GSK, Moncef was Professor of Immunology at the University of Mons, Belgium.
Committee membership Member of the Finance Committee External appointments Moncef is a member of the PhRMA and the Biotechnology Industry Organization boards in the USA and a member of the Advisory Committee to the Director of National Institutes of Health.
He is also an adviser to the Qatar Foundation, and a member of the Qatar Biomedical Research Institute Scientific Advisory Committee.
Moncef has advised the US Presidents Council of Advisors on Science and Technology and he was a member of the Board of the Agency for Science, Technology & Research A STAR until January 2011.
Skills and experience Sir Deryck Maughan 66 Sir Deryck has a wealth of international corporate and investment Senior Independent banking experience, having previously served as Chairman and Chief Non-Executive Director Executive Officer of Citigroup International and of Salomon Brothers Inc.
He served as Vice Chairman of the New York Stock Exchange from Nationality 1996 to 2000.
British External appointments Appointment date Sir Deryck is a Senior Adviser to, and former partner of, Kohlberg 1 June 2004 and as Senior Kravis Roberts & Co.
He is a Non-Executive Director of BlackRock, Independent Non-Executive Inc. and Thomson Reuters.
He is a Trustee of the British Museum and Director on 1 May 2013 of New York University Langone Medical Center.
He is also a Director Committee membership of Lincoln Center.
Member of the Audit & Risk, Nominations, Remuneration and Finance Committees Professor Sir Roy Anderson 66 Skills and experience Professor Sir Roy is a world-renowned medical scientist with advanced Independent Non-Executive knowledge of infectious disease epidemiology and is currently Professor Director & Scientific Expert of Infectious Disease in the Faculty of Medicine, Imperial College, London.
He is a fellow and member of the Policy Advisory Board of the Royal Nationality Society, and a fellow of the Academy of Medical Sciences and the Royal British Statistical Society.
He is an Honorary Fellow of the Institute of Actuaries Appointment date and a Foreign Associate Member of the Institute of Medicine at the US 1 October 2007 National Academy of Sciences and the French Academy of Sciences.
Professor Sir Roys background enables him to bring scientific experience Committee membership to the Boards deliberations.
Member of the Nominations and Finance Committees External appointments Professor Sir Roy is a member of the International Advisory Board of Holdingham Group and he is a Trustee of the Natural History Museum, London.
Skills and experience Dr Stephanie Burns 59 Stephanie is a recognised global business leader, having served as Independent Non-Executive Chairman, President and CEO of Dow Corning Corporation until her Director retirement at the end of 2011.
She has a strong scientific background, with a PhD in organic chemistry with an organosilicon specialty, and is Nationality a staunch advocate for science education.
She was an officer and American chairman of the American Chemistry Council.
Appointment date External appointments 12 February 2007 Stephanie was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Corning Inc in Committee membership January 2012.
She was appointed as a Director to the Board of Kellogg Member of the Corporate Company on 25 February 2014.
She sat on the US Presidents Export Responsibility, Remuneration and Council.
Stephanie was also an officer of the Society of Chemical Industry, Finance Committees America Section, and is the past Honorary President of the UK-based parent society.
GSK Annual Report 2013 77 Governance & remuneration Our Board Our Board continued Skills and experience Stacey Cartwright 50 Stacey is a Chartered Accountant and has extensive experience of global Independent Non-Executive consumer businesses and of corporate finance.
She served as Executive Director Vice President, Chief Financial Officer of Burberry Group plc until July 2013.
Prior to joining Burberry Group plc in 2004, Stacey held the role Nationality of Chief Financial Officer at Egg plc between 1999 and 2003, and from British 1988 to 1999 she worked in various finance-related positions at Granada Appointment date Group plc.
1 April 2011 External appointments Committee membership Stacey is Chief Executive Officer of the Harvey Nichols Group of Member of the Audit & Risk and Companies, a role to which she was appointed in February 2014.
Finance Committees Skills and experience Lynn Elsenhans 57 Lynn has a wealth of experience of running a global business and Independent Non-Executive significant knowledge of the global markets in which GSK operates.
Director She served as Chair, President and Chief Executive Officer of Sunoco Inc from 2009 to 2012.
Prior to joining Sunoco in 2008 as President Nationality and Chief Executive Officer, Lynn worked for Royal Dutch Shell which American she joined in 1980 and where she held a number of senior roles, including Appointment date Executive Vice President, Global Manufacturing from 2005 to 2008.
1 July 2012 External appointments Committee membership Lynn is a Non-Executive Director of Baker Hughes Inc, a Director of the Member of the Audit & Risk, Texas Medical Center, and a Director of The First Tee of Greater Houston.
Corporate Responsibility and She is also a Trustee of the United Way of Greater Houston and a Trustee Finance Committees of Rice University.
Skills and experience Judy Lewent 65 Judy has extensive knowledge of the global pharmaceutical industry and Independent Non-Executive of corporate finance, having joined Merck & Co in 1980 and then served Director as Chief Financial Officer from 1990 to 2007 when she retired.
Judy has previously served as a Non-Executive Director of Motorola Inc. Dell Inc.
Nationality and Quaker Oats Company.
American External appointments Appointment date Judy is a Non-Executive Director of Thermo Fisher Scientific Inc and 1 April 2011 Motorola Solutions Inc. She is also a Trustee of the Rockefeller Family Trust Committee membership and Chairperson of the Audit Committee of Rockefeller Financial Services, a life member of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Corporation Chairman of the Audit & Risk and a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
Judy is a Committee and member of the Non-Executive Director of Purdue Pharma Inc, Napp Pharmaceutical Remuneration and Finance Holdings Limited and certain Mundipharma International Limited Committees.
Skills and experience Dr Daniel Podolsky 60 Daniel is a world-renowned researcher who has advanced knowledge of Independent Non-Executive underlying mechanisms of disease and new therapies for gastrointestinal Director & Scientific Expert disorders.
He was formerly Mallinckrodt Professor of Medicine and Chief of Gastroenterology at Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard Nationality Medical School, and previously served as the Chief Academic Officer American of Partners Healthcare System.
Daniels current responsibilities in Appointment date leading a large academic medical centre give him relevant insight into 1 July 2006 healthcare delivery.
Daniel brings scientific expertise to the Board and the Audit & Risk Committees deliberations.
Committee membership Member of the Audit & Risk, External appointments Corporate Responsibility and Daniel is President of the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Finance Committees Center and holds the Philip OBryan Montgomery, Jr. M. D. Distinguished Presidential Chair in Academic Administration, and the Doris and Bryan Wildenthal Distinguished Chair in Medical Science.
He is a member of the Institute of Medicine of the US National Academy of Sciences, member of the Board of the Southwestern Medical Foundation and is a Director of Antibe Therapeutics, Inc.
He is also a member of the National Academies of Sciences Board on Army Science and Technology.
78 GSK Annual Report 2013 Skills and experience Tom fide Swaan 67 Tom has had a long and distinguished career in the European banking Independent Non-Executive industry, having been a member of the Managing Board and Chief Director Financial Officer of ABN AMRO.
Tom has held various executive positions at the Dutch Central Bank and was a Non-Executive Director of the Nationality Financial Services Authority now the Financial Conduct Authority Dutch from 2001 to 2007.
He was previously a Non-Executive Director of Appointment date KPMGs Public Interest Committee and was also Vice Chairman of the 1 January 2006 Supervisory Board and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Royal Ahold.
Committee membership External appointments Chairman of the Remuneration Tom is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of VanLanschot Bankiers Committee and a member of the and Chairman of the Board of Directors of Zurich Insurance Group.
Audit & Risk, Nominations and He is a member of the Supervisory Board of Royal DSM.
Finance Committees Jing Ulrich 46 Skills and experience Jing is Managing Director and Vice Chairman of Asia Pacific at JPMorgan Independent Non-Executive Chase.
She advises the firms most senior global clients across all asset Director classes while building relationships with executives at Asias leading enterprises.
Jing is one of the most prominent advisors to the large global Nationality asset management companies, sovereign wealth funds, and multinational American corporations.
She works with all lines of business at JPMorgan Chase to Appointment date foster greater cross-border collaboration and strengthen senior client 1 July 2012 relationships in Asia Pacific and the rest of the world.
Committee membership Jing was Managing Director and Chair of Global Markets, China at Member of the Audit & Risk and JPMorgan between 2005 and 2013.
From 2003 to 2005, Jing worked Finance Committees for Deutsche Bank as Managing Director, Head of Greater China Equities.
She previously held financial positions, specialising in the Asia Pacific region, with CLSA Asia Pacific Markets and the Emerging Markets Investors Corporation.
She was educated at Harvard and Stanford Universities.
External appointments Jing is an Independent Director of Ermenegildo Zegna SpA.
Skills and experience Hans Wijers 63 Hans has a broad range of business, economic and political experience, Independent Non-Executive having served as Chief Executive Officer and Chairman at Akzo Nobel Director NV from 2002 to 2012.
Hans had a long and distinguished career in academia, public service and strategy consulting.
He served as a senior Nationality vice president of the Boston Consulting Group from 1998 to 2002.
Dutch External appointments Appointment date Hans is Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Heineken NV and also 1 April 2013 Deputy Chairman and Non-Executive Director of Royal Dutch Shell.
Committee membership He is also Chairman of the Supervisory Board of AFC Ajax.
Member of the Corporate Responsibility, Remuneration and Finance Committees Sir Robert Wilson 70 Skills and experience Sir Robert has had a long and distinguished career in industry, mainly Independent Non-Executive with Rio Tinto, where he became Chief Executive Officer in 1991 and Director then Executive Chairman in 1997 until his retirement in October 2003.
Sir Robert then became Non-Executive Chairman of BG Group plc from Nationality January 2004 until May 2012.
He was also Chairman of The Economist British Group between 2003 and 2009.
He has been a Non-Executive Director Appointment date at BP, Diageo and Boots.
1 November 2003 He stood down as the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Committee membership and as a member of the Audit & Risk Committee, on 1 May 2013.
Member of the Corporate External appointments Responsibility Nominations and Sir Robert is a senior adviser to Morgan Stanley, Chairman of Finance Committees Riverstone Energy Limited and Chairman of the Accenture Global Mining Executive Council.
