Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Our business model Our business model enables us to focus on A unique business model, fully integrated along generating superior returns for our shareholders the supply chain to capture value in an evolving through capital disciplined opportunism and our competitive landscape competitive position.
Our presence at each stage of the commodity chain provides us with superior market insight and access to opportunities.
We are able to capture value at each stage Who we are of the commodity chain, including extraction, processing, Glencore Xstrata is a leading integrated producer and freight, logistics, technology, storage, marketing, risk marketer of commodities.
We have worldwide activities management and financing.
in the production, refinement, processing, storage and transport of commodities and the marketing of metals and In addition, we buy commodities from thousands of minerals, energy products and agricultural products.
third party producers worldwide, which enables us to identify opportunities to grow our asset base.
We see our Operating globally, we market and distribute physical ownership of industrial assets not solely as sources of commodities sourced from our own production and from self-produced commodities, but also as tools for increasing third party producers to industrial consumers, such as flexibility, access to strategic markets, optionality, security those in the automotive, steel, power generation, oil and of supply and for gaining valuable operating, technical food processing industries.
We also provide financing, andmarket knowledge and know-how.
logistics and other services to producers and consumers of commodities.
Commodity trade flows continue to shift as demand growth centres around emerging Asian economies and the Scale and diversity supply of commodities is increasingly sought from more We benefit from our scale and diversity.
We are the third remote, challenging and often logistically constrained largest global diversified mining company by market locations, with a range of new industry participants.
As a capitalisation and a major producer and marketer of over result, we benefit from: 90 commodities.
r access to new sources of volume growth and prospective geographies at multiple points along the value chain: Our portfolio of diversified industrial assets comprise over 150 mining and metallurgical facilities, offshore oil r optimisation of product and marketing interfaces: production facilities, farms and agricultural facilities.
r excellent industry insight through a global network Our growth prospects are underpinned by volume andsuperior market intelligence: increases in the industrial asset base, which in turn will enhance marketing opportunities.
r scale and diversity with growth options: r established relationships providing strong access to In addition and unique in the industry, we are an equity and debt markets: and established marketer of commodities.
Over a period of many years, we have built a strong market reputation as r access to strategically located logistical infrastructure.
a reliable supplier of quality product on a timely basis.
In doing so, we have extensive market knowledge and World-class management, entrepreneurial culture insight, as well as the full logistics capabilities required to and track record of value creation generate value added margins and seek arbitrage potential Our management team, led by Ivan Glasenberg Chief throughout the physical commodity supply chain.
Executive Officer, has a proven track record of developing and growing our business across industry cycles.
Their alignment and commitment to continue to deliver strong returns to shareholders is reinforced through a strong entrepreneurial culture and significant equity participation, with total management and employee ownership of around 33% in the Company.
The global economic outlook appears better than it has been for a number of years.
A pickup in the major developed economies coupled with further robust growth in China should more than offset a mixed picture in other emerging economies and support demand growth for our key commodities.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 4 S T E K R A M & S R E M O T S U C Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Explore Acquire Develop Optimise Multiple brownfield growth options Focus on operational excellence Disciplined capital allocation Track record of cost improvement Ongoing exploration Maximising operational efficiencies EXPLORE ACQUIRE DEVELOP OPTIMISE MINE PRODUCE PROCESS THIRD PARTY & REFINE MARKETING & BLENDING LOGISTICS & DELIVERY Logistics Delivery Marketing Blending Global distribution capabilities Presence at each stage of the commodity chain allows us to provide a superior Strategic handling, storage and freight service to customers equipment and facilities Optimisation of marketing interfaces Access to a large fleet of vessels Reliable supply of quality product Strategically located logistical infrastructure Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 5 S L A R Y E E R N G U I T M L R U C E & I R S N G A L E A T E M
