Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Directors report Introduction Review of business, future developments and post balance sheet events This Annual Report is presented by the Directors on the affairs of Glencore Xstrata plc the Company and its A review of the business and the future developments subsidiaries the Group or Glencore, together with the of the Group is presented in the Strategic Report.
financial statements and auditors report, for the year ended 31 December 2013.
The Directors report, including A description of acquisitions, disposals, and material details of the business, the development of the Group changes to Group companies undertaken during the year, and likely future developments as set out in the Strategic including post balance sheet events, is included in the Report, which together forms the management report Financial review and in notes 25 and 30 to the financial for the purposes of the UK Financial Services Authoritys statements.
Disclosure and Transparency Rule DTR 4.1.
The notice concerning forward looking statements is set out at the end Financial instruments of the Annual Report.
References to the Company may also Descriptions of the use of financial instruments and include references to the Group or part of the Group.
financial risk management objectives and policies, including hedging activities and exposure to price risk, Corporate structure credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk are included Glencore Xstrata plc is a public company limited by shares, in notes 26 and 27 to the financial statements.
incorporated in Jersey and domiciled in Baar, Switzerland.
Its shares are listed on the London, Johannesburg and Corporate governance Hong Kong Stock Exchanges.
A report on corporate governance and compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code is set out in the Financial results and distributions Corporate governance report and forms part of this report The Groups financial results are set out in the financial by reference.
statements section of this Annual Report.
Health, safety, environment & communities HSEC The Board recommends a final distribution of $ 0.111 per An overview of health, safety and environmental share: including the interim distribution of $ 0.054 per share performance and community participation is provided in which has already been paid, this provides for a total the Sustainable Development section of the Strategic report.
distribution for the 2013 financial year of $ 0.165 per share.
Shareholders will be asked to approve the final distribution Exploration and research and development at the Annual General Meeting due to be held on 20 May The Group business units carry out exploration and 2014, for payment on 30 May 2014 to ordinary shareholders research and development activities that are necessary to whose names are on the register on 16 May 2014. support and expand their operations.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 108 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Employee policies and involvement Directors conflicts of interest Glencore operates an equal opportunities policy that aims Under Jersey law and the Companys Articles of to treat individuals fairly and not to discriminate on the Association which mirror section 175 of the UK basis of sex, race, ethnic origin, disability or on any other Companies Act 2006, a Director must avoid a situation in basis.
Applications for employment and promotion are which he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that fully considered on their merits, and employees are given conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the appropriate training and equal opportunities for career Company.
The duty is not infringed if the matter has been development and promotion.
Under the Articles, the Board has the power to authorise potential or actual conflict Where disability occurs during employment, the Group situations.
The Board maintains effective procedures to seeks to accommodate that disability where reasonably enable the Directors to notify the Company of any actual possible, including with appropriate training.
or potential conflict situations and for those situations to be reviewed and, if appropriate, to be authorised by the The Group places considerable value on the involvement Board.
Directors conflict situations are reviewed annually.
of its employees which is reflected in the principles of its A register of authorisations is maintained.
Code of Conduct and its related guidance, which requires regular, open, fair and respectful communication, zero Directors liabilities and indemnities tolerance for human rights violations, fair remuneration The Company has granted third party indemnities to each and, above all, a safe working environment.
of its Directors against any liability that attaches to them in defending proceedings brought against them, to the extent Employee communication is mainly provided by the permitted by the Jersey Law.
In addition, Directors and Groups intranet and corporate website.
A range of Officers of the Company and its subsidiaries are covered information is made available to employees including all by Directors & Officers liability insurance.
policies applicable to them as well as information on the Groups financial performance and the main drivers of its Directors business.
Employee consultation depends upon the type The names of the Companys Directors who were in office and location of operation or office.
at the end of 2013, together with their biographical details and other information, are shown on pages 78 and 79.
Details of the other persons who served as Directors during the year are set out on page 81.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 109 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Directors report Directors interests Messrs Murray, Kalmin Li and Coates ceased to be Directors on 2 May 2013.
Mr Coates was reappointed on Details of interests in the ordinary shares of the Company 12 June 2013.
The interests for Messrs Murray and Li are of those Directors who held office during 2013 are given shown as at 2 May 2013. below: Messrs Bond, Hooley, Strachan, Fauconnier and Robson Number Percentage of Glencore of Issued served as Directors from 2 May 2013 to 16 May 2013.
Name Xstrata Shares Share Capital The interests for them are shown as at the latter date.
Executive Directors 1 Ivan Glasenberg 1,101,848,752 8.30 No Director has any other interest in the share capital 2 of the Company whether pursuant to any share plan Steven Kalmin 70,523,154 0.53 or otherwise.
3 Peter Coates 1,441,136 0.01 No changes in Directors interests of those in office at the date of this report have occurred between 31 December Non-Executive Directors 2013 and 17 March 2014.
Simon Murray Sir John Bond 3,050 0.00 Mr Glasenberg has executed a Lock-Up Deed, pursuant to which he agreed, subject to certain customary exceptions, Anthony Hayward 131,742 0.00 that during the period from 24 May 2011 to 24 May 2016 he Leonhard Fischer will not dispose of a certain percentage of the ordinary 4 shares held by him at 24 May 2011.
The percentage of his William Macaulay 160,909,810 1.21 Ordinary Shares held at 24 May 2011 that is subject to Peter T Grauer restrictions on disposal decreases on each anniversary John J Mack 150,000 0.00 date by 20 per cent of the original holding.
Peter Hooley Share capital and shareholder rights Ian Strachan 131,450 0.00 At the date of this report, the ordinary share capital of Con Fauconnier the Company was $132,784,054.66 represented by Sir Steve Robson 13,278,405,466 ordinary shares of $ 0.01 each.
Li Ning 123,000 0.00 Major interests in shares Notes: As at the date of this report Glencore had been notified of 1 There has been no change in the number of Shares held by Ivan Glasenberg since 31 December 2012.
As at 31 December 2012, this number of Shares equated to 15.52 the following interests representing 3% or more of the per cent.
of the issued share capital of the Company, whereas as at 31 December 2013 it equated to 8.31 per cent reflecting the additional Shares issued pursuant to the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: Xstrata acquisition.
2 Steven Kalmin is the recipient of an award of 181,627 shares as further described on the final page of the Directors remuneration report.
Percentage Number of issued 3 Peter Coates also has 1,381,118 options over Shares which are not included in the Name of holder of shares share capital above table.
As at 31 December 2012, Peter Coates held 82,700 Shares in the Company.
The increase in Peter Coates shareholding is as a result of the Xstrata plc shares he Qatar Holding, L. L. C. 1,118,195,281 8.42% previously held being exchanged for Shares upon the Xstrata acquisition becoming effective.
Ivan Glasenberg 1,101,848,752 8.30% 4 Of these Shares, 149,159,999 are held by FR Galaxy Holdings S. a. r. l. FR and 11,749,811 by ECP Galaxy Holdings S. a. r. l. ECP.
The Company has been notified 1 BlackRock Inc 760,927,085 5.73% that a FR is a connected person of William Macaulay and b ECP is an affiliate of FR.
As at 31 December 2012, William Macaulay had an interest in 121,996,976 Shares.
Of those Shares, 112,497,165 Shares were held by FR Galaxy Holdings S. a. r. l. FR Daniel Francisco and 9,499,811 by ECP Galaxy Holdings S. a. r. l. ECP.
In addition, FR had an economic Mat Badenes 417,468,330 3.14% interest under swap arrangements in 36,662,834 Shares and ECP in 2,250,000 Shares as at 31 December 2012.
As previously announced by the Company, these swap arrangements have now been terminated.
The Company announced on 19 September Aristotelis Mistakidis 414,730,597 3.12% 2013 that FR had entered into a financing arrangement with Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch Deutsche Bank pursuant to which FR granted security over 1 In addition, BlackRock Inc. holds 61,534,557 US$2,300 million outstanding 5 per cent.
149,159,999 Shares in the Company in favour of Deutsche Bank.
coupon convertible bonds due December 2014.
During the period between 31 December 2013 and the date of this report the Company did not receive any further notifications in this respect.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 110 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Share capital The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that the The rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in the Company being the only share class of the Company, are set out in from taking place on an open and proper basis or where the Companys Articles of Association the Articles, the Company has a lien over that share.
The Directors may which can be found at www.
Subject to also refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share Jersey law, any share may be issued with or have attached unless the instrument of transfer is: i lodged, duly to it such preferred, deferred or other special rights and stamped if necessary, at the registered office of the restrictions as the Company may by special resolution Company or any other place as the Board may decide decide or, if no such resolution is in effect, or so far as the accompanied by the certificate for the share s to be resolution does not make specific provision, as the Board transferred and or such other evidence as the Directors may decide.
No such resolution is currently in effect.
may reasonably require as proof of title: or ii in respect Subject to the recommendation of the Board, holders of of only one class of shares.
ordinary shares may receive a dividend.
On liquidation, holders of ordinary shares may share in the assets of the Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using Company.
Holders of ordinary shares are also entitled to CREST and the Directors can refuse to register a transfer of receive the Companys Annual Report and Accounts or a an uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations summarised version and, subject to certain thresholds governing the operation of CREST.
being met, may requisition the Board to convene a general meeting GM or the proposal of resolutions at AGMs.
The Directors may decide to suspend the registration of None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with transfers, for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register of regard to control of the Company.
The Directors cannot suspend the registration of transfers of any uncertificated shares without obtaining Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak consent from CREST.
at GMs of the Company and to appoint one or more proxies or, if the holder of shares is a corporation, a corporate There are no other restrictions on the transfer of ordinary representative.
On a show of hands, each holder of shares in the Company except: 1 certain restrictions may ordinary shares who being an individual is present in from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations person or being a corporation is present by a duly for example insider trading laws : 2 pursuant to the appointed corporate representative, not being himself a Companys share dealing code whereby the Directors member, shall have one vote and on a poll, every holder and certain employees of the Company require approval to of ordinary shares present in person or by proxy shall have deal in the Companys shares: and 3 where a shareholder one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
with at least a 0.25% interest in the Companys issued Electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting share capital has been served with a disclosure notice instructions must be received not later than 48 hours before and has failed to provide the Company with information a GM.
A holder of ordinary shares can lose the entitlement concerning interests in those shares.
There are no to vote at GMs where that holder has been served with a agreements between holders of ordinary shares that are disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company known to the Company which may result in restrictions with information concerning interests held in those shares.
on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Except as 1 set out above and 2 permitted under applicable statutes, there are no limitations on voting rights of holders of a given percentage, number of votes or deadlines for exercising voting rights.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 111 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Directors report The rules for appointment and replacement of the Directors The Directors believe, having made appropriate enquiries are set out in the Articles.
Directors can be appointed by the that the Group has adequate resources to continue its Company by ordinary resolution at a GM or by the Board operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this upon the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in The Company can remove a Director from office, including preparing the financial statements.
The Directors have by passing an ordinary resolution or by notice being given made this assessment after consideration of the Groups by all the other Directors.
budgeted cash flows and related assumptions, which incorporate the acquired operations of Xstrata, including The powers of the Directors are set out in the Articles and appropriate stress testing thereof, key risks and provide that the Board may exercise all the powers of the uncertainties, undrawn debt facilities, debt maturity Company including to borrow money.
The Company may review, and in accordance with the Going Concern and by ordinary resolution authorise the Board to issue shares, Liquidity Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009 and increase, consolidate, sub-divide and cancel shares in published by the UK Financial Reporting Council.
accordance with its Articles and Jersey law.
Auditors The Company may amend its Articles by special resolution Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approved at a GM.
approval of this Annual Report confirms that: a so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Purchase of Own Shares information of which the Companys auditors are At the end of the year, the Directors had authority, under unaware: and a shareholders resolution passed on 16 May 2013, to purchase through the market up to 10% of the Companys b the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have issued ordinary shares immediately following the IPO.
taken as a director in order to make himself aware of The Directors will seek this authority again at the any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys AGM to be held on 20 May 2014.
Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Going concern Deloitte LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
position and borrowing facilities are set out in the Strategic Report.
Furthermore, notes 26 and 27 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives and policies for managing its capital, its financial risk management objectives, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities and its exposure to credit and liquidity risk.
Significant financing activities that took place during the year are detailed in the Financial review section.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business despite the current uncertain economic environment.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 112 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual at any time the financial position of the Company and Report and financial statements in accordance with enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply applicable law and regulations.
with the Companies Jersey Law 1991.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and statements for each financial year.
Under that law the detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the in accordance with International Financial Reporting corporate and financial information included on the Standards as issued by the International Accounting Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the Standards Board and International Financial Reporting preparation and dissemination of financial statements may Standards as adopted for use in the European Union differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The financial statements are required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the Signed on behalf of the Board: Companies Jersey Law 1991. International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards John Burton Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation Company Secretary of financial statements.
17 March 2014 In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, the Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 113 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Directors report Confirmation of Directors responsibilities We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations as adopted by the European Union, International Financial Reporting Standards and interpretations as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and the Companies Jersey Law 1991, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: the management report, which is incorporated in the Strategic Report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face: and the Annual Report and accounts, taken as a whole, are fair and balanced and understandable and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the performance, strategy and business model of the Company.
Anthony Hayward Ivan Glasenberg Interim Chairman Chief Executive Officer 17 March 2014 Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 114 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Prodeco coal operation Colombia 138 million tonnes per annum of coal produced Coal volumes increased by 4% due to expansions atProdeco and Australian thermal assets 2 6% increase in Prodeco coal volumes Expansion project to reach 21 mtpa continues on track Glencore Xstrata Annual Report 2013 115 Strategic report | Governance | Financial statements | Additional information Financial statements In this section 117 Independent Auditors Report 122 Consolidated statement of loss income 123 Consolidated statement of comprehensive loss income 124 Consolidated statement of financial position 125 Consolidated statement of cash flows 127 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 128 Notes to the financial statements Glencor Glencore Xstrata e Xstrata Annual Report 2013 Annual Report 2013 11 116 6
