Directors report The directors present their annual report share capital of the company are shown below: During March 2013, the employee benefit together with the audited financial trust made ten market purchases of a total 29 April statements of the company and the group of 450,000 shares at a total priceof 3,168,778.
The share price was between 701.1p per share or date of appointment 28 April and 708.0p per share with an average price if later 2013 Profits and dividends of 704.2p per share.
The groups profit before taxation and Rooney Anand 199,753 272,794 Voting rights exceptional items for the period amounted John Brady 10,000 10,000 to 162.0m 2012: 152.0m.
An interim In a general meeting of the company, on a Tim Bridge 1,340,991 1,362,760 dividend of 7.15p per share 2012: 6.7p was show of hands, every member who is present Mike Coupe 2,000 2,000 paid on 25 January 2013.
The directors in person or by proxy and entitled to vote recommend a final dividend of 19.45p per Ian Durant 22,320 22,320 shall have one vote.
On a poll every member ordinary share 2012: 18.1p, making a total who is present in person or by proxy shall Matthew Fearn 6,162 9,654 dividend for the year of 26.6p per share have one vote for every share of which they Lynne Weedall 2,000 2012:24.8p.
Subject to the approval of are the holder.
The AGM notice gives full shareholders at the AGM, the final dividend details of deadlines for exercising voting At 28 April 2013, Tim Bridge had a will be paid on 9 September 2013 to rights in respect of resolutions to be nonbeneficial interest in 87,900 2012: 88,700 shareholders on the register atthe close considered atthe meeting.
shares, in addition to the holding shown above.
Under the Free4All Employee Profit Share There have been no changes in the interests Scheme, participants are the beneficial Activities of the directors between 28 April 2013 owners of the shares but not the registered Greene King plc is the holding company andthe date of this report.
The registered owner is the trustee, fora group whose principal activities are Killik & Co Trustees Ltd.
The trustee will operating managed, tenanted and leased Interests in contracts invite participants to direct it on the exercise public houses, brewing beer, and wholesaling No director had a material interest in any of any voting rights attaching to the shares beers, wines, spirits and soft drinks.
contract, other than an employment contract, held under the scheme by the trustee on the that was significant in relation to the groups participants behalf.
The trustee will only Business review business at any time during the period.
be entitled to vote on a show of hands if all Under the provisions of the Companies Act directions received from participants are 2006, the company is required to produce a Substantial shareholdings identical.
The trustee is under no obligation business review containing a fair review of to call for a poll.
Inthe case of a poll, The company has been notified of the the business of the company and a description following interests in 3% ormore of the thetrustee will follow the directions of the principal risks and uncertainties facing oftheparticipants.
issued share capital of the company: the company.
Shareholders are referred to No voting rights will be exercised in respect 28 April 25 June the chief executives review, the financial 2013 2013 of any own shares.
review, the KPIs, the risks and uncertainties section and the corporate social responsibility Standard Life Transfer of shares report for the required information.
They Investments Ltd 8.98% 8.98% There are no restrictions on the transfer are intended to provide a balanced and Capital Research & ofshares in the company other than those comprehensive analysis of the development Management Company 8.01% 7.97% which may from time to time be applicable and performance of the business of the AXA S. A.
4.99% 4.99% under existing laws and regulations for group during the financial year and the example under the Market AbuseDirective.
position of the group at the end of the year.
Share capital In addition, pursuant to the Listing Rules of Directors Details of the authorised and issued share the Financial Services Authority, directors Details of the current directors are given of the company and persons discharging capital of the company, which comprises a onpage 38.
All of the directors held office single class of shares, ordinary shares of 12p, managerial responsibility are required to throughout the period apart from Lynne obtain prior approval from the company to are set out in note 26 to the accounts.
The Weedall, who was appointed on 11 October rights attaching to the shares are set out in deal in the companys securities, and are 2012, and Norman Murray, who held office prohibited from dealing during closed periods.
There are no until his retirement on 31 December 2012. special control rights in relation to the Change of control companys shares and the company is not In accordance with article 90 of the companys aware of any agreements between holders All of the companys share incentive plans articles of association, Lynne Weedall is of securities that may result in restrictions on contain provisions relating to a change of offering herself for election at the forthcoming the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
control and full details of these plans are AGM.
The board has recommended that all provided in the directors remuneration of the other directors offer themselves for A total of 765k ordinary shares, with an report.
Outstanding options and awards reelection at the forthcoming AGM.
aggregate nominal value of 96k, were allotted, would normally vest and become exercisable for cash, during the period in connection Details of the directors service agreements, on a change of control, subject to the with the companys sharesave and executive remuneration, and interests in share options satisfaction of performance conditions, option schemes.
In addition a further 44k and awards are set out in the directors ifapplicable, at that time.
shares were acquired by the company to remuneration report.
There have been satisfy awards under the companys deferred The groups banking facility agreements nochanges in their interests between share option scheme.
contain provisions entitling the counterparties 28April 2013 and the date of this report.
to exercise termination or other rights in The company makes regular use of the EBT the event of a change of control.
Certain Directors interests in shares to satisfy the exercise ofshare options and ofthe companys trading contracts also The beneficial interests of each of the directors will make market purchases of the companys contain similar provisions.
and their immediate families in the ordinary shares from time to time to ensure that it has sufficient shares to enable it to do so.
co. uk Annual report 2013 GREENE KING PLC CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Directors report continued each director has taken all the steps a Change of control continued Communications with shareholders director might reasonably be expected There are two employees who, on a change Shareholders who are interested in signing tohave taken to be aware of relevant up to ecommunications should refer to of control of the company resulting in the auditinformation and to establish that termination of their employment, would be theshareholders information page for thecompanys auditor is aware of further information on how to register entitled tocompensation for loss of office.
However, in the context of the company as viawww.
awhole, these agreements are fide minimis.
Going concern Charitable donations The groups business activities, together Articles of association Donations by the company for charitable with the factors likely to affect its future The companys articles of association may purposes made during the period amounted development, performance and position, to 17,305 2012: 29,021.
The group makes only be amended by special resolution at areset out in the chief executives review.
The financial position of the group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing Appointment and replacement Payments to suppliers facilities are described in the financial ofdirectors The group understands the benefits to be review.
In addition, note 24 to the financial derived from maintaining good relationships The number of directors on the board shall statements includes the groups objectives, be no less than five nor more than 12. with its suppliers and where possible enters policies and processes for managing its capital: into agreements over payment terms.
Where Directors may be appointed by the company its financial risk management objectives: by ordinary resolution or by the board of such terms have not been agreed it is the group details of its financial instruments and policy to settle invoices 60 days following directors.
A director appointed by the board hedging activities: and its exposure of directors holds office until the next the end of month of invoicing.
This policy is tocreditand liquidity risk.
dependent on suppliers providing accurate, following AGM, and isthen eligible for election by the shareholders.
timely and sufficiently detailed invoices.
The directors are of the opinion that the Payment in respect of 59 days average groups forecast and projections, taking The articles provide that at each AGM all purchases from trade creditors of the group account of reasonably possible changes in those directors who were elected, or last was outstanding at the end of the period trading performance, show that the group reelected, at the AGM held in the third 2012: 62 days.
should be able to operate within its current calendar year before the current year shall borrowing facilities and comply with its retire from office and may stand for reelection.
Directors and officers financing covenants.
indemnityinsurance The company may by ordinary resolution, After making enquiries, the directors have ofwhich special notice has been given, The group has taken out insurance to areasonable expectation that the company remove any director from office.
indemnify, against third party proceedings, and the group have adequate resources to the directors of the company whilst serving Any director automatically ceases to be continue in operational existence for the on the board of the company and of any adirector if i they give the company a foreseeable future.
This cover indemnifies all written notice of resignation, ii they give to adopt the going concern basis in preparing employees of the group who serve on the the company a written offer to resign and the annual report and financial statements.
These indemnity the directors decide to accept this offer, iii policies subsisted throughout the year and all of the other directors remove them from Auditor remain in place at the date of this report.
office by notice in writing served upon them, Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its iv they are or have been suffering from willingness to continue in office and a Financial instruments mental ill health and have a court order resolution to reappoint the firm as the The groups policy on the use of financial fortheir detention or the appointment of companys auditor willbe proposed instruments is set out innote 24. aguardian made in respect of them, v a attheAGM.
bankruptcy order is made against them or Post-balance sheet events they make any arrangement or composition Annual general meeting Details of events occurring after the year with their creditors generally, vi they are The AGM will be held at 12 noon on prohibited from being a director by law or end are set out in note 32.
Tuesday3September 2013 at the Millennium vii they are absent from board meetings Grandstand, Rowley Mile Racecourse for six months without leave and the other Directors statement as to Conference Centre, Newmarket, Suffolk.
directors resolve that their office should disclosure of information The notice of the AGM is set out in the bevacated.
toauditor separate circular to shareholders.
The directors who were members of the The directors consider that all of the Powers of the directors board at the time of approving the directors resolutions set out in the notice of AGM are The business of the company is managed by report are listed on page 38.
Having made in the best interests of the company and its the directors who mayexercise all the powers enquiries of fellow directors and of the shareholders as a whole.
The directors will of the company, subject to its articles of companys auditor, each of these directors be voting in favour of them and unanimously association, any relevant legislation and any confirms that: recommend that shareholders vote in favour directions given by the company by passing to the best of each directors knowledge of each of them.
a special resolution at a general meeting.
and belief, there is no information relevant Inparticular, the directors may exercise all By order of the board to the preparation of their report of which the powers of the company to borrow money, the companys auditor is unaware: and issue shares, appoint and remove directors and recommend and declare dividends.
Lindsay Keswick Company secretary 26 June 2013 56 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2013 www.
