REVIEW oF THE YEAR Our business We have 2,250 pubs, restaurants and hotels and we brew the countrys leading cask ale brands.
We operate through three main business units.
Retail Pub Partners Our Retail business is split into two divisions: Destination Our Pub Partners business offers entrepreneurs the Pubs and Restaurants, with 500 sites, comprising our opportunity to run our pubs in England, Wales and industry-leading retail brands such as Hungry Horse, Scotland on a tenanted, leased or franchised basis.
We OldEnglish Inns, Eating Inns, Loch Fyne Restaurants aimto deliver industry-leading agreement innovation andFarmhouse Inns: and Local Pubs, with 480 sites, toensure we can recruit and retain the best licensees.
comprising mainly branded and unbranded in local communities across the UK.
At the year end we had: Our tenanted model is based on amore hands-on approach to working with our 978 licensees and works particularly well for HUNGRY HoRSE first-time licensees or those who do not tenanted pubs 199 pub restaurants wish to take on the extra responsibility ofalease.
Our new agreements provide incentives for tenants who build their o Ld ENGLISH INNS business and improve customer loyalty.
108 inns and hotels Our leased model offers longer, assignable EATING INN lease agreements with full repairing and 253 28 pub restaurants insuring liability sitting with the lessee.
These agreements attract the more leased pubs entrepreneurial licensees who require LoCH FYNE morefreedom to run their business 42 restaurants astheywould like.
LoCAL PUBS We have two agreements: Meet & Eat 483 pubs and restaurants isafood, drink, service and entertainment 38 package for the value community segment, while Local Hero is designed for wet-let franchised community pubs and is based around franchise style pubs anextended cask ale offering with localprovenance.
o PERATIoNAL REVIEW o PERATIoNAL REVIEW pages 14 to 18 pages 19 to 21 6 GREENE KING PLC Annual report 2013 www.
co. uk OUR AIM To be Britains best pubs andbeerbusiness Our business model relies on all three parts of our business contributing toour success.
Our smaller two businesses, Pub Partners and Brewing & Brands, are highly cash generative and therefore help fund our Brewing & Brands Retail growth and add to Retails purchasing scale.
Our Brewing & Brands division operates two breweries, inBury St Edmunds and in Dunbar.
We brew, distribute, market and sell a wide range of award-winning crafted Pub Brewing alesand have, for many years, been Britains leading caskale brewer, investing more in cask beer than any Partners & Brands otherbrewer.
Retail premium ale in the UK No.
1 O Ld SPECKLEd HEN premium cask ale in the UK Together, these three businesses No.
1 AbbOt ALE helpus drive attractive shareholder returns and deliver earnings and ale in Scotland dividend growth.
1 bELHAvEN bESt To achieve this, underpinning everything we do is a commitment from all our We have a great range of best-quality permanent and seasonal ales businesses to deliver value, service available in the on-trade and we are the UKs leading bottled ale andquality to all our customers.
brewer with a 16.7% value market share.
O UR StRAtEGY OPERATIONAL REVIEW pages 12 and 13 pages 22 to 24 7 www.
co. uk Annual report 2013 GREENE KING PLC
