06 Market Review The Halfords Group has a unique place in the UK: through its Retail and Autocentres divisions the Group operates in a number of diverse marketplaces.
Halfords Market Review Since the acquisition of Autocentres, Halfords has also consolidated and strengthened its position in the c. 9bn servicing market.
That The Halfords Group has a unique place in the UK: through its Retail market was made up of c. 22,000 garages in 2012, but that number is and Autocentres divisions the Group operates in a number of diverse consolidating, with outlet numbers dropping between 1% and 2% marketplaces.
Meanwhile, Halfords opens between 20 and 30 new centres each year.
Within the Retail segment of the business, Halfords differentiates itself in the markets of automotive, cycling and outdoor leisure across its In the auto accessories and enhancement market, there are a number three strategic pillars of Supporting Drivers of Every Car, Inspiring of growth stories and opportunities in new technology too.
The Sat Nav Cyclists of Every Age and Equipping Families for their Leisure Time.
market is slowing its decline with a bottoming out of the price deflation that has occurred over recent years, and new technologies are coming With 466 locations, Halfords has a favourable market position, being through which will necessitate an update for many Sat Nav users.
located less than 20 minutes away from 90% of the UK population.
com, in combination with these stores and their experienced Halfords has also made gains in audio equipment thanks to reduced staff, creates multiple channels and configurations for customers, with competition on the high street, and with the digital switchover on in-store Reserve & Collect gathering pace in FY13.
the horizon, this looks set to continue.
No other business can match Halfords skillset and price on Audio fitting and Sat Nav set-up and The past 12 months has offered a number of one-off opportunities and demonstration.
challenges that have affected a lot of Halfords core markets.
From once in a lifetime national events to record breaking for all the wrong Halfords has also recently cemented its position as the UKs top online reasons weather, FY13 has certainly been a year of note.
retailer for child car seats, scoring highest in an investigation by Which?
into the best buying and fitting advice available.
Supporting Drivers of Every Car The automotive market was largely unaffected by the exceptional occurrences of FY13, with only slight developments in the With bulbs, blades and batteries becoming macroeconomic environment.
increasingly complex to fit on new vehicles and the DIY approach to fixing cars shrinking The number of cars in the car parc increased by c. 1%, yet the service market shrank slightly as consumers maintain tight spending control.
with each generation of new drivers, the 3Bs The increased size of the car parc offers opportunities in the valuefitting market is worth around 950m.
driven auto aftercare market though.
With bulbs, blades and batteries 3Bs becoming increasingly complex to fit on new vehicles and the DIY approach to fixing cars shrinking with each generation of new drivers, the 3Bs fitting market is worth around 950m.
With fitting services in demand throughout FY13, Halfords is uniquely placed to provide a value and hassle-free Do It For Me DIFM level of service that more and more drivers are set to need.
22357-04 11 06 2013 FRONT Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 07 Providing safety first whilst introducing children to a life on the move Inspiring Cyclists of Every Age Through its size and network, Whilst it is unlikely UK cycling will see another year like 2012 any time Halfords can offer a greater depth of soon, with the first ever British Tour fide France winner followed by range, competitive prices and convenient another hugely successful performance from Team GBs cyclists at the London 2012 Olympics, its popularity is expected to grow.
With household names such as Sir Bradley Wiggins and Victoria Since 2009, with the lingering effects of the financial crisis staycations Pendleton achieving further success and increasing their popularity, have become popular in the UK.
Continued tough economic and break-out stars such as Jason Kenny and Laura Trott emerging, circumstances and low consumer confidence has seen the UK British cycling has never had so many inspirational ambassadors.
camping market grow consistently ever since, with a 2012 Mintel report estimating that there were almost 20 million trips taken by UK residents However, these events occurred during an extremely poor year for in 2011. weather.
The Met Office reported that, apart from 2011, it was the coolest summer since 1998, and the wettest summer for 100 years.
Halfords has built on the back of this trend, offering a unique combination of products and solutions.
Through its size and network, These contrasting fortunes make it extremely difficult to measure the Halfords can also offer a greater depth of range, competitive prices and exact impact of the Olympics, but what is clear is that the cycling more convenient locations.
A Mintel report has estimated that the market reached c. 700m in 2012, and is set to grow by around 23% over While the leisure market also suffered greatly due to the adverse the next five years.
This can be added to the c. 700m cycling parts, weather in FY13, Halfords has good opportunities to improve its accessories and clothing PACs market and c. 100m cycling repair outdoor offering, with increasing awareness of Halfords as the retailer market, which Halfords is also competitive in.
of choice for leisure equipment.
Within the cycling market itself, while already the largest for family and kids bikes, FY13 has seen Halfords increase its presence in the premium market.
With a strong brand, increasingly skilled workforce, a growing range of products, an extensive national network of stores and a burgeoning web presence, Halfords credibility as a place for Inspiring Cyclists of Every Age is improving.
Equipping Families for their Leisure Time The third of Halfords strategic pillars is spread across several fragmented markets, which can be grouped under the umbrella of camping and outdoor leisure, while also encompassing a wide variety of strategically chosen leisure impulse products.
22357-04 11 06 2013 FRONT Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc Introduction www.
