20 Group Strategy The execution of our three-pillar strategy remains central to our aim to build a sustainable business that drives profitable top line sales growth.
Group Strategy and Key Performance Indicators Group Strategy Description Halfords has a very clear place in the UK retail market.
It is an iconic The execution of our three-pillared strategy remains central to our aim British brand with a fantastic heritage, having over 100 years presence to build a sustainable business that not only drives profitable top line on the retail High Street, both in cycling and aftermarket car products.
sales growth in the medium to long-term, but also seeks to promote a Our offer remains as relevant to our customers as it has always been strong culture of work ethic and enjoyment with a focus on colleague and, considering the busy lives of todays consumers, we seek to development, combined with a determination to provide exceptional provide healthy and enjoyable lifestyle solutions through our Cycling customer service, thus adding value for both our customers and our and Travel Solutions products and time-saving solutions via our Do It shareholders.
For Me repair and fitting services.
However, we have refocused these pillars to deliver clear purpose and definition to our customers and create a passionate and emotional connection between them, our colleagues and our products.
Previously Refocused Price Supporting drivers of every car Value Inspiring cyclists of every age Service Products Equipping families for their leisure time Brand and Heritage Within these three pillars our strategy is to drive top line sales growth from our core business.
In Retail this means our 466 stores, our Retail website and product categories in which we hold leading market positions and in our Autocentres business through our 283 autocentres and halfordsautocentres.
We intend to do this by focusing on our Our Group strategy is built on the Halfords vision that We Help and Getting Into Gear 2016 programme, the key elements of which are: Inspire our Customers with their Life on the Move.
However, as we have continued to develop this strategy we are now looking to deliver 1.
Service Revolution: this vision and to maximise returns for our shareholders by focusing on 2.
The H Factor: the specific priorities required to create a sustainable business servicing 3.
Stores Fit to Shop: our customers needs for many years to come.
Click with the Digital Future.
Each of these elements is explored in more detail on pages 34 to 45.
22357-04 11 06 2013 FRONT Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 21 A Strategy Focused on Execution Refocused Previously We help and inspire We help and inspire our customers with their life on the move our customers with their life on the move Strategic Pillars Strategic Pillars Enablers Portfolio Web Supporting Inspiring Equipping drivers of cyclists of families for their Operations Marketing People every car every age leisure time 22357-04 11 06 2013 FRONT Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc Strategy www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 22 Group Strategy continued With our heritage in bikes we aim to Inspire Cyclists of Every Age with our unsurpassed product ranges and brands and with quality service and Demonstrating full solutions with combined storage and cycle transport systems expertise.
By delivering these we aim to ensure that our customers see Halfords As part of our three-pillared strategy and supported by our key as the No.
1 destination for all of the products that we offer, thus priorities we will continue to offer a unique range of products which enhancing our customers use of their car, their bikes and their leisure is constantly innovated and extended.
This is to be matched by an activities.
unparalleled honest and trustworthy service delivered by our well-trained, enthusiastic and knowledgeable colleagues in-store, at We aim to Support Drivers of Every Car by re-establishing Halfords the Autocentres and online to help our customers, from novices to as the auto-specialist, providing the products, services and expertise enthusiasts, work out exactly what they need.
Our unique store fitting required to take the hassle out of motoring and making driving service and competitive Autocentre repair service gives customers the more enjoyable.
We are able to encourage our customers to do it choice of having us do it for them or doing it themselves.
We deliver for themselves or alternatively we are able to do it for them.
We are convenient and value solutions to our customers, where they can dedicated to providing the right level of service for our customers from get what they need when they need it, through our extensive store stocking the right products both in-store and online at competitive network with market-leading coverage, open 7 days a week, and 24 7 prices, complemented by a 7 days a week on-demand fitting service online, with a market leading multichannel offer available to order or within our Retail stores to a full service and repair offer through the reserve online, with delivery to store or direct to home.
Our Autocentres national coverage afforded by our Autocentres garages.
network can deal with planned and emergency work alike.
With our heritage in bikes we aim to Inspire Cyclists of Every Age with We provide our customers with solutions that are backed by true brand our unsurpassed product ranges and brands and with quality service heritage and that offer real value by balancing high quality products and expertise and we will continue to offer these products and services with a competitive combination of range, price and service and in whether it be to customers who are purchasing their first bike or a the Autocentres garages we provide dealership quality services at top-of-the-range Boardman or Pinarello racing bike.
We aim to build on independent garage prices.
our service and brand credentials as well as providing a wide range of PACs contributing to the growing popularity of cycling as a healthy We provide our customers with and environmentally friendly form of transport.
solutions that are backed by true brand With the development of our own ranges of camping equipment such heritage and offer real value.
as Urban Escape, the continued supply of Gelert camping equipment and accessories and the enhancement of our caravanning accessories we will seek to Equip Families for their Leisure Time.
The demand for a more active leisure time and the desire for the enjoyment of simple family pleasures, such as camping and caravanning gives Halfords the opportunity to engage with our customers and help them make the most of their time outdoors and to help them get there.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 23 22357-04 11 06 2013 FRONT Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc Strategy www.
