40 Stores Fit to Shop Stores Fit to Shop We must also leverage our store space better to maximize our sales opportunities.
We will continue to invest in cycle segmentation, We need to bring passion and excitement back to our stores!
Do our provide changing rooms to support our cycle clothing ambitions, a customers shop at Halfords because they need to or because they major revenue growth opportunity, build our authority in 3Bs through enjoy the visit?
A large number of our stores are not of an acceptable dedicated product zones and also extend these product specific zones standard, they lag behind our customers expectations, fuelling the to other products such as child seats.
Helping our customers shop our impression that our offer is tired and boring.
stores for the products they want and need supported by dedicated and knowledgeable colleagues.
During last year we announced a trial of laboratory stores and whilst these were successful in certain areas, e. g. cycle segmentation, To help us in this ambition we have initiated programme 50:39.
A collection points, changing rooms, we concluded that these models programme, named after Sir Bradley Wiggins winning time in the are not the answer to revitalising our estate: that we could do better.
Olympic Time Trial event and designed to deliver engagement with our We need to make the stores less sterile and we want to build an customers shopping experience by implementing the learnings from emotional connection with our customers, a desire to shop at Halfords, specific laboratory-store successes.
These stores will up the level of an anticipation of shopping in pleasant surroundings, and an eagerness emotional engagement, provide a more coherent customer journey, to use our stores as a means to shop Halfords in different ways, be focus on one centralised desk to support sales and service, introduce that in-store or online.
A place to enjoy the shopping experience rather more live displays, bring our cycle repair and wefit offer to the fore and than endure it.
support us to trade the overall store environment harder.
We plan to step change the improvement in store environment to All this must create a compelling environment that excites customers, surpass customer expectations, to make them warm agreeable places improves the experience and emotional engagement of our customers to shop.
It is important that our stores feel fresh and modern and and our colleagues in-store, and bring passion back to Halfords!
support the digital customer, the smartphone user, and the online buyer.
Approximately 90% of our online sales are collected in-store.
FY14 Operational Milestones 1015 full store refits.
75 Cycling departments brought up to date.
These stores will up the level of emotional engagement and provide a more coherent customer journey.
22357-04 11 06 2013 FRONT Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 41 22357-04 11 06 2013 FRONT Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc Strategy www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 42 21st Century Infrastructure Our Supply Chain and IT infrastructure needs to support our service We have started a trial of airlock deliveries where stock is delivered focus in-store and our digital ambitions.
overnight and can be worked first thing in the morning before the store opens.
We intend to roll this to further stores over the next 12 months.
Our IT systems are out of date and in need of upgrading.
In common To improve availability we have invested in new hand-held scanners with many retailers new business opportunities have been supported in each store that together with new processes support us counting to bespoke changes to existing systems.
As a result our systems stock and maintaining the overall integrity of our stock file.
Were also landscape is complex and expensive to maintain with changes to getting back to a real focus on good old-fashioned stock management support new business opportunities taking too long to implement and disciplines.
Weve already started a number of core IT infrastructure projects Our Supply Chain needs to adapt to deliver better on shelf availability including the upgrade of SAP, the installation of a new faster store and ensure colleagues can focus on serving customers rather than network and the move of our data centre.
Beyond these we will look being blinded by the task of stocking shelves.
We also need to put to invest in world class, scalable systems that support our digital and in place the capacity and capability to support our ambitious digital service growth ambitions in order to drive profitable sales growth.
growth strategy and make the customer experience seamless between stores and online.
FY14 Operational Milestones 25% of all stores working stock outside peak trading hours.
We have started a trial of airlock deliveries where stock can be delivered overnight.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 43 22357-04 11 06 2013 FRONT Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc Strategy www.
