36 Service Revolution Enhancing value through expert advice To deliver the step change we want to achieve in customer experience, Learn to Earn once Gear 2 is reached, colleagues will receive a we have embarked upon a series of changes to how we get the best meaningful increase in pay, so long as they maintain the higher level from our people.
The benefit of this approach is that colleagues will be motivated to learn more and maintain their skills, the The service revolution is made up of the following key activities increased pay will also help with attraction of high calibre people and improve retention levels, all of which benefit customer experience.
improving our approach to recruiting the very best people One bonus scheme for all all store colleagues are now incentivised to providing a structured development programme for all our 3-Gears drive the top line and to improve the customer experience measured programme through NPS and mystery shopping.
The scheme targets are based paying colleagues based on level of skill and expertise quarterly and accumulated through the year, but paid out annually, incentivising all colleagues in-store to drive sales and a great which again helps with improving colleague retention.
customer experience through net promoter scores NPS reducing time spent on non-value adding tasks and increasing Task reduction as well as increasing contract time for customer customer contact service advisers, we are reducing tasks that have no direct benefit to customers smarter deliveries, less administration, etc.
so that we can Recruiting the very best people we have streamlined our recruitment use our time better to serve customers.
process, trained all store managers to recruit, introduced the latest screening techniques to ensure we hire colleagues with the right These changes will allow colleagues to deliver friendly expert service to attitude people who love customers.
customers and are key to driving our top line growth.
The 3-Gears programme all colleagues now undertake a structured FY14 Operational Milestones three month induction Gear 1, followed by a nine month programme All qualifying colleagues through Gear 1.
Gear 2 which includes workshops, e-learning and demonstrated Group Net Promoter Score greater than 60%.
expertise on the shop floor.
By the end of the financial year we will also have launched Gear 3 for a limited group of colleagues which will establish them as real technical experts in automotive & leisure or cycling.
These changes will allow colleagues to deliver friendly expert service to customers and are key to driving our top line growth.
22357-04 11 06 2013 FRONT Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 37 The 3-Gears Programme Gear 3 Gear 2 Gear 1 Gear 1 Gear 2 Gear 3 All Colleagues 9 month Training Guru Completed in 3 months Expert level of product knowledge Qualified to train others Structured e-learning Specialise in auto & leisure or cycle Training through Retail Skills E-learning Workshops Product knowledge Training and Tuition Product shows Customer Service Regular refresh Supplier visit Qualifications to serve our customers Pay award Leadership development Pay award 22357-04 11 06 2013 FRONT Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc Strategy www.
