64 Board of Directors Dennis Millard Chairman n Chair r Matt Davies Group Chief Executive n Dennis Millard Matt Davies Chairman Group Chief Executive Joined 28 May 2009 Joined 4 October 2012 Additional Roles Held Additional Roles Held Chairman of Smiths News plc and a Non-Executive Director and Senior Matt is a Non-Executive Director at the Dunelm Group plc.
Independent Director of Debenhams plc and Premier Farnell plc.
Past Roles Past Roles Matt was Chief Executive of Pets At Home for eight years having His former appointments include Group Finance Director of Cookson originally joined as Finance Director in 2001.
Group plc, Finance Director of Medeva plc, Non-Executive Director of Brings to the Board Exel plc and a member of the Economic Affairs Committee of the CBI.
Under Matts leadership, Pets at Home developed into a marketBrings to the Board leading UK retailer, offering an outstanding customer experience.
The Dennis has a broad commercial and financial experience in the approach was to create a strong culture of work ethic and enjoyment retail, service, distribution and manufacturing sectors in the UK and amongst colleagues combined with a determination to provide internationally.
Dennis is a member of the South African Institute of exceptional customer service.
Matt also has in-depth experience Chartered Accountants and holds an MBA from the University of in corporate finance with Rothschild and Hawkpoint and extensive Cape Town.
financial experience in the consumer-facing retail sector with both Caudwell Communications and as Finance Director of Pets at Home.
Dennis is a keen cyclist and rides a Boardman Road Team Carbon.
Last year he participated in the Dallaglio Flintoff Cycle Slam Ride 2012 Matt rides a Boardman Air Pro and can often be found on a weekend from Olympia to London and the Deloitte Ride Across Britain.
He is cycling the lanes of the Lake District with his family and friends.
His two also an avid surfer and keen golfer.
dogs Archie and Bear form a big part of his life!
22357-04 11 06 2013 MIDDLE Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 65 Andrew Findlay Group Finance Director Bill Ronald Senior Independent Director a n r a Audit Committee n Nomination Committee r Remuneration Committee Andrew Findlay Bill Ronald Group Finance Director Senior Independent Director Joined 1 February 2011 Joined 17 May 2004 Past Roles Additional Roles Held Prior to his appointment, Andrew was Director of Finance, Tax and Bill is currently Chairman of Dialight plc, Chairman of The Compleat Treasury at Marks and Spencer Group plc.
Prior to this, he held Food Group, Chairman of Fever Tree and Chairman of the Muscular senior finance roles at the London Stock Exchange and at Cable and Dystrophy Campaign.
Wireless, both in the UK and US.
Andrew qualified as a chartered Past Roles accountant with Coopers & Lybrand.
Bill spent 23 years in a variety of roles within the Mars Corporation Brings to the Board ending up as Managing Director of the UK confectionery operation A track record in retail and other competitive, consumer and business and Vice-President of Masterfoods Europe.
More recently, Bill was also facing industries.
Andrew has experience of: operational and CEO of Uniq plc and a Non-Executive Director of Bezier Limited and commercial finance, refinancing and pension scheme funding: bid Alfesca.
defence: non-merchandise procurement: shared services: financial Brings to the Board accounting, tax and audit.
Bill brings experience of brand building and winning loyalty by putting Andrews first car was a Hillman Imp under which he spent many an the customer first.
He also brings a focus upon organisational hour fixing!
He now rides a Carrera TDF at weekends when he gets the development.
Bill rides a Carrera Crossfire but prefers skis in the winter.
22357-04 11 06 2013 MIDDLE Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc Governance www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 66 Board of Directors continued Keith Harris Independent Non-Executive Director a n r Chair David Adams Independent Non-Executive Director a Chair n r Keith Harris David Adams Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Joined 17 May 2004 Joined 1 March 2011 Additional Roles Held Additional Roles Held Keith is currently on the Boards of Cooper Gay Holdings Limited and David is the Chairman of two privately held businesses Musto Ltd Sellar Investments Limited.
and Park Cameras Ltd, a Non-Executive Director of the British Retail Consortium Trading Ltd, and a Director and Trustee of Walk The Past Roles Walk, the breast cancer charity.
Previously Keith was Executive Chairman of Seymour Pierce Limited Past Roles following its acquisition from Investment Management Holdings plc, Chairman of the Football League, Chief Executive of HSBC Investment David was the Deputy Chief Executive and Finance Director of House Bank plc and a Benfield plc board member.
of Fraser until its sale in 2006, and was Executive Chairman of Jessops plc then Non-Executive Chairman of Snap Equity Ltd after Jessops Brings to the Board was taken private until early 2012.
Previous Non-Executive roles include Keith brings extensive experience of public company governance, Chairman of Moss Bros plc and Alexon plc, and Non-Executive Director particularly in the field of executive remuneration.
at Ottakars, Eidos, Whittard of Chelsea, JJB Sports and HMV.
Brings to the Board He brings extensive and relevant experience from over 25 years in retail.
David has been a plc Finance Director for 10 years and has had two otherAudit Committee Chair roles in plc companies in the last three years.
David is a keen tennis player and golfer, and a fair weather cyclist!
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 67 Claudia Arney Independent Non-Executive Director a n r Claudia Arney Independent Non-Executive Director Joined 25 January 2011 Additional Roles Held Claudia is a Non-Executive Director of Telecity Group PLC, and of Which?
She is Chair of the Public Data Group, and a member of the Advisory Boards of the Shareholder Executive, and of Huawei.
Past Roles Claudia was the Group Managing Director, Digital at EMAP Inform until late 2010 where she led the development and execution of online publishing strategy as well as managing the public sector and media divisions.
Prior to this she was Director of the Enterprise and Growth Unit at HM Treasury, which she joined from Goldman Sachs where she was an Executive Director.
She has also worked at FT. Com, and Mckinsey, and was Managing Director of TheStreet.
Brings to the Board Claudia brings extensive experience of strategy formulation and business development, particularly in the online consumer and media space.
Claudia and her family are keen campers and are regularly found out and about in their Urban Escape Kurai tent.
Destinations have ranged from France to Scotland to their back garden, and all have been much enjoyed.
