38 The H Factor Reasserting our Motoring proposition The H Factor reasserting our proposition authority Consequently over the next few years we are going to restore and celebrate our specialism in our the three core pillars.
We will continue Over the years Halfords had become the natural destination for Supporting Drivers of Every Car by increasing our coverage of the Automotive, Cycling and Travel Solution products and services that we UK car parc, and looking to reduce delivery time to our stores for offer: however, more recently this authority in our range and products the product lines we dont regularly carry.
This will complement and has waned as our proposition no longer inspired our customers and supplement our 3Bs fitting offer where we have seen the number of our service levels were inconsistent.
jobs grow by c. 32% in FY13 as more of our customers become aware of this cost-effective, hassle-free solution to their busy lives.
We will However, we have the building blocks to once again be the place to continue to Inspire Cyclists of Every Age with our wide ranging cycle shop for our products and to give our customers the confidence that offer from our range of childrens bikes and matching accessories: such what they want, we stock.
We already stock great cycling products: as the Apollo Cupcake bike, helmet & bell through to our premium from kids bikes, family bikes, and commuter bikes right up to the brands of Boardman and the recently introduced Pinarello.
premium Boardman and Pinarello bikes.
We also carry a wide range of automotive after-market products from car cleaning to bulbs, blades We will seek to mirror our success in our 3Bs fitting offer by committing and batteries through to our Halfords Autocentres garages providing a resources in-store and developing our 3-Gears programme to build wide range of service, maintenance and repair expertise.
Our camping our cycle repair offer, delivering a significant revenue stream and brands, including Gelert, CampingGaz, Outwell, Vango and our own increasing our authority as a comprehensive cycle shop.
By the end brand Urban Escape, provide families with the equipment to enjoy their of the summer we will have rebalanced some 100 stores with a focus leisure time.
of moving child seats downstairs in stores, releasing space to cycling, better segmenting our Cycle offer and taking space away from car We are driven by the need to bring passion and excitement back to enhancement.
Our customers will be able to find what they want when our stores, we need to attract customers back to browse our stores, they want it, engaging with knowledgeable colleagues who can build be excited by the innovative products on offer, by the solutions we can trust and confidence and revenues.
offer them in their busy lives and be awed by the level of specialism and associated knowledge and expertise of our colleagues.
In providing trustworthy solutions to our customers, supporting their use of both the car and the bike, Halfords is already Equipping Families By the end of the summer we will for their Leisure Time and as we continue to develop this area from have rebalanced some 100 stores with a camping products to caravan accessories, we will continue to look to excite both colleagues and customers through the introduction of new focus of moving child seats downstairs in leisure products that build on Halfords authority in bikes and cars and stores, releasing space to cycling, better drives revenue growth in this area.
segmenting our Cycle offer and taking All of this must recreate and enhance the H Factor: the confidence space away from car enhancement.
and trust with which customers can turn to Halfords as the natural destination for their automotive, cycling and leisure products.
FY14 Operational Milestones Cycle Repair sales growth.
22357-04 11 06 2013 FRONT Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 39 UK Reproduced with kind permission from Mountain Biking.
22357-04 11 06 2013 FRONT Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc Strategy www.
