02 Business Model Halfords has core competences in marketing, branding, store retailing, Halfords is a trusted brand distribution and international sourcing which allow value to be in the automotive sector.
generated through high quality products via a combination of range, competitive prices and expert services both in our Retail stores and Halfords is a trusted brand in the automotive sector and our move Autocentres garages.
into garage servicing in 2010 was a natural extension to the Halfords business model.
Car Servicing has similar market drivers to our Our goal of growing profitable top line revenues in the medium and successful Car Maintenance category and over the last three years long-term follows our strategic thread of Helping and Inspiring our we have grown the business from 224 to 287 autocentres providing Customers with their Life on the Move and encompasses Supporting service, repair and MOTs.
Halfords provides services at more affordable Drivers of Every Car, Inspiring Cyclists of Every Age and Equipping prices than most franchised garages and more comprehensively than Families for their Leisure Time.
This is delivered through our Car many independent garages.
Maintenance, Car Enhancement, Car Servicing, Cycling and Travel Solutions categories and Halfords has good opportunities for growth, As a retailer Halfords makes a profit from the combination of lowconsolidating fragmented markets with a national store network and cost sourcing and our supply chain coupled with excellent marketing strong brand management and supplementing this with well-trained, skills and a national store network, leveraging these skills in the car knowledgeable and service orientated colleagues in-store.
We source direct from suppliers around the world who manufacture products to our designs and rigid specifications and our Evolving buyer trends have been met by developing a dynamic web distribution team use their specialist knowledge to group and ship offer which enables customers to buy online and have their goods products in line with the our sales plans.
delivered to a local store or direct to home.
Customers can also reserve products online and then collect in-store, offering further opportunities We also create value for our customers by keeping our cost for our colleagues to interact with our customers.
structure as efficient as possible.
The size of our operation means that we can get advantages of scale and run our back office functions Augmenting our Retail offer with additional in-store repair and fitting at least costs.
services further encourages colleague customer interactions, providing opportunities to upsell and attach accessories to our products whilst Our brand is one of our greatest strengths and our strategy is to improving customer service and loyalty and increasing average leverage this as we grow our Group.
We provide a single face to transaction values.
customers so they can continue to connect with the Halfords brand across our offer and, through new products, services and channels, Halfords has good opportunities for enjoy a great customer experience.
growth, consolidating fragmented markets 287 as at 23 May 2013. with a national store network chain and strong brand management.
22357-04 11 06 2013 FRONT Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc www.
