44 Click with the Digital Future Click with the Digital Future We had mixed success in FY13 where we have seen a sustained increased online participation in Baby & Child products, Bikes, PACs To support our 21st century ambitions of interacting with our and Car Parts, although online participation lags behind the wider customers in as many exciting ways as possible and thereby driving market in other categories.
However, we continue to see compelling engagement and revenue growth, we need to embrace the digital revenue opportunities in PACs and Camping.
Our young customers may not be embracing the automobile as their parents once did, but they are the i-generation seeking innovative With our ambition to drive profitability revenue growth over the medium ways of shopping and interacting with products.
and long-term we must invest and improve our web-based offer.
Over the next 12 months we plan to provide a much better website Halfords is well placed to take advantage of this phenomenon experience.
It will be aligned around our three product pillars so if you with most of our products being well suited to online display and are a cyclist, you will shop in a dedicated cycling site where we wont demonstration and we are able to offer 2.5 times more SKUs stockbe trying to sell you engine oil maybe just a few energy bars.
This will keeping units online than in-store.
The mobile version of our site then develop into a cycle shop we can be proud of by the end of 2014 enables our customers to research and purchase online while they are with community features, live chat and integrated dynamic content.
Mobile traffic and revenues have experienced significant growth and over 40% of all visits and almost a third of our online sales This redesign will make our site easier to search and navigate, provide are now through these devices.
The Halfords App and quick response personalised merchandising and create passion in our products QR codes at the point of sale are other mobile innovations that we through online communities.
It will attract more customers: inspire, have introduced to enhance our customers buying experience: they inform and convince customers to buy our products: enable them to can scan barcodes and access rich content like videos and product transact and checkout easily and securely: and with the right support information, or get help in finding the right part for their make and will ensure that goods are delivered collected on time.
This will ensure model of vehicle.
We have experienced over 800,000 visits to our App a pleasing shopping experience that results in customers returning to last year and around 15,000 QR codes were scanned.
However, unfortunately, even with all this work the multichannel We must invest in our digital future to make Halfords a market leading experience provided to our customers remains average at best.
As integrated multichannel business centred around our three pillars.
mentioned earlier our logistics solution does not support our ambitions and we experience strong competition in certain categories from pure FY14 Operational Milestones play retailers.
Mobile and Tablet optimised site launched.
We must invest in our digital future to make Halfords a market leading integrated multichannel business centred around our three pillars.
22357-04 11 06 2013 FRONT Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 45 22357-04 11 06 2013 FRONT Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc Strategy www.
