68 Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements of Halfords Group plc the Company together with its subsidiary undertakings the Group for the period ended 29 March 2013.
Halfords Group plc Registered Number 04457314 Registered Office Address Icknield Street Drive, Washford West, Redditch, Worcestershire, B98 0DE Country of Incorporation England and Wales Type Public Limited Company Principal Activities Whilst the Company is a holding company, the Group is a retailer of automotive, leisure and cycling products operating, as at 29 March 2013, from 466 retail stores 2012: 467 : and offers Car Servicing and repair from 283 autocentres 2012: 260.
Summary of General Disclosures incorporated into this Directors Report The following information required to be disclosed in this Directors Report has been provided by the Company: at pages: A review of the Groups business activities and progress against key performance indicators KPIs, together with the factors 6 to 13 likely to affect its future development, performance and position, including the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group within the Chairmans Statement 14 to 15 and Business Review.
18 to 61 The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities within the Finance Directors Report.
46 to 51 The Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of 130 to 133 its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk within Note 19 to the Group Financial Statements.
The Statement of Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and description of the Groups corporate governance 72 to 81 framework within the Corporate Governance Report.
A summary of how the Company recognises its responsibility to its colleagues, customers, environment, and community through 56 to 61 various initiatives within the Corporate Responsibility Report.
The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements.
104 Board of Directors 64 to 67 Directors including interests and indemnities 69 Auditor 69 Going Concern 70 Political Donations 70 Supplier Payment Policy 71 Share Capital, Major Shareholders and Authority to Purchase Shares 71 AGM 71 Leadership 72 Role of the Board Non-Executive Directors Effectiveness 75 Composition of the Board Independence Diversity Board Evaluation Board Committees Nomination Committee Accountability 79 Audit Committee Internal Control & Risk Management Remuneration Committee 81 Relations with Shareholders 81 22357-04 11 06 2013 MIDDLE Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 69 Profits and Dividends In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and the UK Corporate Governance Code guidelines, all those persons holding The Groups results for the year are set out in the Consolidated Income positions as Directors of the Company on 29 March 2013 will offer Statement on page 104.
The profit before tax on ordinary activities was 1 themselves for re-election at the AGM on 30 July 2013.
Matt Davies, 71.0m 2012: 94.1m and the profit after tax amounted to 52.7m who was appointed on 4 October 2012, will stand for election at 2012: 68.4m.
The Board proposes that a final dividend of 9.1 pence the AGM.
per ordinary share be paid on 2 August 2013 to shareholders whose names are on the register of members at the close of business on 1 As Paul McClenaghan resigned his directorship on 12 April 2013, he will not be offering 5 July 2013.
This payment, together with the interim dividend of himself for re-election.
8 pence per ordinary share paid on 24 January 2013, makes a total for the year of 17.1 pence per ordinary share.
The total final dividend Directors Interests payable to shareholders for the year is estimated to be 17.7m.
The Directors interests in shares and options over shares in the Computershare Nominees Channel Islands Limited, trustee of the Company are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 82 Halfords Employee Share Trust, has waived its entitlement to dividends.
In line with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, each Director has notified the Company of any situation in which he or she Performance Monitoring has, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly The delivery of the Groups strategic objectives is monitored by the may conflict, with the interests of the Company a situational conflict.
Board through KPIs and the periodic review of various aspects of the These were considered and approved by the Board in accordance with Groups operations.
The Board considers the KPIs listed on pages 8 the Companys Articles of Association and each Director informed of the to 13 are appropriate measures for the delivery of the strategy of the authorisation and any terms on which it was given.
Group via its Retail and Autocentres divisions.
Directors Indemnities Directors The Company maintains liability insurance for its Directors and officers.
The Directors of the Company, and the Companys subsidiaries, have the The following persons were Directors of the Company during the benefit of a third-party indemnity provision, as defined by section 236 of period ended 29 March 2013 and unless otherwise stated at the date the Companies Act 2006, in the Companys Articles of Association.
of this Annual Report: Dennis Millard Auditor At the 2012 AGM, KPMG Audit Plc was appointed as the Companys David Wild resigned 18 July 2012 Auditor.
KPMG Audit Plc has indicated its intention to notify the Company of its orderly wind down of business so that this statutory Matt Davies appointed 4 October 2012 entity would cease to act as Auditor of the Company.
A resolution proposing the appointment of KPMG LLP, an intermediate parent of Paul McClenaghan resigned 12 April 2013 KPMG Audit Plc, is expected to be contained in the Notice of the AGM and will be put to the shareholders at the meeting.
Andrew Findlay Disclosure of Information to the Auditor David Adams So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Auditor is unaware and the Directors have taken all Claudia Arney reasonable steps to ascertain any relevant audit information and ensure the Auditor is aware of such information.
The Directors are responsible Keith Harris for maintaining the integrity of financial information including this Annual Report, together with other financial statements, presentations and Bill Ronald announcements on the Companys corporate website.
Legislation in the UK concerning the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
22357-04 11 06 2013 MIDDLE Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc Governance www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 70 Directors Report continued The Groups strategic objectives are monitored by the Board through KPIs and the periodic review of various aspects of the Groups operations.
Going Concern Full and fair consideration is given to employment applications by disabled persons wherever suitable opportunities exist, having With effect from 5 November 2010 the Group secured a four-year regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
Training and career 300m revolving credit facility extendable by a further year and at development support is provided where appropriate.
Should a 29 March 2013 the Group had undrawn borrowing facilities of 197m colleague become disabled, efforts are made to ensure their continued 30 March 2012: 160m.
The Groups previous and current committed employment with the Group and retraining provided if necessary.
borrowing facilities contain certain financial covenants, which have been met throughout the period.
The Groups forecasts and A whistleblowing policy and procedure enables colleagues to report projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading concerns on matters affecting the Group or their employment, without performance, show that the Group should be able to operate within fear of recrimination.
In addition, the Group takes a zero-tolerance the level of its borrowing facilities and covenants for the foreseeable approach to matters of discrimination, harassment and bullying in all future.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well aspects of its business operations, including in relation to gender, race, placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the uncertain national origin, disability, age, religion or sexual orientation.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that policies and procedures are in place for reporting and dealing with such the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence matters.
for the foreseeable future, hence they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Financial Statements.
Donations Colleagues During the year the Group contributed 50,000 2012: 50,000 to charities in the UK, including donations to BEN, a charity supporting The Group has established a framework of colleague communications, individuals and families linked to the motor industry and associated including a monthly colleague magazine, to provide colleagues with trades, and Cancer Research UK, its Charity Partner until the end of information on matters of concern to them and business performance, the financial year.
as well as to encourage the engagement of every colleague in the Boards commitment to high standards of customer care and service The Groups policy is not to make any donations for political purposes.
This is reinforced via training initiatives across the business, However, the Companies Act 2006 defines the term donations very details of which can be found on pages 29, 37 and 56, and the widely and, as a result, certain expenses legitimately incurred as part facilitation of colleague share ownership via a Sharesave Scheme.
of the process of talking to Government at all levels and making the Groups position known are now reportable.
Although during the year The Group is dedicated to the principle of equal opportunity in no such expenditure or political donations were made, resolutions were employment.
No potential or current colleague receives less favourable passed at the 2012 Annual General Meeting AGM that provided for treatment on grounds such as gender, marital status, race, ethnic limited authority for such expenditure, such authority remaining valid origin, religion, disability, sexual orientation, or age, or is disadvantaged until the earlier of 29 September 2013 or the conclusion of the AGM by conditions or requirements which cannot be shown to be justified.
to be held in 2013, and as such the Company will be asking for this Fair and equitable employment policies are applied which seek to limited authority to be renewed at the AGM to be held on 30 July 2013. promote entry into, and progression within, the Group.
The basis for all appointments is personal ability and competency relevant to the specific job criteria.
22357-04 11 06 2013 MIDDLE Proof 11 online version Halfords Group plc www.
com Annual Report & Accounts 2013 71 Supplier Payment Policy Major shareholders The Group does not follow any formal code of practice on payment, At 29 March 2013, the Companys register of substantial shareholdings agreeing terms and conditions for transactions when orders for goods showed the following interests of 3% or more of the Companys issued or services are placed, and including relevant terms in contracts, ordinary shares: as appropriate.
These arrangements are adhered to when making payments, subject to the terms and conditions being met by suppliers.
Number of % of issued The number of trade creditor days outstanding as at 29 March 2013 Holder shares shares for the Group was 57 days 2012: 59 days.
The Company is a holding Norges Bank 6,036,869 3.03 company and has no trade creditors.
Invesco Limited 9,036,967 4.53 Contractual or Other Arrangements Legal & General Group Plc 9,671,846 4.85 The Directors consider that there are no contractual or other BlackRock, Inc 11,021,000 5.54 arrangements, such as those with major suppliers, which are likely to influence, directly or indirectly, the performance of the business and Authority to Purchase Shares its value.
At the 2012 AGM, shareholders approved a special resolution authorising the Company to purchase a maximum of 19,906,322 Share Capital shares, representing less than 10% of the Companys issued share Details of the Companys share capital, including changes during the capital at 19 June 2012, such authority expiring at the conclusion of year in the issued share capital and details of the rights attaching the AGM to be held in 2013. to the Companys ordinary shares, are set out in Note 20 on page 134.
All ordinary shares, including those acquired through Company Annual General Meeting share schemes and plans, rank equally with no special rights.
All The AGM will be held at the Crowne Plaza Birmingham NEC, Pendigo shareholders are entitled to attend and speak at the general meetings Way, National Exhibition Centre, Birmingham, B40 1PS on Tuesday of the Company, appoint proxies, receive any dividends, exercise voting 30 July 2013.
The notice of the AGM and explanatory notes regarding rights and transfer shares without restriction.
There are no known the special business to be put to the meeting will be set out in a arrangements which may restrict the transfer of shares or voting rights.
The Company has term and revolving credit facilities which require By order of the Board the Company in the event of a change of control to notify the facility agent and, if required by the majority lenders, these facilities may be cancelled.
The Company does not have agreements with any Director Alex Henderson or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or Company Secretary employment resulting from a takeover except that provisions of the 23 May 2013 Companys share schemes and plan may cause options and awards granted to Directors and employees under such schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
Rules relating to the appointment or removal of the Directors, and their powers, are contained within the Companys Articles of Association, which in accordance with legislation can only be changed with shareholder approval.
