SECTOR REVIEW CONTINUED INFRASTRUCTURE SAFETY Products which detect hazards to protect assets and people in public spaces and commercial buildings Fire and smoke detectors, security sensors and audible visual warning devices.
Sensors used on automatic doors and elevators in buildings and transportation.
34 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview 02-09 Busi Business ness re revie view w 1 10 0- -5 59 9 Governance 60-86 Financial statements 87-147 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 35 SECTOR REVIEW CONTINUED INFRASTRUCTURE SAFETY Sector revenue 205m 1% Sector profit 42m 7% Market trends Increasing health and safety legislation is the main growth driver Products which detect hazards to protect in our Infrastructure Safety sector.
Fire regulations are being tightened assets and people in public spaces and up throughout Asia and in Europe new Construction Products Regulations CPR come into force in 2013. commercial buildings.
The principal technology trend in re detection is the packaging of Performance multiple sensor technologies within a single detector to provide Sector Group greater life safety protection and lower installation costs.
KPIs performance target 1 Revenue growth 0.5% 5% Fire detection system complexity is increasing and demand for 1 voice alarms is growing faster than traditional audio-visual devices.
profit growth 6.8% 5% 2 Customers increasingly specify products with internationally Return on Sales 20.3% 18% recognised, rather than local, approvals.
3 ROCE 72.2% 45% 4 In 2013 new European standards for visual alarm devices for re R&D % of Revenue 5.2% 4% systems will take effect.
New harmonised European construction products regulations will also be implemented during 2013.
Contribution to Group We have developed new visual signalling products that meet m 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 the new regulations.
Revenue 205 204 197 183 186 Competitive pressure is rising in our traditional pedestrian door profit 42 39 39 36 33 markets: we continue to diversify into industrial and transportation 5 1 Sector revenue and adjusted sector profit before finance expense are compared automatic door control niches.
New regulations are driving growth.
In to the equivalent prior year gure.
China, door sensor demand has stabilised, due to the construction 5 2 Return on Sales is dened as adjusted profit before finance expense and slow down, but demand is strong in the Asia Pacic region.
taxation expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
New UK and European intruder detection system standards have 5 3 Adjusted sector profit before finance expense expressed as a percentage of created rising demand for our security sensors certied to meet the sector operating net assets.
4 Sector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
5 Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisition transaction costs and movement on contingent consideration see Note 1 to the Accounts.
Revenue % of Group profit % of Group 33% 30% 36 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Driving innovation Overview 02-09 In April 2013 we extended the technology Busi Business ness re revie view w 1 10 0- -5 59 9 portfolio of our wide area smoke detector manufacturer with the acquisition of Governance 60-86 Talentum, a specialist in ame detection.
This acquisition brings two of the UKs Financial statements 87-147 leading specialist re protection businesses together.
This Talentum multi-spectrum ame detector senses both infrared and ultraviolet light.
It is sensitive to low frequency, ickering radiation emitted during combustion.
It detects almost all ames, including those invisible to the naked eye, and can recognise other sources of benign radiation such as sunlight, welding and lightning.
Geographic trends Performance In our largest regional sector, EMEA, we are seeing tough trading Infrastructure Safety delivered another solid year.
Trading in Southern Europe has required 1% to 205.3m 2012: 204.3m and profit grew by 7% to 41.8m enhanced credit risk control.
Middle East demand remains strong but 2012: 39.1m.
Return on Sales improved from 19.1% to 20.3% with competitive pressure is increasing.
Sales in China, SE Asia and a significant factor being the improved profitability following the Australia continued to grow.
Opportunities exist across ASEAN reorganisation of our companies selling elevator products.
Organic countries which have a strong preference for branded systems with revenue growth at constant currency was 1% which, following a at UL or EN approvals, although there is also demand for lower cost first half, reected a slight improvement during the second half.
This products approved to less well-known standards.
resilience in demand comes from our focus on safety-critical product niches for regulated non-residential applications.
Approximately In the USA the fast-growing home automation market is providing two-thirds of sector revenue is installed in existing infrastructure rather opportunities.
This market, which is the bundling of security, life than new construction.
safety, internet services, healthcare monitoring, energy management etc.
is focused on existing homeowners and does not depend on New product introductions and increased investment in sales new build for growth.
resources contributed to strong growth in the USA where organic revenue growth constant currency was 18%.
Elsewhere we saw Strategy modest rates of growth in the UK and Asia Pacic while, We are developing our presence in higher growth areas such as unsurprisingly, almost every business in this sector experienced Russia and Eastern Europe, ASEAN nations and Brazil.
We have also difficult conditions in Mainland Europe, resulting in organic revenue entered adjacent markets, such as life-safety carbon monoxide decline there of 8%.
We are achieving cost savings in our Chinese plants which feed our European and American Outlook operations.
In some undeveloped territories, we are forging new We anticipate continued Infrastructure Safety growth due to partnerships by offering IP-protected, UL-approved technology technology advances, regulatory pressure and new localised to enable re market entry by building management and products.
European demand for certied products will be a principal security companies.
driver and we are well-placed to benefit from wider adoption of integrated building monitoring systems and intruder alarms based on Our door sensor business is focused on new product development wireless communication.
for targeted industrial and transport niches to diversify our customer base and reduce dependence on the pedestrian doors sector.
In Growth in mature markets will be modest, while developing keeping with other Halma sectors, R&D has also been decentralised economies will grow strongly.
Russia, Eastern Europe, Middle East, from headquarters with increased spending on product development Latin America, ASEAN nations and China all offer good growth at our US and Chinese facilities.
New sensors developed in China potential.
In the USA and Western Europe legislation-driven adjacent and in the USA will contribute signicantly to sales revenues in markets offer good growth prospects.
Our technology strategy is to maintain competitive advantage in wireless security products designed for commercial environments.
We are positioning our security business to offer more integrated building monitoring solutions via technology partnerships with other manufacturers, including those within Halma.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 37
