EXECUTIVE BOARD Charles Dubois Philippe Felten Mark Lavelle Rob Randelman Chief Executive, Fluid Technology Chief Executive, Security and Chief Executive Chief Executive, Photonics Division Door Sensors Division Corporate Development Division Location USA Location Belgium Location UK Location USA Charles was appointed to the Philippe was appointed to the Mark joined the Executive Board as a Rob became a member of the Executive Board in April 2008 and is Executive Board in April 2012 and is Divisional Chief Executive in 2007 Executive Board in April 2011 and is Chief Executive of the Fluid Chief Executive of the Security and after having joined Halma as Chief Executive of the Photonics Technology Division.
He joined the Door Sensors Division.
He is Chief Managing Director of Keeler Division.
He joined the Group in 2006 Group in 1999 as Vice President of Executive of BEA Group where he Instruments in November 2001.
Mark as Vice President of Sales at Ocean Perma Pure LLC and was previously joined in 1998 as Sales Director for has an MBA from INSEAD and a Optics, where he became President President of Diba Industries.
Philippe completed the chemistry degree from Cambridge in 2007.
Rob gained his PhD and MSE earned his MBA from the F. W. Olin Programme for Executive University.
in chemical engineering from Lehigh School of Business at Babson Development at IMD Lausanne, holds University and is a chemistry and College and holds a Bachelors a Bachelor degree in marketing and physics graduate of Ursinus College.
degree in physics from the College of management ICHEC Brussels and the Holy Cross.
Charles attended the is an Electro-Mechanical Engineer Advanced Management Program at ECAM Brussels.
Executive Board Andrew Williams Kevin Thompson Charles Dubois Phillipe Felten Mark Lavelle Adam Meyers Allan Stamper Nigel Trodd Martin Zhang Neil Quinn Chief Executive, Water Division Chief Executive, Elevator Safety Director Halma China Location UK and Fire Division Location China Rob Randelman Allan was appointed to the Executive Location Singapore Martin was appointed as Adviser to Board in October 2007 and is Nigel joined the Executive Board in the Halma Executive Board in Allan Stamper Divisional Chief Executive of the Water July 2003 and is Chief Executive of February 2008.
He joined the Group Nigel Trodd Division.
He joined Halma in 2002 as the Elevators and Fire Division.
He had in June 2006 as Director of Halma Managing Director of Crowcon joined Halma in July 2003 as Chief China and successfully established Martin Zhang Detection Instruments.
Allan has an Executive of the Process Safety Halma China ofces in Beijing and MBA from Craneld and is an Division.
Nigel is a member of the Shanghai.
Martin holds an Executive engineering graduate of both Chartered Institute of Marketing and a MBA from the University of Texas at Loughborough University BSc and business studies graduate of Thames Arlington Tongji University Shanghai Imperial College MSc.
He relocated to and a Bachelors degree in chemical Singapore in April 2012. engineering from Chengdu University of Science and Technology.
62 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013
