SECTOR REVIEW PROCESS SAFETY Products which protect assets and people at work Specialised interlocks which safely control critical processes.
Instruments which detect ammable and hazardous gases.
30 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview 02-09 Busi Business ness re revie view w 1 10 0- -5 59 9 Governance 60-86 Financial statements 87-147 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 31 SECTOR REVIEW CONTINUED PROCESS SAFETY Sector revenue 126m 3% Sector profit 32m 11% Market trends Rising expectations of workplace safety and increasingly stringent Products which protect assets and people environmental and safety legislation continue to be strong demand at work.
drivers in both developed and developing Process Safety markets.
We are also benefiting from improving enforcement of safety Performance regulations.
These positive market pressures ensure that our Sector Group investment in quality, customer service, and enhanced-technology KPIs performance target products maintains competitive advantage and underpins our 1 Revenue growth 2.8% 5% significant growth in this sector.
1 profit growth 10.6% 5% Increased investment in new methods of oil and gas exploration has 2 Return on Sales 25.7% 18% been a major boost to sales, particularly in hydraulic fracturing in 3 ROCE 103.4% 45% shale oil and gas exploration, deep sea drilling, and LNG production 4 R&D % of Revenue 3.9% 4% and storage.
Contribution to Group Geographic trends Despite a challenging political and macro-economic environment, m 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 worldwide growth in demand for energy, food, chemicals and metals Revenue 126 122 103 98 103 is set to continue.
In particular, Asia Pacic and the Middle East are 5 profit 32 29 24 20 22 seeing increasing economic growth ahead of developed western economies.
North American conditions continue to improve while 5 1 Sector revenue and adjusted sector profit before finance expense are compared Western Europe, due to recessionary pressures, is relatively at.
to the equivalent prior year gure.
5 2 Return on Sales is dened as adjusted profit before finance expense and taxation expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
5 3 Adjusted sector profit before finance expense expressed as a percentage of sector operating net assets.
4 Sector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
5 Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisition transaction costs and movement on contingent consideration see Note 1 to the Accounts.
Revenue % of Group profit % of Group 20% 23% 32 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Driving innovation Overview 02-09 At our gas detection business, products Busi Business ness re revie view w 1 10 0- -5 59 9 launched in the last three years accounted for 77% of revenue during 2012 13.
Governance 60-86 The Crowcon Clip is a new personal Financial statements 87-147 detector which senses a single gas and has a xed life.
Very simple to use, it was designed with one thing in mind: compliance with health and safety regulations in the oil and gas industry.
Reliable protection for workers in hazardous areas, this safeguard against toxic or explosive gases is compact, lightweight and needs no maintenance.
Strategy Outlook Our strategy focuses on driving organic growth through geographic Prospects for continued growth in the Process Safety sector are diversication and investment in new product development to meet positive supported by forecasts of rising investment in oil, gas and local market needs.
Our companies in this sector now have 18 energy markets.
Food and pharmaceutical markets have regained manufacturing sites across four continents.
These are backed by resilience in the last year and planned safety legislation will continue 22 regional sales and service centres together with localised R&D to drive demand.
to ensure that our products meet the diverse requirements of Automotive manufacturing has been at or declining in the last two our customers.
years but, based on industry sources, we anticipate increased We continue to develop strategic alliances between companies investment, particularly in emerging markets.
in this sector to optimise customer service.
Internal collaboration We expect the strong growth trend in the Process Safety sector delivers consistent product performance, service and applications to continue, supported by rising R&D spend and expansion of advice worldwide.
More partnerships with customers remain a key regional operations.
We continue to search for Process Safety acquisition prospects, Performance particularly in complementary markets to expand our Process Safety performed strongly with revenue up by 3% to product portfolio.
Excluding the contribution of Tritech, which was sold in August 2012, continuing operations revenue grew by 10% and profit by 16%.
Organic revenue growth at constant currency was 10% with continued strong demand from energy and resources markets.
Together with process industries these markets contribute around 60% of sector revenue and benefit from increasing Health and Safety regulation.
Return on Sales increased from 23.9% to 25.7% through a combination of strong revenue growth and gross margins supported by continuous improvement in new product innovation.
Organic revenue growth at constant currency for markets outside the UK, Mainland Europe and the USA was an impressive 29% resulting in these fast developing markets now representing 28% of the sector.
Encouragingly, the performance in our traditional home markets was robust with mid-single digit organic revenue growth in Mainland Europe and the USA and at UK organic growth.
R&D investment rose to 4% of revenue.
New products accounted for 34% of total sales reecting an increased emphasis on new product development.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 33
