SECTOR REVIEW CONTINUED MEDICAL Products used to improve personal and public health Devices used to assess eye health, assist with eye surgery and primary care applications.
Fluidic components such as pumps, probes, valves and connectors used by medical diagnostic OEMs.
38 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview 02-09 Busi Business ness re revie view w 1 10 0- -5 59 9 Governance 60-86 Financial statements 87-147 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 39 SECTOR REVIEW CONTINUED MEDICAL Sector revenue 136m 36% Sector profit 36m 37% Market trends Medical market growth drivers are principally worldwide population Products used to improve personal and ageing, increasing life expectancy, increasing access to healthcare in public health.
developing economies, new technologies and improved or new surgical or pharmaceutical therapies.
Performance The proportion of people aged over 60 continues to rise and drives Sector Group KPIs performance target demand for healthcare both in developed and developing 1 geographies.
Population ageing is a key driver for our ophthalmology Revenue growth 35.5% 5% and hypertension management businesses since these health issues 1 profit growth 36.9% 5% are age-related.
2 Return on Sales 26.4% 18% 3 ROCE 97.0% 45% A key medical niche, the ophthalmic diagnostic equipment market, 4 will grow at 2.5% from 2009 to 2016 as new technologies, population R&D % of Revenue 3.8% 4% ageing and rising healthcare expectations and affordability in developing economies continue to underpin demand.
Contribution to Group The global market for cataract surgery devices is forecast to grow m 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 at a compound annual growth rate of 3% between 2010 and 2017.
Revenue 136 100 82 69 66 Growth drivers include rising demand for surgery due to population profit 36 26 20 17 14 ageing and technological advances such as micro-incision 5 1 Sector revenue and adjusted sector profit before finance expense are compared eye surgery.
to the equivalent prior year gure.
Regulatory compliance and medical product approvals, particularly in 5 2 Return on Sales is dened as adjusted profit before finance expense and China and Brazil, continue to get tougher and more costly.
This taxation expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
delays returns from new products, increases development costs and 5 3 Adjusted sector profit before finance expense expressed as a percentage of puts pressures on margins.
On the plus side, rigorous regulatory sector operating net assets.
regimes create higher barriers to entry for new competitors.
4 Sector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
The in-vitro medical diagnostic market, our largest uidic components niche, is largely concentrated in the USA.
In recent years uncertainty 5 Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets, acquisition transaction costs and movement on contingent consideration see Note 1 to over healthcare reforms has dampened demand.
The US healthcare the Accounts.
market has returned to growth with rising sales for existing platforms and higher activity in customers new product development pipelines.
Growth in Asia is expected to outpace other geographies, with a forecast market growth rate to 2016 of 11.8% for the region, and 18.8% in China.
Revenue % of Group profit % of Group Geographical trends The US Government is seeking healthcare budget cuts but the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act PPACA will increase spending.
In 2013 US health costs are projected to rise by 3.8%.
The situation changes dramatically in 2014 when twenty-two million more Americans gain healthcare insurance and spending is predicted to rise by 7.4%.
The PPACA also introduces a 2.3% Medical Device Tax on medical products.
22% 25% Financial austerity in Europe continued to depress demand.
Despite recessionary pressure, a return to growth is forecast in the medium term.
Industry analysts predict average European medical device market growth of 1.6% per year between 2014 and 2018.
40 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Driving innovation Overview 02-09 We acquired SunTech Medical, one of the Busi Business ness re revie view w 1 10 0- -5 59 9 worlds leading suppliers of clinical grade non-invasive blood pressure monitoring Governance 60-86 products, in May 2012.
This business complements our subsidiary Riester, which Financial statements 87-147 also sells blood pressure and vital signs monitors.
This ambulatory blood pressure system monitors, records and analyses a patients blood pressure at regular intervals 24 hours a day.
It is clinically validated by all three international standards bodies.
We continued to invest in sales resources and new medical Performance distribution channels in Asia and South America.
Brazil, with a Medical had an outstanding year, increasing revenue by 36% to 1 population of over 190 million and a well-developed, expanding 136.1m 2012: 100.4m and profit by 37% to 35.9m healthcare system, is the largest South American medical equipment 2012: 26.3m.
Return on Sales increased further from 26.2% to market and forecast to grow by 12.6% CAGR between 2011 and 26.4%.
The underlying organic revenue growth constant currency 2 2015.
Our So Paulo facility has now achieved ANVISA registration was 12%.
As expected, slowly improving demand for uid control from the Brazilian government which lets us gain approvals for components from major medical OEM customers, steady growth in healthcare products in our own name.
ophthalmology markets and our increased product innovation were the significant contributory factors to this excellent result.
Economic development across Asia is rapidly increasing access to healthcare.
In China, where healthcare is a key social priority, medical Our strategic focus on small medical devices and components rather spending is forecast to rise by almost three times between 2011 and than high value capital equipment, enabled us to mitigate the negative 2020.
Demographic drivers are producing a rapid increase in chronic impact from government austerity spending cuts in certain markets.
conditions like diabetes and hypertension high blood pressure as The fundamental market drivers of an ageing population in the West populations age, people move to cities and lifestyles change.
About and a growing and wealthier population in the East, give us continued 130 million Chinese between the ages of 35 and 74 suffer from confidence for the future.
Increased awareness of this health issue, and Both the USA and Mainland Europe performed well with organic programmes to combat it, will increase demand for hypertension revenue growth constant currency of 12% and 17% respectively, diagnosis devices.
whilst the UK saw organic revenue decline of 3%.
Revenue from In China we established an R&D unit to drive localised product outside these three major territories increased organically by 12%, to development.
Our recently acquired US-headquartered blood now represent 25% of the sector.
Our real exposure to these faster pressure monitoring business adds an 80 person manufacturing growing markets is greater, as a sizeable proportion of our revenue and R&D centre in Shenzhen.
from the USA and Mainland Europe is to global OEMs who subsequently export their nished systems to other global regions.
Strategy Three new US-based businesses acquired in 2012 expanded our Our Medical sector strategy is to increase organic growth through: healthcare technology portfolio and extended our geographic reach.
innovative new products We added ultrasound technology to our ophthalmic diagnostic instrumentation, new hypertension management technology and new penetration of new geographical markets single-use surgical devices.
expansion into adjacent market niches.
Outlook Acquisition of additional value-enhancing healthcare businesses Ageing populations in developed economies and rising populations will also add significant further growth.
We aim to increase R&D with access to affordable healthcare in the developing world should investment, particularly in ophthalmology and hypertension create continued favourable conditions for growth.
Focusing on Asia and South America, market consistently rising sales into the healthcare and medical diagnostics extension will be achieved through additional sales resources, markets driven by enhanced distribution in export markets, new sales intelligence sharing and cooperative marketing between products and further acquisitions.
Group companies, and new channel partnerships.
Growth in South East Asia should remain strong as governments Our focus on relatively low-cost medical devices avoided the impact continue to improve their healthcare systems.
China will build of government austerity budget cutbacks which mainly affected thousands of new hospitals in the next few years.
Chinese product registrations should deliver rising sales.
Growth in Brazil should accelerate based on our new regulatory status.
Local manufacture in emerging markets, to better satisfy local customer needs and strengthen competitiveness by avoiding import tariffs, is a key strategic medical sector goal.
From 2013, we plan to assemble health optics products in Brazil.
Our uidic components businesses aim for increased customer diversication, focusing on laboratory and health-care markets.
They 1 See Note 1 to the Accounts.
now have joint product development teams and sell into the Chinese 2 ANVISA Brazilian National Health Surveillance Agency responsible for regulation of medical diagnostics sector jointly via a new Halma Fluid Technology medical devices.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 41
