ACQUIRE EMPOWER INNOVATE GROW SUSTAIN STRATEGY IN ACTION Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 23 R E G W R O O P W M E I E N R N I O U V Q This year we acquired SIX businesses including MicroSurgical Technology MST, expanding our product offering in ophthalmology.
MST designs, SUSTAIN manufactures and markets ophthalmic surgical products, focusing on single-use devices used in cataract surgery.
ACQUIRE 24 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 A C T A E R E G W R O O P W M E I E N R N I O U V Q Subsidiary companies have considerable freedom for entrepreneurial action.
This year HWM-Water acquired a manufacturer of complementary machineSUSTAIN to-machine communication products for remote data collection including the monitoring of electricity generation and consumption.
EMPOWER Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 25 A C T A E R E G W R O O P W M E I E N R N I O U V Q The winner of the Halma Innovation Award 2013 is a ballast water disinfection system for ships which prevents the spread of marine organisms around the SUSTAIN worlds oceans.
Regulation could require 30,000 existing ships and over 1,000 new ships per year to treat ballast water before discharging.
INNOVATE 26 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 A C T A E R E G W R O O P W M E I E N R N I O U V Q Through organic growth and acquisition our former Health & Analysis sector has been our fastest growing sector over the last few years.
This year we have split SUSTAIN it into two new reporting sectors Medical and Environmental & Analysis reflecting our growing presence in the medical devices market.
GROW Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 27 A C T A E R E G W R O O P W M E I E N R N I O U V Q The award-nominated Halma Graduate Development Programme see page 59 is just one of the ways we sustain our business by investing for the future.
We SUSTAIN find and develop graduates with the potential to become future leaders of our companies or our next generation of technology innovators.
SUSTAIN 28 Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 A C T A E Overview 02-09 Busi Business ness re revie view w 1 10 0- -5 59 9 Governance 60-86 Financial statements 87-147 Increasing demand for life critical resources Change of Chairman Rising energy consumption and water usage, the inevitable In July 2013, Geoff Unwin will step down as Chairman of Halma and consequences of social and economic development, are driven by I would like to take this opportunity to thank Geoff for the tremendous three key trends: contribution he has made to Halmas success over the past decade.
Geoff had the unenviable task of taking over from Halmas founder, population growth David Barber, who had created a business with an impressive 30-year track record.
Under Geoffs chairmanship, the Group has not rising living standards only maintained that track record but, as a result of sustained focused changing patterns of food consumption and agriculture.
investment, is now better placed to continue that success in the future.
Several of our Environmental & Analysis businesses are positioned to benefit from the global trend of rising demand for energy and water.
In During the year, we welcomed Paul Walker to Halmas Board.
both developed and developing regions we see increasing HITE 2013 provided a great chance for Paul to see the whole Group competition for water resources between industries and economic and start to appreciate some of the opportunities and challenges sectors, and between national governments.
I look forward to working closely with Paul when he takes placed on water resources drives demand for our water conservation, up the Chairmans role after this years AGM.
treatment, monitoring and testing products.
Outlook Global water demand rises relentlessly, predicted to increase by 50% During the past year, we have continued to strengthen our business by 2025 in developing countries, and by 18% in developed countries.
by further increasing investment in our drivers of organic growth Both the quality and availability of clean water continues to decline.
innovation, people development and international expansion.
We Eighty per cent of the worlds population lives in areas with high levels have signicantly improved the fundamental quality of our portfolio of threat to water security.
through six acquisitions and one disposal.
Water is essential to oil, gas and coal production but, increasingly, Order intake since the start of 2013 has been consistent with our also in irrigation of biofuel crops.
Water needs for energy production expectations of sustaining year-on-year organic growth and high are forecast to grow at twice the rate of energy demand.
We remain confident that Halma will make further progress energy demand is expected to grow by more than one-third over the in the year ahead.
period to 2035: China, India and the Middle East will account for 60% of this increase.
Andrew Williams Chief Executive Continued increases in global oil and gas capital expenditure, predicted to rise by about 16% from 2012 to 2013, drives demand for 1 See Financial Highlights.
Delivering corporate responsibility and sustainability Our primary market growth drivers mean that Halma companies operate in markets in which their products contribute positively to the wider community.
These market characteristics and our commitment to health and safety, the environment and people development are reected in the values held by our employees and our operating culture.
Legislative changes, particularly concerning the environment and bribery and corruption, have provided an opportunity to review and ensure that our procedures in these important areas are accessible, compliant and rmly embedded within our business.
We review our responsibility and sustainability reporting in accordance with best practice.
A detailed report on Corporate Responsibility is on pages 56 to 59.
Halma plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 29
