62 HAYS PLC|ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 DIRECTORS REPORT Hays is incorporated in the UK and registered as a public limited POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS company in England and Wales.
Its headquarters are in London There have been no significant events to report since the date of and it is listed on the main market of the London Stock Exchange.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES DIVIDENDS Hays is the leading global expert in qualied, professional and skilled An interim dividend of 0.83 pence 2012: 0.83 pence per recruitment.
Further details of the Groups activities are detailed in the ordinary share was paid to shareholders on 15 April 2013.
The Overview, Strategy and Performance sections of this Report.
Board recommends the payment of a final dividend of 1.67 pence 2012: 1.67 pence per ordinary share, representing a total dividend The principal subsidiary and associated undertakings of Hays during of 2.50 pence 2012: 2.50 pence for the financial year ended the year are listed in note 14 on pages 117 and 118.
Subject to the shareholders of the Company approving this recommendation at the 2013 AGM, the final dividend will be BUSINESS REVIEW paid on 15 November 2013 to those shareholders appearing on A review of the Groups business and developments during the year the register of members as at 11 October 2013.
The ex-dividend are set out in the Overview, Strategy and Performance sections of date is 9 October 2013. this Report.
MATERIAL AGREEMENTS CONTAINING CHANGE An overview of the principal risks and uncertainties faced by the OF CONTROL PROVISIONS Group are provided in the Performance section of this Report.
The Company has an unsecured borrowing facility which was renanced during the year.
This facility generally includes provisions The Statement of Compliance with the Code for the reporting period that may require any outstanding borrowings to be repaid on the is contained in the Corporate Governance section.
alteration or termination of the facilities upon the occurrence of a change of control of the Company.
Information on environmental, employee, social and community matters is detailed in the Corporate & Social Responsibility section.
The Company operates several share schemes for the benefit of its employees who are essential stakeholders in the Companys Information relating to matters addressed by the Audit, business.
The rules of each share scheme contain provisions relating Remuneration and Nomination Committees, which operate within to the vesting of awards in the event of a change of control.
clearly dened terms of reference, are set out within the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committee Reports.
SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS Individual companies in the Group have contractual and other All of the matters above are incorporated by reference in this arrangements with many third parties in support of the Groups Directors Report.
Such contracts and arrangements may be deemed essential to one or more operating company but there The purpose of this Report is to provide information are no contracts or arrangements considered to be essential to to the members of the Company, as a body.
The Company, its the Group as a whole.
directors, employees, agents or advisers do not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom this document is shown FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility Details of the financial instruments used by the Group are set out in or liability is expressly disclaimed.
This Report contains certain notes 17 to 19 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
A general forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, outline of Hays use of financial instruments is set out in the treasury performance and financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, management section on page 33 of the Financial Review of thisReport.
these statements involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results and developments to differ CREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reect It is Hays Group policy that suppliers be paid in accordance with knowledge and information available at the date of preparation those terms and conditions agreed between the Company and the of this Report.
Nothing in this Report should be construed as a supplier, provided that all trading terms and conditions have been protforecast.
For the year ended 30 June 2013, the average payment period for trade creditors was 32 days 2012: 32 days.
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Details of the related party transactions undertaken during the DIRECTORS reporting period are contained in note 30 to the Consolidated Biographies of the serving directors of Hays are provided on pages Financial Statements.
They all served on the Board throughout the 2013 financial year, save for Paul Stoneham and Torsten Kreindl, who both served on the Board for only part of the year.
As previously noted, Paul Stoneham retired from the Board at the AGM held on 7November 2012 and Torsten Kreindl was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2013.
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 63 GENERAL POWERS OF DIRECTORS There are no restrictions on the size of holding or the transfer of The powers of the directors are contained in the Companys Articles shares, which are both governed by the general provisions of the of Association.
These powers may be exercised by any meeting of Companys Articles and legislation.
Under the Articles, the directors the Board at which a quorum of three directors is present.
The power have the power to suspend voting rights and the right to receive of the Board to manage the business is subject to any limitations dividends in respect of Ordinary shares and to refuse to register a imposed by the Companies Act 2006, the Articles of Association transfer of Ordinary shares in circumstances where the holder of Articles or any directions given by special resolution of the those shares fails to comply with a notice issued under Section793 shareholders applicable at a relevant time.
The directors also have the power to refuse to register any transfer of certicated shares that does not The Articles contain an express authority for the appointment of satisfy the conditions set out in the Articles.
executive directors and provide the directors with the authority to delegate or confer upon such directors any of the powers exercisable The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders by them upon such terms and conditions and with such restrictions that might result in the restriction of transfer of voting rights in as they see t. The Articles contain additional authorities to delegate relation to the shares held by such shareholders.
powers and discretions to committees and subcommittees.
TREASURY SHARES DIRECTORS POWERS TO ALLOT AND BUY BACK SHARES As Hays has only one class of share in issue, it may hold a maximum The directors have the power to authorise the issue and buy-back of 10% of its issued share capital in treasury.
As at 30 June 2013, of the Companys shares by the Company, subject to authority being 4.46% of the Companys shares were held in treasury.
Legislation given to the directors by the shareholders in general meeting, restricts the exercise of rights on Ordinary shares held in treasury.
applicable legislation and the Articles.
The Company is not allowed to exercise voting rights conferred by the shares whilst they are held in treasury.
It is prohibited from APPOINTMENT AND REPLACEMENT OF DIRECTORS paying any dividend or making any distribution of assets on Shareholders may appoint any person who is willing to act as a treasuryshares.
director by ordinary resolution and may remove any director by ordinary resolution.
The Board may appoint any person to ll any Once in treasury, shares can only be sold for cash, transferred vacancy or as an additional director, provided that they are submitted to an employee share scheme or cancelled.
During the 2013 financial for re-election by the shareholders at the AGM following their year, Hays transferred 9,352,672 shares out of treasury to satisfy the appointment.
Specic conditions apply to the vacation of office, award of shares under the Companys employee share schemes.
including cases where a director becomes prohibited by law or regulation from holding office, or is persistently absent from SHARES HELD BY THE EMPLOYEE BENEFIT TRUST directors meetings, or if three-quarters of appointed directors The Hays plc Employee Share Trust the Trust is an employee benefit request his or her resignation or in the case of mental incapacity trust which holds Ordinary shares in the Company for employee or bankruptcy.
The total number of shares held by the Trust as at the year end are detailed in note 28 to the Consolidated DIRECTORS INTERESTS Financial Statements on page 108.
The shares will be held in the Details of the interests of Hays directors and their connected Trust until such time as they may be transferred to participants of persons in the ordinary shares of the Company are outlined in the various Group share schemes.
No voting rights are exercised the Remuneration Report.
in relation to shares unallocated to individual beneciaries.
DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES DILUTION LIMITS IN RESPECT OF SHARE SCHEMES In accordance with the Companys Articles, the Company maintains The current Association of British Insurers ABI guidance on dilution third party directors & officers liability Insurance for the benefit of limits provide that the overall dilution under all share plans operated its directors.
This provides insurance cover for any claim brought by a company should not exceed 10% over a 10-year period in against directors or officers for wrongful acts in connection with relation to the Companys share capital, with a further limitation of their positions.
The insurance provided does not extend to claims 5% in any 10-year period on executive plans.
The Companys share arising from fraud or dishonesty and it does not provide cover for plans operate within ABI recommended guidelines on dilution limits.
civil or criminal fines or penalties provided by law.
SHARE CAPITAL Hays has one class of Ordinary shares which carry no right to xed income or control over the Company.
These shares may be held in certicated or uncerticated form.
On 30 June 2013, the Company had 1,464,096,566 fully paid Ordinary shares in issue, of which 65,248,313 Ordinary shares were held in treasury by the Company.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys Ordinary shares are contained in the Articles.
In brief, the Ordinary shares allow holders to receive dividends and to exercise one vote on a poll per Ordinary share for every holder present in person or by proxy at general meetings of the Company.
They also have the right to a return of capital on the winding up of the Company.
64 HAYS PLC|ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS Hays believes that loyalty works and considers its employee As at 30 June 2013, the following shareholders held an interest of incentive programme of commission schemes, performance-related 3% or more of the issued share capital: cash bonuses and share schemes to be important factors in keeping its employees motivated.
The employee share schemes have been % of total running successfully since inception and provide many employees voting rights with an additional stake in the business.
Vitrus Trust Limited 7.5% Cedar Rock Capital Limited 6.8% CHARITABLE AND OTHER DONATIONS Franklin Resources 6.1% Charitable donations for the year by the Hays Group in support of organisations involved in health, education and the community Baillie Gifford & Co 5.6% amounted to 182,300 2012: 202,000.
No contributions for Sun Life Financial Group 4.3% political purposes were made.
Capital Group 3.8% Majedie Asset Management Limited 3.6% GOING CONCERN Legal & General Group Plc 3.5% The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out Marathon Asset Management 3.5% in the Overview, Strategy and Performance sections of this Report.
BlackRock Inc 3.1% The financial position of the Group, its cash ows and liquidity Heronbridge Investment Management LLP 3.0% position are described in the Performance section of this Report, with details of the Groups treasury activities, long-term funding EMPLOYEES arrangements and exposure to financial risk included in notes 18 Our goal at Hays is for our people to reach their full potential and to and 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
give of their best as individuals and in teams.
In this context, we are committed to never discriminating on the grounds of race, colour, The Group has sufficient financial resources which, together with creed, disability, religion, ethnic origin, gender, sexual orientation or internally generated cash ows, will continue to provide sufficient age.
All Hays employees are required to abide by these principles sources of liquidity to fund its current operations, including its which are set out in the Groups Equal Opportunities Policy and Code contractual and commercial commitments and any proposed of Conduct.
The Group is therefore well placed to manage its business risks, despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
Hays gives full consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons where they have the right skills and abilities for the After making enquiries, the directors have formed the judgement role.
Should an employee become disabled whilst working for the at the time of approving the financial statements, that there is a Group, Hays would make every effort to accommodate them, to reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources assist them in any re-training or to nd suitable alternative to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements.
EMPLOYEE INVOLVEMENT Ongoing communication forms the basis of the partnership between ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION Hays leadership and workforce.
Employees receive business The Companys Articles may only be amended by special resolution performance updates from Alistair Cox, the Chief Executive, and of the shareholders.
from their respective regional managing directors, by email on a four-weekly basis.
These are posted on the Groups intranet, which DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO THE AUDITOR acts as a source of reference for the Groups brand, values, policies So far as the directors who held ofce at the date of approval of this and procedures.
Report are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the external Auditor is unaware and each director has taken all steps that Hays continues to provide tailored training to the people who he or she ought to have taken as a director to make himself or herself are in the front line of delivering recruitment solutions as well as aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the in management and leadership roles.
These programmes take a external Auditor is aware of that information.
number of different guises across the Groups regional businesses but all share the common goal of improving the service we provide This conrmation should be interpreted in accordance with Section to clients.
To ensure that Hays employees remain engaged in its business, 2013 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS an annual employee engagement survey, known as TALKback, is On the recommendation of the Audit Committee and having carried out each year.
This allows employees to voice their views considered all matters brought to the attention of the Board during and opinions in all aspects of their workplace environment, training the financial year, the Board is satisfied that the Annual Report and and development, work culture, leadership and client relations.
The Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable.
results, which indicate employee engagement levels and highlight The Board believes that the disclosures set out in the Annual Report any areas of concern, are presented to the Management Board and provide the information necessary for shareholders to assess the to the Board.
Companys performance, business model and strategy.
OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 65 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE OWN SHARES The Notice of AGM, to be held at 12 noon on 13 November 2013 at A special resolution was also passed at last years meeting enabling the Royal College of Physicians, 11 St Andrews Place, Regents Park, the Company to purchase its own shares in the market.
Resolution 18 London NW1 4LE, is contained in a separate circular to shareholders will seek to renew this authority.
The directors intend only to exercise which is being mailed or otherwise provided to shareholders at the this authority if to do so would, in their opinion, enhance shareholder same time as this Report.
The Company will have the option of holding, as treasury shares, any of its own shares that it purchases pursuant to the The Notice of Meeting sets out the resolutions to be proposed at the authority conferred by this resolution.
This would give the Company AGM and gives details of the voting record date and proxy appointment the ability to sell treasury shares, providing the Company with deadline for that Meeting.
Resolutions 1 to 14 comprise ordinary exibility in the management of its employee shares schemes.
No business and resolutions 15 to 19 special business.
dividends will be paid on shares whilst held in treasury and no voting rights will attach to the treasury shares.
AUDITOR Resolutions 13 and 14 at the forthcoming AGM will respectively The price paid for Ordinary shares will not be less than the propose the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as Auditor of the nominal value of 1 pence per share and not more than the higher Company and authorise the directors to determine its remuneration.
of 5% above the average of the middle market quotations of These resolutions will be proposed as ordinary resolutions and shall the Companys Ordinary shares as derived from the London have effect until the conclusion of the next general meeting of the Stock Exchange.
Company at which accounts are laid.
Resolution 18 will be proposed as a special resolution to renew this POLITICAL DONATIONS authority for a period expiring at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
The Company made no political donations during the year and intends to maintain its policy of not making such payments.
It will NOTICE OF GENERAL MEETINGS however as a precautionary measure to avoid inadvertent breach of The notice period required by the Companies Act 2006 for general the law, seek shareholder authority at the 2013 AGM to make limited meetings of the Company is 21 days, unless shareholders approve donations or incur limited political expenditure, although it has no a shorter notice period, which cannot however be less than 14 intention of using the authority.
Resolution 15 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution to seek At last years AGM, shareholders authorised the calling of general authority to make political donations, and if passed, such authority meetings other than an AGM on not less than 14 clear days notice shall expire at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
and Resolution 19 will be proposed as a special resolution and seeks to renew this authority.
The authority granted by this resolution, if AUTHORITY TO ALLOT SHARES passed, will be for a period expiring at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
At the 2012 AGM, shareholders authorised the directors, subject to the Companies Act 2006, to allot Ordinary shares or grant rights to The exibility offered by this resolution will be used where, taking subscribe for or grant rights to subscribe for or convert any securities into account the circumstances, the directors consider this into shares without the prior consent of shareholders.
This authority appropriate in relation to the business to be considered at the expires at the conclusion of the 2013 AGM.
Accordingly, Resolution 16 meeting and in the interests of the Company and shareholders will be proposed as an ordinary resolution to renew this authority for as a whole.
a period expiring at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
The directors have no present intention of exercising this authority.
RECOMMENDATION The directors consider that all the resolutions to be put to the DISAPPLICATION OF PRE-EMPTION RIGHTS meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its Also at last years meeting, a special resolution was passed under shareholders as a whole.
Your Board will be voting in favour the Companies Act 2006 empowering the directors to allot equity of them and unanimously recommends that you do so as well.
securities for cash without first being required to offer such shares to existing shareholders.
Resolution 17 will seek to renew this authority.
By order of the Board If approved, the resolution will authorise directors in accordance with the Articles to issue shares in connection with a rights issue and otherwise to issue shares for cash up to a specified maximum nominal DOUG EVANS amount which includes the sale on a non-pre-emptive basis of any Company Secretary shares held in treasury.
29 August 2013 Resolution 17 will be proposed as a special resolution to renew this authority for a period expiring at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
