06 HAYS PLC|ANNUAL REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2013 BACKDROP TO 2013 MARKETS MARKET OVERVIEW Lower growth expectations in economies such as China and Specialist recruitment is an industry which the knock-on effect on demand for commodities also served by its nature is inextricably linked to the to dampen sentiment globally.
macroeconomic cycle, with activity levels Conversely, some markets have seen a degree of stabilisation and driven by confidence amongst businesses improving sentiment during the period and in certain cases, such as in the US, there was a  return to growth.
Major central banks maintained supportive monetary policy In 2013 we had to manage our business measures with historic low interest rates in regions such as the Eurozone, the UK and the US.
There were also several base-rate against a global economic backdrop which cuts in Australia through the year.
Quantitative easing programmes remained fragile, mixed and prone to rapid were maintained by policymakers in a number of countries, including the UK, US and Japan.
The environment has been characterised by a weakening Elections took place in several major economies including the US and Japan, and China confirmed its first new head of state in of near-term global economic growth a decade.
Elsewhere, Australia saw a pre-election change in Prime projections as recovery from recession Minister and political and social instability continued in many parts of the Middle East.
proved more protracted than expected.
The outlook for the global economy remains cautious with the Various countryand region-specic shocks added to major International Monetary Fund identifying several major medium-term austerity programmes in place across several of our key risks to growth, including a continuation of the Eurozone crisis, high markets, notably in the UK and certain Eurozone countries.
public sector deficits and high sovereign debt levels in major economies such as the US and Japan.
ECONOMIC INDICATORS Reviewing various economic indicators confirms the mixed, but weaker manufacturing sentiment in Germany over the last six volatile backdrop in which we were operating in the year.
Taking just months of the year.
The iron ore price, like that of many commodities, three examples of the many data points that we monitor across our has shown a sharp recent decline, after a period of significant markets, we see signs of improvement in UK consumer confidence, volatility over the year as a whole.
GFK UK CONSUMER GERMANY MANUFACTURING PMI IRON ORE PRICE US$ per tonne CONFIDENCE INDEX -15 54 180 52 -20 160 50 -25 140 48 -30 120 46 -35 100 44 -40 42 80 Source: GFK, 28 June 2013 Source: Markit BME, 1 July 2013 Source: The Steel Index, Iron Ore Fines 62%, 1 July 2013 Jul 12 Aug 12 Sep 12 Oct 12 Nov 12 Dec 12 Jan 13 Feb 13 Mar 13 Apr 13 May 13 Jun 13 Jul 12 Aug 12 Sep 12 Oct 12 Nov 12 Dec 12 Jan 13 Feb 13 Mar 13 Apr 13 May 13 Jun 13 Jul 12 Aug 12 Sep 12 Oct 12 Nov 12 Dec 12 Jan 13 Feb 13 Mar 13 Apr 13 May 13 Jun 13 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 07 OVERVIEW OF OUR KEY MARKETS UK: FRAGILE BUT WITH AUSTRALIA: GROWTH SIGNS OF IMPROVING SLOWED DUE TO SLOWDOWN SENTIMENT IN MINING INVESTMENT The UK economy remained some cautious optimism In Australia, overall sentiment some recent weakening, the fragile during the year, with returned to the UK as worsened in the year.
The sharp Australian Dollar remained relatively subdued GDP growth there were signs of a more correction in the price of certain very strong by historical despite an Olympics boost, positive housing market commodities following standards, and the Reserve and a downgrade to its and confidence measures downgrades to global and Bank of Australia responded sovereign debt credit rating.
amongst both businesses Chinese growth expectations with a series of interest rate Interest rates remained at and consumers showed had a significant impact on the cuts during the year.
historically low levels and the improvement.
This led to a Bank of England maintained slowing in activity in certain its quantitative easing mining areas, and a lowering programme.
Although the in the GDP growth trend for numbers of people in work Australia as a whole.
Despite remained relatively high, ination continued to outstrip wage growth.
More recently, 30% 23% GROUP NET FEES GROUP NET FEES GERMANY: CONTINUED EUROZONE WEAKNESS DRAGGING ON GROWTH German GDP growth slowed improvements in private during the year, impacted by consumption and investment the continuing challenges in construction in Q2 of 2013 within the Eurozone including gave some support to the GLOBAL additional bail-outs of countries economy.
such as Cyprus and regionVIEWPOINT wide austerity measures.
Downward revisions to growth forecasts for some of Germanys key export markets, including China, coupled with weakening domestic demand, dampened sentiment and industrial output.
