20 HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 C orporate social responsibility report continued Manufacturing within the automotive, electrical and Our manufacturing sites worldwide operate ISO 14001 communication industries tends to be populated by male accredited environmental management systems.
ISO 14001 employees by virtue of the nature of the processes which requires organisations to implement policies designed to involve dirt, high noise levels and engineering technology.
In addition, various sales and distribution locations worldwide have achieved ISO 14001 HellermannTyton looks to employ the best team members accreditation and a number are working towards achieving for the roles within the Group and does not discriminate in this accreditation.
A large proportion of our products are designed and manufactured to take account of the recycling and disposal Health and safety ofthe product at the end of its life cycle, with more than 90% of our nished plastic components being suitable for material The Chief Executive is the Director appointed by the Board to recycling.
Our businesses comply with the Waste Electrical and have responsibility for the health, safety and environmental Electronic Equipment Regulations the WEEE Regulations performance of the Group.
The Group health and safety policy and the Restriction of the Use of Certain Hazardous places responsibility for the management of health and safety Substances in Electrical and Electronic Equipment Regulations on local management, who are supported by local external 2004 the RoHS Regulations.
The environmental performance of the Group continues Each location has designated an individual to be responsible for to improve with sites meeting goals for reducing energy ensuring that they conform to local statutory health and safety consumption, reducing waste and greater recycling.
There are regulations as well as Group policy.
All sites provide employees programmes in place aimed at reducing the amount of waste with a written health and safety policy.
sent to landll by increasing the volume of recycling, including An annual internal report on our health and safety performance recycling materials during our manufacturing processes.
is collated from a questionnaire completed by all our locations.
Group performance and risk exposure reviews are undertaken in parallel with those for health and safety as described above.
Independent external reviews of the Groups health and safety performance are conducted annually.
Regular designated Community health and safety awareness training programmes, particularly at our manufacturing sites, are also carried out.
The Groups health and safety performance and significant risk exposures Through our charitable donations policy, HellermannTyton are reviewed regularly by management and periodically by strives to be a responsible partner in the communities in which the Board.
We encourage all our businesses to support the particular needs of their communities by contributing to local charities and community initiatives.
Support takes the form of Environmental employee time and skills, gifts in kind and cash donations.
Good environmental practice and the impact that our By encouraging our employees to become involved in operations have on the environment are of great importance fundraising activities for local concerns and community to HellermannTyton.
The main aim of HellermannTytons initiatives, HellermannTyton continues to support all our environmental policy is to comply with local, state and national employees and businesses in nding ways of helping environmental legislation in all jurisdictions in which we their communities.
operate and to adopt responsible environmental practices.
Sites are required to comply with Group policy and local Greenhouse gas emissions statutory regulations and are encouraged to set their own environmental targets.
An annual environmental questionnaire In order to report the greenhouse gas emissions for the is completed by each location which highlights their Group, data from the five largest manufacturing locations UK, environmental performance.
Germany, US, Japan and Singapore which account for 80% of the total Group spend on power, have been collected for electricity and gas usage as well as business mileage following the guidance of Defra as well as the Carbon Trust.
We have used the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Accounting and Reporting Standard and emissions factors from the UK Government Greenhouse Gas Conversion Factors Guidance 2013.
