08 HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 About HellermannTyton continued Strengths The breadth of HellermannTytons products, geographies and customers, together with its commitment to the production of high quality innovative products and solutions, have contributed signicantly to its growth and position as a market leader in its core geographies.
The Groups competitive strengths include: A market leader with a strong, Long-standing, blue chip and growing worldwidebrand customerbase The Group believes that HellermannTyton is a market leader HellermannTyton has a diverse customer base with a global in providing cable management solutions, particularly in footprint, including many blue chip companies that are its Electrical and Automotive markets in the EU, Japan and leaders in their markets.
The Group typically develops new Brazil.
The Group is a technical leader in its Datacom & Other products, solutions and technologies in close collaboration market.
This market position has been achieved through a with these customers.
The Groups cable management combination of the Groups continued innovation across solutions have applications with some of the worlds leading its product lines, its high levels of customer service, and its OEMs.
Its ability to offer high quality and reliable standardised focus on OEMs and other customers which themselves have and customised cable management solutions has positioned achieved strong growth.
The Groups focus on targeting, it as a key long-standing partner for many leading OEMs.
andoperating in, fast growing markets has also contributed The Group has manufacturing plants and distribution centres to this growth.
near many of its key customers, enabling high service levels tobe achieved.
The Groups reputation is based on its consistent reliability, the innovative use of its proprietary know-how and its As its customers expand their global operations, commitment to customer service.
The HellermannTyton HellermannTytons global presence ideally positions it brand is one of the leading brands in the cable management to satisfy its customers global demand for the Groups solutions industry in its core geographies.
The Groups sales to its top 15 customers grew ataCAGR of 21% from 2009 to 2013 and of the Groups The strength of the HellermannTyton brand is based on top15 customers, 14 were in the top 15 five years ago.
the Groups ability to leverage its proprietary moulding know-how to create customised products which can be standardised by the Group for mass production to supply the wider market.
The high quality, reliability and innovative nature of its products, as well as its strong levels of customer service, all help to strengthen the HellermannTyton brand.
Ov Ov ver er ervi vi vie ew ew w Strategic report Go Go over five vern rn nan an anc ce ce e F Fiinancial s ina nanc n ia all st t tat at atem em emen en ents ts ts O O O Ot Ot ther i he her r in n nfo fo form rm rmat at atio io ion n n HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 09 Well positioned in attractive and Strong and experienced growingmarkets management team HellermannTyton supplies to a broad range of end-markets The Group has a highly trained global workforce and with good long-term growth characteristics, which it groups experienced senior and regional management teams with into three overall markets.
strong industry credentials and many years of relevant international experience.
At the Group level, Steve Salmon The Electrical market will continue to present structural Chief Executive and Tim Jones Chief Financial officer growth opportunities, including growing demand for power havecumulatively spent over 40 years with HellermannTyton.
and data, greater urbanisation, and increasing industrial and infrastructural construction.
These demands will drive At the regional management level, each of the Groups the need for increased volumes of cable management segments is led by Regional Presidents with significant solutions.
Examples of the industrial applications of the experience and understanding of their respective markets Groups products in the Electrical market include products and regions.
The Groups decentralised management model for offshore oil and gas platforms, commercial aircraft and empowers local management, giving them ownership of defence equipment.
day-to-day operational and commercial decision making, enabling them to make decisions quickly at the local level in In the Automotive market, the Group expects trends such order to best serve customers.
as weight reduction requiring the switch from metal to plastic xings to continue to be driven by global trends such as growing environmental awareness, tighter emission regulations and increasing fuel costs.
This is expected to increase demand for high quality and innovative cable management solutions.
The Group also expects growth in demand for vehicle wire harness xing products to be driven by greater consumer and regulatory demand for safety and comfort features which require power and data.
The Datacom & Other market is likely to continue to benetfrom the increasing demand for data, internet usage including cloud computing, storage and outsourcing, which has resulted in greater broadband penetration, growth in the number of data centres, growing demand for applications for LAN and WAN providers, and increasing demand for cable installation efficiencies.
