Ov Ov ver er ervi vi vie ew ew w Strategic report Go Go over five vern rn nan an anc ce ce e F Fiinancial s ina nanc n ia all st t tat at atem em emen en ents ts ts O O O Ot Ot ther i he her r in n nfo fo form rm rmat at atio io ion n n HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 11 Strong focus on innovation and new Strong competitive position with productintroduction highbarriersto entry The Groups products and solutions are an important contributor The cable management business is characterised by relatively to the efficient installation, assembly, performance, quality high barriers to entry including proprietary know-how and and reliability of the cable and wiring in the end-product that technical expertise and a high level of initial capital required is manufactured, assembled or installed by the end-customer.
to invest in moulds, equipment, machinery and facilities.
It is for this reason that customers are primarily focused on In itsexperience, the Groups customers require a high level the reliability and quality of the particular cable management of proven customer service and quality before switching solutions they require and the total value of HellermannTytons suppliers.
With its established customer relationships, technical offering.
The Groups products are specified and approved and proprietary expertise, and world-class production facilities into the design of its customers product platforms such that as wellas local sales and distribution teams, the Group has a its solutions are typically purchased for the duration of the strongcompetitive position.
The breadth of its product offering and global presence enables The Groups approach to innovation across its product lines the Group to provide a broad range of cable management allows it to offer unique solutions to its customers that many of solutions to its customers worldwide.
The Group also has longthe Groups competitors may not be able to develop.
The Group standing customer relationships with its products being, where possesses the technical expertise to design and manufacture required, pre-approved for purchase.
This saves its customers products and develop customised designs and solutions to meet time and costs by eliminating the need for them to undertake its customers particular needs which can then be standardised multiple approval processes for particular products in different for mass production.
The know-how and technical expertise geographies.
For example, in the Automotive market, the accumulated in developing, designing and manufacturing Groups products are approved into the design of its customers the Groups products in-house give it a distinct competitive product platforms resulting in the utilisation of its solutions for advantage and HellermannTytons design and customisation the duration of its customers build programme.
This has allowed abilities allow it to provide a high quality of specialised services the Group to develop long-term mutually beneficial relationships toits customers.
High levels of innovation to meet the most Proprietary RapidNet solution for Datacom market  A customer with a national network of data centres The operating conditions in the generator wasseeking to upgrade its strand of military fast jet aircraft are infrastructure in preparation extremely challenging.
When damage for the implementation of occurs, the complete electrical load is the latest 100 gigabits per carried by a second generator, resulting second technology.
in strong electrical currents and high HellermannTytons patented temperatures.
HellermannTyton applied high density pre-terminated its expertise to develop new high RapidNet system was performance cable ties with special selected due to its technical design and material features that reduced performance, high density of b bre maxiimising t i i h h he use of va f f lua ll b b bllle the degree of brittleness under these datacentre space and the speed and ease with which the solution conditions, resulting in their being could be implemented.
specified on a major military aircraft programme.
