Ov Ov ver er ervi vi vie ew ew w Strategic report Go Go over five vern rn nan an anc ce ce e F Fiinancial s ina nanc n ia all st t tat at atem em emen en ents ts ts O O O Ot Ot ther i he her r in n nfo fo form rm rmat at atio io ion n n HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 21 2013 2012 Tonnes equivalent carbon dioxide CO e Tonnes of CO e Tonnes of CO e 2 2 2 Vehicles 1,681 tonnes Vehicles 1,029 tonnes 0.3188 tonnes per 0.2019 tonnes per Business mileage for all travel by car 1,000 miles 1,000 miles Electricity and gas usage 30,765 29,807 Total gross emissions 32,446 30,836 Intensity measurement Pieces produced 13,086,479,967 12,007,475,685 Tonnes CO per million items produced 2.48 2.57 2 This shows the efficiency gain and relative energy saving.
22 HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Board of Directors David Newlands was appointed Chairman of the Company with John Biles was appointed a Non-executive Director of the effect from 22 February 2013.
He qualified as a Chartered Company with effect from 22 February 2013.
He qualified as a Accountant with Deloitte & Touche in 1968 and was admitted to Chartered Accountant with Price Waterhouse & Co, following the partnership at the age of 30.
In 1989, he joined The General which he held the position of Financial Director at various Electric Company plc and spent eight years as Group Finance subsidiaries of Racal Electronics Plc and then successively Group Director.
Since leaving the Company in 1997, he has held Finance Director of Chubb Security Plc and FKI Plc.
Since 2001, he numerous directorships with companies such as Standard Life has served in numerous non-executive roles with companies such Assurance, Britax International plc and Tomkins plc, amongst as Charter International PLC and Viridian Group PLC.
He is currently a Director of Paypoint plc.
currently a Director of Bodycote PLC and Sutton and East Surrey Water plc.
In each case, he also held or holds the position of Steve Salmon has been the team leader of the business for 18 Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He holds a Bachelor of years, previously as Group President and Group General Manager.
Sciences Combined Honours degree in Chemistry and Physics from Having qualified as a Chartered Accountant at the age of 21, he the University of Exeter.
went into industry initially at Courtaulds London head office in 1970, joining the Bowthorpe Group then owners of the David Lindsell was appointed a Non-executive Director of the HellermannTyton business in 1973, where he became Group Company with effect from 22 February 2013.
He spent almost Financial Controller in 1985.
30 years as a partner at Ernst & Young and served as the lead audit partner for numerous FTSE 100 companies during his career at the Tim Jones was appointed Chief Financial Officer of the Group in firm.
He is a Non-executive Director and Chairman of the Audit February 2006, following the purchase by Doughty Hanson.
He Committees of Premier Oil plc and Drax Group plc.
He was Deputy was previously Head of Internal Control at Spirent plc, with a Chairman of the Financial Reporting Review Panel from 2008 to reporting line to the Audit Committee, a role he held for five years.
2012 and has served on a number of professional bodies relating Previously, he was Group Management Accountant.
He spent 11 to financial reporting and the accountancy profession.
He years working for fide La Rue plc in a number of financial roles, graduated from Cambridge University with a Bachelors degree in including Management Accountant at both divisional and business History and is a Chartered Accountant.
He has a Bachelor of Arts degree in Business Studies from Bournemouth University and is qualified as a Chartered Alex Moss is a Principal at Doughty Hanson where he has worked Management Accountant.
Prior to joining Doughty Hanson, he worked for over five years at Close Brothers Corporate Finance in London.
He has Tim Hancock was appointed Senior Non-executive Director of the a Bachelor of Sciences degree in Biological Sciences with Honours Company with effect from 22 February 2013.
He has over 35 in Biochemistry from the University of Edinburgh.
years experience in the investment banking industry and was formerly a Managing Director and Partner at Rothschild.
In the past 15 years, he has served as a Non-executive Director to several companies and charities, including British-Borneo Petroleum PLC and the British Neurological Research Trust.
Tim is also a Director of Thos Proctor & Son Limited and GoJaspa Limited, a Senior Advisor to Douglas Bay Capital plc and a Trustee of St Peter & St James Hospice.
He holds a Bachelor of Arts degree with Honours in Modern History from the University of Oxford.
O O O O O Ov v v v five e e e er r r r rv v v v viiiiie e e e ew w w w w S S S S S St t t t tr r r r ra a a a at t t t te e e e eg g g g g giiiiic c c c c r r r r r re e e e ep p p p p po o o o or r r r rt t t t t Governance F F F F F Fiiiiiin n n n na a a a an n n n nc c c c ciiiiia a a a alllll s s s s s st t t t ta a a a at t t t te e e e em m m m me e e e en n n n nts ts ts ts ts O O O O O Ot t t t th h h h he e e e er r r r r iiiiin n n n n nf f f f for or or or orma ma ma ma mat t t t tio io io io ion n n n n HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 23 Directors report Introduction Good corporate governance allows boards to direct their companies effectively.
Therefore, the Board believes that the Companys strategy and business must be underpinned with an effective governance framework that assists the Groups operations and facilitates business success.
This is the Companys first Annual Report and Accounts since it was incorporated on 19 February 2013 and the Directors are pleased to present their report on the governance arrangements the Board has adopted and shaped since it was admitted to the London Stock Exchange on 2 April 2013.
In this Directors report, we describe how we The Boards responsibilities govern the Company, say who the Board are At the time of the IPO, the Board adopted a schedule of matters and explain the role of the Board reserved for its attention.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the strategic direction, development and control of the Group.
The statutory disclosures on pages 46 to 48 form part of this Directors report.
Details of the Companys risk management It therefore approves strategic plans and annual capital and revenue objectives and policies and the Companys exposure to market risk, budgets.
It reviews significant investment proposals and the credit risk and liquidity risk are given in Note 3 to the financial performance of past investments and maintains an overview and statements.
In addition, details of the Groups principal activities, control of the Groups operating and financial performance.
It sets likely future developments, greenhouse gas emissions, research policies for monitoring the Groups overall system of internal and development activities and employee information are included controls, governance and compliance and ensures that the necessary in the Strategic report on pages 6 to 21. financial and human resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives.
Following the IPO, the Board has adopted objective Corporate governance statement written criteria for the appointment of Directors and the roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive and Non-executive Directors have been The Board recognises the importance of good corporate defined in writing.
governance in creating a sustainable, successful and profitable business.
Details are set out below of the Companys corporate The Company Secretarys responsibilities include ensuring good governance procedures and application of the principles and information flows to the Board and its committees and between provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the senior management and the Non-executive Directors.
The Financial Reporting Council in September 2012.
A copy of the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter Code is available online at www.
The Company Secretary is responsible, through the Chairman, for advising the Board on all corporate The Board considers that the Company has complied throughout governance matters and for assisting the Directors with their the period ended 31 December 2013 with all the provisions of professional development.
This includes regular corporate the Code.
governance and business issues updates, as well as the use of operational site visits and the provision of external courses where required.
24 HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Directors report continued Board Audit Remuneration Board composition meetings Committee Committee David Newlands 8 8 3 1 1 The Board currently has seven members.
It comprises two Executive Directors the Companys Chief Executive and Chief John Biles 8 8 3 3 1 1 Financial Officer, a Non-executive Chairman and four NonDavid Lindsell 8 8 3 3 1 1 executive Directors, three of whom are considered by the Board to Tim Hancock 8 8 3 3 1 1 be independent for the purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Details of the Directors and their biographies can be found Alex Moss 7 8 3 1 on page 22.
Graeme Stening, Legal Counsel at Doughty Hanson, Steve Salmon 8 8 3 1 was appointed alongside Alex Moss as Director upon the Companys Tim Jones 8 8 3 1 incorporation for practical reasons, but resigned shortly afterwards on 6 March 2013.
There were no other changes to the Board in 2013.
In accordance with the Companys articles of association, Where a Director was unable to attend a meeting, they were the Company ensures that Directors submit themselves for reprovided with all the papers and information relating to that election at least every three years.
7.1 of the UK meeting and were able to discuss issues arising directly with the Corporate Governance Code states that all directors of FTSE 350 Chairman and Chief Executive.
There are eight Board meetings companies should stand for annual election by shareholders and currently planned for 2014. the Company intends to comply with this provision.
Details of the Executive Directors service contracts are set out on page 39.
The Chairman and the Non-executive Directors have Considering diversity letters of appointment which are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during normal business hours At the time of the IPO, the process of recruiting Non-executive and at the place of the AGM from at least 15 minutes before and Directors with an international skill set and broad range of skills to until the end of the meeting.
complement the business took into account diversity and the mix required to move the Group forward after its admission to the Chairman London Stock Exchange.
The Board believes there is an appropriate David Newlands is the Chairman of the Board.
He ensures that mix of skills, experience, knowledge and diversity which enables them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities appropriate communication is maintained with shareholders.
The Board is of sufficient size, meeting the requirements has responsibility for the smooth running of the Board and for ensuring that all Directors are fully informed of matters relevant to of the business, and no individual or small group of individuals can dominate the Board.
As the Group develops and grows in an their roles.
He also chairs the Nominations Committee.
international arena, the Board will keep the requirements to consider Chief Executive diversity under review.
The Company currently has five male Non-executive Directors Steve Salmon is the Chief Executive and has responsibility for and two male Executive Directors.
implementing the strategy agreed by the Board and for the executive management of the Group.
Board meetings Chief Financial Officer During 2013, there were eight scheduled Board meetings Tim Jones is the Chief Financial Officer and is responsible for the including a one-day meeting at the Groups Plymouth site to financial conduct of the Group.
introduce the Non-executive Directors to the senior management team and a one-day meeting at the Groups Tornesch site which Senior Independent Director considered the Groups strategy.
The table below shows attendance levels at the scheduled Board and Committee Tim Hancock is the Senior Independent Director and is available to meetings held during the year: the numbers in brackets confirm shareholders, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance how many meetings each Director was eligible to attend during Code, if they have concerns that contact through the normal the year.
There was no need for the Nominations Committee to channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Financial meet on a formal basis during the year.
Officer has failed to resolve or for which contact is inappropriate.
