Overview St St tra ra rate te tegi gi gic r c c re e epo po port rt r Go Go over five vern rn nan an anc ce ce e F Fiinancial s ina nanc n ia all st t tat at atem em emen en ents ts ts O O O Ot Ot ther i he her r in n nfo fo form rm rmat at atio io ion n n HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 05 Dividend Employees The Group targets a payout ratio of 3040% of underlying The Groups strategy is to empower local management, annual net income with interim and final payments of ensuring they have ownership of day-to-day operational approximately one third and two thirds respectively.
As such, each of the Groups segments is interim dividend of 1.32 cents per share was pro-rated from led by Regional Presidents who report to the Chief Executive.
Admission to 30 June, and was paid on 16 October.
The Group has experienced senior managers around the globe with significant knowledge and understanding of their The Board is proposing a final dividend of 5.23 cents per share, respective markets and regions.
I have had the pleasure of which will be paid to shareholders on 7 May 2014 subject to meeting many of them during the course of the year and approval at the AGM.
hearing first hand how positively the IPO has been received bythem and their colleagues.
Board and governance I am rmly of the belief that the most important investment a company can make is in its employees.
There is no doubt The year saw a number of changes to the Boards composition, in my mind that the outstanding success of HellermannTyton which meant we were fully compliant with the UK Corporate is due to its dedicated and talented management team, and Governance Code at the time of Admission to the Ofcial List to the quality and determination of its employees worldwide.
of the London Stock Exchange.
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank them for their I joined the Board as Chairman in February together with a continuing dedication and focus on delivering the growth of further three independent Non-executive Directors John the business.
Biles, Tim Hancock and David Lindsell.
John, Tim and David each bring a variety of strengths and skills from their previous Summary experience and these are discussed in the Governance Section starting on page 22.
Doughty Hanson has one nominated As you will read in this Annual Report, HellermannTyton is in Director ontheCompanys Board, Alex Moss.
very good shape and has once again delivered good organic growth enabling the Board to recommend a final dividend of The Board also includes two Executive Directors, Chief 5.23 cents per share.
Executive Steve Salmon and Chief Financial officer Tim Jones.
The Company therefore fulls the requirement of the UK I believe that the Group will continue to deliver good growth Corporate Governance Code that at least half the Board, in the years ahead, underpinned by its continuing strategic excluding the Chairman, comprises Non-executive Directors focus and investment in maintaining excellent customer determined by the Board to be independent.
service, strong innovation and the high quality of its global Tim Hancock holds the position of Senior Independent Director infrastructure and workforce.
and the Board has established Nominations, Remuneration and Audit committees, currently composed as described later in this report, with formally delegated duties and responsibilities and David Newlands written terms of reference.
Chairman 06 HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Furthermore, our world-class marketing activities together with our development teams and sales forces in all of our chosen markets are continuing to deliver a strong pipeline of projects and innovations to meet the needs of customers in 2014 and beyond.
We anticipate being able to carry on taking advantage of a number of Operational highlights positive underlying structural drivers and We aim to achieve world-class operational excellence for the our programme of capital investment benefit of our customers, our employees and the interaction is designed to ensure we deliver of our business with the environment.
We have continued sustainable growth.
to invest in the asset base during 2013 to facilitate this, withseveral notable milestones during the course of the year, including: t the start-up of production in the new manufacturing facilityon Good Hope Road in Milwaukee, which is providingadditional capacity to meet the growth we areseeing in the North American market: Introduction t the start-up of manufacturing in Poland, bringing synergies to our activities and adding capacity to our European The listing of HellermannTyton Group PLC on the London manufacturing operations: and Stock Exchange in April was a significant milestone in HellermannTytons history, providing a strong platform on t further investment and expansion to strengthen and grow which to continue on our growth track.
The listing was our operations in China.
achieved without operational management and employees losing focus on delivering the high levels of service and We will continue to invest in our capacity during 2014, which reliability that our customers have come to expect.
will be essential to secure our future profitable growth while This has resulted in another year of profitable growth meeting the service expectations of our customers.
against a background of uncertain economic conditions.
This performance could not have been achieved without their Outlook for 2014 commitment, for which I would like to give my sincere thanks.
2014 has started well as the Group continues to focus Mission and strategy on delivering growth through broadly based initiatives.
Global industrial production is forecast to increase in 2014 HellermannTytons mission is to provide innovative solutions and we expect to benefit from this given our focus on with customer satisfaction as our first priority and we aspire, providing innovative solutions for our industrial customer through global leadership and quality products, to be the base.
In addition, we anticipate being able to carry on taking customers first partner of choice.
Our focus on implementing advantage of a number of positive underlying structural the strategy that we describe in more detail later in this drivers, including the increasing demand for power and data Annual Report has delivered good organic revenue growth and the ongoing switch from metal to plastic.
Our programme of 11.1% in 2013 in constant currency terms whilst also of capital investment is designed to ensure we continue to maintaining margins.
Encouragingly, this growth is not attributable to any one specic geography, customer, project win, product launch or innovation.
It is the result of many initiatives Steve Salmon that have come to fruition, for example, the use of Chief Executive HellermannTytons EdgeClips on photovoltaic power installations in order to overcome the operational safety issues experienced with metal-based solutions, and the continuing success of our Helagaine protection sleeving in the wind sector which has been proven to withstand the highly abrasive conditions found inside wind turbines.
Ov Ov ver er ervi vi vie ew ew w Strategic report Go Go over five vern rn nan an anc ce ce e F Fiinancial s ina nanc n ia all st t tat at atem em emen en ents ts ts O O O Ot Ot ther i he her r in n nfo fo form rm rmat at atio io ion n n HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 07 1930s From 1969 1990s 1998 to date 2013 Original businesses The Group expanded The Group continued its expansion The Group has focused on In April 2013, the shares of founded making electrical its operations outside with the 1997 acquisition of the globalisation of the HellermannTyton Group PLC insulation products in Europe to include Brazil, operations in Austria and Spain business and consolidation were successfully admitted the UK and Germany Japan, Singapore and the and the 1998 expansions into of its brand position under to the Ofcial List and to United States Argentina and China the HellermannTyton name.
trading on the London Group acquired by Doughty Stock Exchange Hanson in 2006 Group history The Group originated in Europe in the 1930s when the UK The Group has continued to expand its production capacity Insuloid and German Paul Hellermann businesses were and supply chain, increased its focus on sales and marketing established.
From 1969, the Group expanded its operations and operational improvements, and expanded its operations, outside Europe to include Brazil, Japan, Singapore and the for example in South and Central America, Asia and United States.
During the 1990s, the Group continued its Eastern Europe.
expansion with the 1997 acquisition of operations in Austria On 2 April 2013, the shares of HellermannTyton Group PLC and Spain and the 1998 expansions into Argentina and China.
were admitted to the Ofcial List and to trading on the From 1998, the Group focused on the globalisation of the LondonStock Exchanges Main Market and on 30 October business and consolidation of its brand position under the 2013 the Group joined the FTSE 250.
HellermannTyton name, including the adoption of a uniform marketing and operations structure.
In 2006, the Group was acquired by Doughty Hanson, a leading European private equity rm.
com Products and services The Group offers an extensive range of high quality products and solutions more than 20,000 products available in over 70,000 SKUs developed to meet the needs of both OEM and end-user customers in its chosen markets.
Most of the Groups products, though produced on a large scale, are not particularly commoditised.
The Group categorises its product ranges into five distinct product portfolios: Fixings, Insulation and Protection, Network Connectivity, Identication, and Installer Solutions.
The Group provides HellermannTyton branded products through which it has established its brand recognition and loyalty.
The Group has been able to build on the strength ofits brand identity on the basis of the quality of its products and solutions which are designed to be installed and last for the lifetime of end-users equipment.
