10 HellermannTyton Annual Report and Accounts 2013 The Groups broad diversication, global presence, innovation focus and decentralised management structure ensure responsiveness to customer and market needs.
Broad diversication across regions, customers, World-class manufacturing capabilities end-markets and product lines andglobal supply chain capabilities The Groups business is diversied across regions, customers, The Group currently operates world-class production facilities end-markets and product lines thus giving it exposure to in 12 primary locations across ten countries three in the a wide range of different growth trends and enhancing its UK and one in each of the United States, Germany, France, overall resilience to cyclicality in particular markets or regions.
Poland, China, Singapore, South Africa, Brazil and Japan.
2 The Group offers over 20,000 products in more than 70,000 These production locations provide more than 20,000m of SKUs through an experienced global sales force.
This extensive manufacturing oor space and operate over 350 injection product range is grouped into five product categories Fixings, moulding machines.
For the year ended 31 December 2013, Insulation and Protection, Network Connectivity, Identication, the Group incurred capital expenditure of 40.7 million, which and Installer Solutions that serve the Groups Electrical, included the completion of the t out of the Good Hope Automotive and Datacom & Other markets.
The Groups Road facility in Milwaukee, US, and the start-up of production products nd application in diverse end-markets including in Poland.
The Groups world-class production facilities and aerospace, defence, alternative energy, mass transit, oil and gas, distribution operations are integrated globally but managed car, bus, truck, heavy equipment, data centres and telecoms.
The Group is diversied geographically, with direct sales The Group focuses on particular markets or areas of expertise in operations in 34 countries.
For the year ended 31 December each geographic region whilst benefiting from an inter-regional 2013, the Group generated 53% of its revenues in its EMEA supply chain to optimise capital investment, manufacturing and segment, 25% in its Americas segment and 22% in its Asian freight costs and achieve economies of scale in the procurement segment.
The Group serves a broad range of customers across of raw materials and the shipment of nished products.
its business including OEMs, Tier1, Tier 2 and Tier 3 suppliers, Maintaining close proximity to its customers gives the Group wholesalers, distributors and catalogue companies.
a deep understanding of local requirements and regulations This diversication across product lines, regions and customers thereby allowing it to target those local markets with high levels enhances the Groups stability and protects against reliance on of service.
This proximity has also created a exible supply chain any particular product, customer or geography.
capable of responding to short-term uctuations in customer demand and delivering orders in a cost effective manner on ashort lead time to customers.
Extensive product range suitable for wide range Global footprint providing high standards ofapplications ofservicelocally HellermannTytons extensive range The trend for automotive OEMs of cable tie and edge clip toconsolidate car lines onto global assemblies is widely used for xing platforms combines well with and bundling cables, pipes and HellermannTytons strengths.
hoses within automotive, white Theelectrical architecture of these goods, solar, harness making and platforms is designed by the development panel building industries.
They are engineers at the OEMs in close ideal for use where holes are not cooperation with HellermannTyton acceptable or where adhesives will and the harness makers.
Then, during fail due to temperature problems.
production, HellermannTyton is able to support the OEMs and their tier suppliers anywhere in the world with high levels of local service that can be achieved through its global network of manufacturing, logistics and warehousing operations.
