Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual rePort 2013 Governance rePort senior management Bassam Kanaan majda Labadi Khalid nabilsi Chief Strategy & Corporate Corporate Vice President for Chief Financial Officer DevelopmentOfficer Human Resources appointed to current role: 2014 appointed to current role: 2009 appointed to current role: 2011 Joined Hikma: 2001 Joined Hikma: 1985 Joined Hikma: 2001 nationality: Jordanian nationality: Jordanian nationality: Jordanian skills and experience: skills and experience: skills and experience: Bassam started his career in 1986 with Deloitte & During her 28 years at Hikma, majda has held a Prior to assuming his current role, khalid held several touche los angeles where he held a variety of variety of roles including Purchasing manager at senior positions in the Hikma finance department roles prior to joining PaDico in 1994 as cFo.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals limited, strategy manager including corporate vice President, Finance and was Bassam joined Hikma as cFo in 2001 and played at Hikma investment, General manager of Hikma a key member of the iPo team in 2005.
Following aleading role in preparing for Hikmas iPo in 2005 Farmaceutica and vice President of injectables.
qualification as a cPa he held a variety of roles and in its subsequent m&a activity.
in February inFebruary 2009 majda assumed her current infinancial accounting, reporting and financial 2009, in addition to his responsibilities as cFo, position as corporate vice President, Human advisory services, and with atlas investment Group Bassam assumed responsibility for operations, resources.
shehas been responsible for establishing now aB invest where he was involved in mergers manufacturing and supply chain management a central human resource practice and leading and acquisitions advisory services.
Prior to atlas, ineurope & mena.
in January 2011, Bassam was thedevelopment of several Group-wide initiatives, khalid had managed several multinational audit promoted to the position of President and chief including the grading structure, performance engagements at arthur andersen in amman, operating officer for the mena and eu regions, evaluation process and the Group bonus scheme.
as chief Financial officer, khalid has where he led the implementation of important integrated several acquisitions into the financial majda has completed the advanced management organisational and operational improvements.
reporting structure, developed the Group internal Program amP programme at inseaD, holds a in2014 he was promoted to the newly created role control framework and implemented new Bafrom the american university of Beirut and ofchief strategy & corporate Development officer, leveragearrangements to fund acquisitions masters degree from Hochschule Fur okonomie with Group-level responsibility for strategic andcapital investment.
development, acquisitions, alliances and product khalid is a us certified Public accountant development.
Bassam is responsible for delivering committee membership: andhasan mBa from the university of Hull.
the expansion vision of the ceo.
executive committee other appointments: management committee Bassam is qualified as a certified Public accountant khalid is a founder of the Jordan association for cPa and chartered Financial analyst cFa.
Bassam management accountants and a Board member has a Ba from claremont mckenna college and an ofthe Jordan armed Forces and security international executive mBa from kellogg recanati apparatuses credit union.
committee membership: other appointments: executive committee Bassam currently holds a non-executive Directorship management committee in arab Bank.
He has previously served on the Boards of aqaba Development co. Jordan Dubai Properties, Zara Holding, capital Bank of Jordan, ceGco and Paltel.
Bassam is active in several non-profit and charity organisations and is currently a member of the Board of trustees of the Welfare association in Jordan.
committee membership: executive committee management committee chair 58 corPorate governance susan ringdal michael raya riad mishlawi Vice President, Corporate Strategy President and CEO of the US EU Vice President and andInvestor Relations Global Head ofInjectables appointed to current role: 2012 appointed to current role: 2008 appointed to current role: 2011 Joined Hikma: 2005 Joined Hikma: 1992 Joined Hikma: 1990 nationality: american nationality: american nationality: lebanese skills and experience: skills and experience: skills and experience: susan joined Hikma as investor relations Director, michael joined Hikmas us subsidiary West-Ward riad joined Hikma as a Project engineer in the having previously worked for the pharmaceutical from vitarine Pharmaceuticals where he had engineering department where he was involved in distribution and retail pharmacy group alliance worked from 1984 until 1992 in various roles, the construction of Hikmas facility in Portugal.
unichem plc as investor relations manager.
including vice President, Quality control.
Prior to riadspent a significant period in the manufacturing shealso has experience as an equity analyst at this, michael worked at schering-Plough and operations of many Hikma sites, was general morgan stanley in london.
in early 2012 susan Hoffman laroche.
at Hikma, michael has previously manager of Hikma italy and became Head of assumed responsibility for corporate strategy.
been responsible for all West-Wards operations as injectables manufacturing operations before well as quality compliance for all worldwide Hikma assuming his current role.
riad was an executive susan holds a Ba in History from cornell university facilities until his appointment as President and ceo Director at Watson Pharmaceuticals from 1998 and an mBa from london Business school.
of West-Ward in 2008. to2005, responsible for injectables operations.
riadhas led the injectables division through committee membership: michael holds a masters degree in industrial aperiod ofrapid growth and has integrated executive committee Pharmacy from long island university and a operations into a global operation.
management committee Bachelors degree in chemistry from st. francis college.
michael is also a graduate of inseaDs riad has a Bsc in engineering and a masters international executive Program.
inengineering and management from george Washington university.
committee membership: committee membership: executive committee executive committee 59 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual rePort 2013 governance rePort Continued Hussein arkhagha peter speirs Dr ibrahim Jalal General Counsel Company Secretary Senior Corporate Vice President, TechnicalAffairs appointed to current role: 2013 appointed to current role: 2012 appointed to current role: 1979 Joined Hikma: 2001 Joined Hikma: 2010 Joined Hikma: 1979 nationality: Jordanian nationality: British nationality: Jordanian skills and experience: skills and experience: skills and experience: Hussein joined Hikma in July, 2001 as a legal Peter joined Hikma as a Deputy company secretary ibrahim joined Hikma as technical Director and has counsel.
since then, Hussein occupied several in 2010.
Prior to joining Hikma, he worked in the held a variety of roles including corporate technical positions at Hikma, including Head of tax, Head of corporate secretariat of Barclays and Pool re, the vice President for compliance and senior corporate mena legal and Head of shareholders Department.
He also worked at manifest, vice President for randD.
He has played a leading a leading corporate governance agency.
in 2012, role in Hikma securing fDa approval for its Hussein is a qualified lawyer in Jordan and holds Peter assumed the role of company secretary.
amasters degree in international Business law is responsible for advising on governance and listing fromthe university of manchester, under uk ibrahim holds a PhD in Pharmacy from the university matters at the Board and across the group and chevening scholarship.
ensuring the smooth management of the Board andcommittees.
Peter is a fellow of the institute of chartered secretaries and administrators and holds a law degree from university of east anglia.
60 corPorate governance Fadi nassar ragheb al-shakhshir Corporate Vice President, Corporate Vice President, Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients Research and Development appointed to current role: 2007 appointed to current role: 2009 Joined Hikma: 1988 Joined Hikma: 2000 nationality: Jordanian nationality: Jordanian skills and experience: skills and experience: fadi has worked in various roles within the group ragheb joined Hikma as a research and including operations, Purchasing and Business Development manager.
Prior to joining Hikma he Development.
He was promoted to corporate vice held a variety of roles as senior scientist at novartis President, aPi in 2007. fadi is a Director of Hubei Pharmaceuticals, and at alcon labs in the us.
Haosun Pharmaceutical co. ltd. an active from20032008 ragheb led the Hikma r&D Pharmaceutical ingredient manufacturing company injectables team and from february 2009 assumed in which Hikma purchased a significant minority the responsibility of corporate vice President, interest in 2011. research and Development.
fadi holds a Bsc in chemical engineering from ragheb has a PhD in industrial and Physical newcastle university and an msc in chemical Pharmacy from Purdue university, masters in engineering from leeds university.
fadi is also engineering from the university of  of inseaDs international amherst and a Bsc in chemical engineering from executiveProgram.
