strategic report investing for growth of unifill pre-filled syringes with a range high quality provider ofour injectable products.
oFgenericsinthe us in 2013, we continued to invest in we believe we can leverage unilifes ourinjectables capacity, adding two new maximising portfolio opportunities innovative platform of unifill syringes to high-speed lines at our plants in the us and the generics business is the smallest part differentiate our injectable products and portugal.
in portugal, we have also begun of the group and focuses on addressing strengthen our competitive position.
we have installing a dedicated r&d line to accelerate opportunities in the us generics market from begun installing a pre-filled syringe line which the lead times of new product submissions our facility in eatontown, new jersey and our we expect to complete during 2014. we have and increase the capacity available for us Food and drug administration us Fda also begun assessing the potential to establish commercial production.
approved facilities in jordan and saudi arabia.
local manufacturing facilities for injectable in the us, we are investing in the in 2012, our eatontown facility received a products in mena, which could help us capability to combine our generic injectable warning letter from the us Fda and we toaccelerate growth in key markets.
products with advanced, innovative delivery voluntarily ceased manufacture of all product across our geographies, we are systems to address the rapid shift in market lines in order to fully remediate the facility continuing to pursue opportunities to invest demand from vials to pre-filled syringes.
in the growth of our global injectables in november 2013, we signed a long-term business, through new products, technologies commercial supply agreement with the and markets.
unilifecorporation unilife for the use 17 hikma pharmaceuticals plc annual report 2013 chieF executive oFFicers review Continued in 2013, we gradually began re-introducing our strategy for the generics business is to products from the eatontown facility, whilst continue re-introducing products, with a the remediation work continued.
By the end further 15 products expected to be brought of the year, we had re-introduced a small back during 2014. we are working to re-build portfolio of ten products, adding to the 34 a market position in these products and products being supplied to the us market to look for opportunities to maximise the from our facilities in mena.
however, due potential of this portfolio.
to capturing a specific market opportunity for one of our products, doxycycline, the generics business delivered very strong revenue of $268 million in 2013.
