corPorate Governance the table below summarises Hikmas key policies with respect to recruitment remuneration for executive Directors: component Policy salary the salary level will be set taking into account a number of factors including market practice, the individuals experience and responsibilities anD andother pay structures within Hikma and will be consistent with the salary policy for executive Directors.
BeneFits the executive Director shall be eligible to receive benefits in line with Hikmas benefits policy as set out in the remuneration policy table.
Pension it should be noted that it is not the remuneration committees current policy for existing executive Directors to provide executive level pension contributions or salary supplements.
However, the committee retains the discretion if required on recruitment to be able to offer either a contribution to a personal pension scheme or cash allowance in lieu of pension benefits provided that this shall not exceed 25% of salary per annum.
maximum level the maximum level of variable remuneration under the companys policy is 400% of salary p. a. in exceptional circumstances, solely for the oF variaBle yearof recruitment, this may be increased to 550% if a sign-on award is made.
remuneration incentives the executive Director will be eligible to participate in the eiP as set out in the remuneration policy table.
awards may be granted up to the maximum opportunity allowable in the remuneration policy table at the remuneration committees discretion.
siGn-on the committees policy is not to provide sign-on compensation.
Payments However, in exceptional circumstances where the committee decides to provide this type of compensation, it will endeavour to provide the recruitment compensation in equity, subject to a holding period during which cessation of employment will generally result in forfeiture and subject to the aWarDs satisfaction of performance targets.
in addition, where practical the committee will endeavour to consult with its key shareholders prior to entering in to any commitment.
the maximum value of this one-off compensation will be proportionate to the overall remuneration offered bythe company and in all circumstances is limited to 150% of salary which will only be provided in exceptional circumstances.
sHare the committees policy is not to provide buy-outs as a matter of course.
Buy-outs However, should the committee determine that the individual circumstances of recruitment justified the provision of a buy-out, the value rePlacement ofanyincentives that will be forfeited on cessation of a Directors previous employment will be calculated taking into account the following: aWarDs the proportion of the performance period completed on the date of the Directors cessation of employment the performance conditions attached to the vesting of these incentives and the likelihood of them being satisfied any other terms and condition having a material effect on their value lapsed value the committee may then grant up to the equivalent value as the lapsed value, where possible, under the companys incentive plans.
to theextent that it was not possible or practical to provide the buy-out within the terms of the companys existing incentive plans, abespokearrangement would be used.
the annual fees payable to newly recruited non-executive Directors will be in line with the fees payable to existing non-executive Directors.
terms oF aPPointment anD service service contracts Details of the service contracts of the executive Directors of Hikma in force at the end of the year under review, which have not changed during the year, are as follows: company contract unexpired term Potential name notice period date of contract termination payment 12 months salary said Darwazah 12 months 1 July 2007 rolling contract and benefits 12 months salary mazen Darwazah 12 months 25 may 2006 rolling contract and benefits the executive Directors contracts are on a rolling basis, unless terminated by 12 months written notice.
this arrangement is in line with best corporate practice for listed companies.
the committees policy for setting notice periods is that a maximum 12-month period will apply for executive Directors.
the committee may in exceptional circumstances arising on recruitment, allow a longer period, which would in any event reduce to 12 months following the first year of employment.
99 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual rePort 2013 REMUNERATION REPORT Continued terms oF aPPointment anD service continueD letters of appointment the non-executive Directors do not have service contracts, but have letters of appointment with Hikma.
each appointment is terminable on onemonths notice from either Hikma or the Director, but is envisaged to be for an initial period of up to 36 months.
this period can berenewedand extended for not more than two further three-year terms, unless exceptional circumstances exist.
name Date of appointment notice payment samih Darwazah 17 July 2007 1 month michael ashton 14 october 2005 1 month ali al-Husry 14 october 2005 1 month Breffni Byrne 14 october 2005 1 month ronald Goode 12 December 2006 1 month sir David rowe-Ham 14 october 2005 1 month robert Pickering 1 september 2011 1 month the company follows the uk Governance code and requires that all Directors of Ftse 350 companies be subject to annual election by shareholders.
Payment for loss of office When considering termination payments, the remuneration committee takes account of the best interests of Hikma and the individuals circumstances, including the reasons for termination, contractual obligations and ltiPs and pension plan rules.
the remuneration committee will ensure that there are no unjustified payments for failure on an executive Directors termination of employment.
the committees policy in relation to leavers can be summarised as follows: in the normal course of events, the executive Director will work their notice period and receive usual compensation payments and benefits during this time in the event of the termination of an executives contract and Hikma requesting the executive to cease working immediately, payment in lieu of notice equal to fixed pay, pension entitlements, other benefits and, on a discretionary basis and only where it is in Hikmas interest, a pro-rated performancerelated bonus will be payable the executive Director may also be considered for a variable pay award upon termination of employment.
However, the executive would not be entitled to any variable pay in situations where the executive resigned or where Hikma has terminated the executives employment with the contractual right to do so.
the performance of Hikma in terms of finance and meeting of operational targets is the prime driver for determining whether to make an award and quantum in the event of termination for gross misconduct, neither notice nor payment in lieu of notice will be given and the executive will cease to perform his services immediately in the event that the committee exercises the discretion detailed in this section, the committee will provide an explanation in the next remuneration report the committee will honour executive Directors contractual entitlements.
service contracts do not contain liquidated damages clauses.
if acontract is to be terminated, the committee will determine such mitigation as it considers fair and reasonable in each case.
there are no contractual arrangements that would guarantee a pension with limited or no abatement on severance or early retirement.
there is no agreement between the company and its Directors or employees, providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
the committee reserves the right to make additional payments where such payments are made in good faith in discharge of an existing legal obligation or by way of damages for breach of such an obligation : or by way of settlement or compromise of any claim arising inconnection with the termination of an executive Directors office or employment.
When determining any loss of office payment for a departing individual, the remuneration committee will always seek to minimise cost tothe company whilst seeking to address the circumstances at the time.
the components of the policy is detailed on the table opposite.
100 corPorate Governance component approach application of remuneration committee discretion Base salary, see above policy.
Discretion to make payments in lieu of notice BeneFits anD tothe same value.
executive Directors may be entitled to receive payment in lieu of notice.
Payment in lieu Pension ofnotice will be equivalent to the salary payments, benefit value and pension contributions that they would have received if still employed by the company for a maximum of 12 months.
eiP the company only operates one incentive plan for the executive Directors, the eiP.
the remuneration committee has discretion the treatment of awards on cessation of employment is governed by the rules of the eiP.
to determine that the reason for termination is classified in the same manner as those the rules of the eiP provide that on termination of employment before the performance described in the adjacent column.
measurement date or prior to the relevant vesting date, no award will be granted in respect of the year of cessation and any subsisting entitlements will lapse: unless the following the remuneration committee will only circumstances apply: use its general discretion to determine that an executive Director is a good leaver in injury or disability exceptional circumstances and will provide redundancy afull explanation to shareholders, if possible retirement by agreement with the company inadvance, of the basis for its determination.
the participant being employed by a company which ceases to be a member of the Group the participant being employed in an undertaking or part of an undertaking which is transferred to a person who is not a member of the Group any other circumstances if the remuneration committee decides in any particular case if an executive Director leaves in one of the above circumstances the eiP rules provide for the following: element a the remuneration committee will calculate the amount of any payment pro-rated to the amount of the plan year completed on the executive Directors date of cessation and taking into account the level of satisfaction of the performance targets at the next performance measurement date.
any payment shall be made as soon as practicable after the determination of the level of satisfaction of the performance targets.
elements B anD c the remuneration committee will calculate the amount of any payment pro-rated to the amount of the plan year completed on the executive Directors date of cessation and taking into account the level of satisfaction of the performance targets at the next performance measurement date.
50% of the sharesawarded will be subject to the sales restrictions five years from date of grant to date of sale.
subsisting element B and c awards will vest.
the sale restrictions on 50% of the shares awarded will continue.
it should be noted the performance conditions for the outstanding element B and c awards will have been satisfied at the date of grant.
ltiP the last award under the ltiP was made in 2014. the rules of the ltiP provide that on the remuneration committee has discretion termination of employment before the vesting date any subsisting entitlements will lapse, to determine that the reason for termination unless the following circumstances apply: is classified in the same manner as those described in the adjacent column.
injury or disability redundancy the remuneration committee will only retirement by agreement with the company use its general discretion to determine that the participant being employed by a company which ceases to be a member of the Group an executive Director is a good leaver in the participant being employed in an undertaking or part of an undertaking which is exceptional circumstances and will provide transferred to a person who is not a member of the Group afull explanation to shareholders, if possible any other circumstances if the remuneration committee decides in any particular case inadvance, of the basis for its determination.
if an executive Director leaves in one of the above circumstances the ltiP rules provide for the ltiP to vest as adjusted by Pro-rating for the proportion of the performance period three years that was served the extent to which the Performance conditions were met otHer there are no other contractual provisions agreed prior to 27 June 2012. n a contractual oBliGations 101 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual rePort 2013 REMUNERATION REPORT Continued terms oF aPPointment anD service continueD change of control component approach application of remuneration committee discretion eiP element a the remuneration committee has a discretion whether to pro-rate any element to time.
the remuneration committee will calculate the amount of any payment pro-rated to the it is the remuneration committees policy proportion of the plan year completed on the change of control and taking into account in normal circumstances to pro-rate to time: the level of satisfaction of the performance targets at the date of the change of control.
however, in exceptional circumstances where any payment shall be made as soon as practicable after the determination of the level the nature of the transaction produces ofsatisfaction of the performance targets.
exceptional value for shareholders and elements B anD c provided the performance targets are met, in respect of the year of the change of control the remuneration committee will calculate the remuneration committee will consider any award pro-rated to the proportion of the plan year completed on the change of whether pro-rating is equitable.
control and taking into account the level of satisfaction of the performance targets at the remuneration committee has the same the date of the change of control.
any award shall be made as soon as practicable after discretion in relation to elements B and c the determination of the level of satisfaction of the performance targets and shall not be assetout above for element a and will subject to the sale restrictions.
operateit in the same manner.
shares subject to subsisting awards shall vest on the date of the change of control and the sale restrictions shall be removed.
it should be noted that the performance targets forsubsisting awards were satisfied at the date of grant.
ltiP if an executive Director leaves due to a change of control the ltiP rules provide for the the remuneration committee has a discretion ltiPto vest as adjusted by the pro-rating for the proportion of the performance period whether to pro-rate any element to time.
three years that was served.
it is the remuneration committees policy in normal circumstances to pro-rate to time: however, in exceptional circumstances where the nature of the transaction produces exceptional value for shareholders and provided the performance targets are met, the remuneration committee will consider whether pro-rating is equitable.
illustration of policy application the following charts show the value of each of the main elements of the compensation package provided to the executive Directors during 2013 and the potential available for 2014 dependent upon performance.
102 corPorate Governance the following notes are applicable to the above calculations: salary, chairmanship fee, benefits and pension are fixed elements a and c of the eiP comprise the Bonus and element B comprises the share award.
the percentages of salary for each element are: Performance Bonus share award total opportunity threshold 62.5% 37.5% 100% target 150% 100% 200% maximum 250% 150% 400% For 2013 the share award comprises the ltiP vested during the year valued with the share price at the vesting point employment conditions the committee ensures that employees remuneration across the Group is taken into consideration when reviewing executive remuneration policy.
there is a balance to be achieved with disclosure, as this may give rise to ever greater remuneration demands increases across the whole ofHikma and reduce the ability to reward for superior performance and in line with market practice.
the committee reviews detailed internal data and is satisfied that the level of remuneration is proportionate across the Hr grades.
the pay of employees in the mena region increased significantly during the year, chiefly as a result of the arab spring.
as the executive Directors are based in this region, an element of this rise was taken into account.
the committee does not directly consult employees on the policy contained in this report, but receives regular updates on employee feedback through the Group Hr department and the employee engagement survey which is conducted by an external organisation and includes views on remuneration and other matters.
However the company does not use any formal remuneration comparison measurements.
the general policy is to ensure workers with lower levels of total remuneration have greater certainty as to what they receive, whereas thecompensation of executive employees is chiefly based on performance-related pay.
this relationship is outlined below.
salary lower Quartile cHieF executive upper Quartile 5% salary 400% of Salary Performance increase salary lower Quartile Worker upper Quartile 3% salary 30% of Salary Performance increase salary senior management the policy for senior management compensation is set in line with policy for the executive Directors, with a degree of discretion for the committee to take into account particular issues identified by the chief executive, such as the performance of a specific individual or business unit.
management incentive Plan the 2009 management incentive Plan miP was approved by shareholders at the 2010 annual General meeting.
the miP operates on the same basis as elements a and B of the eiP, other than the miP does not have a forfeiture threshold.
the miP is used widely to provide awards to management across the Group below senior management level.
awards are subject to the satisfaction of individual and Group performance targets.
103 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual rePort 2013 REMUNERATION REPORT Continued terms oF aPPointment anD service continueD MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE PLAN PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES ELIGIBLE % Algeria 7.0 Egypt 2.4 Germany 4.0 Jordan 8.0 Portugal 3.3 Italy 5.0 KSA 7.0 Lebanon 4.0 Libya 8.0 Sudan 4.5 UK 12.5 US 5.5 Yemen 6.3 Performance remuneration the following table details the maximum performance remuneration available at each level in the Group: maximum award % of salary element a element B element c cash deferred shares restricted shares executive Director 150 150 100 executive committee 100 100 100 senior management 75 75 management 50 50 other employees 30 104
