hikma pharmaceuticals plc annual report 2013 sustainaBility Continued delivering HigH Quality, affordaBle productS why this is important we are continuously assessing opportunities delivering high to introduce our products in new markets quality, aFFordaBle across global healthcare markets, and, in 2013, made an excellent first step into products governments and other customers are under sub-saharan africa through a joint venture in increasing pressure to meet the growing we aim to be the first to bring a more the ethiopian market, where we will establish needs of patients while controlling their affordable alternative to the originator a local manufacturing and sales presence.
through our broad products to the market.
in egypt we launched Feburic, a novel treatment our ability to take high quality, affordable portfolio of high quality, affordable products, for rheumatic hyperuricemia and the medicines into large and growing markets we are offering a solution to customers.
such as ethiopia will benefit patients who this is particularly relevant in developing currently have limited access to medicines markets, including the mena region and and help to support the long-term growth sub-saharan africa, where healthcare spend expanding into ofour business.
per capita is significantly lower than more suB-saharan aFrica across our markets we have high quality developed markets and generic penetration manufacturing facilities, which are subject countries in sub-saharan africa is limited.
currently have large and growing to regular inspections by regional regulatory what were doing populations with limited access to authorities including the us Fda for a high quality, affordable medicines.
we are developing our product portfolio to number of our global facilities, our licensing we see excellent opportunities to address current and evolving requirements partners and our contract manufacturing replicate our unique business model of doctors and patients in our markets customers.
particularly in the us, where we in these markets, establishing strong by launching new products, adding new have 15% market share by volume of the local businesses, employing local therapeutic categories, adding new dosage people, providing patients with generic injectables market, this emphasis on forms and strengths and developing new access to important medicines and quality ensures we invest in the long-term helping to support the development technologies and delivery systems to improve sustainability of our businesses.
of the overall pharmaceutical patient and doctor safety.
as the population is ageing globally, industry.
in 2013, we entered into particularly in mena, our aim is to launch especially in developed markets such as ajv in ethiopia and we now have the first or second generic on the market, the us, a growing number of patients are 11products pending approval.
helping to accelerate the speed at which requiring hospital care.
this is increasing the patients can access new treatments and global focus on lowering healthcare costs.
facilitate greater healthcare coverage across our ability to supply generic versions of critical the region.
care injectable products to hospitals is helping For example, in algeria we launched to both reduce the cost of medicines and four products in 2013 to address the rapidly enable increased patient coverage through growing demand for cardiovascular and access to more affordable medicines.
By launching products a key component of our new product such as cored xl, a statin product that development is to improve doctor and patient is the first generic on the algerian market, safety.
the long-term supply agreement we we are helping to improve patient access signed with unilife in 2013 is an example tonew treatments and increasing healthcare of this, enabling us to bring differentiated, coverage at more affordable prices.
advanced technology pre-filled syringes to the market, which will improve safety and establish a more sustainable long-term competitive position in the us market.
