hikma pharmaceuticals plc annual report 2013 sustainaBility Continued Broadening our economic contriBution why this is important what were doing we continued with our middle management training programme in cooperation with the hikma has a unique business model, building in 2013, we invested $59 million in capex american university of Beirut auB this strong local businesses in each of our across our geographies to enhance and year.
the programme aims to enable middle markets, employing local people, investing expand our facilities to increase our management takes on more responsibility to establish high quality local manufacturing production output in both existing and and authority.
facilities, working with regulatory bodies, new markets.
continuing on the path of advancing building export sales and helping to support we now employ over 7,067 people the economy and health sector in the region, the growth of the overall pharmaceutical globally.
we have a group-wide strategy to hikma partnered with the world economic market in the countries where we operate.
invest in salaries and employee benefits and Forum as a regional associate, aligning this business model ensures that we support the healthcare, families and personal our shared vision of advancing growth and bring significant economic benefits to the growth of our people, which has made resilience in the region.
over the past 30 countries where we are present, improve hikma an employer of choice.
in 2013, we years, hikma has focused on advancing and the development of healthcare systems spent $319 million on salaries and employee building communities through developing and and support the long-term sustainability benefits across our businesses.
investing in the healthcare sector in the mena ofour businesses.
we also provide continuous training and region.
job creation, female employment, development for our employees.
we focus youth empowerment and their enrolment on developing our people to be strong inthe work force have been our priorities.
investing in sudan in 2011, we invested $18 million to acquire a local manufacturing facility in sudan and we have since invested over $8 million in capex.
we are raising the quality standards of the facility and significantly increasing our supply of products for patients in sudan.
we now employ around 220 local people in sudan and we have been investing in their training and development.
we are the leading pharmaceutical company, with around 22% market share and we sell a portfolio of around 73 products, bringing high quality, affordable medicines to patients in sudan.
over time, we are registering our products in neighbouring east african markets, supporting sudans export industry and broadening patient access in east africa to important medicines.
