Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual rePort 2013 commit tee rePorts auDit let ter from tHe cHairman Dear shareholder i would like to give you an overview of the operation and scope of the audit committee and report on its work over the past year.
the committees written terms of reference are available on Hikmas website.
the membership of the audit committee has not changed during the year, it comprised sir David rowe-Ham, michael ashton, ronald goode, robert Pickering and myself.
on 1 april 2014, Pat Butler will join the committee.
Pat has extensive experience of financing, accounting, risk, and internal control matters and we welcome him to the committee.
over the course of 2014, Pat will be accompanying me when undertaking my duties as chairman, with a view to taking over the chair at the 2015 agm.
We are well placed to ensure an orderly handover of responsibilities.
auDit rePort sir David rowe-Ham is retiring from the committee and the Board at the may agm.
70 letter from the chairman the committee and i would like to note our sincere gratitude for sir Davids sound and steady 71 our Highlights guidance since we listed in 2005. i have greatly enjoyed working with him and wish him the 71 membership and attendance best for the future.
the committee met 10 times during the year.
We invited the chief financial officer, 72 significant accounting Judgements vPforinvestor relations, auditors, internal auditors and certain members of the finance team 72 responsibilities to attend meetings as required.
as in previous years, the committee met with the internal and 73 fair, Balanced and understandable external auditors without management present and i met with each team separately as part 74 external audit ofmy review of their work.
75 internal audit the finance department has continued to provide first rate reporting, whilst working on 76 internal control the complex integration of our acquisitions and the development and output of management 76 risk management reporting systems.
as you will see from our highlights, we have undertaken extensive work during the year, including enhancing our capital investment model and our annual report methodology.
in line with current guidance, we have provided more detail on the accounting judgements and issues considered by the finance team and committee during the year.
as an organisation Hikma is committed to clear and open communication.
as i mentioned last year, i remain open to discussion with shareholders should they have any concerns that they wish to raise directly with me.
Breffni Byrne, Chairman of the Audit Committee 70 corPorate governance our HigHligHts memBersHiP anD attenDance f enhanced procedures to provide advice to the Board on whether the audit committee consists of five independent non-executive theannual report and accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced Directors Breffni Byrne committee chairman, michael ashton, and understandable sirDavid rowe-Ham, ronald goode and robert Pickering.
Pat Butler will join on 1 april 2014. sir David rowe-Ham will retire from the f approved the enhancement of our internal control and capital expenditure framework with the creation of a group and regional level committee on 15 may 2014. it is envisaged that Pat Butler will investment committees with a decision matrix and appropriate controls become the chairman of the committee in may 2015, following aone year handover period from the current chairman.
f monitored and reviewed the corporate governance arrangements all members of the committee have extensive financial andmade recommendations for enhancement experience, including international operations.
the chairman has over f monitored the performance and findings of the external and 30years experience as a public accountant and is considered by the internalauditors Board to have recent and relevant financial experience.
Pat Butler, f implemented the results of the 2013 audit committees the chairman designate, has extensive experience of financing, evaluation exercise accounting, risk and internal control matters from his 30 years at mckinsey and arthur andersen.
all members have spent a significant f monitored the non-audit services provided by our auditors portion of their careers in leading positions at financial, advisory and f reviewed the group tax strategy and considered the advice of pharmaceutical companies.
ourexternal consultants and recommendations of management members meeting attendance f enhanced financial management by integrating the reporting Breffni Byrne chairman 100% andforecasting functions michael ashton 100% ALLOCATION OF COMMITTEES TIME sir David rowe-Ham 100% ronald goode 100% 1.
Internal audit 11% 2 internal aDvisers eXternal aDvisers 5.
External audit 26% f chief financial officer f Deloitte audit 5 6.
Corporate governance 11% f company secretary f ernst & Young internal audit 3 4 f vP investor relations and strategy f Director of reporting and financial compliance 71 E E T T I M M O C T I D U A CORPORATE GOVERNANCE R E M U INTERNAL AUDIT S N C E I R H A T T E I O D N N EXTERNAL AUDIT A C O Y T M Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual rePort 2013 committee rePorts auDit Continued resPonsiBilities significant accounting JuDgements During 2013 and up until the date of this report, the audit committee also considered and discussed the following financial matters: f revenue recognition: reviewed the judgements and recommendations of management made in respect of revenue recognition for high margin products where the potential for returns and rebates was high.
the committee was satisfied that the in-depth review by local and group management validated the approach followed in 2013. f asset impairment: the group has significant investment in fixed assets THE BOARD COMMITTEES relating to its manufacturing operations and intangible assets relating to marketing authorisations and acquisitions.
the committee continuously monitors the application of the groups policies in relation to impairment and valuation of those assets.
the group also reviewed the performance of joint venture investments and assessed managements impairment recommendations.
f rebates and chargebacks: the committee assessed the financial reports on the processing of chargebacks and rebates in the us, which is a highly judgemental area and applies to a significant proportion of group revenue.
the committee noted the improvements in the control and modelling environment and considered the appropriateness of associated provisions.
f taxation: the groups worldwide operations are highly integrated and the audit committee assists the Board in discharging its responsibilities involve a number of cross-border transactions.
as a result there is with regard to financial reporting, external audit, internal audit, internal complexity and judgement regarding the potential tax liabilities in control, corporate governance and risk management.
the committee reviewed and considered the reviews Hikmas annual report, financial statements, interim report, advice of professional services firms and management in this regard.
interim management statements and trading updates, monitors f Provisions: considered the likely outcome of certain claims based all audit and non-audit work undertaken by external auditors, onadvice from internal and external counsel, and the appropriateness and monitors the effectiveness and output of Hikmas internal of management recommendations on provisions.
audit activities, internal controls and risk management systems.
the committee is responsible for overseeing corporate governance f accounts receivable and inventory: reviewed the reports on major receivables and considered managements relationships with those arrangements across the group, including the annual corporate parties, plan to ensure payment and relevant provisions.
potential impact of remediation and other factors on the impairment the audit committee advises the Board on the appointment, of inventory.
reappointment and removal of the external auditors, as well as the f going concern: conducted a rigorous assessment of whether Hikma effectiveness of the audit process.
the committee operates Hikmas is a going concern when preparing the annual and half-yearly financial policies on monitoring Directors conflicts of interest.
in reaching its conclusion, the committee took into the audit committee terms of reference include all matters account Hikmas forecasts and budget, borrowing facilities, indicated by the corporate governance Principles and clearly set out contingent liabilities, medium and long-term plan, and financial its authority and duties.
they are approved and reviewed by the Board andoperational risk management.
as part of the annual corporate governance review and one addition was made this year in respect of ensuring the annual report is fair, balanced and understandable.
the terms of reference are available on the Hikma website and by contacting investors@hikma.
they are summarised as follows: 72 I L M I I B T I INTERNAL CONTROL S T N E E O P S E R, REPORTING E C N A I L P M RISK MANAGEMENT O C E E T T I M M O C N O I T A N I M O N corPorate governance resPonsiBilities continueD fair, BalanceD anD unDerstanDaBle Hikma is committed to clear and transparent disclosure and has worked f monitor the integrity of the financial statements and any other formal hard over the year to improve the clarity of its reporting.
in producing announcement relating to the groups financial performance: review the annual report and accounts, the focus of management, the summary financial statements and interim management statements auditors and the committee is on ensuring that the disclosures are fair, f review and challenge the adoption of accounting standards, estimates balanced and understandable.
the process ofreporting is an extensive and judgements and the clarity of disclosure in financial reports exercise both from an internal management perspective and in use of f review and challenge compliance with stock exchange, uk listing advisers.
at the request of the Board, the audit committee considers authority and legal requirements including the requirements of the whether Hikmas annual report is fair, balanced and understandable codeand markets law and whether it provides the necessary information for shareholders toassess Hikmas performance, business model and strategy.
f monitor and review the internal financial controls and the groups overallrisk identification and management systems the audit committee builds its recommendation to the Board based on a comprehensive review conducted by a committee of senior f consider and approve the remit and effectiveness of the internal audit management the reporting committee, which consists of the: function, its annual plan, its resources and access to information and itsfreedom from management or other restrictions f chief financial officer f review and monitor managements responsiveness to the findings f vice President corporate strategy and investor relations andrecommendations of the internal auditors f company secretary f consider and make recommendations for appointment, reappointment and removal of Hikmas external auditor, f general counsel  with the external auditor f vice President for Human resources f review and monitor the quality, independence and objectivity f Divisional Heads oftheexternal auditor and approve their remuneration and terms ofengagement f Director of reporting and financial compliance f review and monitor the Directors potential conflicts of interest and f investor relations manager make recommendations to the Board for the management of those interests f chief compliance officer f Develop and implement a policy on the supply by the external auditor Where the matters on the agenda relate to their areas of responsibility ofnon-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance the reporting committee, which meets regularly during the year: andpotential conflicts of interest f initiates the first review of the annual report in november, at which point areas for improvement are identified and enhancements recommended f Discusses the proposed disclosures with external auditors, brokers and public relations advisers to obtain their input f meets to review and refine disclosure and ensure the opinions of the adviser continue to be sought f instructs a verification process to ensure the accuracy of disclosures f issues guidance to contributors at the beginning and throughout the process and reports on actions and significant areas of judgement totheaudit committee as appropriate the audit committee closely oversees the work of the reporting committee, which is responsible for ensuring the accuracy of the information submitted in the annual report and assessing whether the narrative section of the report is consistent with the accounting information.
each of the members of the audit committee was satisfied that the 2013 annual report is fair, balanced and understandable and recommended the adoption of the report andaccounts to the Board.
73 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual rePort 2013 committee rePorts auDit Continued eXternal auDit the audit committee is responsible for the development, the committee maintains policies on the provision of non-audit implementation and monitoring of the groups policy on external services by the external auditors, which are included in the Board audit, which is undertaken by Deloitte llP and for monitoring the governance manual.
the key elements are: independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
the audit f in setting out which non-audit services the external auditors may and committee is also the primary point of contact for the auditors with may not provide to Hikma, the committees principle focus is to ensure the Board.
the prior approval of the audit committee is required that the independence of the external auditors is not impaired for the recruitment of a senior member of the audit team or the f the auditors are not allowed to undertake work promoting Hikma, recruitment of an employee of the external auditors to a senior finance installing systems, making management decisions, supporting litigation position within the group.
the committee was not required to exercise or tasks that would involve review or reliance upon their audit work its discretion under that policy during the year.
f the total fees for non-audit work cannot exceed 50% of the total fee the committee regularly reviews the work of the external auditors foraudit and audit-related services without the prior approval of the and in doing so examined the following performance criteria during committee the year: fees paid in respect of audit, audit-related and non-audit services audit quality and technical capabilities are outlined in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements and the committee formally reviewed the quality of the audit and in the chart below.
audit-related services are services carried out by capabilities of the team during the year and concluded that the the external audit team by virtue of the role and principally include existing team continues to conduct an effective audit.
considered that the teams knowledge of the group, particularly the groups diverse international operations, is advantageous in terms of AUDITORS FEES $ MILLION its ability to identify issues of importance and relay them clearly to the AUDIT-RELATED FEES NON-AUDIT-RELATED FEES committee.
as part of the regular meetings between the committee Tax advisory services and auditors, without management present, the committee feeds Tax compliance services back its comments on their performance.
the committee evaluation Other non-audit services process, which is anonymous and externally facilitated, includes 13 $1.7m an assessment of the work of the auditors.
the auditors ensure 17%17% 66% that experienced specialists assist management and present to the $0.6m committee where there are issues of a more complex nature, such 12 $1.5m as tax.
the committee believes that there is a strong, appropriate 14% 43% 43% $0.7m and open relationship between the audit team leadership, the audit 0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.5 1.6 1.7 committee and management.
% of audit-related fees independence and objectivity During the period under review the group used members of Deloitte the committee regularly reviews the independence safeguards of Deloitte and only authorises non-audit work where the committee network in certain jurisdictions for non-audit services.
the other non-audit fees incurred of $0.4m in 2013 were principally due to the considers that it is in the best interests of the group.
the prime drivers of this decision are the: work undertaken by Deloitte llP in the united kingdom, related to assisting the group with the financial assessment of strategic options f ability to obtain advice of right quality for Hikmas injectable business.
the appointment of Deloitte llP f timeframe of the transaction and the relevant experience and expertise was made after a competitive tender process.
a detailed request of the team for Proposal was prepared and a number of international consulting firms were invited to tender.
each firm produced a proposal and f ability of other major providers, whether through conflicts or otherwise, madepresentations to Hikmas executive management which to provide the service recommended the appointment of Deloitte llP for its strength f reasonableness of the costs in thisarea.
the appointment ceased when the strategic review concluded that theinjectables division should be retained.
74 Corporate GovernanCe externaL auDIt ContInueD appointment and tendering Deloitte LLp were appointed as auditors in advance of when Hikma listed on the London Stock exchange in 2005.
Since that point there havebeen three senior audit partners, with Mr paul Franek joining in 2011 for a term of up to five years completing in 2016. the external auditoris required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the engagement every five years.
Following revisions to the Code in 2012, Hikmawillbe required to put the audit out to tender by 2020 and we intend to do this at an appropriate point between 2016 and 2020. the Committee considers it is appropriate to maintain flexibility regarding tendering the audit and considers the issue regularly as part of the annual appraisal process.
It is the Committees policy to consider every year whether there should be an audit tender process and whether using auditors from one audit network continues to ensure the quality of the audit.
there are no contractual provisions that restrict the Committees choice of auditors.
the Committee recommended to the Board the reappointment of Deloitte as external auditor.
the re-election and remuneration of Deloitte LLp as Hikmas auditors will be proposed to shareholders at the 2014 annual General Meeting.
Should shareholders wish to discuss the situation with Hikma, as Chairman of the audit Committee, I will be happy to make myself available.
InternaL auDIt During the year under review and up to the date of this report, ernst and Young e&Y continued its management and execution of the Groups internal audit function on a global basis under a contract that originally commenced in 2006. e&Y report directly to the Chairman of the audit Committee, with regular reports of their findings made to the audit Committee, who reviews their findings and management actions in detail.
additionally, e&Y regularly report their findings to the audit Committee and meet with them without the management present.
In the opinion ofthe Board, the internal audit processes are in accordance with relevant guidance.
the internal audit programme operates as follows: Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 IDentIFY rISk aSSeSS anD DeveLop MonItor QuantIFY aCtIon pLanS anD report f e&Y, in consultation with f the risk assessment f Following completion f the internal audit reports and management, prepare an and the resulting internal of each review, e&Y identify progress on action plans are annual risk assessment, audit plan are presented areas for remedial action and submitted to the audit whichgives the focus for tothe audit Committee action plans are discussed and Committee, including theaudit plan and the entities Chairman for review agreed with management reporting if management fall to be targeted behind agreed action plans f Following the Chairmans f the findings and actions are f the risk assessment covers the comments, the final used to create an internal f the audit Committee principal risks and assessment and audit audit report for each reportsto the Board on uncertainties facing the plan is presented to and subsidiary geographic region internal audit matters Group, details of previous approved by the audit geographical functional Committee reviews, whether new assets entities have been acquired, the risks identified and arising from previous audits 75 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual rePort 2013 committee rePorts auDit Continued internal control the Board reviewed the effectiveness of the groups systems of the reporting structure and authority limits operate as follows: internal controls and risk management during the year and confirms autHoritY to invest $ million that it accords with the relevant guidance.
the system for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks the group faces draws on the BoarD of Directors 10m on-going output of the finance department on group performance, the work of the internal auditors and issues identified by the external auditors to the extent covered by their audit work.
the Board monitors 510m the on-going effectiveness of the system and formally reviews the eXecutive committee groups policies on internal control on an annual basis.
the system of internal control provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
investment committee the key elements of our internal control framework are as follows: f a documented and disseminated reporting structure with clear regional regional regional procedures, authorisation limits, segregation of duties and delegated 0.55m investment investment investment authorities m&a corPorate DeveloPment f annual budgets, updated forecasting, and long-term business plans for DePartment the group that identify risks and opportunities and that are reviewed and approved by the Board f a comprehensive system of internal financial reporting that includes ProJect team: ProJect team: ProJect team: 5m regular comparison of results against budget and forecast and a review mena us euroPe of kPis, each informed by management commentary f an established process for reviewing the financial performance and risk management providing support to our joint ventures and associates together with direct support from the Hikma finance function the committee oversees Hikmas risk management framework in the f Written policies and procedures for material functional areas with context of its responsibilities for internal control and annually reviews specific responsibility allocated to individual managers the strategic risks facing the group.
Details of the principal risks facing f a defined process for controlling capital expenditure which is Hikma and action taken to mitigate and control those risks are detailed describedbelow on pages 38 to 41. additionally, the audit committee discusses business and operational risks with the internal and external auditors to the extent that these are identified by the audit work that they perform.
capital expenditure these risks are periodically reviewed and updated by the executive in 2013, the audit committee approved a more formalised process committee which reports on its actions to the Board.
for the consideration of capital investments, with the incorporation Hikma is an acquisitive group and the committee recognises the of group-level investment committees and regional investment potential serious nature of risks arising from each acquisition and series committees the investment committees.
the executive committee of acquisitions.
the mergers and acquisitions team undertake extensive and investment committees meet regularly to discuss regional progress due diligence of each acquisition.
the management team reviews the and to review and approve the resources for the upcoming year.
findings in detail and assesses whether to proceed where acquisitions the investment committees are responsible for reviewing investments are proposed to the Board.
proposed by management, approving investments within its authority following the acquisition of a target, the finance group, the and for making recommendations to the executive committee.
management team and the audit committee closely monitor its financial and non-financial performance.
members of Hikma management are transferred to the target to assure a swift integration and to manage and control the risks that have been identified and those that may subsequently arise.
for and on behalf of the audit committee Breffni Byrne, Audit Committee Chairman 11 march 2014 76
