corPorate Governance PerFormance BaseD remuneration executive incentive Plan the Hikma Pharmaceuticals Plc 2014 executive incentive Plan eiP, which is being proposed for shareholder approval at the 2014 aGm, iscurrently the sole incentive arrangement used as part of the normal remuneration policy for executive Directors.
summary the eiP provides a significant incentive linked to delivering goals that are closely aligned with the companys strategy and the creation of value forshareholders.
in particular, the eiP supports the companys objectives by allowing the setting of annual targets based on the business strategic objectives at that time, meaning that a wider range of performance metrics can be used that are relevant and suitably stretching.
this provides the remuneration committee with the ability to deal with the challenges facing the company including: the internal nature of the company and its markets the need to adapt to a rapidly changing business environment additionally, the eiP plan years are linked together through a substantial deferral in shares and an on-going risk adjustment which requires threshold level of performance to be achieved during the deferral period.
amounts deferred in shares are also forfeitable on a Directors voluntary cessation of employment which provides an effective lock-in.
the eiP provides a close alignment of shareholder and management interests because: outcome detailed: Detailed annual disclosure of the level of satisfaction of performance conditions for the eiP should give shareholders greater control and visibility of how the remuneration outcome was determined strategic guidance: Disclosure of high-level, forward looking strategic targets should ensure shareholders are aware of the strategic direction of the Group and circumstances in which awards will be made, without compromising our competitive position Financial underpinning: combining the strategic targets with a significant proportion of the award dependent on financial performance ensures underlying profitability and shareholder returns share linkage: executive and shareholder interests are aligned to the long-term sustainable performance of the company due to: substantial proportion of incentives earned are paid in shares Half of which must be retained for significant periods a high underlying minimum shareholding requirement relevance and simplicity: the eiP is an enhanced version of an existing management level plan which has been highly successful due to: Being simple to understand the likely outcome as the variable after award is chiefly share price fluctuation awards being based on performance conditions which were tailored to the participant and, therefore, the outcome is under the participants control operational overview the eiP is composed of three elements: maximum award % of salary Payout mechanism vesting period risks after award additional requirements a 150% cash bonus immediate none none Forfeiture clawback B 150% Deferred shares 2 years share price 50% of the total share award is subject employed to a holding period after vesting.
these shares may not be sold until clawback fiveyears after grant.
c 100% restricted shares 3 years share price employed the level of award made under the eiP depends on the achievement of performance conditions: 50% Profit Before tax 40% strategic and operational targets sub-conditions apply 10% Personal targets sub-conditions apply 93 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual rePort 2013 REMUNERATION REPORT Continued remuneration Policy For executive Directors continueD the remuneration committee is of the opinion that given the commercial sensitivity arising in relation to the detailed financial, operational and strategic targets used for the eiP, disclosing precise targets for the eiP in advance would not be in shareholders interests.
this avoids the risk of the company inadvertently providing a profit forecast because profit targets are linked to budgets and giving international competitors an unfair advantage because they are not required to report to the same disclosure standard as a uk listed company.
actual targets, performance achieved and awards made will be published at the end of the performance period so shareholders can fully assess the basis for any pay-outs under the eiP.
For each condition or sub-condition, four levels are established: Forfeiture: at which 0% is awarded in respect of the current year and 50% of outstanding element B Deferred shares lapse threshold: at which awards of up to 100% of salary may be granted target: at which awards of up to 200% of salary may be granted maximum: at which awards of up to 400% of salary may be granted Design factors there are a number of specific factors which have had a material impact on the remuneration committees proposed design for the new eiP andwhich are unusual for a Ftse 250 company: local market practice: approximately 47% of the companys business is located in the mena and 46% in the us, which requires the company tocompete with local practices including: us: to offer sufficient leveraging in the incentives to be reasonably competitive compared to us pharmaceutical companies within the parameters possible for a uk Ftse 250 company mena: the strong short-term remuneration focus by executives in the mena which is partly reflective of the political and economic environment us and mena: equity-based incentives are generally subject to time-based vesting following grant, not multi-year performance conditions Prior share plan experience: the companys experience of the existing ltiP is that it has not had the impact on the incentivisation and retention ofexecutives which would have been expected given the level of historic payout.
the current management incentive Plan miP, for more junior management, has been a more successful incentive and retention arrangement compared to the ltiP.
the success of the miP has largely been due to theannual assessment of the performance conditions allowing participants to know the payment they will receive and the value of the deferred element in shares, determined at the end of each year ensuring the maximum retention impact.
the element a and element B of the proposed eiP are based onthe miP but with the addition of performance-based forfeiture for element B under the eiP Business dynamics: the companys strategy is to operate with the majority of its business in the mena region.
Political and economic change may cause alack of visibility of revenues and profits.
as a result, the application of conventional metrics used by more traditional incentive plans would likely fail toreward the successful execution of the companys strategy, one that has been widely supported by investors.
the company has experienced this in practice when dealing with the impact of the arab spring on the current incentive arrangements and the constant change in key markets such as egypt.
Given such evolving and in some cases highly volatile market conditions, it is difficult to establish testing but realistic multi-year targets which the participant associates with their own performance tsr: comparative total shareholder return targets are inappropriate as even other industry comparators have a very different business mix in terms ofproduct, geographic spread and business model, implying very different risk exposure 94 corPorate Governance Purpose and link element tostrategy operation opportunity maximum Performance metrics casH aWarD see above the remuneration committee sets Policy: uPPer Quartile the current performance conditions a anD annual performance targets for awards are Group Profit, operational maximum 300% of salary p. a..
at the end of each year and or strategic milestones and at threshold 25% of the maximum sHares B the committee determines the level personal objectives.
ofincentive earned for that year.
the company operates in a rapidly at target 50% of the maximum element a maximum 150% of salary changing market place and therefore is payable.
p. a. is paid immediately as an annual the committee may change the at Forfeiture 0% of the maximum cash bonus balance of the measures, or use is payable and 50% of unvested element B maximum of 150% of different measures, for subsequent element B lapse.
salary p. a. is provided in the form of financial years, as appropriate, the company will set out in the deferred shares.
element B awards are toreflect this.
although currently implementation of remuneration subject to the following conditions: there is no intention to do so.
policy in the following financial a deferral period of two years: the committee retains discretion year the nature of the targets risk of performance-based in exceptional circumstances to and their weighting for each forfeiture each year of the deferral change the performance measures year see page 114.
Details of the period of up to 50% of the and targets and their respective performance conditions, targets cumulative deferred element B weightings part way through a and their level of satisfaction for shares which have not vested performance year if there is a the year being reported on will be 50% of element B shares earned by significant and material event which set out in the annual remuneration executive Directors will have an causes the committee to believe the committee report see page 106. additional holding period of two years.
original measures, weightings and the committee retains the discretion targets are no longer appropriate to both increase the number of shares an historic example would be the awarded under element B subject to arab spring.
Discretion may also the holding period and to change the be exercised in cases where the length of the holding period committee believes that the bonus outcome is not a fair and accurate reflection of business performance.
Policy: uPPer Quartile see above in respect of elements restricteD see above the performance conditions and targets sHares c for element c are the same as those for aand B. maximum 100% of salary.
element a and B. at threshold 25% of the maximum at the end of each year the committee is payable.
determines the level of incentive earned at target 50% of the maximum for that year.
element c maximum of 100% of salary p. a. is provided in the form of deferred shares.
element c awards are subject to the following conditions: a deferral period of three years: continued employment on the 3rd anniversary of the date of grant 50% of element c shares earned by executive Directors will have an additional holding period of two years.
the committee retains the discretion to both increase the number of shares awarded under element B subject to holding period and to change the length of the holding period 95 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual rePort 2013 REMUNERATION REPORT Continued remuneration Policy For executive Directors continueD Purpose and link element tostrategy operation opportunity maximum Performance metrics malus anD to protect the company the eiP has malus and clawback n a n a claWBack and shareholders from provisions on all elements.
in addition, how targets may have there is a performance-based threshold been met.
condition for element B. in the event of any of the following situations occurring, the remuneration committee would reduce or cancel the awards under the eiP and or existing shares awarded under the eiP: Hikmas financial statement or results being negatively restated a participant having deliberately misled management or the market regarding Hikmas performance a participant causing significant damage to Hikma a mistake in the calculation of the level of satisfaction of the performance targets a participants actions amounting toserious misconduct sHareHolDinG ensures a long-term the shareholding requirement will Policy: uPPer Quartile n a reQuirement locked-in alignment operate in the following manner: maximum shareholding between the only shares unconditionally owned requirement is 300% of salary.
executive Directors bythe key executive will count against However, the committee and shareholders.
the requirement has discretion to increase the objective is for no shares may be sold by the key this maximum.
executive with the exception of shares key executives to the company will set out in the build up and maintain sold to the pay tax due on vesting section headed statement of exercise until his or her shareholding a minimum level of implementation of remuneration shareholding throughout requirement is met and no shares may policy in the following financial be sold if the result of the sale is their employment year the minimum shareholding with the company.
toreduce the key executives requirements see page 115. shareholding below his or her the committee believes that this is a shareholding requirement more effective way of achieving this objective rather than attaching additional holding periods to specific grants under the companys share incentive arrangements which may or may not vest.
Dilution in accordance with the guidelines set out by the association of British insurers aBi Hikma can issue a maximum of 10% of its issued share capital in a rolling 10-year period to employees under all its share plans and a maximum of 5% of this 10% for discretionary share plans.
the following table summarises the current level of dilution resulting from company share plans following the listing of Hikma in 2005: Granted in a rolling type of Plan 10-year period Granted during the year Discretionary share Plans 5% limit 4.02% 0.41% 96
