corPorate governance effectiveness non-executive Directors skills and experience the non-executive Directors scrutinise the strategy, risk planning and the Board keeps the skills and experience of its members under operations of executives, providing advice and external perspective.
the Directors believe in the necessity for challenge they engage with management across the group to ensure they have and debate in the boardroom and consider that existing Board an appropriate awareness of the groups activities and issues it faces.
dynamics and processes encourage honest and open debate with the non-executive Directors also keep Hikmas governance structure theexecutive Directors.
under review and ensure that appropriate safeguards are in place.
BoarD eXPerience the Directors hold meetings without the executive management present to discuss issues affecting the group.
international exposure 100% company secretary the company secretary reports to the chairman and chief executive and Pharmaceutical 67% supports the senior independent Director and chairman in the delivery of their roles, particularly in relation to information flow and setting the Board manufacturing 67% agenda.
He keeps the Board apprised of matters of governance and policy and all Directors have access to his advice and services.
the company secretary also acts as secretary to the Board and committees, sales 67% supporting the committee chairmen in the governance aspects of their responsibilities.
the appointment and removal of the company secretary regulatory 100% isa matter reserved for the Board.
independence listed environment 56% the Board considers sir David rowe-Ham, michael ashton, ronald goode, Breffni Byrne, robert Pickering and Pat Butler effective 1 april 2014 to be independent.
these individuals provide extensive finance 67% experience of international pharmaceutical, financial, corporate governance and regulatory matters and were not associated with geograPHical sPlit Hikma prior to the listing of Hikma in 2005. the Board reviewed and considered the independence of the non-executive Directors during the year as part of the annual corporate governance review.
the Board considers that their diverse Hikma knowledge business backgrounds, skills and experience enable all the nonBoard members are encouraged to visit the business units and to meet executive Directors to continue to bring independent judgement to management teams in order to facilitate a better understanding of the bear on issues of strategy, performance, resources, key appointments, key issues facing the business.
standards of conduct and other matters presented to the Board.
the non-executive Directors undertook several operational visits the Board does not classify ali al-Husry as an independent during the year, and maintain an excellent understanding of the Director because of his involvement with Darhold limited, Hikmas way the business operates.
the chairman, mr ali al-Husry and the largest shareholder.
He was also a Director of Hikma prior to listing.
executive Directors have extensive experience of Hikma from its earliest However, he continues to bring to the Board broad financial days to today.
experience and a detailed knowledge of the mena region which the Directors maintain an appropriate dialogue amongst represents the majority of the groups business.
themselves and senior management, which ensures that non-executive Directors are kept up to date with major  business.
65 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual rePort 2013 governance rePort Continued effectiveness continueD training evaluation the main Board training and development activities this year were: the Board and the committees undertake an externally moderated evaluation each year.
a summary of the evaluation process and the f the company secretary made regular updates to the Directors issues identified are summarised in the table below.
onrelevant regulatory and governance matters f Directors attended several externally provided seminars and discussion keY Points of tHe BoarD evaluation 2013 forums.
further training is scheduled for 2014 f the process is co-ordinated by the senior independent Director f Hikmas brokers and financial advisers presented industry and market attherequest of the chairman updates to the Board on several occasions f lintstock, our external moderator, prepared online questionnaires forboth the Directors and senior management, designed to build f the investor relations department reported to the Board on its activities onpreviously identified themes and issues arising in the market on a regular basis f lintstock managed the process and reported independently tothechairman and the senior independent Director induction f lintstock presented the results and findings to the full Board in the a new independent non-executive Director joined the Board context of Hikmas business and that of its peers in the ftse and aftertheyear end.
the induction process involves: international markets and provided their independent feedback f visiting the Jordan facilities and conducting one on one meetings ontheresults withallmena senior management f a similar process was followed for each committee f Presentations on each functional and geographical area main elements of tHe Questionnaire ofgroupbusiness f Board composition f meetings with the senior independent Director and other non-executive Directors f time management f Board information f receipt of a full induction pack explaining Hikmas governance framework, policies and procedures f strategic oversight f a briefing from the general counsel and company secretary f operational oversight onthelegal governance and control framework f succession planning f a briefing from the us ceo to explain us fDa regulatory f Human resource management andqualityissues f Priorities for change the induction process incorporates presentations from executive management on sales and marketing, supply chain, research and development, human resources, legal, manufacturing, finance and investor relations.
