Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual rePort 2013 commit tee rePorts auDit let ter from tHe cHairman Dear shareholder i would like to give you an overview of the operation and scope of the audit committee and report on its work over the past year.
the committees written terms of reference are available on Hikmas website.
the membership of the audit committee has not changed during the year, it comprised sir David rowe-Ham, michael ashton, ronald goode, robert Pickering and myself.
on 1 april 2014, Pat Butler will join the committee.
Pat has extensive experience of financing, accounting, risk, and internal control matters and we welcome him to the committee.
over the course of 2014, Pat will be accompanying me when undertaking my duties as chairman, with a view to taking over the chair at the 2015 agm.
We are well placed to ensure an orderly handover of responsibilities.
auDit rePort sir David rowe-Ham is retiring from the committee and the Board at the may agm.
70 letter from the chairman the committee and i would like to note our sincere gratitude for sir Davids sound and steady 71 our Highlights guidance since we listed in 2005. i have greatly enjoyed working with him and wish him the 71 membership and attendance best for the future.
the committee met 10 times during the year.
We invited the chief financial officer, 72 significant accounting Judgements vPforinvestor relations, auditors, internal auditors and certain members of the finance team 72 responsibilities to attend meetings as required.
as in previous years, the committee met with the internal and 73 fair, Balanced and understandable external auditors without management present and i met with each team separately as part 74 external audit ofmy review of their work.
75 internal audit the finance department has continued to provide first rate reporting, whilst working on 76 internal control the complex integration of our acquisitions and the development and output of management 76 risk management reporting systems.
as you will see from our highlights, we have undertaken extensive work during the year, including enhancing our capital investment model and our annual report methodology.
in line with current guidance, we have provided more detail on the accounting judgements and issues considered by the finance team and committee during the year.
as an organisation Hikma is committed to clear and open communication.
as i mentioned last year, i remain open to discussion with shareholders should they have any concerns that they wish to raise directly with me.
Breffni Byrne, Chairman of the Audit Committee 70
