Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual rePort 2013 governance rePort our BoarD samih Darwazah said Darwazah mazen Darwazah Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Officer Executive Vice Chairman, CEO of MENA Retiring at the May 2014 AGM Chairman and Chief Executive from May 2014 AGM age: 83 age: 56 age: 55 appointed: 8 september 2005 appointed: 1 July 2007 appointed: 8 september 2005 Joined Hikma: 1977 Joined Hikma: 1981 Joined Hikma: 1985 nationality: Jordanian nationality: Jordanian nationality: Jordanian skills and experience: skills and experience: skills and experience: samih Darwazah founded Hikma Pharmaceuticals said was appointed chief executive officer in July mazen was appointed group executive vice inJordan in 1977 and listed Hikma on the london 2007. said was chairman and chief executive of chairman and mena ceo in 2005 and became stock exchange in 2005. samih was chairman Hikmas group holding company from 1994 to 2003 President and ceo of mena and emerging markets andchief executive of Hikma until 2007, when he and minister of Health for the Hashemite kingdom in 2014.
During his 28 years service at Hikma, relinquished his executive responsibilities.
in the of Jordan from 2003 to 2006. hehas held an extensive range of positions within same year, samih won ernst and Youngs middle the group starting as a medical representative and During his 32 years at Hikma, said has undertaken east entrepreneur of the Year award.
working in different capacities including chairman several executive roles which have provided him and ceo of Hikma Pharmaceuticals limited, a fulbright scholar, samih holds a masters degree with extensive experience in each functional area amajorgroup operational and holding company.
inindustrial Pharmacy from the st. louis college of ofHikmas global generic pharmaceuticals business Pharmacy, missouri which he obtained in 1964 and and in the broader strategic leadership of an mazen is responsible for the strategic direction of an honorary Doctor of science degree which he was international entrepreneurial organisation.
said has the mena business, as well as having day-to-day awarded in 2010.
He obtained his Bsc Degree in played a key role in the development of the group operational responsibility.
He is also responsible for Pharmacy from the american university of Beirut strategy, including the acquisition of West-Ward the expansion of the group into emerging markets auB in 1954. in 2012, auB awarded samih Pharmaceuticals in the us and the development of outside of the mena region, global alliances, theDistinguished alumnus award for his the injectables business in europe and the mena business relationships, csr and business integrity.
accomplishments in the international healthcare region.
under saids leadership, Hikmas facilities mazen holds a Ba in Business administration from industry.
inthe us, Jordan and Portugal received us fDa the lebanese american university and an amP approval, the leading international pharmaceutical samih served as minister of energy and mineral frominseaD.
He has served as the President of the regulatory standard.
resources in Jordan between 1995 and 1996.
Jordanian association of manufacturers of Healso founded the Jordan exporters association said has a degree in industrial engineering from Pharmaceuticals and medical appliances.
and served as a member of the senate of the Purdue university and an mBa from inseaD.
other appointments: Hashemite kingdom of Jordan.
samih was other appointments: mazen holds various public and charitable positions.
employed at eli lilly from 1964 to 1976. said holds various public and charitable positions.
mazen is a senator of the Hashemite kingdom of other appointments: He is founder of the Healthcare accreditation Jordan and the chairman of the Jordan international samih is a member of the generics advisory Board council of Jordan, chairman of the Dead sea insurance company.
He is vice chairman of the of Pictet, the swiss Banks fund.
touristic and real estate investments and a member capital Bank of Jordan.
mazen is also a member of the central Bank of Jordan Board.
He is a Director ofBoard of trustees of Yarmouk university Jordan.
of endeavour Jordan, a charitable organisation that He is on the advisory board for the lebanese assists in the development of entrepreneurs, and american university lau lebanon, and the Buck atrustee of Jordan river foundation, a charitable institute for education, san francisco.
organisation that aims to empower Jordanian committee membership: society.
said is chairman of the Queen of Jordans compliance, responsibility and ethics committee charitable foundation.
said is a trustee at the corporate responsibility committee chairman american university of Beirut.
executive committee committee membership: nomination committee executive committee chairman 54 corPorate governance sir David rowe-Ham robert pickering Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Retiring at the May 2014 AGM Senior Independent Director from the May 2014 AGM age: 78 age: 54 appointed: 14 october 2005 appointed: 1 september 2011 Joined Hikma: 2005 Joined Hikma: 2011 nationality: British nationality: British skills and experience: skills and experience: sir David brings to Hikma wide experience in robert spent 23 years at cazenove and co. financial matters, corporate governance, public becoming the first chief executive of cazenove affairs, and the development of listed companies.
He subsequently served as sirDavid is a former lord mayor of london, chiefexecutive of JP morgan cazenove, until his andhasheld many senior positions in uk financial retirement in 2008.
He has extensive experience institutions including serving as chairman of Brewin ofcapital raising, mergers and acquisitions and Dolphin Holdings Plc and arden Partners Plc.
He is ofthe relationship between quoted companies a past President of the crown agents foundation andinvestors.
and a former regional Director of lloyds Bank plc.
robert is a qualified solicitor with a law degree fromlincoln college, oxford.
other appointments: sir David is chairman of olayan europe ltd. other appointments: robert is a non-executive Director of neptune committee membership: investment management, a fund management audit committee company and itau BBa international Plc, the nomination committee chairman investment bank of the ita unibanco group.
remuneration committee Heischairman of the trustees of lincoln college oxford 2027 trust.
committee membership: audit committee nomination committee chairman designate remuneration committee 55 Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual rePort 2013 governance rePort Continued ali al-Husry michael ashton Breffni Byrne Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director age: 56 age: 68 age: 68 appointed: 14 october 2005 appointed: 14 october 2005 appointed: 14 october 2005 Joined Hikma: 1981 Joined Hikma: 2005 Joined Hikma: 2005 nationality: Jordanian nationality: australian nationality: irish skills and experience: skills and experience: skills and experience: ali joined Hikma as Director of Hikma Pharma michael has over 30 years experience in the Breffni is a chartered accountant with over 30 years limited in 1981 and has held various directorships pharmaceutical industry, holding senior executive of experience in public practice, including significant within the group.
ali brings great financial positions with Pfizer and merck.
Breffni served as the experience to the Board as well as an in-depth chiefexecutive officer of skyePharma Plc from managing Partner of the audit and Business knowledge of the mena region and Hikma november 1998 to march 2006 and prior to that advisory practice of arthur andersen in ireland and Pharmaceuticals.
ali was a founder of the capital was chairman, President and chief executive officer as Director of risk management of andersens audit Bank of Jordan, which offers commercial and of faulding.
He has held a number of non-executive practice in middle east, india, africa and the nordic investment banking services, and served as and advisory positions across the pharmaceutical countries.
Breffni has extensive experience in chiefexecutive officer of the Bank until 2007. industry.
financial reporting, international operations, corporate governance and general financial and ali has a degree in mechanical engineering from michael has a Bachelor of Pharmacy degree from commercial matters.
He is a former non-executive theuniversity of southern california and an mBa sydney university, and his mBa degree from Director of irish life and Permanent plc.
considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience.
other appointments: other appointments: ali is chairman of endeavour Jordan, a not for michael is a non-executive Director at transition Breffni holds a masters degree in economic science profitorganisation that assists in the development therapeutics, a therapeutics biopharmaceutical from the university college, Dublin and is a of entrepreneurs and a Director of the microfund company.
He is also chairman of Puricore plc, chartered accountant.
forWomen, which provides microfinance to water-based clean technology company, and komix, other appointments: low-income female entrepreneurs.
also, he is a childrens educational organisation.
adirector of the capital Bank of Jordan.
Breffni is chairman of avivas life insurance committee membership: operations in ireland and tedcastles Holdings, an oil audit committee distribution company.
He is also a non-executive nomination committee Director of citibank europe Plc and cpl resources remuneration committee chairman plc, a human resources company.
He has been a member of the audit committee of all of the above companies, in some cases chairman.
committee membership: audit committee chairman compliance, responsibility and ethics committee remuneration committee 56 corPorate governance Dr ronald goode pat Butler Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director age: 70 age: 53 appointed: 12 December 2006 appointment: 1 april 2014 Joined Hikma: 2006 Joined Hikma: 2014 nationality: american nationality: irish skills and experience: skills and experience: ron has spent over 30 years in the international Pat is a former senior Director at mckinsey & co. pharmaceutical industry, including roles as President During his 25 years at mckinsey, he focused on of international operations at searle and vice advising large corporations in the eu, us and mena President of clinical and scientific affairs at Pfizer.
on strategic, acquisition, and organisational issues.
His extensive experience includes leading companies He has extensive experience in strategy as ceo and acting as an adviser to companies in the implementation, integrating acquisitions, pharmaceutical industry.
He also advises companies performance improvement and a range of finance involved in nanotechnology and in the information functions including treasury and risk management.
Prior to mckinsey, Pat qualified as a chartered ron was formerly President and chief executive accountant with the audit and tax practice of officer of unimed Pharmaceuticals, inc. and arthur andersen.
He has a first class honours eXegenics inc.
He is a trustee of thunderbird school degree in commerce and a postgraduate diploma of global management, which is ranked by the inaccounting and corporate finance from financial times as the premier international university college Dublin.
Pat has a first class honours degree in commerce ron has a PhD from the university of georgia and and a postgraduate diploma in accounting and ams and Bs from the university of memphis.
corporate finance from university college Dublin.
other appointments: other appointments: ron is the chairman of the goode group, advisers Pat is a partner at the resolution group, to the pharmaceutical industry.
ron is a Director of non-executive Director of the Bank of ireland and mercy ships international, a medical services charity.
governor of the British film institute.
He also chairs He is a senior Business advisor to the kinsella the investment committee of the uk governments group, an investment banking company.
committee membership: committee membership: audit committee audit committee chairman from may2015 compliance, responsibility and ethics committee compliance, responsibility and ethics committee chairman nomination committee remuneration committee 57
