Hikma PHarmaceuticals Plc annual rePort 2013 REMUNERATION REPORT Continued otHer remuneration Policy matters Policy transition the ltiP expires in 2015 and it is the intention to make no further awards under this incentive scheme following approval of the eiP at the 2014 aGm.
on 11 march 2014, the committee approved a final grant of performance shares under the ltiP based on the total us$ values per Director, subject to the current performance conditions and targets.
the award is subject to shareholder approval at the aGm on 15 may 2014 and will be formally granted the following day.
if targets are met, these ltiP awards will vest in 16 may 2017, ensuring that there is no incentive gap before the first potential awards under element c of the eiP are capable of vesting in 2018.
Purpose and link element tostrategy operation opportunity maximum Performance metrics ltiP to ensure that there ltiP awards vest after Plan maximum is 300% the ltiP award is subject to the following is a smooth transition three years subject to the of salary.
However, the performance conditions: 2014 Grant between the current satisfaction of stretching committee is setting the 50% of the award is subject to comparative total ltiP and the new eiP tsr and financial metrics actual maximum grant shareholder return see page 112 for constituents of the at200% of salary.
proposed for approval sales, ePs and roic comparator Group atthe 2014 aGm.
performance 50% of the award is subject to the following criteria in conditions.
equal proportions: threshold maximum requirement requirement element average growth p. a. average growth p. a. sales growth 9% 13% ePs growth 15% 20% roic 10% 12% For all conditions: 20% vests for median threshold performance 100% vests for upper quartile maximum performance straight-line vesting between points recruitment remuneration Hikmas principle is the remuneration of any new recruit will be assessed in line with the same principles for the executive Directors, as set out in the remuneration policy table above.
the remuneration committees approach to recruitment remuneration is to pay no more than is necessary to attract candidates of the appropriate calibre and experience needed for the role from the international market in which the company competes.
the remuneration committee is mindful that it wishes to avoid paying more than it considers necessary to secure the preferred candidate and will have regard to guidelines and shareholder sentiment regarding one-off or enhanced short-term or long-term incentive payments made on recruitment and the appropriateness of any performance measures associated with an award.
