strategic report enHancing patient and doctor awareneSS and education why this is important of increasingly common health risks, such as diabetes and obesity.
across the group, as part of our sustainable approach to we undertook health campaigns in various improving healthcare, we are active in raising locations, including world diabetes day, public awareness of major health issues to world heart day, world hypertension day, help improve lifestyles, facilitate increased the annual Breast cancer campaign and diagnosis and enable better patient care.
hikma in a number of markets where we operate, co-operated with a local partner to promote doctors and patients have limited access to patient safety day.
we have also disseminated healthcare information, such as advancements health information through our social in drugs and diagnostic practices.
health awareness, supporting doctor and our patients rely on us to provide patient education and bringing together safe and effective medicines.
our medical healthcare professionals to share knowledge, affairs department is actively engaged in we are helping to increase the diagnosis and world heart day pharmacovigilance practices, relating to the treatment of health issues to improve our detection, assessment, understanding and patients quality of life.
we took part in the international world prevention of the adverse effects or any drugheart day in 2013, with the aim of raising what were doing patients and heart specialists awareness related problems.
we launched a group-wide as in previous years, we held a large to help prevent and treat heart disease.
good pharmacovigilance practice policy in hikmas global cardiovascular team number of events across our markets during 2013, which provides all users with the rules held simultaneous campaigns in jordan, 2013, to provide information to doctors, and guidelines for good pharmacovigilance algeria and saudi arabia, focusing this including doctors symposiums, lectures, practice to continuously monitor drug safety year on developing heart-healthy life workshops, marketing campaigns and health and evaluate the risk benefit balance of habits in women and children, who are awareness days.
traditionally overlooked in risk assessment our products.
these events help to bring doctors of heart disease.
in 2013, we organised a and specialists together to discuss the pharmacovigilance symposium, drugsafety latest techniques, advancements and monitoring for Better healthcare to raise working with treatments in critical therapeutic categories.
pharmacovigilance awareness among regulators and For example, in algeria, we hosted a lecture healthcare professionals in the gcc countries.
doctors for 130 psychiatrists and a workshop for more than 30 senior pharmacists working in 30neurologists.
in jordan, we organised we co-operated with the jordanian hospitals, chain pharmacies and regulatory oncology society to present a the sun workshop scientific update authorities from different gcc countries hikmaaward for the best published in neurology bringing together 100 attended the event, strengthening hikmas medical scholarly paper on cancer in neurologists from mena and worldrelations with healthcare professionals and jordan.
the papers were published in renowned professors as expert speakers.
demonstrating hikmas emphasis on quality 2011 and 2012 by researchers from we also continued with initiatives to jordanian universities, the king hussein and drug safety.
support our patients through improved cancer centre and other public and private hospitals.
they tackled many education and by raising public awareness cancer-related topics such as causes, diagnosisand various treatment options.
some ofthese articles also addressed therole of nursing and palliative therapy for cancer patients.
