corPorate governance meetings During the year the Board received presentations and considered keY conclusions anD oBservations from tHe 2013 evaluation thefollowing matters: f the Board continues to operate effectively f financial performance f investor relations f the views of each member were openly communicated and f Divisional operational performance f financial markets performance appropriately taken into account and business development broker update f the Board will continue to work on strategy, risk and succession f legal update f risk management f further work was required in certain areas, detailed below f corporate governance update f insurance the results of the evaluation process formed part of the chairmans f tax f Human resources appraisal of the overall effectiveness of the Board and its members.
f committee chairmen report f compliance cHairmans aPPraisal f acquisitions f research and development the senior independent Director met with the non-executive Directors to undertake a formal appraisal of the performance of the f executive committee chairman.
the conclusion of this process was that the chairman gave andstrategicupdates clear leadership and direction to the Board, and that the Board is run inanappropriate and effective manner.
this review addressed: the Board governance manual contains the policy for Directors f the effectiveness of his leadership toobtain independent legal advice at Hikmas expense.
f the setting of the Board agenda attendance During the year under review the Board held eight scheduled f communication with shareholders meetingsand four unscheduled meetings.
the annual cycle of f internal communication and Board efficiency theBoards work is detailed in the calendar section below.
Progress on PreviouslY iDentifieD issues the company secretary attended all Board meetings and committee meetings.
at the discretion of the Board or relevant oBservations action taken committee, senior management are invited to attend meetings and make presentations on developments and results in their Focus upon Board and the Board established a three-year business divisions.
executive succession succession plan, providing clear the table below shows attendance at the Board and committee planning succession for non-independent meetings.
to the extent Directors were unable to attend additional Directors, committee, chairman and key meetings called on short notice, or were prevented from doing members of executive management so by prior commitments, they received and read the papers for Management presentations assisted by the company secretary, consideration at that meeting, relayed their comments in advance to the Board too lengthy senior management adjusted the length and, where necessary, followed up with the chairman on the of their presentations which are more decisions taken.
concise, enhancing Board efficiency Director Board audit remuneration nomination compliance Increased communication further enhanced the use of the samih Darwazah 58% on Hikma Strategy executive committee to consider group said Darwazah 100% strategy.
a comprehensive strategy day mazen Darwazah 100% 100% 100% is scheduled for 2014 ali al-Husry 100% sir David rowe-Ham 100% 100% 100% 100% Breffni Byrne 100% 100% 100% 100% information flow michael ashton 100% 100% 100% 100% the company secretary supports the chairman in setting the Board agenda, ensuring appropriate reports from executive management ronald goode 100% 100% 100% 100% andadvisers are delivered in a timely manner and that Directors have robert Pickering 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% the information they need in order to make fully-informed decisions.
Total meetings held 12 8 6 5 7 Due to ill health mr samih Darwazah was unable to attend certain board meetings during the year.
