strategic report in 2013, our strategic decision to cut we are actively evaluating opportunities to strategic priority low margin tender sales has helped to extend our geographic reach and replicate strengthening and improve profitability and has lowered our successful operating model in other Broadening our manufacturing volumes and variable costs.
emerging markets, such as sub-saharan product portFolio cutting tail products to streamline our africa, russia and the cis.
we took an portfolio is helping to drive larger batch sizes excellent first step in september 2013, signing our group-wide strategic focus on developing strong product portfolios and improved efficiencies.
a 50:50 joint venture jv agreement with and pipelines is reflected in our whilst we have already seen significant midroc pharmaceuticals limited, a member increasing spend on r&d in recent benefits from these operational initiatives of sheikh mohammed hussein al amoudis years.
in 2013, this enabled us to in 2013, these programmes are still in their midroc group, to establish a presence in significantly increase the number of early stages and will drive further efficiencies the ethiopian pharmaceutical market.
the jv, product submissions we made and going forward.
hikmacure, will build a local manufacturing the number of product approvals we received across our businesses.
facility and will begin marketing and investing for growth our strong product pipelines will distributing pharmaceutical products beakey driver of future growth.
our strategy in mena is to build strong local in ethiopia.
businesses in each market, with experienced we are delivering our strategy of adding local management and operating teams.
leading gloBal injectaBles higher value, more differentiated our long track record of investing in our products to our portfolios, both manuFacturer through internal r&d and external people and our high quality manufacturing maximising portfolio opportunities partnerships.
in the us, we have facilities, working closely with the regulatory demonstrated our capabilities in more the breadth of our portfolio of generic authorities, developing centres of excellence complex files, such as 505 b 2s and injectable products across the us, europe and building export sales, has established our in mena, we are building strong and mena is enabling us to establish strong differentiated market position and created a product portfolios in newer therapeutic market positions.
in the us, we are the third strong platform for growth.
this strategy drove improved largest manufacturer by volume.
in 2013, profitability in both our mena and us we see excellent opportunities to businesses in 2013. we continued to strengthen our portfolio, strengthen and grow our mena businesses, launching 35 new products across our particularly in newer markets where we global markets.
have a less established presence, such as our strategy is to maximise the potential egypt, morocco and iraq, both through of our portfolio through improved pricing, capex expansion and acquisitions.
in 2013, new product launches and a greater emphasis we invested $33 million in our plants in on higher value, more differentiated products.
the region, maintaining, upgrading and we are concentrating on products where expanding our facilities in algeria, egypt, we can have a competitive advantage, jordan, saudi arabia and tunisia.
in january suchas through a period of exclusivity, or by 2013, we completed a bolt-on acquisition developing a vertically integrated api supply.
in egypt, acquiring the egyptian company for pharmaceuticals and chemical industries epci, adding a portfolio of new products, including opthalmics, and a dedicated cephalosporin facility.
15 hikma pharmaceuticals plc annual report 2013 chieF executive oFFicers review Continued the benefit of this strategy is reflected across our geographies, oncology is an strategic priority in the excellent revenue growth that our important focus in developing our product investing For global injectables business achieved in 2013, pipeline, particularly for mena where generic grow th including strong contributions from higher penetration in oncology is currently very we are continuing to expand our value products.
in 2013, we submitted 28 injectable product portfolio and technological our strategic focus in mena is to oncology products across our global markets, capabilities across the group, expand our portfolio and build a stronger leveraging our dedicated cytotoxic facility significantly increasing our investment sales presence in key markets.
in europe, in germany and our api manufacturing in products beyond our internal r&d we are driving growth from new product capabilities in jordan.
in 2013, this included launches and our successful contract new product file acquisitions, licensing maintaining high quality, efficient and agreements and co-development manufacturing business.
regulatory compliant manufacturing facilities partnerships, such as the long-term we continue to make good progress hikma has a long track record of investing supply agreement we signed with with our tech transfer programme to move unilife for innovative, pre-filled syringes.
in high quality manufacturing facilities.
production from the us to portugal, enabling during 2013, our global injectables facilities we invested $59 million in capex to us to ensure security of supply for our were subject to regulatory inspections, as well upgrade and expand our manufacturing customers, increase manufacturing flexibility as audits by licensing partners and customers.
facilities across the group in 2013. and reduce costs.
we also expanded our operational our continued track record for high footprint, completing the bolt-on strengthening and broadening quality, secure supply and high service levels acquisition of epci in egypt and signing ourproductportfolio has benefitted our patients and strengthened a jv with midroc group to enter the we are developing a strong pipeline to drive our relationships with the group purchasing ethiopian pharmaceutical market.
in 2013, we submitted 130 organisations gpos in the us, where products across our global markets, reflecting a number of our competitors have had the on-going investment we have made in supply constraints.
we have also our focus on achieving operational demonstrated our ability to develop more excellence is reflected in greater operating complex regulatory filings, such as 505 b 2s.
efficiencies, improved manufacturing we expect to increase our annual submissions processes, increased automation and tighter further by leveraging a new dedicated r&d cost control.
we are also benefitting from line being installed in portugal.
better economies of scale and lower unit in 2013, we continued to broaden our costs, all of which have enabled us to reduce approach to developing our product portfolio, overhead costs and increase profitability.
supplementing internal r&d with licensing agreements, co-development partnerships and product file acquisitions.
in developing new products, we are identifying the requirements of physicians in terms of deliverysystems and other new technologies.
