corPorate governance Directors Delegation of autHoritY terms of appointment matters reserveD to tHe BoarD Details of the executive Directors service arrangements and nonexecutive Directors letters of appointment are contained in the Hikma maintains a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board inthe Board governance manual.
this includes the following items: remuneration report on pages 99 to 100. they are made available for inspection before the annual general meeting and during business f operational management: approval of strategy, operations oversight, hours at Hikmas registered office at 13 Hanover square, london.
performancereview f structure and capital: approval of changes to group structure or external commitments changes tocapitalstructure the Directors external commitments are detailed in their profiles on pages 54 to 57. the audit committee operates, monitors and reviews f financial reporting and controls: approval of financial the conflicts of interest procedures, which have operated effectively announcements, accounts, dividends: significant changes to treasury and accountancy practice during the year.
a register of external commitments is maintained by the company secretary and is reviewed, updated at each audit f internal controls: reviewing effectiveness of groups risk and control committee and Board meeting.
Where new commitments are processes, including an annual assessment proposed, these are reviewed in advance by the audit committee f contracts: approval of significant contracts, investments and projects andwhere appropriate, recommendations on necessary controls which meet pre-set monetary thresholds aremade to the Board.
f communication: approval of certain press releases, and all circulars the Board considers that a degree of outside commitments andprospectuses enhances a Directors ability to perform the role.
f Board membership and other appointments: approval of changes time commitment and duties toBoard structure and composition, succession, auditors, company secretary the Directors commit an appropriate amount of time to their roles and are readily available at short notice.
the letters of appointment require f remuneration: Determining remuneration policy for senior non-executive Directors to commit 20 days during each year to the management andDirectors and officers, amending or introducing share incentive plans execution of their duties.
However, all of the non-executive Directors devote at least 30 days per annum to their Hikma responsibilities.
f corporate governance: annually reviewing Board, committees and in addition, the committee chairmen spend a significant amount individual Director performance, and reviewing corporate governance arrangements of time on their respective areas of responsibility and non-executive Directors take time to meet with management and visit operations introduction to the committees where there are particular areas of interest.
consequently, the independent non-executive Directors dedicate substantially more the Board has an extensive workload and, therefore, has delegated thedetailed oversight of certain items to four committees: timeto Hikma than their appointment requires.
the duties of the Directors, chief executive, chairman and f audit committee committee chairmen are set out in the Board governance manual.
f nomination committee indemnities and insurance f remuneration committee Hikma maintains an appropriate level of Directors and officers insurance.
the Directors benefit from qualifying third party indemnities f compliance, responsibility and ethics committee crec made by Hikma which were in force during the year and as at the date of this report.
these indemnities are uncapped in amount in relation each committee has terms of reference which were reviewed during to losses and liabilities which Directors may incur to third parties the year.
copies are published on the groups website and are available inthecourse of the performance of their duties.
for inspection at the registered office at 13 Hanover square, london.
reporting to the Board the chairmen of each committee report on that committees business at every Board meeting.
the minutes of each committee are made available to the entire Board.
each committee makes a formal annual report to shareholders in the annual report.
for and on behalf of the Board of Directors of Hikma Pharmaceuticals Plc peter speirs, Company Secretary 11 march 2014 69
