strategic report our growth strategy for the group continues leading pharmaceutical company 2013 highlights to have a strong mena focus.
we are a inmena and emerging markets 3 group revenue increased market leader in the region and are extremely maximising portfolio opportunities By committed to investing in our businesses we are the fifth largest pharmaceutical there.
we see excellent opportunities to company in mena and the leading regional continue our strong track record of revenue 23% player.
we have a unique business model, growth, whilst improving profitability.
as well to with sales across 17 mena markets, local as expanding in our existing mena markets, manufacturing facilities in seven countries, we see strong potential to replicate our alarge team of 1,899 sales people and strong $1,365m unique business model in new markets.
we are leveraging in parallel, we are rapidly growing our 3 Basic eps increased this strong market position to address the global injectables business, particularly in the excellent growth opportunities in the region.
us, where we have a strong market position our aim is to bring high quality, 111 % and broad product portfolio.
our strategic affordable medicines to patients across focus on higher value, differentiated products to 107.6 cents per share mena.
we are continuously developing and our continued investment in our pipeline our product portfolio to address changing 3 launched of new products and technologies will drive patient needs and whilst we remain a leading future growth.
this is underpinned by our supplier of anti-infective products, we are also strong quality track record and commitment 104 building our franchises in newer therapeutic to operational excellence.
products and received areas such as cardiovascular, diabetes, central our position as a high quality nervous system and oncology.
during 2013, manufacturer in the us generics market we launched 69 new products across our 241 brings additional strategic opportunities.
we are investing in our product pipeline, new product approvals our large and highly skilled sales including more differentiated product forms teams are a key competitive advantage in and new technologies, and leveraging both maximising the potential of our portfolio.
our us and mena manufacturing facilities.
in 2013, we added over 200 sales people, primarily in egypt and algeria, who will drive the promotion of new products, enhance our expertise in newer therapeutic areas and broaden our coverage of doctors in the region.
during the year, we began introducing measures to enhance the effectiveness of our sales activities and to closely align incentivisation structures with our strategic objectives in the region.
13 hikma pharmaceuticals plc annual report 2013 chieF executive oFFicers review Continued strengthening and broadening and actively establishing new partnerships, ourproductportfolio we are bringing innovative products to mena and increasing patients access new products are a key driver of growth toaffordable medicines.
for our mena businesses, supported by our increasing investment in r&d.
in 2013, maintaining high quality, efficient and we submitted 259 products across mena, regulatory compliant manufacturing facilities including 34 products for the treatment of in 2013, we increased our focus on driving diabetes and heart disease and 12 oncology operational efficiencies across our mena products.
in 2013, we strengthened our facilities.
we implemented initiatives to local r&d facilities in markets such as help reduce procurement costs throughout algeria and egypt, which is enabling us our supply chain, improve manufacturing to tailor our pipelines to address specific processes and ensure tight cost control.
we also continued our programme of we also continue to in-license innovative, transferring production from jordan to our patented products, signing four new local facilities, enabling better utilisation, agreements in 2013.
By building on our greater manufacturing flexibility and security long-term relationships with key licensors of supply.
