strategic report treating major HealtH iSSueS why this is important what were doing we also signed licensing agreements for two innovative oncology products in mena.
the global pharmaceutical market continues in 2013, 47% of group revenue was ageing populations globally are creating to grow, driven by strong patient demand generated in the mena region.
in these greater demand for injectable products, for medicines to treat major health issues.
markets, population demographics, combined which are typically used in hospital care.
the sustainability of our business model with increasing affluence and changes in in recent years, we have been developing depends on our ability to meet the needs of lifestyle, are driving strong growth in the our global injectables business to address doctors and patients, adapting our portfolio overall pharmaceutical market.
in 2013, we made meaningful and capabilities to address their changing continuously expanding our product portfolio investments in injectables to add high-speed, requirements over time.
we achieve this to meet changes in patient demand, more efficient lines and increase capacity.
through continuous investment in the particularly in newer, higher value therapeutic the availability of spare capacity, development of a relevant product portfolio categories.
in 2013, we launched 69 new combined with our strong quality track for each of our markets, providing both products, with a focus on the treatment of record, has enabled us to maintain innovative products under license and high heart disease and central nervous system secure supply during periods of acute quality, affordable generic alternatives across disorders, such as resova for the treatment shortages in the us, thereby improving a broad range of therapeutic categories.
of cholesterol and regab for the treatment patient access to much needed critical and our focus on maintaining secure supply of neuropathic pain.
of products in markets where demand is across our global markets, cancer is a in order to be able to continue to meet highest, will enable us to deliver sustainable, rapidly growing major health issue and we patient needs, as new therapies evolve and long-term growth across our businesses.
are developing a broad product portfolio demand patterns change, we are continuously to provide patients with high quality and investing in new product development.
during 2013, we in 2013, we invested $76 million in r&d and launched nine products for the treatment product acquisitions across our business.
of cancer in europe and three in the us.
launched First oncology products in us in 2013, we launched irinotecan, for the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancers, and zoledronic acid, for the treatment of advanced cancers associated with bone metastases.
addressing product shortages in 2013, we invested over $20 million to significantly increase production capacity for critical care injectable drugs.
this will enable us to maintain secure supply and help to address the drug shortages in the us market.
