strategic report strengthening and broadening at the same time, we will continue to leverage strategic priority ourproductportfolio our us Fda approved facilities in jordan ensuring sustainaBle and saudi arabia to supply the us market.
during 2013, we increased our internal long-term growth in 2013, we increased the capacity available r&d spend and strengthened our business our business model of delivering high in our jordan facility for the us market and development team to identify partnership quality, affordable products across our we have continued to make good progress and product acquisition opportunities.
geographies is enabling us to increase increasing the number of products that we our strategic focus is on differentiated patient access to important medicines.
products, including expansion into more in 2013, we continued to expand niche product forms, such as transdermals our product portfolio, launching 104 investing for growth and creams.
new products across our markets we are actively looking at opportunities and helping to address major global in 2013, we signed five agreements for to develop our generics business.
seven oral and other more differentiated investing in building our product portfolio products, which are expected to drive growth the continued investment we are and pipeline by adding new products, in 2016 onwards.
making to establish strong local technologies and product forms.
businesses in each of our markets, by maintaining high quality, efficient and investing in high quality manufacturing looking ahead regulatory compliant manufacturing facilities facilities, continuously training and developing our people, and supporting Bringing the eatontown facility back into the excellent performance the group has the communities where we operate, full compliance, meeting the highest hikma delivered in 2013 reflects our track record of isenabling us to drive sustainable standards of quality and strengthening investing in future growth.
we see exciting long-term growth for our businesses.
our operations was a focus in 2013. opportunities to grow our businesses in we upgraded our manufacturing processes mena and the us and our continued and installed new equipment.
we significantly progress in meeting our strategic objectives strengthened our quality team with 28 new will support another strong year of growth hires in 2013, and added nine people to our in2014 and beyond.
going forward we will focus on maintaining this facility to a high quality standard.
