REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEmENTS mORE INFORmATION Our product markets Home Retail Group operates in the home and general merchandise market.
With 5.4bn of sales in this financial year, the Group saw its overall market share increase in spite of a challenging market environment and it continued to maintain leading market positions.
Homebase Argos Homebase trades within the DIY and home Argos has a much wider and broader spectrum was considerable ongoing growth in tablets and enhancement market, which in the UK is a very of product categories than Homebase, with e-readers: namely iPad, Kindle Fire and Kindle.
fragmented market comprising the DIY sheds no one single metric existing that measures Argos, due to its strong supplier relationships, and a significant number of specialists and market share performance across all its product was able to secure good product availability independents.
These two components are categories.
Instead, Argos collates the market which, when combined with a strong range of each estimated to represent about 50% of the data from various third-party sources, such as product offers, saw a strong market share gain overall DIY and home enhancement market as GfK and National Purchase Diary, to create what in this area.
Other electricals, principally the measured by GfK, a third-party source.
The DIY Argos refers to as its tracked markets.
It is large and small domestic appliances markets, sheds market contains the UKs three DIY against this tracked markets measure that Argos also saw market growth during the year with shed retailers, these being B&Q, Wickes and sales performance has been compared to Argos gaining significant market share in large Homebase.
All three DIY shed retailers subscribe ascertain its market share.
domestic appliances, driven by the new initiative to GfK which measures the sheds relative Over this financial year, these tracked to increase the number of larger white good market shares.
It is against this metric that markets have indicated that Argos total market products available for in-store collection, Homebases sales performance has been has declined by about 2%, with categories being allowing customers to pick up from around 450 compared to ascertain its market share.
impacted by varying factors such as unseasonal larger stores while also holding market share in In this financial year, both the overall DIY and weather, a housing market that continues to small domestic appliances.
home enhancement market and the DIY sheds remain subdued and, in some cases, new product Homewares, following growth last year, saw market as measured by GfK, have continued to innovation.
Argos has seen the consumer a contracting market this year as spend moved to decline, with the overall market estimated to electronics market, as defined by GfK, decline by other categories such as tablets and e-readers.
have declined by around 4% and the DIY sheds around 15%, which is an improvement on the Argos was however able to hold market share in market estimated to have declined by around decline seen the previous financial year of around this category.
Nursery and toys and freetime 6%.
The DIY sheds market is divided into five 20%.
This improvement has principally been categories also saw a declining market, with the product categories, these being DIY, decorating, driven by better television and audio markets, latter impacted by unseasonably wet weather home, big ticket and garden.
For this financial albeit they are still in decline.
Despite this, Argos was able to year, each of these categories has recorded video gaming software VGS market continues maintain market share in these categories also.
Over the same period, to experience significant declines.
It is therefore Overall, it was a much stronger year for Homebase has continued to hold or gain market pleasing that Argos has grown its market share Argos, reporting not only increased sales for share in each of these five product categories, within the TV, audio and VGS categories, despite this financial year, but also an overall market with the strongest market share gain seen in these continued market contractions.
share gain across the total of its tracked home and garden.
Within this DIY sheds market, In contrast to these market-declining market categories.
on a total basis Homebase has continued to categories within consumer electronics, there increase its market share, with this latest gain being its fourth consecutive year of market-share growth.
Homebase now holds a market share of 24% of the DIY sheds market: its highest recorded share since GfK DIY sheds market research was launched in 2007.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 9
