REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS Who we are and what we do We are the UKs leading home and general merchandise retailer, operating two key businesses, Argos and Homebase.
Home Retail Group continues to shape the future of shopping through digital retail leadership and multi-channel capability, expanding choice and developing both product ranges and services, ensuring we continue to build successful businesses that bring unrivalled convenience and value to customers everyday lives, whether shopping at home or on the move.
48,000 1,073 67,000 183m colleagues are at the heart stores in the UK and Republic products available across customer transactions of everything we do of Ireland RoI across the Argos and Homebase last year Argos and Homebase formats Argos, the UKs largest general merchandise Homebase is a leading home enhancement retailer, has an unrivalled offer of value, retailer and offers a growing range of home convenience and choice to meet customer needs.
improvement products in a differentiated store environment.
737 29,000 336 38,000 stores in UK and RoI catalogue and stores in UK and RoI branded, own-brand internet-only products and exclusive products 51% 4 years 93% 635m of sales are multi-channel of consecutive GfK DIY average recommendation website and app visits shed market share gains for our installation services during the year 4 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEmENTS mORE INFORmATION We have maintained our leading market positions We have plans in place for future growth despite these challenging times In October 2012 we announced our plans to reinvent Argos as a digital retail leader and to invest in Homebase store refits and multi-channel capability to Home Retail Group operates in the home and general merchandise market.
deliver an enhanced customer proposition.
Our strong financial position gives Our overall market share increased despite a challenging market environment us the opportunity to deliver these growth plans.
and we continue to maintain leading market positions.
Homebase now holds a market share of 24% of the DIY sheds market: its highest recorded share since GfK DIY sheds market research was launched Digital leadership and in 2007. accelerating multi-channel Were at the forefront of advances Argos reported not only increased sales for this financial year, but also an in technology that have brought overall market share gain across the total of its tracked market categories.
about a fundamental and permanent shift in the way consumers shop.
Our highlysuccessful internet and mobile channels help make us the market We have a strong portfolio of own brands leader in multi-channel retailing.
Argos and Homebase are two of the UKs leading retail brands and our acquisition of the Habitat UK brand has brought one of the UKs leading New format development contemporary home retailers into Home Retail Group.
Habitats style-led and store estate credentials are a significant addition to our portfolio of own brands, which Our portfolio of stores remains an also include Bush and Alba in consumer electronics, Chad Valley in toys essential part of our multi-channel and Schreiber and Hygena in furniture.
Argos national chain of pick up points complements its multichannel offer and Homebase has continued the evolution of its new store proposition concept.
Product leadership and exclusive brands Weve expanded our range of own and exclusive brands to capture market share and enhanced convenience through extended product ranges and services.
Compelling customer offering We ensure customers continue to receive excellent value and choice by maximising our buying scale and sourcing capabilities, particularly via direct import and direct sourcing of product.
Financial strength The Group is in a strong financial position, with 396m of cash.
This enables the Group to support growth through investment in the Argos transformation plan and the Homebase proposition.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 5
