GOVERNANCE Directors report The directors present their report and the audited consolidated financial main Board committees can be found in the corporate governance report statements for the 52 weeks ended 2 March 2013 the period.
Principal activities and business review Share capital and control Home Retail Group plc the Company is the ultimate parent company As at 1 May 2013, the Companys issued share capital comprised a single of Home Retail Group the Group, which operates in the UK and in the class of shares, referred to as ordinary shares.
Details of the ordinary share Republic of Ireland.
A review of the activities of the Group, its financial capital can be found in note 27 to the consolidated financial statements performance during the period and its likely future business developments, on page 95.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings including a description of the principal risks and uncertainties and key of the Company and ordinary rights to dividends.
performance indicators, is provided within the review of the business and The rights and obligations attaching to the shares are more fully set out the corporate governance report, which are incorporated into this report in the Articles of Association of the Company.
There are no restrictions on by reference and fulfil the requirements of the business review provisions the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than the following: in Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006.
Certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations such as insider trading laws.
Profit and dividends Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the The Groups consolidated income statement on page 56 shows a profit Company requires certain employees to seek the Companys for the period of 94.0m.
The directors recommend the payment of a permission to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
final dividend of 2.0p per ordinary share, to be paid on 24 July 2013 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 24 May 2013.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders which An interim dividend of 1.0p per ordinary share was paid on 23 January may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
2013, giving a total dividend for the year of 3.0p per ordinary share.
There are no shareholdings which carry special rights relating to control of the Company.
A change of control of the Company following a takeover bid Directors may cause a number of agreements to which the Company or its trading The names and biographical details of the directors are shown in the Board subsidiaries is party to take effect, alter or terminate.
In the context of the of Directors and Operating Board section on pages 32 and 33.
On 4 July Company as a whole, these agreements are not considered to be significant.
2012, Oliver Stocken resigned from the Board as Chairman.
On 5 December 2012, Jacqueline fide Rojas was appointed to the Board as a non-executive Purchase of own shares director.
Particulars of directors remuneration are shown in the directors At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 4 July 2012, remuneration report on pages 40 to 51.
Details of the service contracts of authority was given for the Company to purchase, in the market, up to the directors, and how a change of control will affect the service contracts 81,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each.
At the Annual General Meeting of the executive directors, are summarised within the directors to be held on 3 July 2013, shareholders will be asked to give the Company remuneration report.
Neither contract for the executive directors provides authority to purchase, in the market, up to 81,000,000 ordinary shares of for extended notice periods or compensation in the event of termination 10p each, details of which are contained in the Notice of Meeting.
Details of the Companys interests in its own shares are set out in note During the period and up to the date of this report, the Group 28 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 95 and 96. maintained liability insurance and third-party indemnification provisions for its directors, under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Substantial shareholdings directors to the extent permitted by law in respect of all liabilities to third As at 1 May 2013, the Company had been notified under Rule 5 of the parties arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of their powers, Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules of duties and responsibilities as directors of the Company and any of its the following holdings of voting rights in the issued share capital of associated companies.
These indemnities are Qualifying Third Party the Company: Indemnity Provisions as defined in Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006 Total number of Percentage of and copies are available for inspection at the registered office of the voting rights total voting Company during business hours on any weekday except public holidays.
ordinary shares rights % Schroders plc 139,003,166 17.09 Articles of Association The Articles of Association set out the internal regulation of the Company Silchester 81,335,952 10.00 and cover such matters as the rights of shareholders, the appointment or Sanderson 59,246,016 7.28 removal of directors and the conduct of the Board and general meetings.
Copies are available upon request and are displayed on the Companys AxA S. A.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, directors can be appointed or removed by the Board or Citibank 37,392,176 4.60 shareholders in general meeting.
Amendments to the Articles of Association must be approved by at least 75% of those voting in person or Norges Bank 25,570,048 3.14 by proxy at a general meeting of the Company.
Subject to company law Capital Group Inc 25,096,768 3.09 and the Articles of Association, the directors may exercise all the powers of the Company and may delegate authorities to committees.
Details of the GMO 24,447,238 3.01 52 Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 REVIEW OF THE BUSINESS GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEmENTS mORE INFORmATION Employees Political donations The Group has in place measures to provide its employees with information The Group has made no political donations and incurred no items of on matters of concern to them as employees, including consulting political expenditure during the period.
employees or their representatives on a regular basis so that the views of employees can be taken into account in making decisions which are likely Relevant audit information to affect their interests.
Various communication routes are made available As at 1 May 2013, so far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit to employees to give them awareness of the financial and economic information of which the auditors are unaware and each director has taken factors affecting the performance of the Group and employees are also all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make encouraged to be involved in the Groups performance through a Save as himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to ensure You Earn share scheme.
that the auditors are aware of that information.
The Group has a policy in place for giving full and fair consideration to applications for employment by the Group made by disabled persons, Going concern having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities, and for continuing The business and financial reviews on pages 10 to 29 contain information the employment of, and for arranging appropriate training for, employees on the performance of the Group, its cash flow and net cash position, of the Group who have become disabled persons during the period when capital structure and liquidity and funding.
Further information relating to they were employed by the Group.
The policy also covers the training, the Groups financial risk management is set out in note 4 to the financial career development and promotion of disabled persons employed by statements and the principal risks and uncertainties that could impact the the Group.
Groups performance are set out on pages 71 to 74.
After making enquiries, the directors are satisfied that the Company Employee share plans has sufficient resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Some of the Companys employee share plans include restrictions on the Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing transfer of shares while the shares are subject to the plan.
As described in the financial statements.
the directors remuneration report, non-executive directors use part of their fees to purchase shares, which may not normally be transferred Independent Auditors during a directors period of office.
The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness Where, under an employee share plan operated by the Company, to continue in office and a resolution that they be reappointed will be participants are the beneficial owners of the shares but are not the proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
registered owners, the voting rights are normally exercised by the registered owner, at the direction of the participant.
Annual General meeting All of the Companys share plans contain provisions relating to a change The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Jurys Inn of control.
Outstanding awards and options would normally vest and Hotel, Midsummer Boulevard, Milton Keynes MK9 2HP, commencing at become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of 11.00 am on Wednesday 3 July 2013.
The Notice of Meeting is included in a any performance conditions at that time.
separate circular to shareholders which accompanies this annual report.
It is also available on the Companys website at www.
Financial risk management The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group and the By order of the Board Gordon Bentley Registered Office: exposure of the Group to market, credit, liquidity and cash flow risk are set Secretary Avebury out in note 4 to the consolidated financial statements on pages 71 to 74.
1 May 2013 489-499 Avebury Boulevard Creditor payment Milton Keynes For all trade creditors, it is, and will continue to be for the next financial MK9 2NW year, Group policy to: Company no.
5863533 agree and confirm the terms of payment at the commencement of business with that supplier: pay suppliers in accordance with applicable terms: and continually review the payment procedures and liaise with suppliers as a means of eliminating difficulties and maintaining a good working relationship.
Trade creditor days of the Group at 2 March 2013 were 60 2012: 51, based on the ratio of Group trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced during the year by trade suppliers.
The Company has no trade creditors.
Home Retail Group Annual Report 2013 53
