Directors 1 3 4 JM Barry Gibson 61 Richard Harpin 48 Martin Bennett 44 Appointed to the Board in April Founder and Chief Executive Officer A Board member since 2009.
2004 and appointed as Chairman of HomeServe which was set up in Appointed as Group Chief Operating on 1 April 2010 following a year as 1993 as a joint venture with South Officer in January 2012 following Senior Non-Executive Director.
Appointed to the three years as Chief Financial Officer.
Non-Executive Chairman of Harding Board in May 2001.
Previously a brand Previously Finance Director of UK Brothers Holdings Ltd.
Previously manager with Procter & Gamble, Membership having been Finance Group Retailing Director at BAA plc, followed by management consultancy Director of the Warranties business Group Chief Executive of Littlewoods and Commercial Director.
Prior to with Deloitte and his own company.
plc and Non-Executive Director of joining HomeServe in 2003, he spent Somerfield plc, National Express plc three years as Group Finance Director and William Hill plc.
of Clarity Group and ten years at Arthur Andersen where he qualified as a chartered accountant.
1 2 3 4 Johnathan Ford 43 Jonathan King 52 Ian Chippendale 64 Appointed as Chief Financial Officer in A Board member since 2010.
Appointed to the Board in January September 2012.
Previously the Group Appointed as Chief Executive Officer 2007 and as Senior Non-Executive Finance Director of NWF Group plc, of HomeServe Membership in the UK Director on 1 April 2010.
Currently an an AIM listed specialist agricultural in August 2011.
He spent six years as independent Director of Alleghany and distribution group.
Prior to joining Chief Executive Officer of HomeServe Corporation and Chairman of Allen NWF in March 2009 he spent four USA following four years as Managing and Allen Group Ltd.
Previously years at HomeServe, firstly as Group Director of the UK Membership Chairman of RBS Insurance, Group Commercial Director and later as business and a year as Business Chief Executive of the Direct Line Finance Director of the Emergency Development Director.
He previously Group of companies, Chief Executive Services Division.
Before joining worked in retail marketing with the of Privilege Insurance and Chairman HomeServe he was Head of Corporate Boots Company as Group Brand of the Insurance Division of Provident Finance at Kidde plc.
He qualified as a Manager for No.
10 11 12 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 42 Governance 1 3 4 1 2 3 1 2 3 4 Stella David 50 Ben Mingay 48 Mark Morris 53 Appointed to the Board in November Appointed to the Board in January Appointed to the Board in February 2010.
Previously in audit, business of William Grant & Sons having joined of Smith Square Partners, an advisory and corporate finance with them in 2009 following more than independent corporate finance Price Waterhouse before joining fifteen years with Bacardi Ltd where advisory firm.
He has more than 20 Sytner Group plc as Finance Director, she undertook a number of roles years experience as a corporate later becoming Managing Director.
culminating in four years as Global finance adviser and, prior to coCurrently Senior Non-Executive Chief Marketing Officer.
Currently founding Smith Square Partners, Director of LSL Property Services plc a Non-Executive Director of C&J he was a Managing Director of and a former Non-Executive Director Clark Limited, she also spent seven Hawkpoint Partners Ltd and Credit of Christian Salvesen plc and Maxima years as a Non-Executive Director at Suisse First Boston Europe.
also a Non-Executive Director of AIM-listed Alternative Networks plc.
5 5 Tom Rusin 42 Rachael Hughes 42 Anna Maughan 43 Appointed as Chief Executive Appointed as Chief Executive Officer Appointed Company Secretary in Officer, HomeServe USA in July of HomeServe Europe in 2005 having July 2008 following twelve years 2011.
Previously at Affinion Group been Managing Director of Domo, as Assistant Company Secretary.
where he undertook a number of in France, since its launch in 2001.
Also a Trustee of, and Secretary to, roles culminating in three years as Previously Managing Director of CHEP the industry wide Water Companies President and Chief Executive Officer Argentina SA following a total of seven Pension Scheme.
of Affinion Groups North American years with CHEP Equipment Pooling Division from 2007 to 2010.
Before Systems in North and South America KEy: 1 joining Affinion, he owned Just for and GKN Group in the UK.
2 Audit & Risk Committee Travel Inc.
Currently a Non-Executive Chairman: Mark Morris.
Director of The Ambassadors Group.
3 Nomination Committee Chairman: Barry Gibson.
4 Remuneration Committee Chairman: Ian Chippendale.
5 Member of Executive Committee only.
