It is our policy that all persons should be Charity considered for employment, training, career In September 2012, our UK business reached development and promotion on the basis its target of donating 1 million to its national of their abilities and aptitudes, regardless charity partner, Marie Curie Cancer Care.
of physical ability, age, gender, sexual The three year target was reached six orientation, religion or ethnic origin.
months early, an incredible achievement.
The partnership has been extended for We apply employment policies that are fair another year, until March 2014. and equitable for all employees and these ensure that entry into, and progression To date 1,268,000 has been raised in within, the Group are determined solely by total.
475,000 has been raised through the fair application of relevant job criteria and employee fundraising, business donations by personal ability and competence.
and sponsorship of Walk Ten.
We have also provided free home emergency cover to Full and fair consideration having regard to Marie Curie patients, to provide practical the persons particular aptitudes and abilities support at home from fixing a boiler to is given to applications for employment and unblocking a toilet through our network of the career development of disabled persons.
This cover, along with other gift in Our training and development policies also kind activities has raised a further 793,000. make it clear that we will take all practicable steps to ensure that if an employee becomes Since reaching the fundraising milestone, disabled during the time they are employed, employees have been encouraged to visit their employment can continue.
Marie Curie hospices to see for themselves the genuine difference their fundraising has made.
Noddy Holder helps celebrate raising 1m Slade legend Noddy Holder made a welcome appearance in Walsall to help us celebrate raising 1m for Marie Curie Cancer Care.
Noddy commented: Im delighted to be here to represent Marie Curie Cancer Care and help HomeServe celebrate such an incredible achievement.
