Chief Executives review Our business model Our business is built on developing long-term affinity relationships with utility companies and appliance manufacturers.
We fix our customers household emergencies through the use of our directly employed, franchised and sub-contract networks of engineers.
We deliver policies under our affinity partners brands to our customers, Our vision capitalising on our product development To be the first place knowledge and direct consumer marketing people turn to for home expertise as well as our skills in managing the claims handling process and engineer emergencies and repairs.
Our products cover plumbing and Our mission drains, central heating, ventilation and air conditioning, electrics and household To provide an affinity appliances such as showers and boilers.
branded membership service which frees our Our business model is the same in each of customers from the worry our countries and has proved to be robust in both growing and shrinking economies.
and inconvenience of home The model generates high levels of recurring emergencies and repairs.
revenues with over 80% of policies being renewed each year.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 6 Business review Strong affinity Claims and network partnerships management We build long-term relationships with partners We operate our own local call centres to handle whose brands have an affinity with our products, customers claims, and manage our own networks providing us with direct access to millions of of qualified engineers in order to offer our customers via trusted brands.
Our partners benefit customers the best service when they experience from risk-free income and are able to offer their a home emergency.
customers value-added products that build their customer relationships and differentiate them from competitors.
Sales and marketing capability We use our expertise in direct marketing and telephony to sell our products directly to customers, and constantly innovate to ensure our marketing is fresh and relevant.
Customer loyalty Product design We have a customer focused culture across all We create products that take the worry and our operations and monitor customer satisfaction inconvenience out of home emergencies, offering on an ongoing basis.
We have customer charters simple introductory products for new customers, which set out our commitment to delivering a high cross-sell products for increased cover and standard of service.
combined policies covering multiple emergencies for complete peace of mind.
We encourage our customers to renew their The products that we market and administer policies year after year, securing high levels of are individually underwritten by third party recurring income, by offering them great service underwriters, independent of HomeServe.
We act as an insurance intermediary and do not take on any material insurance risk.
