Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2013 Directors report The directors have pleasure in submitting their report and the audited financial statements for the 52 week period ended 28 December 2013.
Comparative figures relate to the 53 weeks ended 29 December 2012.
The directors have restructured this years directors report in response to the changes in reporting legislation and guidance in order to make our Annual Report and Accounts more accessible.
Therefore many of the sections traditionally found in this report can now be found in other sections of this Annual Report and Accounts where it was deemed that the information would be presented in a more connected and accessible way.
Any sections that have been moved have been cross-referenced below for ease of reference: Located in the Strategic Report: Principal Group activities, business review and results: The principal activity of Howden Joinery Group Plc and its subsidiaries can be found in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 32. Dividend: Information about the final dividend can be found in the Chairmans introduction on page 8 and the Review of operations and finance on page 19.
Located in the Corporate Social Greenhouse Gas Emissions: Details of the Groups greenhouse gas emissions, Responsibility Report: as required by Schedule 7 of the Large and Medium-Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulation 2008 SI 2008 410 as amended by the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 SI 2013 1970, are set out in the CSR report on page 27.
Located in the Corporate Share capital, substantial shareholdings and acquisition of the Companys Governance Report: own shares: Information in this regard can be found on pages 61 to 62.
Employees: Information about the Groups employees is located in the Corporate Governance Report on page 62.
Directors: Details of directors and their interests are on page 52.
Annual General Meeting: Information about the timing and business of the Annual General Meeting, including reappointment of the Groups Auditors, can be found on page 62.
Located in the Nominations Directors: Information with regard to the appointment and replacement of Committee Report: directors is located on pages 73 to 74.
Employees: Information about the total number of employees and gender diversity statistics are located in the Nominations Committee Report on pages 72 to 73.
The average number of employees and their remuneration are shown in note 8 to the financial statements.
35 Directors report continued Financial instruments Information about the use of financial instruments by the Company and its subsidiaries is given in note 28 to the financial statements.
Subsidiaries and associated undertakings The subsidiary and associated undertakings principally affecting the profits or net assets of the Group in the year are listed in the table of parent company and principal subsidiary undertakings on page 133.
There have been no significant events since the balance sheet date.
Corporate Governance Code The Company is subject to the UK Corporate Governance code, which can be accessed at https: www.
aspx Political contributions The Group made no political donations during the current and previous period.
By order of the Board Caroline Bishop Secretary 26 February 2014 36
