Our lives The builder The kitchen occupies a special place at the centre For the small builder, time is money, and there are of our daily lives.
It is where our day starts, and often new challenges to face every day.
The kitchen is where we cook, eat and The builder goes where the work is: in any one year wash up but it is also, increasingly, where we talk, he may serve all parts of the market, including private work, play, make plans and manage much of landlords, small developers, local authorities and housing day-to-day life.
associations as well as owner-occupiers.
The demands we place on our kitchens are growing.
So the 290,000 local builders who hold credit accounts Every year, we expect everything we use to look better, be with Howdens rely on us to provide them with a complete, smarter and last longer and still be competitively priced.
reliable, local service, every day.
We offer them a We also have less time in which to make decisions and are confidential discount and nett monthly terms, allowing less tolerant of mistakes or poor service.
them to manage their cash flow and decide on an So the kitchen must work, all the time, every day.
appropriate margin for each job.
At Howdens we believe the best and most efficient Our customer proposition is all about peace of mind.
way to make sure this happens is for the kitchen to We help builders to sell, plan and fit kitchens that are be installed by a small builder who has the right skills well-designed, well-made, easy to install and dont break.
and experience, knows his local area and has direct We keep all our products in stock at all our depots so relationships with his customers.
the builder can pick up an entire kitchen at a moments That is why our business is centred on the manufacture notice.
And our local managers have the authority to swap and sale of kitchens and joinery to small builders who fit unsuitable items, on the spot, at any time.
Howdens supports the builders reputation as well as his livelihood.
Theyve changed their mind about the worktop again have you got Did you tell them its that grey one in stock?
I think we need to buy What about your homework?
one of these, mum No problem!
I need Howdens designers to make sense of this one You havent forgotten my dinner, have you?
The chaos of the kitchen In the site office 02 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2013 The depot Our product By the end of 2013 there were 559 local Howdens Howdens manufacturing and supply operations are depots located across the country.
solely focused on meeting the needs of our depots.
A typical depot occupies around 10,000 square feet, We design and manufacture all our own kitchen most of which is warehousing so that we can hold our cabinets and most of our worktops at two factories in complete product range in stock.
We source kitchen frontals, joinery, flooring, lighting, hardware, appliances and A depot opens with around six staff and will take on other products from suppliers who can meet our more people as its sales grow.
The depot manager is exacting requirements in terms of design, build quality, responsible for his or her own business hiring staff, consistency, cost and availability.
choosing which product to display, marketing in the local area, recruiting new accounts, increasing sales and Howdens own appliance brand, Lamona, includes managing margin.
ovens, range cookers, microwaves, hobs, extractors, dishwashers, refrigeration, laundry, sinks and taps.
Since Depot managers and their staff share in their own depots its launch in 2009, Lamona has established itself as the profitability and are highly incentivised to open accounts UKs best-selling brand in several of these categories.
Control of manufacturing and supply is supported by a Most depots have at least two experienced designers robust, well-invested systems infrastructure that extends who play a pivotal role in the kitchen sale.
The designer to every aspect of production, warehousing, distribution plans the kitchen, supporting the builders relationship and sales.
with the end-user, and delivers detailed technical drawings to the builder to help him fit the product as Product from our factories and our main distribution quickly and easily as possible.
warehouse in Northampton is delivered by our transport fleet to each one of our Howdens depots across the country, ensuring that they are always in stock and will never let the builder down.
Its going to We need to plan the look great Im just finishing new range in here this plan How fast can we get this to market?
yes, its got to be well Are they going for the ahead of peak demand gloss finish, then?
If we get the go-ahead tomorrow, we can roll it Yeah thats what a lot of my out in Week 30 customers are asking for now At the Howdens depot counter In the Howdens design studio 03 The Howdens depot Our customers are professionals and they are not simply buying components from The warehouse Howdens.
We offer them a complete, expert service that helps them to plan, buy and fit complex kitchens with confidence.
The CAD design office The staff office The sales counter The loading bay 04 In all our depots the builder finds a Our depot staff can give advice on all our welcoming trade environment where he products and how best to fit them.
Last year is served by familiar and knowledgeable we introduced 6 new kitchens, including 3 new staff who understand his needs and the options in our highly successful budget-priced constraints of his job.
Our product range also now sales and information systems allow includes more ovens, sinks, taps and joinery doors them to work fast.
that offer good design at entry-level prices.
This is the alternative We have developed a virtual showroom, using high-definition projectors and large-format plasma screens to show 3D visualisations of our plans so that the builder, and the end-user, can see exactly what they will look like once installed.
Staff pick the builders order directly from The virtual showroom will be rolled out stock and help to load it onto his van.
They to all our depots by mid-2014.
can also arrange additional, local transport for the builder if required.
Stock re-ordering is controlled by each individual depot and regularly replenished to make sure that everything is always available when the builder needs it.
Now if we rotate it Thanks!
05 The Howdens factory Howdens promise to the builder is of guaranteed quality, availability, range and price.
Because we have control of our manufacturing and supply Quality control operations, and good relationships with external suppliers, we can keep this promise.
Design studio Canteen New equipment 06 We need to ensure that our products are Howdens standards are more exacting not only attractive and functional but than British and European standards.
Last capable of being produced efficiently in year our 20 experienced quality control large volumes.
28 staff based at Howden staff carried out 4,800 inspections and work on the design, development and 1,200 laboratory tests to make sure our prototyping of products.
products meet our customers needs.
Warehouse Is that the new gloss?
Howdens is a local business, so each of our 559 depots requires an individualised delivery at a specific time.
In 2013, our fleet of 90 trucks delivered over 90,000 loads to our depots across the country approximately 1 million items per week.
Last year we consumed around There are around 400 seats in our Howden 195,000 cubic metres of chipboard canteen, which serves around 1,300 breakfasts and produced around 3.5 million and lunches every day.
We support health and cabinets, 2 million frontals, 800,000 nutrition incentives in the workplace and we worktops and breakfast bars and enjoy good food.
Our lines really busy this week Yeah, sos ours!
