Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2013 Report of the Pension sub-committee The Board established the Pension Sub-Committee to consider all matters relating to the defined benefit pension scheme operated by the Company and other group members, and any other pension related matter referred to it by the Board.
The Committee comprises the Chairman, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Chief Financial Officer and the Company Secretary.
However, all Board members have a standing invitation to the Committee and are encouraged to attend.
The Companys actuary, Hymans Robertson, is also invited to attend and brief the Committee.
The Chairman of the Committee is the Chief Financial Officer.
As set out in its terms of reference, the Committee meets a minimum of twice a year.
During 2013, the Committee met three times at which all members of the Committee were present.
During the year, the Committee discharged its responsibilities through the following activities: Risk appetite Consideration of what would constitute an appropriate level of risk for the Company to take in respect of the pension deficit and recommendations to the Board in this regard.
Funding summary Review of funding and market updates from the Companys actuaries.
and market updates Dialogue with the Trustees The Chairman of the Trustee Board and the Chair of the Trustee Boards Investment Committee were invited to present an update on the Trustee Boards activity and an analysis of its own performance over the previous two years.
Given the relative immaturity of the defined benefit scheme, the Trustees consequently hold a relatively large proportion of return seeking assets.
Volatility is a key risk for both the Trustees and the Company to consider.
During the year, the Committee therefore engaged in dialogue with the Trustee Board and its advisers in respect of hedging and fide-risking activity with the Trustees taking the decision to purchase matching assets over the course of the year at a steady rate given the external economic environment.
IAS19 The Committee considered the impact of IAS19 on the Groups Income Statement.
PPF Consideration was given to the PPF levy payable during the year.
At retirement options The Committee considered a number of at retirement options for members.
Mark Robson Chairman of the Pension Sub-Committee 26 February 2014 75 Statements of the directors in connection with this Annual Report and Accounts GOING CONCERN After making due enquiries the In preparing the parent company directors have a reasonable financial statements, the directors The Groups business activities, expectation that the Company are required to: together with the factors likely and the Group have adequate to affect its future development, select suitable accounting policies resources to continue in operational performance and position are set and then apply them consistently: existence for the foreseeable future.
out in the Chairmans statement on Accordingly, they continue to adopt pages 8 to 9, the Chief Executives make judgements and the going concern basis in preparing statement on pages 10 to 17 and accounting estimates that the Annual Report and Accounts.
the Review of Operations and are reasonable and prudent: Finance on pages 18 to 24.
The state whether applicable UK STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS Review of Operations and Finance Accounting Standards have RESPONSIBILITIES describes the financial position of been followed subject to any the Group, its cash flows, liquidity The directors are responsible material departures disclosed position, borrowing facilities, and for preparing the Annual Report, and explained in the financial the Groups objectives, policies Directors Remuneration Report statements: and and processes for managing its and the Financial Statements in commercial and financial risks.
The accordance with applicable law prepare the financial statements on Groups financial risk management and regulations.
the going concern basis unless it is objectives and its exposures to inappropriate to presume that the Company law requires the directors credit risk and liquidity risk in Company will continue in business.
to prepare financial statements relation to financial instruments for each financial year.
Under that In preparing the Group financial are described in note 28 to the law the directors are required to statements, International Accounting financial statements.
prepare Group financial statements Standard 1 requires that directors: The Group meets its day to day in accordance with International properly select and apply working capital requirements Financial Reporting Standards accounting policies: through cash generated from IFRSs as adopted by the European operations, and, if required, by Union and Article 4 of the IAS present information, including utilising an asset-backed lending Regulation and have chosen to accounting policies, in a facility of 160m until May 2014, prepare the parent company financial manner that provides relevant, and 140m thereafter until the statements in accordance with reliable, comparable and facility expires in July 2016.
United Kingdom Generally Accepted understandable information: Accounting Practice United The Groups forecasts and Kingdom Accounting Standards and provide additional disclosures projections have been stress-tested when compliance with the applicable law.
Under company law for reasonably possible adverse the directors must not approve the specific requirements in IFRSs variations in economic conditions is insufficient to enable users accounts unless they are satisfied and trading performance.
The that they give a true and fair view of to understand the impact of results of this testing show that the particular transactions, other the state of affairs of the Company Group should be able to operate and of the profit or loss of the events and conditions on the within the level of its current facility entitys financial position and Company for that period.
financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
76 Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2013 The directors are responsible for The confirmation is given and This responsibility statement was keeping adequate accounting should be interpreted in accordance approved by the Board of Directors records that are sufficient to with the provisions of s418 of the on 26 February 2014 and is signed show and explain the Companys Companies Act 2006. on its behalf by: transactions and disclose with Matthew Ingle reasonable accuracy at any time the DIRECTORS Chief Executive financial position of the Company RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT and enable them to ensure that the We confirm to the best of Mark Robson financial statements comply with the our knowledge: Chief Financial Officer Companies Act 2006.
They are also the financial statements, prepared responsible for safeguarding the 26 February 2014 assets of the Company and hence in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, give for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and and other irregularities.
profit or loss of the Group and The directors are responsible for Company, and the undertakings the maintenance and integrity including the consolidation taken of the corporate and financial as a whole: information included on the the Annual Report and Accounts Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the includes a fair review of the development and performance preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from of the business and the position of the Group and Company and legislation in other jurisdictions.
the undertakings including the consolidation taken as a whole, AUDIT INFORMATION AND AUDITORS together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Each of the persons who is a they face: and director at the date of approval of this Annual Report confirm that: the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced so far as each of the directors is and understandable and provides aware, there is no relevant audit the information necessary information of which the Companys for shareholders to assess auditors are unaware: and the Groups and Companys the director has taken all the performance, business model steps that he ought to have taken and strategy.
as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
