Strategic Report Market review For 2014, global E&P spending is projected to reach a new record of $723 billion.
Source: Barclays US Well Footage m feet Rig Count during 2013 1600 386 369 1400 326 1200 260 1000 800 600 400 200 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2010 2011 2012 2013 US Oil Rig Numbers US Gas Rig Numbers Canada Oil Rig Numbers Canada Gas Rig Numbers International Rig Numbers Source: Baker Hughes.
18 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Strategic Report Introduction which has contributed to the net increase Asia-Pacific As a global energy products and services in domestic oil production and allowed The demand for energy from emerging provider, Huntings operating activities are commentators to speculate on selfcountries such as China and India subject to a range of market drivers.
While this shift has occurred continues to support offshore and onshore our diverse product and service offering, onshore, activity offshore in the Gulf of development programmes.
Major operators each of the major operating businesses Mexico has continued to recover, with continue to indicate a move east in terms within Hunting Energy Services are driven activity leading to increased demand.
The of focus and investment, with energy by a range of macro and micro drivers Mexican government has also introduced service companies establishing significant which define the overall performance and legislation to allow foreign participation in operations across the region to support are often regionally specific.
anticipated activity in the future.
A resurgence in South-East Asia for oil and During 2013, oil prices traded at an average Drilling procedures continue to evolve with further investment in Australasia for gas of $97.61 per barrel for the WTI benchmark, operators endeavouring to minimise rig look set to service the anticipated regional giving a relatively stable environment for down time by drilling multiple wells from energy mix.
Closer to the main population new oil drilling projects and existing a single well pad therefore a further centre, China has excellent prospects for developments.
The US natural gas price measure of activity is the physical number extracting natural gas from shale for in the year traded at an average of of wells drilled.
$3.73mmBtu, which was above that of in the number of wells drilled in the US and 2012, but still in a range which dampened a 5% increase in the footage drilled.
New international deepwater prospects remained attractive.
Europe and Middle East Activity in the North Sea continued to be Taken as a whole, industry commentators volatile, as geopolitical influences altered record that capital investment across the programming and prioritisation of the energy industry increased by 11% activity levels in the region.
In 2013, the in 2013 compared to the previous year North Sea saw near-record rig count lows highlighting the need for industry on the UK Continental Shelf as geographic reinvestment to replace reserves as spending patterns of the international oil accelerated depletion rates, global companies shifted to more promising demand and consumption continued long-term prospects in other emerging to increase, particularly from emerging regions.
In the Middle East, activity continues to Regional Commentary increase as resource development across The Americas the region continues.
Investment continues Hunting Energy Services Well Construction to grow in the established producing and Well Completion divisions sell countries to sustain long-term export products for use in the initial drilling and targets.
completion phases of an oil and gas well.
As such, global drilling rig activity, in Africa particular within North America, provides Investment in oil and gas activity across a useful indicator of market momentum.
sub-Sahara Africa continues to be dominated by strong development activity During 2013, while rig counts in the in West Africa, with increasing focus on United States remained relatively static, exploration, both onshore and offshore weather events and a funding squeeze in East Africa, following appraisal of hindered many projects in Canada, with a major new gas discoveries.
New activity consequent drop in rig numbers during the in Southern Africa is also anticipated, year.
The energy industry in the United including shale related resources which States has shifted in the last few years from are beginning to show potential.
gas to oil-focused drilling programmes, Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 19
