Corporate Governance Board of Directors Richard Hunting C. B. E. Dennis Proctor Peter Rose Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director Was elected an executive Director and Was appointed a Director in 2000 and Was appointed to the Board as Finance Deputy Chairman on the formation of Chief Executive in 2001.
A Chartered Hunting PLC in 1989 and has been executive of Hunting Energy Services Accountant, he joined Hunting in 1997 Chairman of the Board since 1991.
In from March 2000 after joining the prior to which he held senior financial 2011, Mr Hunting moved from an Group in 1993.
He is a US citizen positions with Babcock International.
based in Houston, Texas and has held Chairman of the Nomination senior positions in the oil services Committee.
He is a non-executive industry in Europe, Middle East and director of the Royal Brompton & North America.
Board Subcommittee Membership Audit Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Executive Directors Dennis Proctor Peter Rose Non-executive Directors Richard Hunting John Hofmeister John Nicholas Andrew Szescila 44 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Corporate Governance John Hofmeister John Nicholas Andrew Szescila Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Was appointed a non-executive Was appointed a non-executive Was appointed a non-executive Director in 2009 and is the Companys Director in 2009 and is chairman of the Director in 2011 and is chairman of the Senior Independent Director.
He is a Fellow of the Remuneration Committee.
A US citizen citizen resident in Houston, Texas.
He Association of Chartered Certified resident in Destin, Florida.
He is is the founder and chief executive Accountants and is a member of the currently a non-executive director of officer of the Washington D. C. UK Financial Reporting Review Panel.
UK quoted Frontera Resources registered not-for-profit Citizens for He is currently a non-executive director Corporation.
He was formerly the Chief Affordable Energy Inc, and a nonof Diploma PLC, Rotork PLC and Operating Officer of Baker Hughes Inc. executive director of Camac Energy Inc Mondi plc.
He was formerly the Group and Applus.
He is the former President Finance Director of Tate & Lyle plc and of Shell Oil Company and a former prior to that Group Finance Director of Group Director of Royal Dutch Shell Kidde plc.
PLC in The Hague, Netherlands.
Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 45
