Strategic Report Business strategy Huntings strategy is to be a key global provider of components and tools to companies who explore, develop and produce oil and gas resources and those primary service companies who support them.
The Group seeks to deliver growth in long-term shareholder value by progressing the following objectives: Develop leading Acquire Capture Strategic proprietary complementary product sales objective products and businesses synergies services The energy industry is a In some circumstances it is Huntings market leverage can Strategic driver competitive market where more cost effective to purchase be enhanced by ensuring many best in class products, companies who have already of our products are available in manufacturing know-how and developed successful products all geographic regions.
These intellectual property contribute than develop these in-house.
revenue based synergies are to market leadership and Hunting therefore expects to the driving force behind our increases barriers to entry.
continue to grow by sales efforts to maximise our acquisition, adding products market position.
and services that complement the existing portfolio.
Hunting is investing in a Our approach to acquisitions We target to manufacture and Our approach portfolio of leading proprietary follows a strict discipline.
We sell Huntings complete technologies aligned to acquire businesses with a product offering across our increasingly complex customer strong technology offering and global manufacturing hubs.
market share, often with clearly identified synergies with our Often our technology is Hunting offers enhanced existing business lines to developed and introduced into end-to-end services which achieve further pricing the North American energy integrate into the customer leverage.
Each acquisition is market and then adopted into supply chain and offers also highly dependent on other global regions.
Our aim customers the high level of customer needs and the nature is to ensure our products are quality and service which are of new products.
sold in every relevant critical to our sector.
10 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Strategic Report Underlying these objectives is a commitment to manufacture and deliver the highest quality products and services with a reputation for reliability and on time delivery under the Hunting brand.
Develop a Build close Market the Target a high global presence relationships with Hunting brand market share for customers and globally our high value suppliers products Exploration and production for Hunting supplies products and Hunting has a long established A key success factor in the oil and gas is undertaken tools to many tiers of the pedigree and reputation in its energy supply chain is globally requiring an upstream industry.
achieving critical mass within a appropriate geographic product or service line.
E&P The energy industry is As the business develops, the can support charging a market spend and drilling activity is evolving, both in the brand is used in new markets premium.
occurring in more diverse and complexity of its activities and and exploited as acquired challenging environments.
This businesses and product lines industry increasingly demands means that trusted relationships are integrated into the Hunting close points of presence to key with business partners are Group.
areas of exploration and critical to success.
Our aim is to engage closely Hunting continues to develop Hunting targets to be the The commitment to our with our customer base, its global brand through the supplier of choice for its key customers is on time delivery supported by our key suppliers.
standardisation of production, product lines and to achieve of quality assured products to quality, employment and HSE this we aim to secure a their locations.
Our focus remains on building practices throughout its meaningful market share to and deepening these operations.
give our customers confidence Hunting is targeting further relationships to maintain our in our technology offering and expansion of capacity to meet competitive edge.
the ability to supply into any expected customer demands global region.
providing there is a sound We seek to acquire knowledge business case.
Huntings expansion strategy includes and respond rapidly to local developing a presence in needs by becoming an integral fiscally and politically stable part of our customers supply countries to ensure our chain and thereby increase our investment is protected in the market presence.
Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 11 Strategic Report Business strategy continued Progress and near to mid-term targets Project Related Strategic Objective Huntings Premium Connections business continues to strengthen with investment in Relationships with customers additional manufacturing capacity.
In December 2013, ground was broken for a new 110,000 square and suppliers foot facility in AmeriPort, near Houston, Texas to address onshore and offshore drilling activity.
Further consolidation of facilities is planned, once AmeriPort is commissioned in 2015.
During the year Hunting has completed the development and testing of new WEDGE-LOCK products, Proprietary products with the first customer order being received in Q4 2013. and services The Group has finalised development of a new range of SEAL-LOCK XD premium connection Proprietary products products which are to be introduced to customers in early 2014. and services A new development and test facility in Houston has been approved to develop new premium connection Proprietary products product lines and accelerate certification timescales.
This is expected to be commissioned in 2015. and services During the year, investment continued with the expansion of Hunting Dearborn and approval of the Global presence final phase of development at Houma, Louisiana.
Hunting Titan has commenced the manufacture of perforating guns in Canada, Mexico and China Proprietary products during the year to address local customer demand and improve operating cost efficiencies.
and services The business has also opened new international distribution centres to supply Hunting Titans product lines to the Groups global customer base.
In 2013, Hunting Titan introduced a new Product sales synergies ControlFire detonation switch system to its global customer base for use in our range of perforating systems.
Hunting has initiated a green field investment in South Africa during the year with the appointment Product sales synergies: of new personnel in Cape Town and has secured a site to build a new facility in-country to address relationships with customers opportunities in West and East Africa where oil and gas exploration continues to accelerate.
The facility and suppliers: global presence is planned to be approximately 50,000 square feet and is scheduled to be commissioned in 2015.
Huntings AMG business has located international sales personnel in Asia Pacific and is developing Product sales synergies: plans for a manufacturing presence in the region.
relationships with customers and suppliers: global presence 12 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Strategic Report Project Related Strategic Objective Huntings Premium Connections business continues to strengthen with investment in Relationships with customers additional manufacturing capacity.
During the year Hunting has completed the development and testing of new WEDGE-LOCK products, Proprietary products with the first customer order being received in Q4 2013. and services The Group has finalised development of a new range of SEAL-LOCK XD premium connection Proprietary products products which are to be introduced to customers in early 2014. and services A new development and test facility in Houston has been approved to develop new premium connection Proprietary products New drilling techniques Connection technologies product lines and accelerate certification timescales.
This is expected to be commissioned in 2015. and services and the emergence of long lateral wellbores as During the year, investment continued with the expansion of Hunting Dearborn and approval of the Global presence the preferred option to final phase of development at Houma, Louisiana.
extract hydrocarbons from shale formations, has led Hunting Titan has commenced the manufacture of perforating guns in Canada, Mexico and China Proprietary products during the year to address local customer demand and improve operating cost efficiencies.
and services to the development of The business has also opened new international distribution centres to supply Hunting Titans new technologies to meet product lines to the Groups global customer base.
In 2013, Hunting Titan introduced a new Product sales synergies these challenges.
ControlFire detonation switch system to its global customer base for use in our range of perforating systems.
Hunting has an established reputation for supplying leading edge, premium connections that can withstand extreme Hunting has initiated a green field investment in South Africa during the year with the appointment Product sales synergies: operating environments.
A rigorous of new personnel in Cape Town and has secured a site to build a new facility in-country to address relationships with customers development programme is pursued to opportunities in West and East Africa where oil and gas exploration continues to accelerate.
The facility and suppliers: global presence keep the Group at the forefront of the is planned to be approximately 50,000 square feet and is scheduled to be commissioned in 2015. technological curve to capture new opportunities demanded by the customer that enables them to access Huntings AMG business has located international sales personnel in Asia Pacific and is developing Product sales synergies: and produce their assets.
plans for a manufacturing presence in the region.
relationships with customers and suppliers: global presence Proprietary products appear under the Hunting SEAL-LOCK banner and cover a full range of gas tight seals.
Despite a strong order book for existing products, new connections have recently been made available including the extreme duty SEAL-LOCK XD designed for Canadian and Asia-Pacific conditions, while first orders for a WEDGE-LOCK suite using dovetailed teeth for horizontal production have been secured.
A new in-house connection test centre is currently being built to shorten qualification time.
Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 13
