Calgary, home to most Global demand for oil and gas is forecast operators headquarters, was disrupted by the flood for several weeks.
Coupled with to rise with attendant capital expenditure to high inventories, our Canadian operations fulfil that requirement.
saw a record profit year in 2012 turn to a loss for 2013.
Operations have returned to higher levels and 2014 should return to profitability.
The North Sea, another disappointment for 2013, started the year with 22 rigs and expectations of excellent activity.
With contracts to provide support for nine of Markets for Hunting are more often Oil prices averaged $98 per barrel in 2013, these rigs, the facilities were prepared for customer and region specific.
While the $4 per barrel more than the average in high production levels and supported by macro elements of the oil and gas industry 2012.
Forecasts for 2014 range from $93 to higher inventories.
The rig activity declined are important, the Groups attention to $99 per barrel.
The US oil rig count has to 10, with exploration wells drilled at the historical customers and their needs plays a been relatively unchanged since May 2012, lowest level since 1965, and profits fell to more important role in our view of future averaging 1,380 rigs.
Globally, oil half of expectations.
Granted, our customers represent consumption is forecast to reach 91.59 have recovered and expectations are for a some of the largest E & P companies and million barrels per day a 1% increase over return to 2012 results.
major service companies, but individual 2013.
Supply disruptions present contracts and activity levels vary year to considerable uncertainty over the forecast Our Middle East operations have the year.
Accordingly, we work closely with period because issues underpinning the highest potential for best percentage growth their management to assess their disruptions in most countries remain in future months and years.
The region expectations, often 23 years forward.
contains and continues to develop some of Certainly oil prices, energy demand, global the worlds largest giant fields those rig count, E & P spending growth and Given the above, the US industry sentiment fields with a recoverable reserve of 500 industry forecasts are favourable and reflects US capital investment of nearly MMboe or more.
A new joint venture in strongly underpin our confidence in capital $160 billion for 2014, an 11% increase over Saudi Arabia and a licence agreement with investment and global expansion for 2014.
Producers onshore are utilising more the new Arcelor Mittal seamless mill in geology specific drilling and completion Saudi Arabia will commence and should Gas and oil prices are key drivers to drilling equipment resulting in longer well bores have a significant impact on business activity and equipment demand.
While the and specific supplier products.
North American natural gas supply gap US Gulf of Mexico activity is anticipating 57 narrowed and drove gas prices higher in rigs operating, a 5% increase.
This growth is Outside of the US, the Asia Pacific region the last quarter of 2013, forecasts suggest the basis for our increased capital continues to be the largest and fastest more pricing pressure throughout 2014. investment on additional facilities, but growing region in the Group.
Past Accordingly, exports are critical for growth unfortunately, will not be available until late investment has performed extremely well, in US production, which may not occur in the year.
Incremental machine capacity, with expectations to continue as more until 2020.
Gas directed drilling appears to coupled with more efficient operations will capacity, new sales offices and distribution have found some stability on the downside.
soften the delay and enable the Company to points are added.
Having fallen nearly 50% in 2012, the gas capture the expected increase in business.
rig count fell only 13% in 2013, currently Regardless of the euphoria and media just below 400 rigs.
Globally, natural gas In Canada, unusual flooding occurred attention over shale oil and gas, future oil demand is expected to grow annually throughout the Alberta province, delaying and gas supply will continue to be at a rate of 1.8% driven by China and India and, in some cases, cancelling drilling dominated by conventional reserves found as well as Latin America and other gas mostly offshore.
The International Energy poor countries.
32 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Strategic Report Agency lEA predicts that unconventional International Completion Activities Oil price average 2013 oil will contribute only 13% of global Results varied during 2013 dependent supply and unconventional gas 26% by on regional activities, with Asia Pacific 2035.
Huntings variety of product lines can up 60% and North Sea down 27%.
In be utilised in all types of reservoirs both 2014, both regions expect mid to high $98per barrel onshore and offshore.
Accordingly, our single digit growth.
efforts extend far beyond the US shale plays AMG Excluding the Electronics Gas price average 2013 and the Gulf of Mexico despite the volume division, down 22% primarily due to of wells drilled and the attention received.
timing of deliveries slipping into 2014.
Low double digit growth for 2014.
Following years of acquisitions and facility Electronics Significantly down 60% as $3.73mmBtu growth, the Group has and will continue to customers destocked from an excessive provide its vast product offering within pre-purchase of product in 2012. each region.
Perforating equipment is now Modest improvement in 2014 as produced or distributed in each location.
customers continue working off Premium connections are produced or inventory.
repaired throughout the Groups facilities.
Perforating Products Strong 2013 year Pressure control, wire line tools, drilling on year growth due to US market share tools, OCTG and accessories are produced capture and establishment of at facilities closest to the operators drilling international manufacturing and activity.
Our goal to provide the customer distribution facilities.
High, single digit with any product from any of our 41 growth is expected in 2014. manufacturing plants or 34 distribution US Manufacturing No change year on centres having the identical quality year with low double digit growth Facilities are being set up to manufacture Huntings complete product offering, enhancing flexibility and assurance is maturing but will be further expected in 2014. speed of product delivery.
Subsea Excellent recovery of 202% following recertification issues in 2012 Regional growth has and will continue to with expectations for additional 50% be important in order to service our global growth in 2014. customers.
Equally important is the advancement and new developments of Your company has and will continue to our product line.
build a unique business that is highly focused on the well bore within the oil and Looking at the profit from operations gas industry.
Drilling and completion generated by a number of our key characteristics continue to be more business units: complex in high pressure, high temperature deviated environments requiring Premium Connections 2013 year on sophisticated components.
People skills, year growth was flat due to specific attitudes, quality conformance and customer project delays.
High single manufacturing competence exist in Hunting digit growth for 2014. to meet the demands of the industry.
Drilling Tools Up 4% year on year Growth is our passion, not just a financial from increased utilisation in various necessity.
The assets are well placed and shale plays in the US.
Low double digit opportunities exist to accomplish our goals growth for 2014 from delivery of in the coming year.
North American OCTG Canada down 86% and US down 28%, but both regions expect double digit improvements in 2014.
Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 33
