Strategic Report Hunting and our business model The Hunting Group comprises three separate business divisions.
The Hunting Energy Services division carries Well Construction out Huntings core operating activity which is the manufacture and distribution of products, provision of related services and equipment rental to the upstream energy sector.
Hunting Energy Services works with international and national oil companies as well as the major energy service companies and independent operators.
To support these customer relationships Hunting Energy Services operates on a global level.
The division operates across three segments which reflect the well life cycle being Well Construction, Well Completion and Well Intervention.
Hunting has a world leading Premium Connections platform, which manufactures and distributes precision engineered The Hunting Group also includes two non-core divisions: technologies and products for all well bores.
We provide Gibson Shipbrokers which is one of the worlds foremost Oil Country Tubular Goods OCTG directly to global ship brokers and an Exploration and Production international, national and the independent oil and gas business focused on the Southern US and offshore Gulf companies sourced from steel mills and apply proprietary of Mexico.
or licensed technology to these tubular products.
In order to monitor the well construction environment, precision machined parts are manufactured together with associated electronic components, which provide sophisticated measurement and logging equipment.
The division is an innovator in the design, manufacture and rental of mud motors and associated drilling tools Manufacturing centres such as non-magnetic collars which improve drilling time in certain geological conditions.
It also machines drill rods for trenchless drilling within the utilities industry.
The global manufacturing base is supported by a growing network of distribution centres.
41 Global footprint Service and distribution points 34 Total number of facilities 75 06 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Strategic Report Well Completion Well Intervention This division manufactures accessories and completion Once a well begins production, various maintenance and equipment for use below the well head.
It provides intervention programmes are needed to manage it safely tailored OCTG supply and pipe management options to and ensure it produces to its full potential, whether on the regional operator, with high specification tubing and land or offshore.
The wellbore is re-entered regularly so connections supplied to global markets.
Advanced that a wide range of remedial and enhancement work manufacturing techniques offer an associated range of can be completed.
tubular accessories designed to suit the particular specifications of each well.
The division manufactures and supplies equipment and tools to meet these demands, often engineered to a To initiate the flow of oil or gas back to the surface the clients specific needs geared to underwater or onshore division manufactures perforating guns, energetics and environments.
The work ranges from pressure control accessories.
These are delivered by wireline or coiled equipment to allow access, logging tools to monitor tubing operators to the oil and gas target, to perforate integrity and intervention tools to perform specific tasks.
the casing at predetermined points.
Instrumentation to Hydraulic subsea equipment is also a core expertise.
monitor and switchgear to manage firing sequencing This specialisation allows for the integration of an extensive have been developed in house.
The growth of a range of well intervention technologies, delivered by worldwide manufacturing capability supports the regional wireline, slickline or coiled tubing.
These can be assembled distribution centres sought by the customer.
into unique self-contained packages and are frequently supplied to remote locations around the world.
Global footprint Global footprint Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 07 Strategic Report Hunting and our business model continued Our business model to To train and develop To operate a achieve our strategic our people decentralised objectives is: management structure Huntings broad product portfolio The oil and gas industry is a fast paced demands experienced engineering and sector where product requirements can production staff crossing many operate on short lead times.
Hunting has leaders are empowered to react quickly to established regional training centres in our business needs as and when North America and Asia Pacific to ensure opportunities arise.
our workforce is at the forefront of new Each business unit assesses future industry developments.
customer needs and internal product development programmes are guided by evolving industry technologies and practices.
To unify standards To maintain a and procedures strong governance framework Demanding quality, safety and efficiency The Groups leaders and their teams procedures are embodied in our business operate their businesses within a tight systems to monitor, adjust and raise our framework of controls, monitored and operating standards.
Unified practices are directed by central management functions developed and implemented at every under direction of the Board.
Hunting facility, with training of employees at the heart of our continued commitment and success.
08 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Strategic Report Instrumentation synergy Huntings Advanced Manufacturing Group provides a unique platform to manufacture the MWD LWD tools that can be integrated with their electrical subcomponents to provide a single piece, sub-section or whole tool with complete integrity.
The Group has continued to develop both its product capability and geographic coverage with a new permanent presence in Our strategic acquisitions of Asia Pacific.
recent years have brought the Hunting develops appropriate strength of a complementary proprietary instrumentation and rugged range of high end precision detector technologies that incorporate machining capabilities, coupled rigorous manufacturing and quality procedures to provide our customers with an electronic manufacturing with dependable and cost effective capability, to the worldwide logging products.
New Bond Cement  tools, Nuclear and Gamma detectors as well as radio frequency safe switch  MWD gear for Perforating Systems has been LWD market.
introduced drawing on skill sets and resources across the Group.
Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 09
