Corporate Governance Report of the Directors The Directors present their report, together with the audited Post Balance Sheet Events consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December There are no disclosable post balance sheet events.
Annual General Meeting Principal Activities and Strategic Report The Annual General Meeting of the Company will take place on Hunting PLC is a holding company whose subsidiaries are primarily Wednesday 16 April 2014 at The Royal Automobile Club, 89 Pall involved in the manufacture and distribution of products that Mall, London SW1Y 5HS, commencing at 10.30am.
enable the extraction of oil and gas for the worlds leading energy companies.
At the meeting, as well as routine matters, members will be asked to: The Company is UK domiciled and incorporated in England and approve the Directors Remuneration Policy: Wales.
Details of the Companys principal subsidiaries are set out approve the Annual Report on Remuneration: and in note 42.
A full list of the Companys subsidiaries will be approve the new 2014 Hunting Performance Share Plan.
incorporated into the 2014 Annual Return.
Further details of the resolutions and voting procedures are set out The Strategic Report, which is set out on pages 2 to 43, provides a in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
comprehensive review of the development, performance and future prospects of the business for the year ended 31 December Shareholders can vote by completing the form of proxy sent with 2013 pages 20 to 33.
The information set out includes a the Notice of Meeting, or by submitting votes electronically via the description of the Companys strategy and business model pages 6 Registrars website www.
co. uk or via their online to 13, the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group pages portfolio service, Shareview, if registered as a member.
34 to 37, key performance indicators pages 14 and 15 and key Alternatively, shares held in CREST may be voted through the information about environmental matters, the Companys CREST Proxy Voting Service.
To be valid all votes must be received employees and community issues.
These sections, including the no later than 48 hours before the time set for the meeting.
Corporate Governance Report on pages 50 to 53, are deemed to form part of this report.
Directors The biographies of the Directors of the Company as at Results 31December 2013 are set out on pages 44 and 45 of this report.
The results of the Group are set out in the Consolidated Income As recommended by the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Statement on page 84.
Directors will submit themselves for re-election at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
From 1 January 2013, Hunting PLC has changed the currency in which it presents its consolidated financial statements from Sterling No Director during the year had a material interest in any contract to US dollars.
In addition the functional currency of the Company of significance to which either the Company or any of its has changed to US dollars.
See note 1 for further details.
Directors interests in the shares of the Company are shown on page 74.
Dividends The Directors, subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual As at 31 December 2013, no Director of the Company had any General Meeting of the Company to be held on 16 April 2014, beneficial interest in the shares of subsidiary companies.
recommend a final dividend of 21.8 cents per share 2012 21.3 cents, which together with the interim dividend of 7.7 cents 2012 Powers of the Directors 7.1 cents, takes the total dividend for the year to 29.5 cents per Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, UK legislation share 2012 28.4 cents, an increase of 4%.
The final dividend and any directions prescribed by resolution at a general meeting, will be paid on 27May 2014 to shareholders on the register at the the business of the Company is managed by the Board.
The close of business on 2 May 2014.
Directors have been authorised to allot and issue Ordinary shares and to disapply statutory pre-emption rights.
These powers are Changes in the Group and its Interests During the exercised under authority of resolutions of the Company passed at Financial Year its Annual General Meeting.
During the financial year ended 31 On 29 May 2013, the Group purchased the assets of XL Perforating December 2013 693,519 Ordinary shares were issued pursuant to Partnership, a distributor of perforating products in Western the Companys various share plans.
Further details can be found in note 41.
46 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Corporate Governance Further, the Company has authority, renewed annually, to purchase Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using CREST up to 14.99% of the issued share capital, equating to 22,042,681 and the Directors can refuse to register a transfer of an shares.
Any shares purchased will either be cancelled, and the uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations governing number of Ordinary shares in issue reduced accordingly, or held in the operation of CREST.
The Directors may decide to suspend the registration of transfers, These powers are effective for 15 months from the date of for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register of shareholders.
The shareholder approval, or up to the next general meeting where new Directors cannot suspend the registration of transfers of any authorities are sought.
uncertificated shares without obtaining consent from CREST.
The Directors will be seeking new authorities for these powers at There are no restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary shares in the the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
Company other than: certain restrictions that may from time to time be imposed by Directors and Officers Liability Insurance laws and regulations, for example insider trading laws: The Company maintains insurance against certain liabilities, which pursuant to the Companys share dealing code whereby the could arise from a negligent act or a breach of duty by its Directors Directors and certain employees of the Company require and Officers in the discharge of their duties.
This is a qualifying third approval to deal in the Companys shares: and party indemnity provision, which was in force throughout the where a shareholder with at least a 0.25% interest in the financial year.
Companys certificated shares has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company with information Articles of Association concerning interests in those shares.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
Where class The Company is not aware of any agreements between rights are varied, such amendments must be approved by the shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of members of each class of share separately.
Ordinary shares or on voting rights.
Share Capital Registrar The Companys issued share capital comprises a single class, which The address and contact details of Equiniti Limited, the Companys is divided into Ordinary shares of 25 pence each, details of which Registrar, are listed on the inside back cover of this report.
Equiniti is are set out in note 32 of the financial statements.
All of the the Companys single alternative inspection location, whereby Companys issued Ordinary shares are fully paid up and rank individuals can inspect the register of members.
Individual equally in all respects.
As at 31 December 2013, there were shareholders may view their personal shareholder information 147,742,760 Ordinary shares in issue.
The rights and obligations online, through the www.
attached to these shares are summarised below and are detailed in the Articles of Association of the Company, copies of which can be Employee Share Trust obtained from Companies House in the UK, or by writing to the The Hunting Employee Share Trust was established on 5 June 1996 Company Secretary at the registered office of the Company.
Subject as a vehicle to satisfy shares options and awards granted to to applicable statutes, shares may be issued with such rights and employees who participate in the share-based incentive schemes restrictions as the Company may, by ordinary resolution, decide, or run by the Company.
At 31 December 2013 the Trust held 986,731 if there is no such resolution or so far as it does not make specific Ordinary shares in the Company 2012 986,731.
The Trust has provision as the Board may decide.
The movements in share elected to waive its voting rights and all dividends attached to the capital during the year are detailed in note 32 of this report.
The Trust has a policy to purchase shares in the market or subscribe for new shares to meet future requirements of these Voting Rights and Restrictions on Transfer of Shares incentive schemes.
During the year, the Trust subscribed for On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company, every 486,700 Ordinary shares with an aggregate nominal value of holder of Ordinary shares present in person or by proxy, and $0.2m.
entitled to vote, has one vote, and, on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote for every Details of the employee share schemes can be found in the Ordinary share held.
None of the Ordinary shares carry any special Directors Remuneration Policy on pages 64 and 65 and in note 37. rights with regard to control of the Company.
Proxy appointments and voting instructions must be received by the Companys Registrars not later than 48 hours before a general meeting.
A shareholder can lose his entitlement to vote at a general meeting where that shareholder has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares.
Shareholders rights to transfer shares are subject to the Companys Articles of Association.
Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 47 Corporate Governance Report of the Directors continued Substantial Interests As at 31 December 2013 pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Directive, issued by the Financial Conduct Authority, the major shareholders of the Company are as follows: Number of Percentage of issued Notes Ordinary shares Ordinary shares AXA group of companies 16,423,868 11.1% Hunting Investments Limited i iv 10,884,743 7.4% Mirabaud Investment Management 6,918,611 4.7% Slaley Investments Limited 6,411,679 4.3% Threadneedle Asset Management 6,212,332 4.2% F Godson as trustee ii 5,722,170 3.9% Norges Bank Investment Managers 5,635,895 3.8% Royal London Asset Management 4,801,174 3.2% Franklin Templeton Fund Management 4,340,000 2.9% Legal & General Investment Management 4,229,029 2.9% BlackRock group of companies 4,142,297 2.8% Standard Life Investments 4,038,384 2.7% J Trafford as trustee ii 3,541,281 2.4% F&C Asset Management 3,172,512 2.1% Henderson Global Investors 2,779,310 1.9% David RL Hunting 199,910 0.1% as trustee ii 2,549,117 1.7% other beneficial iii 2,484,583 1.7% Notes i.
Included in this holding are 9,437,743 Ordinary shares held by Huntridge Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Hunting Investments Limited.
Neither of these companies is owned by Hunting PLC either directly or indirectly.
After elimination of duplicate holdings, the total Hunting family trustee interests shown above amount to 6,025,864 Ordinary shares.
Arise because David RL Hunting and his children are or could become beneficiaries under the relevant family trusts of which David RL Hunting is a trustee.
Richard H Hunting Chairman of Hunting PLC and David RL Hunting are both directors of Hunting Investments Limited.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions result of a change of control.
Further details of the Directors The Groups greenhouse gas emissions for 2013 total 41,853 tonnes service contracts can be found in the Directors Remuneration 2012 39,180 tonnes.
For further details please see page 43 of the Policy contained within pages 66 and 67.
Going Concern Research and Development The Group has a broad range of products and services, a large Group subsidiaries undertake, where appropriate, research and portfolio of production and storage facilities, a sufficiently diverse development to meet particular market and product needs.
The global customer and supplier base and meets its day-to-day amount incurred by the Group during the year was $0.6m 2012 working capital requirements through its cash and debt facilities.
The Group has limited exposure to the Eurozone or other regions Political Contributions that are perceived as high risk or exposed to the direct impact of It is the Groups policy not to make political donations, accordingly austerity measures.
The Group also retains limited exposure to there were no political donations made during the year 2012 credit risk as it has strong, well-developed relationships with its $nil.
major customers and maintains insurance cover for 96% of its trade receivables.
Significant Agreements The Company is a party to a revolving credit facility in which the In conducting its review of the Groups ability to remain as a going counterparties can determine whether or not to cancel the concern for the foreseeable future, the Board assessed the Groups agreement where there has been a change of control of the recent trading position and its latest forecasts and took account of Company.
reasonably predictable changes in future trading performance.
The Board also considered the Groups current business model, its The service agreements of the executive Directors include strategy, the principal risks and the potential financial impact of the provisions for compensation for loss of office or employment as a estimates, judgements and assumptions that were used to prepare 48 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts Strategic Report Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Corporate Governance these financial statements.
The Board is satisfied that all material state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU have been uncertainties have been identified and they are not considered to followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and be sufficiently material to impact the financial viability of the explained in the financial statements: and Group.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will The Group has access to considerable financial resources including continue in business.
The main financial covenants note 35 attached to this facility are 1 EBITDA should The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting not be less than four times net finance charges, and 2 net debt records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and should be no more than three times adjusted EBITDA.
The Group Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at continues to have significant headroom over both covenants.
any time the financial position of the Group and the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the The Board is satisfied that it has conducted a robust review of the Remuneration Committee Report comply with the Companies Act Groups foreseeable future and has a high level of confidence that 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the Group has the necessary liquid resources to meet its liabilities the IAS Regulation.
The Directors are also responsible for as they fall due, will be able to sustain its operational requirements safeguarding the assets of the Group and the Company and for and will remain solvent during that period.
Consequently the Board taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud continues to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in and other irregularities.
preparing these consolidated financial statements.
The Directors are also responsible for the maintenance and Independent Auditors integrity of the Groups website, www.
Legislation  LLP has indicated its willingness to in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and continue in office as auditors.
A resolution to reappoint them as dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in auditors to the Group will be proposed at the Annual General other jurisdictions.
Meeting to be held on 16 April 2014.
Pursuant to the Financial Conduct Authoritys Listing Rules, Statement of Disclosure of Information to Auditors Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the UK Corporate In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, all Directors in office Governance Code, each of the Directors, whose names and as at the date of this report have confirmed, so far as they are responsibilities are listed on pages 44 and 45, confirm that, to the aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups best of their knowledge and belief: auditors are unaware and each Director has taken all reasonable the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRSs as steps necessary in order to make himself aware of any relevant adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors are liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and of the aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be Company: interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and Companies Act 2006. understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess a companys performance, business Statement of Directors Responsibilities model and strategy: The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 43 comprising the Group the Audit and Remuneration Committee Reports and the financial Performance Summary and Corporate and Social Responsibility statements in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
Report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the Groups operations and the year-end Company Law requires the Directors to prepare financial position of the Group and the Company, together with a statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors description of the principal risks and uncertainties they face.
have prepared the Group and parent Company financial The Strategic Report also details the Groups policies on human statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting rights, gender balance and its scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union EU.
Under Company Law, the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair By Order of the Board view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable Ben Willey and prudent: Company Secretary 6 March 2014 Hunting PLC 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 49
