Ecosystems of support Imagination is very Our ecosystems formalize the ways we work with some partners, active in being out there with customers, from the providing them with benefits such as education, tools, support, CEO down.
From our introductions to key partners and access to our best technologies.
customer and developer events worldwide through Our ecosystems and strategic partnership programmes are an integral part of our IP, and are engineers working side by side at customer or vital to Imaginations success.
Imagination locations, to strategic development and insight, Imagination is committed to getting close These ecosystems comprise companies We have continued to expand our ecosystem to our partners.
large and small that create software or other programmes to help Imaginations licensees Amit Rohatgi products for or with chips containing our IP.
and key partners meet and engage with a VP Strategic Marketing We work with thousands of developers who broad community of developers, middleware support Imagination-based platforms with providers, foundries, EDA and tool vendors, the most innovative and exciting content as and third party support teams, and provide well as with comprehensive tools, middleware extensive co-marketing opportunities for and support.
product manufacturers, content developers and semiconductor companies Because our technologies are used in some of the worlds most iconic products, and are shipped in very high volume, key applications are developed first for our technology.
Ports to other platforms come much later, if at all.
Imagination delivered Our partners include many The results of our strategy and technology are amazing products of the leading companies in the semiconductor and that are changing the world.
Hardware products and software consumer electronics enabled by our technologies are at the heart of the digital world.
They have created some of the most iconic and It is no exaggeration to say that every household in the developed culturally important products of the 21st century.
world has been touched by our technology.
We are in thousands Wherever you are and of products across the home, pocket and workplace.
whatever you do, chances are youve already used a product with one or more of our technologies inside.
Tony King-Smith EVP Marketing 24 Mobile phone Mobile computing Home electronics Handheld multimedia Automotive Networking Emerging markets 25 While our customers use the same Systems, select parts optimized for different fundamental technologies, our whole IP power, performance and cost metrics, and range is designed to enable differentiation.
design in a wide variety of processes and Customers can use differing APIs Application architectures.
Programming Interfaces and OS Operating We have partnerships with the strongest suppliers in the markets we target, and many of our partners now ship products using our technology into multiple markets.
We are proud to be one of the springboards from which so much innovation, change and delight has come.
Design wins by market 16 Mobile Phones 48 Handheld Multimedia 20 Home Consumer Mobile Computing 25 8 Automotive 39 Emerging Markets Excluding MIPS Total: 158 Sometimes we are asked why we dont focus on a single market segment or technology.
We point to the range of markets we are in as being like a diverse investment portfolio our strong range of fundamental technologies across a broad range of designs and markets enable us to be resilient, stable and strong in a constantly changing environment.
