Pure, the consumer electronics company with Imagination Pure is Imaginations consumer electronics CE division, alongside the technology division that develops, sells and supports our IP.
Pure uses technology from Imagination partners, pathfi nding in new markets, promoting the capabilities of our IP and allowing us to experience market and technology conditions as OEMs and consumers do, which helps keep us grounded and solution focused.
Pure brings Imagination closer to the place where innovation and consumers meet.
Pure has been following a three-phase strategy that helps drive Imaginations objectives in strategic markets.
Phase 1: drive and penetrate digital radio Phase 2: transition Pure to a consumer CE brand Phase 3: innovate in home automation Pure helps to drive our technology business.
New Pure products have been key to raising the profi le and interest in our IP technologies, especially our Wi-Fi, processors and cloud connectivity technology.
Although consumer electronics markets have not proven recession-proof, Pure has retained a leading position in digital radio, a market which should strengthen as analogue radio switch-off comes to a number of key markets including the UK.
This will enable Imagination to ride the next wave of digital radio adoption.
Building on the strong foundation of its success in radio, Pure has been driving exciting product and platform developments that signifi cantly broaden its market reach to include: wireless streaming and internet connected audio: broadcast radio: in-car radio and audio: cloud-based services: and connected set-top boxes.
As well as showcasing our technologies, Pure is contributing new technologies to our IP ranges.
These include a new patented synchronisation method that enables wireless speakers to deliver the same tight stereo synchronization as wired speakers.
This means that wireless speakers are fi nally acceptable to even hi-fi buffs Pure Connect Pure is also key to our strategic partnerships in the worlds of entertainment and content.
This year Pure has begun or developed wide ranging strategic engagements with leading companies such as Volkswagen and Volvo in automotive, Halfords in automotive retail, Universal Music Group in entertainment, and Onkyo, Alpine and Pioneer in consumer electronics.
