The feedback from the customer base also suggests steps to ensure these technologies are complemented that, with the stability and long-term commitment that by relevant software technologies that can enable their Imagination brings to MIPS, the opportunity for MIPS to easy and quick deployment in the emerging Internet of become a real alternative in this market is very real indeed.
The Flow technology, which has been in The industry welcomes the much needed balance that development for over two years, has been designed to such a viable alternative brings to the environment.
speed-up the deployment of cloud-managed connected devices in diverse markets including home automation, The MIPS family of processors combined with our healthcare monitoring, energy management, security Ensigma technology offer a highly efficient connected and monitoring, connected intelligent toys, industrial processor which we believe is uniquely well positioned and agricultural monitoring control and many more.
The for many connected devices and the emerging Internet of technology aims to offer a ready-made shrink-wrapped Things and Machine-to-Machine M2M applications.
software platform, running on our silicon IP solutions and covering the server and client ends of such systems.
Communications Flow is an  software platform Connectivity and broadcast Our Ensigma that ensures all essential baseline services such as programmable radio processing unit RPU family authentication, security, update maintenance are available supporting both multi-standard broadcast receivers and to the developers, alongside APIs for functions such as Wi-Fi Bluetooth connectivity is becoming increasingly control, streaming, and payment services.
The aim has relevant to mainstream markets and has been designed been to enable easy and quick application development into a growing number of chips and products.
The without the need to worry about underlying capabilities.
design wins for this technology are steadily accelerating, The Flow technology has been deployed internally and in making this technology a sizable and growing part of our conjunction with partners in delivering our Pure internet business.
Ensigma RPUs support worldwide TV and radio radio and music services.
Such services require real-time reception as well as important connectivity standards and reliable management of large numbers of complex such as Wi-Fi, all running on the same silicon engine in connected devices.
We expect Flow technology to be a software.
This technology is increasingly essential for very serious enabler and supporter for the deployment delivery of cloud and broadcast content to home and also of our various silicon IP cores, in particular processors within the enterprise.
Already we have partner devices in and connectivity, in the emerging and very large cloudvolume shipment using this technology for digital radio connected devices market.
and Wi-Fi connectivity and we expect several new partner devices targeting multi-standard global TV markets to Strategic technology investments begin shipment during 2013.
As part of our overall plans we hold a number of strategic and long-term investments in a small number of private V. VoIP our HelloSoft family of video and voice over and listed companies.
These investments are designed IP V. VoIP products, including platform agnostic SDKs, to ensure we are both exposed to and are driving trends constitute an important element in our IP offering with that are of importance to our business.
These holdings relevance to both the arrival of 4G Long Term Evolution have been achieved through a combination of providing LTE networks which require VoIP over LTE VoLTE and strategic access to Imaginations IP as well as cash general internet-based communication.
Among these investments are Toumaz, UBC technology has now been adopted by a number of key Media, Ineda, 7digital, Orca and Greenplug and cover network operators and handset manufacturers for both areas including healthcare, Internet of Things, media and enterprise and consumer segments including MetroPCS content, wearables, connectivity and green power.
Partner chip shipments and royalties Cloud technologies Flow This technology is an emerging one with considerable Partner chip unit shipments grew strongly to 535m units synergy and significant potential for Imagination.
The strong shipment Given our strong silicon IP offerings in the key areas in the period was driven by continuing momentum of processing and connectivity, we have been taking from a number of our customers across several market 8
