iii Home automation: A key goal is to ultimately to continue to grow strongly and to exceed 650m units contribute to the emergence and development of the excluding MIPS.
home automation opportunities through the use of We have an active licensing pipeline with strong interests Imaginations processing, connectivity and Flow cloud from and engagements with existing and new customers technologies.
This is the next area of strategic focus across all of our technologies and have made a promising for Pure with technologies and products yet to be start to the year.
We therefore expect to see solid progress announced.
in this area in the current financial year and achieve our Several key products were launched during the last previously announced target of 30-35m licensing revenue financial year in line with the above strategic objectives.
Ground-breaking Pure wireless streaming products were Since we acquired MIPS we have seen steady progress launched in the Jongo multiroom music system family.
and positive engagements from our customers.
As we Other recent products include the Avalon 300R Connect have explained previously, this is a long-term strategic Freeview HD Digital TV recorder with full support for Pure investment which we expect to create significant value cloud services, second generation Pure Connect iPad over the five year period and we are very pleased with app and Pure Connect website formerly The Lounge progress so far.
and the Move 400D portable digital radio.
Jongo S3 and Avalon have been very well received and both have The smartphone market alone is forecast by industry received prestigious What Hi-Fi?
Sound and Vision 5 analysts to grow to an annual volume of around 1.6bn star awards.
In addition a number of strategic initiatives units by 2016.
Given our strong existing and growing are well underway and these include Pures direct to partnerships across both of the important established consumer initiative with Universal Music UK, aftermarket platforms, iOS and Android, where we have strong digital radio adapter supply to the VW group and ongoing presence, we believe a market share of around half of the engagements supporting the Flow cloud connectivity total smartphone market is a reasonable and realistic goal.
programme including advanced engagement with Onkyo Corporation.
Our strong presence in the fast-growing tablet market, where many of the leading platforms are using devices The Groups investment in developing the Flow technology with our technology, with industry analysts suggesting this and associated cloud client and portal technologies, market will reach over 400m units by 2016, means this which form the basis of the Pure Connect portal and, in segment will make a notable contribution to the Groups collaboration with ecosystem partners, enable services progress.
Additionally our good progress with a number such as Pure Music, a key and strategic activity that Pure of key Chinese and Taiwanese semiconductor partners is is helping to drive.
beginning to drive our technologies in the emerging lowerend tablet market.
Outlook The on-going transitions in TV STB markets towards The full-year saw strong volume ramp-up ahead of our smart functionality where we already have many active expectations.
We see this as a solid half-way milestone to partners, supplemented by MIPS strong presence in this our target of 1bn annual unit shipments excluding MIPS segment, continue to create significant design-win growth.
We expect to see accelerated progress in the licensing We expect to see continued shipment growth from our and deployment of our Ensigma communications and existing high volume partners.
Additionally we expect other MIPS microcontroller technologies in the emerging Internet partners targeting mobile, tablet and TV STB markets of Things.
to ramp up significantly during the current financial year.
As a result we expect partner chip shipments in FY14 10 In addition to the above markets our strategy and technologies have been constructed to ensure we are in a position to participate in other emerging or existing markets.
Of notable mention is the wearable devices market where we are being designed in through multiple major partners and which we see as a significant growth area for the future.
Other segments which we are fully engaged in include networking, automotive, industrial, infrastructure and the emerging healthcare technologies.
Despite the current economic environment, Pure continues to showcase effectively and drive some of our key technologies.
Pure is an integral part of the Groups strategy and focuses on targeting emerging consumer markets that can benefit from a driver and pathfinder approach.
This has been successfully executed in digital radio in the UK with the focus having moved to international development.
Our strategy is leading to complementary areas involving home connectivity, automation and the provision of useful remote cloud services enabling a subscription business model.
As a result the Board remains confident that the Group is on track to deliver continued strong growth during the current financial year.
Sir Hossein Yassaie Chief Executive 18 June 2013 11
