Imagination for the future We know many people still think of Imagination as primarily a graphics company but in reality we have progressed to something far broader.
This has been a year of great change for Imagination, as we reached new levels of volume shipments with our existing technologies while putting in place important building blocks for the future of the company.
By 2016 we expect the core technologies developed prior to the MIPS acquisition to ship over 1 billion units per annum, with the MIPS processor technologies adding additional volume on top of that.
At the time of writing Imagination IP has shipped in over 5 billion devices, cumulatively, with 1.2 billion of those shipping in the last year.
This year has been a notable inflection point in the history of Imagination.
Over the last few years we have grown all of our core billion technology groups, while also adding new ones to the 5 company to focus on cloud, shipped voice, vision and ray traced graphics.
With the addition of MIPS to the business this year we have put in place an 3,000,000 unmatched capability for the next phase of our strategy.
shipped per day Krishna Yarlagadda President Imagination USA sh ipped 35 per second Many of those devices contain more than one of our technologies.
Our MIPS processor, which has been on the market longest, has shipped in over 3.5 billion devices while PowerVR graphics has shipped in over 1 billion devices, making it the most successful graphics technology for mobile and embedded applications.
Our video IP has shipped over 600 million units to date, in many cases alongside our graphics technology.
Video is a key technology for camera, phone and TV applications and is an excellent example of how our licensees are taking increasing advantage of our IP portfolio.
Our Ensigma communications technologies have shipped in tens of millions of devices.
With three tier-one licensees now gained for Ensigma, we expect its volumes to grow notably.
We think this is a technology whose time has come as the market accepts the value of its innovative approach to communications.
Figure combines Imagination and MIPS shipments 19 containing our IP Im trying to understand By looking at the evolution of technologies like Ensigma, which have developed from innovative trends and am looking five niche players to being adopted by leading semiconductor companies for development of to 10 years into the future, mainstream consumer products, you can see the future path that new technologies like Flow because the IP development will take.
No customer will tell us what they want in five years so Even as the competitive landscape has become more crowded, evaluations of our IP against we have to have real vision.
alternatives by partners and the media have consistently shown our technological and When we started to develop quality advantages.
mobile graphics there were many doubters who felt While other IP companies compete with us, it remains the internal design capability of our that mobile phones would never need such advanced customers that is often our main competitor.
As such, we must ensure that our IP offers capabilities but I was benefits to our customers that far outweigh any advantages they could achieve by designing sure that teeth would be in-house.
At Imagination we cultivate the ability to spot Imaginations consistent strength remains our ability to offer our exceptional performance, those trends early.
power consumption and functionality advantages in every one of the IP cores we design Sir Hossein Yassaie CEO and develop.
We have demonstrated our ability to be very robust and highly competitive in increasingly dynamic IP markets, winning key design slots with many of the leading players in our target markets and displacing our competitors.
Connectivity Broadcast Graphics M2M Ray Tracing GPU Compute Video Cloud Camera & Vision Comms Multimedia General Software General Processing Embedded Audio 20
