Executive salaries Executive salary increases in the financial year 2012 13 averaged 8.3% compared with the average salary increase for all other employees of 4.5%.
The primary reason for the difference in salary increase for executives compared with all other employees, was to bring the executive salaries more into line with a competitive market-based salary, appropriate for the size and growth in the Group in recent years.
Proposed executive remuneration structure Following the comprehensive review of the remuneration of executives, it is proposed that the remuneration be structured around three elements going forward: a market competitive base salary: an annual bonus aligned to the delivery of in-year performance and long-term value drivers: and a long-term incentive plan LTIP aligned with the long-term success of the Group.
Once the Group has consulted with institutional shareholders, ABI and ISS the details of the proposed revisions to the annual bonus scheme and long-term incentive plan will be communicated to shareholders before the AGM.
Remuneration and opportunities for our employees The Committee reviewed the pay and conditions of all employees within the Group when determining executive remuneration in the financial year.
The Group aims to provide a competitive salary to employees to ensure it attracts the right calibre of people and all salaries are reviewed annually while graduates are reviewed biannually.
In order to encourage share ownership at all levels, including executive directors, the Company makes share awards to all employees and offers a Save As You Earn SAYE scheme.
The Companys shares are made to employees under the Employee Share Plan ESP on a bi-annual basis and will make awards to employees that are more tax efficient, where possible.
The shares under the ESP vest on the third anniversary of the grant date subject to any performance conditions.
The SAYE allows eligible employees an opportunity to enter into a three year savings contract to save a portion of their salary which can be used to purchase Company shares at up to a 20% discount to the market price on the date of invitation.
Over 60% of employees participate in the SAYE.
For further opportunities please refer to pages 57 to 58 of the Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
In summary We trust this report is informative.
We support the clear message sent by BIS that Generous rewards for leading executives are not an issue where executive remuneration is well structured, clearly linked to the strategic objectives of a Company, and which rewards executives that contribute to the long-term success of that Company.
The Committee are confident that our new proposed strategy for executive remuneration will provide the necessary structure and appropriate reward for executives, and is directly aligned for the future growth and profitability of the Group.
Andrew Heath Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 18 June 2013 Remuneration committee The Committee advises and makes recommendations to the Board on an appropriate remuneration policy and conducts an annual remuneration review within the agreed terms of reference of the Committee, which are available on the Groups website at www.
The Committee consists exclusively of non-executive directors.
During the year the members of the Committee have been Andrew Heath, David Anderson, David Hurst-Brown, Gilles Delfassy and Ian Pearson.
The Chair of the Committee transitioned from Ian Pearson to Andrew Heath during the year.
The different international experience and level of independence of the Committee provides the appropriate balance in regard to executive remuneration of the Company.
The Board considers all Committee members to be independent except for Ian Pearson and David HurstBrown as reported on page 48 of the Corporate Governance Statement and considers all to have no personal financial interest.
