internal control and risk management procedures in the Corporate Governance Statement on page 49.
The Group has experienced, and may in the future experience, fluctuations in the results of its operations.
There are a number of factors that can affect the results, for the Technology business, these include the timing of new licence agreements with partners and the timing and volume of products incorporating the Groups technology shipped by our partners.
The Group seeks to reduce this risk by both broadening the number of partners who utilize the Groups technology as well as widening the number of market segments that are targeted by the Groups partners.
For the Pure business, these factors also include the rate of adoption of digital radio and other product technologies worldwide and the continuation of the supply of products from Chinese manufacturers.
The Group has mitigated the latter by spreading the manufacture of the Groups products across a number of manufacturers in order to reduce the reliance on any one manufacturer.
The Group operates in a fast moving competitive marketplace characterized by rapid changes in technology.
The Groups result will be impacted by the introduction of new technologies and products by the Group and by the Groups competitors as they respond to these changes in technology.
In order to mitigate risk, the Group holds detailed dialogue with existing partners, as well as systems companies and industry bodies, in order to align its future products with advances in technology and market requirements.
As a technology business, the development and ownership of intellectual property is fundamental to the Groups performance.
Whilst the Group relies on patent, copyright, trademark and other intellectual property laws to establish and protect its proprietary rights, it cannot be certain that its proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated, circumvented or used without the Groups authorization.
The Group mitigates the risk by filing patents, trademarks and registered designs as appropriate to protect its intellectual property and through monitoring technologies promoted by third parties.
The Group transacts licence and development agreements with customers and purchases of products for Pure primarily in US dollars and, therefore, the Groups earnings are exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates.
The Group reviews its foreign exchange exposure on a regular basis and, where there is a material exposure to exchange rate fluctuations and the Board considers it appropriate, reduces the risk by currency hedging on net receivable payable balances.
The Groups performance is also subject to external macro-economic conditions.
Changes in factors such as government debt levels, interest rates, inflation, unemployment and commodity prices can create uncertainty in the Groups markets and affect consumer spending.
This may result in the Groups customers and potential customers delaying the placing of orders with the Group and or the reduced shipment of products incorporating the Groups technology.
In turn, both of these would adversely affect the Groups result.
Following the acquisition of MIPS Technologies, Inc. there are risks surrounding the successful integration of this business into the Group and therefore whether the anticipated returns will be achieved.
The Group has mitigated these risks by conducting significant due diligence and integration planning for this acquisition.
Particular care was taken when considering the impact that the acquisition would have on staff both within MIPS and within the Group.
Following the completion of the acquisition a detailed integration plan has been followed and progress against this plan is being reported to the Board at regular intervals with appropriate discussion on any areas of concern.
Future developments The Group intends to continue to develop its range of graphics, video, display, processing and communication technologies for use in SoC devices.
The Group will market these products to existing and new customers with a view to entering into commercial agreements for customers to incorporate the Groups technologies in their SoC devices.
The Pure business will continue to develop additional products using the Groups digital radio technology and internet connectivity streaming audio technology.
These products will be marketed to existing customers in the UK, and increasingly to overseas customers as markets emerge worldwide.
Directors The following served as directors of the Company during the financial year: Geoff Shingles Chairman Sir Hossein Yassaie Chief Executive Officer Richard Smith Chief Financial Officer Andrew Heath independent non-executive director appointed 1 August 2012 Gilles Delfassy independent non-executive director David Anderson Senior Independent Director SID David Hurst-Brown non-executive director Ian Pearson non-executive director 42
