Full biographical details for the above are set out on pages 38-39.
During the year David Anderson replaced Ian Pearson as SID and Andrew Heath replaced Ian Pearson as Chair of the Remuneration Committee.
Ian Pearson continues to serve as a non-executive director and is a member of both the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
In accordance with the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, all directors will retire and will present themselves for re-election annually.
Directors indemnity arrangements The Companys Articles of Association has a qualifying indemnity provision for the benefit of each director and former director who held office during the financial year.
The Group has also purchased and maintained Directors and Officers liability insurance throughout the financial year.
The cover limit is 10,000,000 in the aggregate.
Neither cover is available in the event that the director concerned is proved to have acted fraudulently.
Directors interests Interests of the directors in Company shares and share options are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 59 to 65, also included are details of directors remuneration and service contracts.
Financial instruments The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies are set out within note 19 to the financial statements along with details of the Groups exposure to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Research and development The Group spent 83,956,000 2012: 59,633,000 on research and development and advanced technology projects.
Charitable donations During the financial year the Group donated 3,643 2012: 3,785 for the benefit of charitable causes.
These donations principally comprised of cash.
The Group does not make any political donations.
Share capital Details of the issued share capital, together with details of movements in the issued share capital of Imagination Technologies Group plc during the financial year are shown in note 16 which is incorporated and deemed to be part of this report.
As at 30 April 2013, the Companys share capital comprised a single class of ordinary share of 10 pence and there were 265,711,788 ordinary shares in issue, of which 1,793,940 2012: 3,601,090 were held in Trust.
All of the Companys issued shares are fully paid up and rank equally in all respects.
The rights and obligations attaching to those shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend and speak at general meetings, exercise their right to vote one vote for each share held and to appoint a proxy.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of holding nor on the transfer of ordinary shares other than restrictions imposed by law.
For example under Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006 restrictions may be imposed for failure to supply information required to be disclosed.
Similarly restrictions imposed pursuant to the Financial Conduct Authority FCA Listing Rules restricting individuals exercising their rights in certain periods.
Authority to allot At the AGM in 2012, shareholders approved a resolution to give directors the authority to allot ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 8,808,384.
In addition, shareholders provided approval to directors to allot up to an aggregate nominal amount of 17,616,768 in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue in accordance with ABI guidance.
The directors have no present intention to make use of the authority sought under this resolution except to satisfy share awards under employee share schemes.
The authority will expire on the earlier of the 31 October 2013 or at the conclusion of the AGM in 2013 and will be proposed for renewal again at this years AGM.
