Corporate governance statement Dear Shareholder We understand that in order to fulfil our commitment to shareholders to create and deliver shareholder value through the management of the Groups businesses we must ensure high standards of corporate governance.
The Board and other members are held accountable for ensuring that these principles are fulfilled.
There is a strong culture within the organisation for all employees to act with integrity and fairness in everything that they do which is cemented in our core values.
As we are growing and operating in new territories the Board expects all operations to be carried out in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
The Board also expects to be kept fully informed of any associated compliance risks or issues.
The Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange, and therefore, under the Listing Rules of the Financial Conduct Authority the FCA required to report on compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
A copy of the Code can be found at www.
The Code was initially published in 2010 with a revised Code published in September 2012 and effective for companies with a financial year commencing on or after 1 October 2012.
The Board confirms that throughout the year ended 30 April 2013, and as at the date of this annual report, the Company has been in compliance with the Code, save for provision B.
1.1 regarding the independence of Ian Pearson and David Hurst-Brown, and a full explanation of this non-compliance is provided on page 48.
Under the new requirements of the Code companies are now required to disclose their policy on diversity.
The Board demands that the executives of the Company have an appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence, knowledge and diversity to enable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
The Board has noted the publication of the Lord Davies report entitled Women on Boards in February 2011 and will embrace its spirit within the context that it will make any selections totally based upon choosing the best person for the position to be filled irrespective of race, colour, creed or gender.
We are strongly committed to continue to make appointments on individual merit but will value diversity in its broadest context.
The Board and I will endeavour to continue to ensure the Groups success as an innovative, dynamic and well governed business over the coming year.
Geoff Shingles Chairman 18 June 2013 Role of the Board The Board is accountable to shareholders for the proper conduct of the business and its long-term success.
It is ultimately responsible for the activities of the Group including its overall direction, strategy, risk management, governance and performance.
In order to meet that responsibility it ensures that the necessary financial and human resources are in place, and that it is supported in its activities by its various Committees, Executive Management Board EMB and senior managers.
The authority delegated by the Board to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, to carry out certain tasks, are defined in those Committees terms of reference.
Information on the responsibilities of the Audit and Nomination Committees is set out in their reports on pages 52 and 54.
The report of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 59 to 65.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decisions which includes: the Groups business strategy: Group-wide business and financial reviews: major capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals: review of the internal financial control and risk management systems: the approval of interim and annual financial statements: and treasury management.
