Ensigma communications Ensigma RPUs radio processing units run communications and connectivity tasks.
Ensigma solves the problem of proliferating broadcast and connectivity standards by supporting them all on a single device.
With one core, the Ensigma RPU can handle all radio, TV and connectivity standards.
It uses a unique combination of hardware and software to create an ideally flexible architecture with programmability and fixed hardware blocks in sophisticated balance.
At the heart of this technology is a powerful and uniquely optimized balance of programmability and hardware configurability, yet Ensigma RPUs occupy equivalent or less silicon area than comparable hard-wired, single-standard hardware solutions.
Traditionally, radio, TV, Wi-Fi and Bluetooth had their own chipsets, but as the number of standards to be supported continues to increase, this approach is becoming less cost-effective and more power-hungry.
Ensigma RPUs solve these problems by providing an advanced solution that combines programmability and configurable hardware to deliver a single, universal solution which can accommodate current and future standards.
Ensigma Wi-Fi capabilities include 802.11a b g n and ac with excellent scalable MIMO support and Bluetooth, with more being added.
By incorporating the advanced algorithms and completely production-ready implementations of all supported standards, we are able to deliver better data throughput, sensitivity, and other key performance metrics, while minimizing bandwidth and power requirements.
Flow for MIPS connected processors Imaginations Flow technology is a comprehensive and unique end-to-end connectivity solution, optimized for MIPS processors and featuring the sophisticated and highly-configurable Flow portal.
Flow establishes a new benchmark for connecting devices to the cloud.
Flow technology enables seamless interaction between service providers and users through the cloud.
This highly-streamlined IP platform will become a key enabler of future always-on internet connectivity.
Using the platforms advanced Flow APIs, it is possible for a wide range of developers, large and small, to prototype and deploy truly connected products and solutions without requiring the broad range of engineering and commercial know-how and resources usually only found in the biggest industry players.
Flow technology will enable the growth and acceleration of markets for products featuring connectivity across an increasingly diverse range of applications such as home automation and appliances, security, entertainment, toys and healthcare.
