Partnering with Imagination Each of our major IP families contains innovations and capabilities that attract world-leading partners, not only as customers, but also as allies in the development of new markets, open standards and opportunities.
Partnership is a core value of Imagination.
It is easy for companies to pay lip service to partnership, but at Imagination we have a business model that cannot succeed without our customers success.
Our royalty is usually based on our customers means that our profit comes from our ASP average selling price and the balance participation in our customers success.
between licensee fees, support and royalty With more of our customers electing to enter subscription deals with us, the strength of our R&D and roadmap is essential to both parties.
We have several main types of partner.
By creating close relationships with them, we can drive markets and help to define products, open standards, and alliances.
Through our partnerships we help to guide how our fundamental technology is translated into tangible products where hardware that we helped design is brought to life through innovative software and multimedia content.
As a result of working with our licensees and a wide range of industry and ecosystem partners, we have developed a unique perspective.
Our partners rely on Imaginations insight and vision 22 and know that we have the resources to solve just about any problem or develop any innovation the industry requires.
We dont just rely on our own close partnerships: we help to connect our partners to each other so that everyone can benefi t. IP core licensees Our main customers Create and sell devices with our IP inside Help set the pace for technology change Industry partners Key alliances and organizations by defi ning relevant standards Drive innovation and commercial Technology partners Technology businesses momentum Electronics manufacturers Consumer brands Provide consumer and channel insight OEM and ODM Key developers of games, Engage with us to benefi t from our Software creators apps, tools and middleware expertise, infl uence and reach Engineering services, EDA Ensure our IP is deployed in the very Silicon industry partners Electronic Design Automation latest silicon processes companies and silicon foundrie Industry partners Ecosystem partners unity 23
