Directors remuneration report Dear Shareholder This is my first Remuneration Report since I took over the Chair of the Companys Remuneration Committee Committee.
I would firstly like to thank Ian Pearson for his efforts of Chairing the Committee over the past decade.
I take over this role at a time of considerable growth within the Group in the past year and when the spotlight is on executive remuneration in the press.
We are about to see the landscape change with new regulations and legislation which is likely to impact most FTSE companies in one way or another in 2013 and beyond.
As a responsible Committee we will review and consider with care any new provisions whether they come from the Department for Business Innovation and Skills BIS, UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, the Listing Rules, the ABI or any other relevant body.
Our remuneration system for executive directors has always been tied closely to the progress, profitability, growth and performance of the Group, and this will continue.
The principles we apply have led to appropriate variances in the remuneration of our executive directors in the past five years.
These variances have clearly reflected the underlying performance of the Group.
During the past year the Committee has carried out a comprehensive review of executive remuneration packages and has developed a new strategy for the future which will be both competitive and fair in rewarding achievement, while always reflecting the interests of shareholders.
We will be providing shareholders and relevant bodies with precise details of these changes before the AGM where we will be seeking support and approval of the proposed revisions to the structure of executive remuneration.
Prior to the AGM the Committee will be making every effort to consult and enhance dialogue with shareholders in relation to the proposed changes.
Meetings are scheduled to take place in June and July 2013 with both the Fund Managers and Corporate Governance Managers at institutional shareholders.
We will also be holding conference calls and responding in writing to any related items raised by shareholders.
The Committee respects the views of shareholders and wants to encourage engagement with investors.
In the commentary we show how the existing annual bonus and share plans aligned to the performance achieved in the past financial year and shareholder value generated over the period from June 2010 to June 2013.
The work of the committee during 2012 13 In May 2012, the Committee endorsed the out-turn for the annual bonus for the 2011 12 financial year and agreed the measurement parameters for the 2012 13 annual bonus.
In June 2012, the Committee agreed the CEO and CFO would receive annual share awards and they will be made around the same time as the grant to all employees in December 2012.
The CEO received 40,656 shares and CFO received 20,725 shares, the value of the shares awarded equalled 40% of basic salary.
In May 2013, the Committee considered the potential outcome for the 2012 13 annual bonus, and the employee bonus scheme for the Executive Management Board EMB.
Through the year the Committee also reviewed all elements of the remuneration structure of executive directors, comprising salary, car allowance, pension, annual bonus and long term incentives as part of the strategy review mentioned above.
The structure of other relevant FTSE 250 companies annual bonus and long-term incentive plans were benchmarked.
External advice was sought from Olswang, Towers Watson and JLT.
Annual bonus outcome One of the key principles of our annual bonus policy is that it is self-funding.
Annual bonuses are only paid to executives if the Group performs in line with the plan agreed by the Committee.
During the 2012 13 financial year the Group did not deliver the results in line with the plan, and consequently no cash bonus was payable.
Executive share plan outcome The first tranche of the 750,000 shares of the CEOs share award of 2,250,000 granted in December 2009 met the performance conditions and became available to him in December 2012, the shares have not been exercised.
Both the Chairman and CEOs SAYE 2009 share options vested in December 2012 and they retained the shares.
At the AGM in 2006 shareholders approved a resolution giving authority to the Company to issue 15% of its issued share capital over 10 years, equating to 1.5% per annum.
During 2012 13 the Company granted 4,000,000 shares 1.5% of the issued share capital and of this sum executives received 62,891 shares 0.0155% of the 1.5%.
