Induction and professional development There is a formal induction procedure in place for all new appointments to the Board designed to enhance the directors knowledge of the industry in general and their understanding of the Groups operations performance, and importantly the Group culture.
The induction programme consists of the following: one-to-one meetings with the Chairman, CEO and CFO and meeting with the remaining Board members: meetings with EMB and senior management to discuss Group operations: attendance of strategy meetings: and visiting regional and international offices.
In accordance with the Code the Chairman regularly reviews and discusses the development needs with each director though each director is fully aware that they should take responsibility for their own individual needs and take the necessary steps to ensure they are wholly informed.
Activities of the Board The Board holds regular scheduled meetings throughout the year which are supplemented by unscheduled ad hoc meetings.
Irregular meetings are held when urgent business decisions are needed, such as, acquisition activity.
At each meeting certain regular reports are presented which are, as follows: CEO delivers a full business update with focus on the semiconductor market, a business summary for each division, the Gr oups relationships with current and potential partners, licensing updates, units shipped, Pure, potential acquisitions and key business issues and actions: CFO gives the year to date financial results, latest financial projections, investor and analysts forecasts: and Company Secretary provides updates covering governance, share price data and shareholder analysis.
In addition, the Board meets periodically with senior management from the Groups Technology and Pure divisions in order to review the strategic direction of the business on an annual basis.
The main objectives are to assess and decide upon the key technologies products markets for the business to exploit by assessing the potential returns against the risks.
The result is a common vision of the future aspirations of the business and an understanding of the function and goals that each division has within the strategy.
Divisional business plans are built around executing the strategic plan.
The CEO and CFO attend weekly and monthly meetings of the EMB, where each member provides an up to date operational report in which progress against plan is reviewed to ensure that this is in line with the Groups strategic and business targets.
They will then provide feedback to the Board at the next scheduled meeting on any areas of significant interest.
Activities during the year During the year in addition to the above the Board: guided the successful acquisition of MIPS and was involved in r eviewing and developing the strategy to integrate MIPS into the Group.
The Board was also involved in the acquisitions of Nethra Imaging and Paragon, while fully supporting the opening of a new Head Office in Kings Langley, together with new regional offices in Australia, India and Poland: r eviewed the existing risk management processes within the operating businesses to document and report on significant areas of business risks and their controls and that the process accords with the Turnbull guidance.
There is an on-going process for the effective identification, evaluation and management of significant risks faced by the Group.
This process was in place throughout the year and as at the date of approval of the annual report and financial statements.
Under this process the Board receives a detailed report outlining all the main risks associated with both the Technology and Pure divisions, the report is reviewed thoroughly to consider if any necessary action is required to address these risks.
If the Board concludes that action is required, it is given regular updates on progress and is also made aware of any new risks that are identified throughout the year: and r eviewed and approved a comprehensive budget for the forthcoming year.
Expenditure is controlled against formal authorisation limits.
Major items of capital and revenue expenditure, and all treasury matters are reserved for members of the Board alone.
