Imagination, put simply Imagination was established in 1985 and has a long history as an IP intellectual property provider, with many licensing partners amongst the worlds top-20 semiconductor and OEM companies.
We are the fastest growing company in our industry, with growth rates three times higher than the industry average.
Our strong range of IP for multimedia, processor and communications was this year enriched by the addition of the MIPS processor architecture giving us the capability to deliver a comprehensive range of IP from which our partners can design market-leading products.
Imaginations business model is simple.
We license multimedia, communications and processor technologies and receive a royalty from our licensees when products using those technologies ship into the market.
Our business model puts partnership fi first, focused on our mutual goal of successful and timely volume shipments and long-term strategic innovation.
As a royalty-based business, our partners success is our success as shown by the high level of repeat business we win.
It can take a year or two from licensing to semiconductor device shipment, and a year or more after that before our semiconductor partners customers deliver products incorporating those chips.
This means that we have excellent visibility of the future of key markets, and are always looking fi five to ten years ahead in our planning.
Its a mature business model, shared by others in our industry and proven by us to be effective over many years.
The markets for which we develop technologies are large in size and touch all our lives.
IP licensees P M C - S I E R R A SUNPLUS A selection of our IP licensees Imagination Technologies is a global leader These silicon IP solutions for systems-on-chip in multimedia, processor and communication SoC are complemented by an extensive technologies, creating and licensing marketportfolio of software drivers, developer tools leading processor solutions for graphics, and extensive market and technology-focused video and vision processing, CPU general ecosystems.
purpose processing, multi-standard communications and connectivity, and crossplatform voice and video communications.
13 The Imagination connected home 14 The Imagination connected home Products containing Imagination IP Left to right Study Home server, Laptop, Camera, Printer, Digital photo frame, Network router Bedroom eReader, Media player, Game console, Living Room Wireless speaker, Tablet, Smartphone, TV, Set-top box, Security sensor Kitchen Internet and DAB radio Garage Car with advanced dashboard display 15 Imaginations PowerVR Imagination was the fastest growing company among leading IP GPUs and video processors companies in 2012, outpacing the growth of the overall design IP each already lead the industry in unit shipments.
The addition of MIPS enables Imagination to The Market Share Analysis: Semiconductor Design Intellectual Property, Worldwide, meaningfully enter the CPU segmentthe largest design 2012 April 2, 2013 report from market research firm Gartner showed that the third-party IP market.
MIPS CPUs are semiconductor design IP market grew by 11.2% in 2012, and Imagination grew by 36.4%.
designed for the highest MIPS Technologies, recently acquired by Imagination, also outpaced industry growth in 2012, performance, smallest growing by more than 17%.
area and lowest power consumption, and offer a true alternative in many key For the sixth year in a row, Imagination maintained its position in the survey as the third largest markets.
With the continued design IP provider, with its overall share growing each year.
With MIPS in fourth position, the growth of our PowerVR and companies together comprised 11.3% of the design IP market share.
MIPS IP families into new segments, and the strong demand developing for our We are an IP company heart and soul.
Everything we do feeds Ensigma communications from that, from our R&D, through our acquisitions and investments, and Flow cloud IP, we intend to grow our overall share to our Pure consumer electronics division.
of the design IP market again in 2013 by providing But Imagination is much more than a semiconductor IP company.
Our focus is on solutions, an unrivalled range of IP for future generations of our including a growing portfolio of software and infrastructure technologies required for customers SoCs.
enabling system-level cloud-connected solutions, advanced voice communications and Tony King-Smith content streaming.
EVP Marketing Our extensive software capabilities are a key such as Flow, which enables next-generation part of our offering and a major differentiator, cloud-based solutions.
from low-level device drivers and application We are no longer just a silicon IP company.
reference code through to application Our IP business model is consistent across software such as our V. VoIP software our hardware, software and solutions offerings.
platforms, and beyond to system software, There are a number of companies who have similar business models to Imagination, yet we have risen year-on-year to become one of the top three design IP companies in the world.
We deliver the best balance of performance and power use.
Our unique and innovative IP does the job better than anything else on the market.
Our IP is proven in billions of devices and thousands of successful products from world-class brands.
Low power consumption is extremely important in the markets in which we operate: to conserve battery life in mobile devices, enable slim and efficient products in the home, deliver robust and compact networking devices, and ensure reliability in cars and industrial applications.
Our power-efficient architectures enable eco-friendly products and longer battery life.
16 It can take several years for products based on our technology to reach the market, and the complex designs involved require the development of a great deal of learning and expertise on the part of our licensees.
The creation of optimized software that runs on these devices is a huge task too.
Because of this, our customers rarely switch to other technologies once they start working with us.
They recognize that we have strong roadmaps across our technology families that justify their investment and partnership.
Our customers use our scalable IP across multiple products and markets for maximum return on investment.
One key performance indicator for our business is in looking at design starts based on our technology.
It will take years for those designs to get to market, but they are the fundamental drivers of our future royalty growth.
180 158 160 Shipping Total 136 140 115 120 91 100 84 78 80 67 60 60 50 48 40 37 40 29 26 18 13 20 0 Mar 06 Mar 07 Apr 08 Apr 09 Apr 10 Apr 11 Apr 12 Apr 13 Partner chip design & shipment Licensees OEMs and ODMs Consumers We track consumer trends to maximize the relevance of future generations of our IP 17 No.
of SoCs Imagination is focused on systems and solutions, and takes the initiative to get inside how consumers think about, and experience, new technology.
We understand market trends and use this knowledge to help our partners navigate the increasing convergence between markets.
We aim to deliver highly-efficient, low-power processing to tackle all forms of multimedia and embedded applications, enabling the widest range of price performance points to be addressed in these dynamic markets.
Our solutions-based approach and strong ecosystem programmes make our IP easy to integrate.
Partners using our products target a wide array of markets including mobile and tablet computing, multimedia, connected home consumer, in-car electronics, networking, telecoms, health, smart energy and connected sensors and controllers.
Multimedia and connectivity are technology connectivity IP enable flexible and highlydomains where Imagination excels.
To enable extendable solutions which will help our connectivity, and to also enable emerging, partners create both connected devices and but new vertical markets like healthcare enabling services.
Our MIPS processors and home automation, we have developed deliver market-leading low power and high an approach that combines our hardware performance, and are the leading CPU in processors with our software offerings.
several key markets, with a growing presence For example, the combination of our voice in mobile.
and video communications and Flow cloud 18
