Board evaluation The Board undertakes a formal evaluation of its performance and that of its committees each financial year.
The Board recognizes the recommendations that an externally facilitated evaluation is performed every three years and will report back on this in due course.
During the year an internal review was facilitated by the Company Secretary and led by the Chairman.
The review focused on a number of key areas such as Board processes and their effectiveness, Board composition, content of discussions and focus at Board meetings, succession planning, arranging institutional shareholder meetings and relations with shareholders.
Each director provided input and the results concluded that the Board and its Committees continue to operate effectively but highlighted a number of areas that will need further action and improvement which include: increasing dialogue with shareholders and institutional investors: more timely provision of information in advance of both Board and Committee meetings: and increased discussion required on the composition of the Board and Committees.
The non-executive directors, led by the SID, also considered the performance of the Chairman without the Chairman present.
They confirmed that the Chairmans leadership, performance and overall contribution were of a high standard.
Board and committee meeting attendance Audit Remuneration Nomination Tenure years Board Committee Committee Committee Geoff Shingles 19 8 9 4 6 2 2 Sir Hossein Yassaie 18 9 9 1 2 Richard Smith 2 9 9 5 5 1 2 Andrew Heath 1 7 9 5 6 1 2 Gilles Delfassy 1 7 9 3 6 1 2 David Anderson 2 9 9 5 5 5 6 2 2 David Hurst-Brown 12 8 9 5 5 6 6 2 2 Ian Pearson 15 8 9 4 5 6 6 2 2 Denotes attendance by a director, who is not a member of the Committee, at a Committee meeting, as requested by the Chairman of the Committee Relations with shareholders The Group actively encourages open and constructive dialogue with shareholders.
This is primarily achieved through: regular meetings between institutional investors and the CEO CFO to discuss business performance: and pr esentations to institutional investors analysts by the CEO CFO post release of the interim and full year financial results.
The results are made available on the Company website on the day they are announced and shareholders can register through the Company website www.
com to automatically receive these.
The non-executive directors have access to independent feedback from shareholders after results presentations which, supported by periodic attendance at analyst and shareholder presentations, provides them with an understanding of the views of major shareholders.
The Chairman is available to meet with major shareholders to discuss governance and strategy if required and the SID is also available to listen to their views to ensure a clear understanding of concerns or issues.
The investor relations department also manages an online forum which is geared towards private shareholders.
The forum allows private shareholders to post any comments or concerns they have which are then circulated to management on a weekly basis.
It is essential to understand the views and opinions of investors.
