Corporate governance The Corporate Governance statement on pages 47 to 51 is deemed to form part of this report.
Corporate social responsibility Information relating to employees, shareholders, graduate recruitment, scholarship sponsorship, charitable work in the local community and environment are provided in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 55 to 58.
Creditor payment policy It is Group policy to agree payment terms with suppliers when negotiating contracts or transactions.
The Group ensures that, subject to any necessary variations which may result from supplier-related problems, the agreed payment terms are adhered to.
The number of days billings from suppliers outstanding to the Group at 30 April 2013 was 42 2012: 43 days.
The parent Company is purely a holding Company with investments and does not have trade creditors.
Annual General Meeting The 2013 Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company will be held at Imagination House, Home Park Estate, Kings Langley, Hertfordshire WD4 8LZ commencing 11am on 20 September 2013.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting with full description of the business to be conducted is set out at www.
com A resolution is to be proposed at the AGM for the reappointment of KPMG as auditors of the Group.
Directors statement of responsibility Going concern As set out in note 1 Accounting policies, the directors consider it appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Responsibility for preparing financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Under Company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the par ent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent Company financial statements: and pr epare the financial statement on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent Companys 45 transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a directors report, directors remuneration report and a corporate governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Disclosure of information to auditors In case of each director in office at the date of the directors report is approved, that: so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Group auditors are unaware: and the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Group auditors are aware of that information Directors statement of responsibility The directors confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the financial statements, pr epared in accordance with the applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the Dir ectors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board Anthony Llewellyn Company Secretary 18 June 2013 Company Number: 2920061 46
