Specifically last year saw excellent penetration devices from leading OEMs and for these to span across of our technology in the emerging markets as lower-end mobile, tablet and TV STB segments.
There are other handset volumes gained momentum.
The volume growth notable design wins in China that will further drive our has been across the expected key segments, including: strong position in the tablet market overall.
mobile phone, computing tablets, mobile multimedia Our initial assessment suggests that there are 300-400 gaming and home consumer.
We have seen accelerated SoCs in production using MIPS IP.
growth in TV STB segments during the period.
The royalty revenue growth has continued to be strong and as expected, the strong unit volume growth has steadily Pure business extended to the lower-end of the smart phone market Pure continued to be held back by the general economic resulting in a small and expected downward movement in pressure on consumer spending.
The UK market was very the average royalty rate.
tight during the second half and the international markets were mixed with reasonable performance in Switzerland SoC and end-product design wins and Germany and more muted performance in Australia and Scandinavia.
We do expect to see significant financial and pipeline improvement in this business in the medium term driven SoC design wins are the driver for future partner chip by new innovative and market driving products and the shipments and royalty revenue growth.
Strong continuing general economic improvements.
momentum saw new partner SoC design wins excluding MIPS increase to 158 net of obsolescence 2011: 136.
Pures focus has been and continues to be pro actively Clearly the design win momentum was maintained helping to drive certain important developing and despite the fluctuation in licensing revenue.
Of these, 84 emerging markets that are strategic to our business: are shipping or beginning to ship, with the balance still in i Digital radio: Pur es product line drove the market from design.
The latter will be the driver for significant further the early days and set the much needed agenda to help royalty revenue growth.
This continues today in the These committed devices are continuing to diversify form of supporting and driving the adoption of digital across Imaginations partners and key market segments: radio internationally.
These include key markets such as Germany, Australia and Switzerland where Pures 48 for mobile phone application processors activities have been instrumental in the progress made.
We now expect some of these markets, including the 8 for handheld multimedia PMPs, hand-held gaming UK, to begin migration towards a switch-over plan entertainment, camera, mobile TV whilst others such as Germany develop further in digital 39 for Home Consumer Entertainment TVs, STBs, radio penetration.
As a result we expect the global markets for digital radio to grow substantially over the DVDs, digital radio and audio, connected audio, and home entertainment devices next few years with our technology playing a key part and securing a major share.
25 in mobile computing tablet mobile computing ii W ireless home in-car audio: As a first step in helping 20 for In-car navigation, dashboar d, personal navigation to drive home connectivity and automation, Pure has devices been focussed on wireless audio streaming across three key application areas: hybrid internet and broadcast 18 for other markets covering gr een energy, networking, radio enabling access to global radio stations and healthcare, enterprise, industrial, amusement and toys audio content: advanced interactive internet connected services, especially Cloud music delivery, which deploys With respect to end-user products there have been Imaginations Flow enabling technologies: and the more important launches from several key players in the last recent area of audio streaming of content from popular few months, particularly in phone, tablet and TV STB mobile devices to home audio systems and speakers segments.
We expect to see further major product including multi-room capabilities.
launches from other key OEMs, including high profile 9
