Purchase of own shares At the AGM in 2012, authority was granted to the Company to purchase its own shares in the market up to a maximum aggregate number of 26,425,152 shares, being approximately 10% of the issued share capital.
The directors have not previously exercised authority granted and have no present intention to make use of the authority sought.
The current authority will expire the earlier of the 31 October 2013 or at the conclusion of the AGM in 2013.
The Company would like to retain the flexibility offered by this resolution and it will therefore be proposed again at this years AGM.
Substantial interests As at 7 June 2013, the Company was aware of the following interests in its shares: Ordinary Shares of 10p Percentage in the Company Holding Intel Capital Corporation 38,396,664 14.45% AXA Financial SA 28,006,149 10.54% M&G Investment Management Limited 25,191,353 9.48% Apple Inc. 23,047,770 8.67% Essential contracts There are a large number of agreements in place with the Groups customers partners.
There are no parties with whom the Group has contractual or other arrangements which are essential to the business of the Group.
Change of control The Companys share-based incentive plans contain provisions relating to a change of control.
The outstanding long-term incentive plans, share awards and performance share award to the CEO and the performance share award to the CFO would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control of the Company, subject to the satisfaction of the performance conditions.
There are no significant agreements to which the Group is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control.
Employee involvement The Group acknowledges the importance and contribution of its employees and as a global business values people from all cultures, nationalities, races, religions, and ethnicities regardless of characteristics such as age, gender, disability or sexual orientation.
There is great demand for highly qualified staff within the group and disability is not seen as an inhibitor to employment or career development.
In a situation where an employee becomes disabled during their employment the Group, wherever possible, will provide assistance to allow them to continue in their existing role or adapt if necessary or offer training for another position.
Across the Group there is considerable value placed on the involvement of employees in the decision making process.
To this end regular departmental meetings are held to discuss strategy and future developments and any significant outputs are then fed back to senior management.
This helps the flow of ideas through the Group and allows employees to see their contributions are valued.
Employee engagement with the whole Group is highly prioritized and there a number of communication channels in place to help employees develop their knowledge of the business.
These channels include regular presentations by the CEO and CFO to staff covering the Groups performance, strategy, vision and operational developments.
There is a quarterly Group magazine, namely Imagineer which is used to report events and activities to all employees worldwide, covering things like the opening of new offices around the globe, introducing new starters to the Group, arrival of children of employees and retirement tributes to employees.
Furthermore employee ownership is encouraged via the Companys global share schemes.
The Company runs an employee share plan and all employees globally receive share awards on a bi-annual basis.
A Save As You Earn SAYE scheme has been operating in the UK since 2001 and employees are given the opportunity to participate annually.
The Group believes shares are a key tool to motivate and retain employees.
