Our complementary ray tracing technology, obtained CPU and processor cores through the Caustic acquisition, has made good The Groups capabilities and opportunities in this area progress.
The first stage of deployment and development have been substantially enhanced with the acquisition of the ecosystem was unveiled during last year as we of MIPS.
The progress of integration of MIPS with the announced Caustic Professional R2100 and R2500 existing in-house processor activities Meta has been OpenRL acceleration boards, plus Visualizer plugin completed successfully with the combined unit now software using OpenRL for Autodesk 3ds Max and operating under the MIPS brand.
Ray tracing IP, to work alongside our GPU have a single significantly larger R&D team working in this technology, is in advanced development and will be made important area.
The sales, marketing and administration available for licensing during the current financial year.
functions within MIPS have also been successfully integrated into the relevant functions in Imagination with Video Our PowerVR video decode and encode better than expected synergies.
Importantly we started processor VPU families, which support the latest and detailed engagements with many key customers shortly emerging formats, continue to see strong volume growth.
In parallel, taking into account We are seeing a growing industry trend in favour of customer and market input, we have been refining and licensing rather than internal development, particularly developing a strong and comprehensive roadmap for the as the next generation of advanced video standards future.
This step has now completed and we have begun are coming to market.
In keeping with our strategy of to share final roadmap and future technology plans with providing leading-edge and market-driving technologies many key customers.
These include the expansion of to our customers, during last year we launched the new the existing Aptiv range, as well as the next generation PowerVR Series4 video processors offering increased family of MIPS cores code-named Warrior that will be performance and precision as well as supporting the unveiled publicly later this year.
The feedback from these emerging ultra HD resolution displays of 4Kx2K pixels.
engagements has been very positive and encouraging.
These technologies are seen as essential for future generations of smart TV products which require very Our internal analysis and also feedback from customers, high quality and or the capability to display full HD at the who have used MIPS for many years, clearly point to same time as related information such as social network the competitive strength of this technology with respect interactive pages.
We are also at an advanced stage to both performance and power consumption per unit with respect to next generation video technologies which area of silicon relative to competition.
These advantages are designed to offer further compression and efficiency are very real and stem from the very well designed and advantages.
true-RISC nature of the MIPS architecture.
The inherent 64-bit support in the original underlying MIPS architecture Camera vision processing Vision processing is is an example of the high degree of architectural elegance needed to get the best image from a camera sensor.
Additionally the multi-threading This is an area that is important both for market capabilities of MIPS, an area of strength for our in-house opportunity and technology synergy reasons.
Specifically Meta technology, in conjunction with other similarities, it is clear that the deployment of camera functionality constitute a strong synergy basis for technical integration is relevant to many product categories and market and leverage.
Furthermore careful and tight integration of camera vision processing, video encode and GPU cores Overall we consider the CPU and processor market to can be used to achieve very important optimizations.
We be a significant and growing space and one where the have been carrying out research and development in this opportunities are increasingly receptive to our offerings.
We also acquired a small company, The more open nature of modern operating systems Nethra Imaging, during the last year to complement and combined with the significant existing successes of MIPS accelerate our work whilst also strengthening our patent in several segments offer a very encouraging array of portfolio in this area.
We expect first IP product delivery in opportunities, which we are aiming to target and build this area in early 2014. over the next few years.
