Directors and advisers Geoff Shingles Chairman Geoff was, until April 1994, Executive Chairman of Digital Equipment Co. Limited, where he served for 29 years.
While at Digital, he worked both in the US and Continental Europe.
He joined Imagination Technologies in 1994 and became Chairman of the board in 1996.
He is also Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
He is Non-Executive Chairman of Sarantel Group Plc and Chairman and Chief Executive at Speed-Trap Holdings Limited.
Sir Hossein Yassaie Chief Executive Officer After attaining his PhD, Hossein was a research fellow at the University of Birmingham.
He then joined STMicroelectronics Inmos, where he spent eight years, ultimately becoming responsible for the system divisions, including research and development, manufacturing and marketing.
After joining Imagination Technologies in 1992 as Technical Director, Hossein refocused the business on advanced technology development and created Imaginations successful silicon IP business model.
He became Chief Executive Officer in June 1998.
He is a Non-Executive of Toumaz Holdings Limited.
Richard Smith Chief Financial Officer Richard holds an MBA from Henley Business School, is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and has an MA in Economics from Cambridge University.
His early career included positions with Porsche Cars and .
Richard has worked in a number of privately held technology businesses as CFO, and prior to that held senior financial roles at Vodafone.
He joined Imagination Technologies in May 2011 and was appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Officer July 2011.
Andrew Heath Non-Executive Director Andrew brings a wealth of international business experience gained through his executive roles at Rolls Royce, the global power systems company, over the past 30 years.
He joined Rolls-Royce as an undergraduate trainee in 1982 and progressed to Managing Director, Control Systems Operating Unit in 2001.
He currently holds the position of President, Energy at Rolls Royce.
He joined the Imagination Technologies board in August 2012 and is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee.
38 Gilles Delfassy Non-Executive Director Gilles is a highly experienced and respected international figure in the semiconductor and mobile wireless industry with 35 years of highly relevant experience, including almost 30 years at Texas Instruments, Inc TI.
He was a key pioneer and driving force behind the mobile wireless initiative within TI, which helped to shape the industry.
He joined the Imagination Technologies board in June 2012 and is a member of the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee.
David Anderson Senior Independent Director SID David has 30 years investment banking experience including 17 years at Lazard and six years at JP Morgan Cazenove.
He joined the Imagination Technologies board in November 2010.
He is the SID and is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee.
David Hurst-Brown Non-Executive Director David worked for most of his career in the securities industry.
In 2002 he left UBS, where, for more than 10 years he had worked in Corporate Finance as adviser to a wide range of companies.
He joined the Imagination Technologies board as a Non-Executive Director in September 2000.
He is a member of the Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee.
David is Non-Executive Director of Anite plc.
Ian Pearson Non-Executive Director Ian has over 30 years experience with companies specializing in semiconductor design, manufacturing and management, with Director level responsibilities.
These companies include Inmos and SGS Thompson.
He joined the Imagination Technologies board as NonExecutive Director in 1998 and has subsequently held positions of Senior Independent Director and also Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Ian no longer holds those roles but continues to serves as a Non-Executive Director and is a member of the Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee.
39 Imagination Technologies Group plc Auditors KPMG Audit Plc Secretary A Llewellyn Solicitors Olswang Registered Office DLA Piper Imagination House, Home Park Estate Kings Langley, Hertfordshire WD4 8LZ Registrars Equiniti Registered number 2920061 Bankers HSBC Bank plc Financial advisers and stockbrokers J. P. Morgan Cazenove 40
