Our core technologies Our business is fundamentally driven by our capability to create a roadmap of future technologies that accurately anticipates the requirements of tomorrows consumers.
Our compelling IP roadmaps are the cornerstone of Imaginations on-going leadership.
PowerVR graphics PowerVR is a range of visual IP processors for graphics, video, display and camera image set processing ISP.
Central to the PowerVR family is our GPU: a graphics processing unit to run graphics and complex parallel compute tasks.
At the heart of this technology is a unique tile-based, deferred rendering shader-based architecture which allows our GPUs to deliver higher performance and better image quality at lower power consumption and silicon area than our competitors.
Driven by demands for next generation user interfaces UI with stunning visual impact and high frame rate, designers now appreciate that many key applications rely on using low-power, highly-efficient graphics processors.
The PowerVR graphics programmable GPU IP core families have been designed to offer the best performance in their respective class, with no compromise in feature set and with full backwards compatibility to earlier generations.
Imaginations latest PowerVR Series6 Rogue family of GPUs delivers the advanced capabilities of OpenGL ES 3.0, OpenGL ES 2.0 and 1.1, and other key graphics APIs such as DirectX.
PowerVR is the industrys leading solution for graphics acceleration in the mobile and embedded multimedia markets.
Tens of thousands of developers rely on PowerVRs 3D graphics capabilities for games, user interfaces, navigation apps and much more.
PowerVR graphics technologies are complemented by the PowerVR Insider ecosystem, which has more than 40,000 members and provides comprehensive support for developers, publishers and middleware developers.
PowerVR GPUs are also capable of doing more than just graphics.
By using compute-based APIs such as OpenCL, Renderscript and Filterscript, the PowerVR architecture delivers vast parallel processing power, increasingly referred to as GPU compute.
Using this technology, GPUs will increasingly come to dominate heavy lifting processor-intensive computing as part of heterogeneous SoCs.
