12 IMI plc UNDERSTANDING OUR NICHE MARKETS IMI is focused on developing clear leadership positions in a number of well-defined global market niches, which have good exposure to the key global trends which are driving growth.
We work closely with industry and sector leading customers, to develop a deep knowledge of their markets and the challenges they face.
We use this knowledge to design and manufacture highly engineered fluid control solutions that deliver real value and competitive advantage for our customers.
The key niche markets for our three divisions are as follows: SEVERE SERVICE Oil & Gas Fossil Power Nuclear Power Petrochemical Anti-surge valve and For combined cycle, Valves and other flow Integrated flow control actuator systems and fossil power plants, control solutions for systems for critical highly engineered combined heat and both the primary and applications in fluid isolation valves for critical power and renewable secondary cycles of the catalytic cracking FCC, processes in liquefied industries with a focus nuclear reactor and fuel ethylene and polypropylene natural gas LNG plants.
on turbine bypass and enrichment plants with production processes and fide-superheating.
particular focus on safety delayed coking.
FLUID POWER Industrial Automation Commercial Vehicle Energy Life Sciences Rail Food & Beverage A broad range of Customised flow High integrity solenoid Bespoke fluid handling Pneumatic applications Differentiated and actuators, valves and control solutions for valves, air preparation and control solutions for the rail industry unique valving solutions air preparation products engine management, and instrumentation for customers in the including internal door for manufacturing PET designed for increased transmission control, equipment for the global medical device, analytical, systems, brake controls, bottling equipment, ink automation in factories.
and chassis cab air energy markets, including and clinical diagnostic and auxiliary air systems jet printing equipment management applications upstream Oil & Gas, equipment markets.
to improve rail car and and commercial coffee for the Commercial Refining, Petrochemical, engine performance machines.
Chemical and Power and life.
INDOOR CLIMATE Hydronic Balancing Hydronic Conditioning Thermostatic Control Balancing hydronic Solutions that deliver Thermostatic radiator systems critical to the the correct pressure and valves TRVs, to ensure overall performance water quality in hydronic the overall system and energy efficiency of HVAC systems, and performance, and heating, ventilation and control overall system deliver optimal comfort air conditioning HVAC performance, energy and temperature at a solutions in buildings.
Group Overview Group Overview Business Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 CASE STUDIES The IMI Severe Service business, CCI Air inlet throttle technologies for passenger Brazils famous Maracan stadium in Rio was recently awarded a contract by cars are unable to meet the more severe fide Janeiro has undergone a complete Korean building contractor Hyundai Heavy operating conditions required by heavy renovation in preparation for the hosting Industries HHI, to supply nine severeduty engine applications.
Fluid Powers of the 2014 World Cup finals.
IMI Indoor service control and choke valves for Statoils Norgren business has designed a new air Climate designed and installed a new Aasta Hansteen field.
The production choke throttle technology which meets a number cooling system which helped deliver valves will be some of the most advanced of key design parameters including speed, energy savings of 4% and improved ever designed and manufactured by CCI, resolution, repeatability and durability operational efficiency.
utilising our bespoke solid tungstenrequired for commercial vehicles.
carbide multi-stage trim technology to meet extremely stringent noise requirements of less than 75 dBA.
Production of the choke valves will take place in our state-of-the-art manufacturing facility in the Czech Republic.
Fluid Powers Norgren business designed IMI Severe Service companies have The Tuxer Fernerhaus, a multipurpose designed and manufactured a range and manufactured a complex fluidic building nestled at the heart of the glacier circuit incorporating its industry leading of severe service valves for Prelude, ski resort of Hintertux, Austria, underwent the worlds first floating liquefied natural precision valves in a multi-layer, multia complete overhaul and extension in 2013. channel manifold for Bio-Rad, a customer gas FLNG platform.
At 600,000 tonnes, The IMI Indoor Climate team, working Prelude is the largest man made floating operating in the life science research and together with the designer and installer, clinical diagnostics sectors.
The manifold vessel ever built.
Valves supplied to provided a complete hydronic concept the project include ball and butterfly for the autosampler system is used in including the revolutionary new TA-FUS1ON the analysis of DNA.
Norgrens solution isolation valves for the cryogenic process, combined control and balancing valve which are required to operate safely at helped to reduce the size and weight range.
The new system delivered improved of the overall device while enhancing temperatures as low as -162C, and operational efficiency, better energy usage anti-surge valves for the liquefaction accuracy, throughput and the overall and consistent and accurate temperature fluid control performance.
IMI has designed new regulation, all of which were key priorities bespoke solutions for this FLNG project for the customer.
to minimise size, weight and noise while ensuring our technology continues to provide world-class precision and response to ensure the most efficient and reliable performance.
