14 IMI plc HOW WE DO BUSINESS: OUR APPROACH Our ambition is to become the most admired innovative engineering company of our size anywhere in the world.
We aspire to be admired for what we do, the products and services we provide to our customers, and for the way we do it how we approach business.
Our core corporate values of integrity, innovation and excellence underpin everything we do.
We believe that we have a duty to behave responsibly towards all our stakeholders including our employees, our customers and suppliers and the communities in which we operate.
We also believe that sound ethical principles and high standards of responsibility impact positively on profitability, returns to shareholders, reputation and growth.
RobecoSAM is the Swiss sustainable investment company responsible for production of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index.
In January 2014, it published its sustainability yearbook, which focuses on corporate sustainability drivers and lists the worlds most sustainable companies.
IMI was included in the top 15% of sustainable businesses in the global machinery electrical equipment sector.
IMI is also a member of the FTSE4Good Index and a signatory to the UN Global Compact.
ENVIRONMENT Becoming more energy efficient and minimising the environmental impact of what we do is an integral part of our day-to-day business operations.
Our energy and carbon efficiency programme Project 20:20 continued throughout 2013 and has led to further reductions in our CO emissions.
Collectively, the initiatives 2 completed in 2013 will bring savings of some 1,500 tonnes of CO and 400k 2 per annum.
Our key locations continue to identify further improvement opportunities to enable our reduction targets to be met by the end of 2015.
Our Norgren facility in Queretaro, Mexico recently installed a high efficiency aluminium re-melt furnace that is expected to save 120 tonnes of CO per annum 2 in gas consumption.
IMI Components in Birmingham, UK has taken advantage of a voltage optimisation system to reduce energy usage.
The installation has been a success with a payback period of less than five years and an estimated saving of 150 tonnes of CO by the end of 2014.
TA Hydronics, in Olkusz, Poland 2 replaced a welding machine for a more efficient model, which has a payback.
of one year and estimates annual savings of 120 tonnes of CO 2 While waste generation varies across all of our businesses depending on activity we made further progress in the year and recycling levels increased to 81% compared with 80% in 2012.
Group Overview Group Overview Business Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements E C N E L L E C X E I N N O V 15 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 HEALTH AND SAFETY The health and safety of our employees is paramount.
In 2013 we made good progress towards achieving our objective of becoming a world-class health & safety operation, under the banner of our From Compliance to Competitive Advantage campaign.
In particular, during the year we further reduced the time lost to accidents by 17% year-on-year and achieved our internal target for the year.
To ensure that we continue to improve our performance in this very important area, we have launched a new programme which will run until the end of 2015 at which time our aim is to have reduced time lost to accidents even further.
Throughout the year our businesses continued to develop and run projects to reinforce the importance of health and safety at all times.
By way of example, Norgrens Queretaro facility in Mexico ran a safety campaign which was extended to employees family members to cultivate a 24-hour safety mentality.
Family members were given the opportunity to record videos, which were shared with the workforce, reminding them to be safe, follow proper procedures and wear the necessary personal protection equipment.
BUSINESS INTEGRITY AND ETHICS The IMI Way, our code of conduct, sets out the standards we expect everyone in the Group to comply with.
Every employee at their induction is provided with a copy of the IMI Way, which to date has been translated into 21 local languages.
In addition, on-going and refresher training in relation to ethical practices and procedures takes place every year on what has become known as the IMI Way Day.
On this CORE date every employee across the Group participates in a faceto-face training session which focuses on how to apply the code in everyday situations.
Through our whistleblowing policy we encourage employees VALUES to speak up where they see behaviours that are inconsistent with our values.
Where employees feel that they are unable to raise issues with their relevant manager or someone in the Human Resources team, they can contact the IMI Hotline a service provided by a third party.
Issues raised are reviewed by an appropriate member of the senior management team and where necessary, an investigation is undertaken and appropriate action taken.
COMMUNITY We have a significant local presence in over 20 countries around the world.
As well as contributing to these local communities by providing employment, we actively participate in charitable and educational programmes that are run adjacent to our facilities.
On the afternoon of the IMI Way Day, following the training that takes place in the morning, employees across the Group spend time supporting local charities and causes.
The team at our Norgren facility in Louisville, USA, held a bike building competition for local under-privileged children from the charity Big Brothers, Big Sisters and gifted the bicycles built during the day to the children.
In the Czech Republic, the 300 CCI employees at our manufacturing facility in Brno helped renovate a day centre for children and adults with disabilities.
The momentum of the IMI Way Day community activities is maintained through the year with employees in each of our businesses devoting time to support their chosen charities including arranging fund-raising activities and running initiatives such as food and toy collections.
A T I O N Y T I R G E T N I 16 IMI plc HOW WE DO BUSINESS: OUR PEOPLE Our performance and our ability to harness the Groups full potential rely heavily on having the right people in the right places at the right times.
This means recruiting and developing the best people, who have excellent relevant skills and who are clearly aligned to both our values and our ambitions.
To achieve this, and to ensure we have a strong talent pipeline and a world-class well motivated team with good leadership skills, we operate a number of development programmes at all levels of the Group.
Looking ahead, we will continue to improve and expand these programmes to ensure that they continue to support our growth agenda and provide our employees with the most relevant training and learning opportunities.
In 2014 we will continue to develop and enhance our core framework of people processes, including elements such as performance management, communication, induction and reward systems.
RESOURCING We recruit on an on-going basis for key skill sets in the geographies that reflect our customer and marketplace footprints.
Working closely with operational management, we assess our recruitment needs alongside our business plans and then work to identify and recruit excellent candidates.
Our Global Graduate Programme is focused on providing a talent pipeline of future senior leaders for the Group.
Through this programme, in 2013 we hired 14 graduate engineers including three Chinese graduates who joined us via the bespoke programme we operate there.
Over a two year period, graduates participate in a series of varied assignments and development programmes before taking a permanent role in the business.
Previous projects have included a programme to assist with the integration of a newly acquired company in Canada and a project focused on production transfers across geographies.
On completion of the programme, the graduates become a member of the IMI Academy, which is one of our talent pipelines, that provides on-going learning, mentoring and training opportunities to support their retention and career path progression.
To boost the quality of the mentoring in the IMI Academy and more generally across the organisation, a new training programme focused on mentoring skills was launched during the course of 2013.
Group Overview Group Overview Business Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 17 17 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DEVELOPMENT In terms of on-going development and, in addition to the IMI Academy, which is focused on our graduate employees, we operate a wide range of training and learning initiatives across the Group at all levels to ensure we have motivated people with world-class skills and a pool of potential leadership talent.
At the most senior level, we run an annual IMI Leaders Boot Camp for our senior business leaders.
This took place in May 2013 and is designed to help our managers and directors achieve excellence in both their current and future roles.
It also creates a network through which 80 business leaders can develop and share best practice.
Each year we also run our Management Fundamentals Programme, which is focused on our high potential middle managers and aims to prepare them for senior management roles.
In total, around 210 managers participated in this programme which runs across Europe, Asia and the Americas.
In addition, over 100 employees attended our Emerging Managers Programme, designed for more junior managers, which took place across the Group.
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT AND COMMUNICATION In 2013 we commissioned our third Employee Engagement Survey and over two-thirds of our employees participated.
While the feedback suggested that there are a number of factors that contribute to making IMI a great place to work, including our approach to health and safety and our clear business strategy, it also indicated that more could be done to strengthen our performance management framework and boost support around career and personal development.
These will be key areas of focus this year.
Furthermore, later this year we plan to introduce a Group-wide intranet to help with collaboration, knowledge sharing and teamwork and to greatly improve communications across IMI.
DIVERSITY We select the very best people to help deliver our ambitions and to reflect the global footprint in which we operate.
At the graduate level, 36% of our graduates are female and we will continue to focus our efforts to recruit more diverse international business leaders across the Group.
A more detailed explanation of our diversity policy is given in the Corporate Governance section of this Report on page 50.
Human Rights This Report does not contain further information about policies of the Company in relation to human rights issues since our approach is enshrined in The IMI Way and our support for the UN Global Compact.
Further detail is available on the Companys website.
