Group Overview Business Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 63 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Service contracts will be entered into on terms summarised Terms for Martin Lamb, Douglas Hurt and Roy Twite in the service contract policy see below.
As noted above, The key terms as they relate to remuneration not otherwise the Committee would authorise the payment of a relocation mentioned that are included in service contracts are as follows: allowance as well as other associated international mobility terms in line with IMIs Global Mobility Policy.
Notice period 12 months notice each way The Committee may consider buyingout incentive awards, Payment in lieu Martin Lamb no provision up to an equivalent value, that an individual forfeits in accepting of notice Douglas Hurt, Roy Twite at the Committees discretion the appointment.
To achieve this, the Committees preference Change of control Bonus entitlement if a change in control has taken has been to use the existing shareholder approved plans.
place within the 24 months prior to termination When making their decision, the Committee will be informed Entitlements on No entitlement if dismissed for cause or resignation by the vehicles, time horizons, value and performance targets termination associated with any forfeited awards.
A timely announcement with respect to any appointment and Termination and loss of office the appointees remuneration will be made to the regulatory As noted above, it is the Committees policy that notice periods news services RNS and posted on IMIs website.
Full in executive directors contracts shall be set at a period of details will then also be included in the relevant report on up to 12 months, based on factors considered at the time remuneration in the Annual Report as is the case for Mark of the appointment.
The primary principle underpinning the Selway this year, see page 59. determination of any payments on loss of office is that payments for failure will not be made.
Service contracts and plan rules Service contracts have been drafted in such a way that the Committee has the During the year the Committee took the opportunity to review necessary powers to ensure this.
the standard contractual terms for new appointments to the Board.
Mark Selways contract reflects this and it is in On departure, the Committee will take into account factors line with the following policy that will apply to future Board including the reason for the executive leaving, performance appointments: during the time served in the year and contractual obligations when approving any payments.
When an executive is Notice period 12 months notice each way terminated for cause there is no entitlement to salary, pension, benefits or an annual bonus and unvested awards under the Payment in lieu As determined by the Committee, but restricted to salary, of notice benefits and pension.
Directors have a duty to mitigate SMP and PSP lapse.
Change of No incremental payments or protection Any enhanced pension commitments that exist below the control Board under the arrangement described earlier for Martin Entitlements No entitlement if leaving as a bad leaver as set out in Lamb will continue to apply should an individual be appointed on termination the contract to the Board.
The following table provides a summary of the Salary, contractual benefits and pension allowance as per treatment of each component of pay.
It should be noted that notice period the Committee applies judgement in determining whether Committee power to make phased payments that would be reduced or stopped if alternative employment is taken up an individual is classed as a good leaver or otherwise under the share plans and is authorised to reach compromise agreements with departing executives.
Agreed departure Pension terms specific to Martin Lamb can include death, ill health, redundancy or retirement.
The key terms subject to Committee determination are As a consequence of the closure of the IMI Pension Fund summarised on the following page.
the Fund with effect from 31 December 2010, the Company made alternative arrangements in lieu of certain contractual entitlements to pension benefits which, but for the closure, would have been provided through the Fund to all members in the same membership category as Martin Lamb Chief Executive at the time.
Prior to leaving service or death, these alternative arrangements include annual as at 31 December augmentation of Fund benefits up to the level that would have been provided save for closure or an equivalent cash payment in lieu.
Accordingly an augmentation of 2,694 was made to Martins benefit as at 31 December 2013 and no payment in lieu arose.
