10 IMI plc RESPONDING TO GLOBAL TRENDS The world today is being THE GLOBAL TRENDS shaped by a number of longterm global trends including climate change, resource CLIMATE CHANGE By 2030 greenhouse gases are expected to scarcity, urbanisation and increase by between 25% and 90% from the an ageing population.
These levels they were at in 1990. trends are driving heightened Carbon dioxide in the atmosphere will also demand for increasingly continue to increase and the market for lowcarbon energy products is likely to be worth sophisticated engineering at least $500bn by 2050. solutions which deliver cleaner energy, greater fuel efficiency and more effective resource utilisation.
RESOURCE SCARCITY This on-going demand for Demand for energy will continue to increase.
innovative products and A 40% increase is forecast by 2030 and to support that increasing demand, 26 trillion engineering expertise plays dollars of investment will be required.
to our core strengths and is In particular, China and India will require creating increased growth significant amounts of extra power over the opportunities across next decades, adding between them 50 giga the Group.
watts of installed capacity each year.
URBANISATION Between 2009 and 2050 the number of people living in cities will have doubled to 6.4bn.
By 2050 there will be 75 cities with a population of more than one million people.
AGEING POPULATION Between the years 2000 and 2050, the proportion of people over 60 will double to 22%.
Today two-thirds of health care spending now relates to people over 65 years old.
These statistics were provided by Frost & Sullivan Group Overview Group Overview Business Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 HOW WE ARE HELPING CUSTOMERS RESPOND TO THE GLOBAL TRENDS Climate change is The concerns around excessive carbon dioxide levels are driving demand for cost effective ways to driving demand for increase fuel economy and cut CO emissions.
Nowhere is this more evident than in the Commercial 2 better environmental Vehicle sector, where our Fluid Power division is developing technology which enables heat to be taken control and improved from the vehicle exhaust and recycled into energy to power the vehicle.
This innovative waste heat energy efficiency recovery process helps reduce engine emissions and improves fuel efficiency.
Resource scarcity is Resource scarcity is underpinning a rapid growth in a number of new sources of energy including liquefied driving demand for natural gas LNG.
However, the capital costs associated with building and running an LNG plant are better environmental extensive and increasing.
The energy industry has responded by developing floating LNG platforms, a control and improved modular approach which substantially cuts capital costs and lowers the break-even point for investment.
energy efficiency These floating LNG platforms require lighter weight components which still meet every technical requirement and performance criteria.
Using its engineering expertise and proprietary technologies, our Severe Service division has designed and manufactured new control valves of the optimum size and weight for incorporation in floating LNG platforms.
During 2013, the division won the contract to supply all critical application valve packages for Prelude, the first floating LNG facility in the world.
Urbanisation is As the number of people living in cities continues to increase and the size of the worlds cities grow, driving demand for energy efficiency within buildings, which consume around 40% of the worlds energy, is critical.
energy efficiency In response to the requirement for greater energy efficiency and lower energy costs, our Indoor Climate division works with building designers to create optimal indoor heating and cooling systems incorporating our sophisticated valve products.
Most recently TA Hydronics delivered an energy efficient and sustainable heating, ventilation and air conditioning HVAC solution to the Spine Tower in Turkey set to become the second tallest building in Istanbul.
Not only does the solution ensure all users can work and reside in a comfortable and well managed environment, but it also significantly reduces annual energy consumption by up to 30%.
An ageing population An ageing population is putting increasing demands on global health care provision.
This demand is driving demand for is leading to substantial increases in health care costs which is driving an increasing trend towards better management out-of-hospital treatment and a greater focus by healthcare providers on prevention rather than of resources cure.
As a result, our Fluid Power division is seeing an increasing demand for miniature, lower power and yet more robust valves, such as Chipsol, for point-of-care devices such as portable ventilators.
The compact 8mm footprint, Chipsol, was developed for critical fluid applications where space and power are at a premium.
