76 IMI plc Directors Remuneration Report contd Share interests granted to executive directors during Dividend payments 2013 audited Under the share matching plan SMP and performance share plan PSP, dividend equivalent payments are made on vested Grants made under the share matching plan but unexercised share awards, which take the form of nil-cost Grants under the SMP were made on 9 April 2013.
These dividend equivalents, while notionally tracked Committee invited those eligible to participate at the maximum by IMI from grant to exercise, are not paid or transferred to the level permitted in respect of 2013.
Mark Selway and Sean participant until the point of exercise.
These dividend equivalents Toomes were not eligible to participate during 2013.
Awards have been included in the single figure the table on page 68 take the form of nil-cost share options and the size of the award based on the number of dividend equivalents notionally accrued reflects an individuals bonus opportunity and the extent to which in any financial year, valued at the price on the dividend payment they had achieved the share ownership guideline.
Any residual cash is rolled over and applied to the subsequent dividend equivalent purchase.
Achievement of Initial Value on Award as a Share Ownership matching date of percentage Loss of office payments audited 1 Guideline as at award award of salary During 2013 Sean Toomes resigned as a director of IMI.
Seans 31 Dec 2013 000 loss of office payments were calculated in accordance with his M J Lamb Yes 185,898 2,353 298% entitlements under his service contract and the relevant incentive plan rules.
D M Hurt Yes 84,784 1,073 249% The aggregate payment shown in the single figure table was R M Twite Yes 78,000 987 229% 461,806.
This comprised: 1 The mid-market price on the date of award was 1,226.00 pence.
247,500 payment in lieu of notice for salary, reflecting nine months of his 12 month notice period: Matching awards will vest subject to the achievement of an EVA 86,625 payment in lieu of notice for pension, r eflecting nine performance condition over the three financial years ending 31 months of his 12 month notice period: December 2015.
The definition of EVA is unchanged from that used in previous years.
45,274 payment in lieu of notice for benefits, including reimbursement for untaken holiday: and Grants made under the performance share plan 82,407 in r espect of relocation and outplacement costs, Grants under the PSP were made on 12 March 2013 to Martin in line with the IMI Global Mobility Policy and International Lamb, Douglas Hurt and Roy Twite: and on 22 October 2013 Assignment Framework.
As described at the start of this section, Mark Selways award is subject to a slightly different mix of In addition, Sean was not eligible for a bonus in respect of 2013, performance measures and targets to reflect both the timing nor any awards under the long-term incentive plans.
Outstanding of his appointment and the inclusion of the EVA target applying awards under the SMP and PSP will vest in accordance with the to 2013 SMP awards.
In respect of those awards where the performance period was not completed by 30 June 2013, awards were proPerformance share awards will vest subject to the achievement rated to that date and will vest subject to performance on the of EPS, relative TSR, organic revenue growth and, in the case normal vesting date.
Exercise periods will be shortened for any of Mark Selway, EVA performance over a three-year period.
nil-cost options and vested but unexercised awards under the The definitions of EPS and TSR are consistent with previous Share Option Plan.
However, in light of Mark Selways appointment during the year, TSR performance will be measured over the three-year Payments to past directors audited period from his date of appointment as opposed to the three It is the Committees intention to disclose any payments to past financial years from 1 January 2013 as is the case for the directors, including the vesting of share-based awards post other executives.
departure on a basis consistent with the executive directors.
Organic revenue growth calculated as an average annual growth During the year no payments were made to past directors.
rate has been adopted as a performance measure for the 2013 In particular, the Committee can confirm that under the terms PSP awards to encourage continued focus on organic growth.
of his departure, Ian Whitings 2011 share matching plan and Revenue is defined as published revenues before exceptional performance share plan awards lapsed.
items adjusted, at the Committees discretion, to exclude the impact of material acquisitions and disposals by the Company completed during the performance period and to remove the impact of exchange rate movements.
