66 IMI plc Directors Remuneration Report ANNUAL REMUNERATION REPORT Introduction an overview of how the performance measures that were used in the executive incentive plans The Remuneration Committee presents the in 2013 align with the strategic objectives of IMI: Annual Remuneration Report, which will be put to shareholders as an advisory non-binding vote a full breakdown and explanation of the at the Annual General Meeting to be held on individual remuneration elements paid during or 8 May 2014. in respect of the 2013 financial year, along with details of delivered performance relative to the Given the pay policy of IMI has been broadly targets that were set: unchanged for a number of years, the remuneration paid in respect of 2013 is aligned details of share awards made during with the Directors Remuneration Policy that will 2013 under the Share Matching Plan and apply in the future.
Performance Share Plan: This report comprises a number of sections: a summary of directors beneficial interests and their progress towards IMIs share ownership firstly, an introduction to your Committee along guidelines: and with a reminder of the voting outcome at our 2013 Annual General Meeting: information on changes to pay, in line with our policy that will apply in the 2014 financial details of the r emuneration paid in respect of year, including a summary of the payments the 2013 financial year: associated with Martin Lambs retirement.
information on the comparative data, including a comparison of employment costs to other major cash distributions, the percentage change of elements of the Chief Executives remuneration relative to other employees, the historical performance and the Chief Executives pay at IMI: The Remuneration Committee the Committee A copy of the terms of reference is available from the corporate governance section of the IMI website, where it appears as part Composition of IMIs Corporate Governance Framework.
As a matter of course, the terms of reference are reviewed annually.
The members of the Committee during the year were Bob Stack During the year, the terms of reference were updated to Chairman, Carl-Peter Forster, Anita Frew, Birgit Nrgaard, Terry reflect the Committees new reporting responsibilities and the Gateley until 9 May 2013, and Roberto Quarta.
In accordance additional processes required in the future for formally approving with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all of the foregoing payments.
More generally, the Committee recognises its non-executive directors were regarded by the Board as responsibility for considering the risk implications of incentives independent and Roberto Quarta was considered independent and the remuneration structure at IMI.
on his appointment as Chairman of the Company.
Internal advisors to the committee Responsibility During the year, the Committee consulted the Chief Executive, The Committee determines the remuneration policy and rewards Martin Lamb, regarding the remuneration policy and the for the executive directors and, in his absence the Chairman.
packages of the other executive directors and senior managers.
The Committee also reviews the remuneration packages of It also received the advice and services of the Finance those at the next most senior level of management and has Director, Douglas Hurt, the Group Human Resources Director, regard to levels of pay across the Group.
Matt Huckin until 30 June 2013, the interim Group Human
