32 IMI plc Operational review FLUID POWER DIVISION Revenue Fluid Power specialises in the design and manufacture of flow control solutions for applications where precision, 723m speed and reliability are essential.
The divisions Up 1% engineered pneumatic and fluid control solutions support and enhance the performance of customers equipment.
Operating profit The division is a market leader in a number of attractive niche sectors including Commercial Vehicles, Energy and 140.5m Life Sciences as well as a major player into the Industrial Down 1% Automation market.
It operates four global technical centres of excellence and has manufacturing operations in the US, Mexico, Brazil, China, Germany, the UK, Switzerland and the Czech Republic, as well as sales and service networks in 75 countries.
Performance Fluid Power markets improved in the second half of 2013, with revenues growing 3% on an organic basis 360m 2012 H2: 344m, following a challenging first half of the year.
Overall revenues for the full year were 723m 2012: 717m, a 1% rise on a reported basis and a 1% decline on an organic basis.
Brendan Colgan Divisional Managing Director Our sector business, which focuses on providing engineering solutions to leading original equipment manufacturers operating in global niche markets, was flat on an Brendan joined IMI in September 2013 as Divisional organic basis.
Following a soft first half, our Commercial Vehicle sector grew 1% in Managing Director of Fluid Power.
Before joining IMI, he held a number of finance and general the second half with our European truck business up 18%, benefiting from some management roles in the engineering sector with pre-buy before the introduction of Euro VI engines in 2014.
In contrast, the North Charter International plc, most recently as the Global American truck market continued to be challenging throughout the year and as CEO for ESAB.
He has extensive experience of global engineering having lived in Mexico, Australia, USA a result, overall, Commercial Vehicle revenues were down 4% for the year.
We saw and Europe and undertaken global roles with ESAB good revenue growth in the Energy sector, up 7%, and in the Rail sector, up 11% and Howden.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute while the Food & Beverage sector was flat and Life Sciences lower.
of Management Accountants, an alumni of Harvard AMP and holds a degree in Accounting from the University of Ulster.
Industrial Automation Commercial Vehicles Energy Life Sciences Rail Food and Beverage Our Fluid Power business We are a global leader Our business designs We are a key supplier Our business focuses Our business focuses on manufactures a broad in engine management, and manufactures into the medical device, on key Rail applications the important niches of range of pneumatic transmission control, high integrity solenoid analytical, and clinical including internal door PET bottling equipment, actuators, valves and and chassis cab valves, air preparation diagnostic equipment systems, brake controls, ink jet printing equipment air preparation products air management and instrumentation markets.
Our strong and auxiliary air systems and control valves for designed for increased applications for the equipment for the portfolio of fluid handling to improve rail car and commercial coffee automation in factories.
Commercial Vehicle global Energy markets.
and control products engine performance and machines.
We offer Through our dedicated industry.
We provide a Our applications span enable us to provide life.
We work with train unique and differentiated aftermarket channel, variety of customised Upstream Oil & Gas, differentiated, engineered builders, major Tier One solutions to major global Norgren Express, we solutions for use on Refining, Petrochemical, solutions to major OEM customers and the train customers in all three have a compelling value medium and heavy duty Chemical and Power customers.
proposition combining trucks and buses in all Generation.
rapid delivery with major global markets.
technical expertise and market-leading on-line capabilities.
Group Overview Business Review Performance Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 During the year we acquired two small technology companies to support our sector strategy.
In August we acquired Analytical Flow Products, which has an innovative range of chromatography valves which will enhance our capabilities in the Life Science and Energy sectors, and in October we acquired Nano-Porous Solutions Ltd, a UK based company which has patented technology for high performance air dryers for the Rail sector.
The Industrial Automation business was down 3% on an organic basis with Europe lower, North America flat, Asia Pacific slightly up and good growth in Latin America.
CASE STUDY Operating profit was 140.5m 2012: 142.3m and operating Norgrens solution helps petrochemical manufacturer margins at 19.4% 2012: 19.8% were slightly down reflecting avoid costly interruptions to their plant operation the lower level of sales.
Key Achievements Requirement: Braskem, Latin Americas largest petrochemical manufacturer, identified solenoid valves as Growing revenues in the Energy sector by 7% and in the an area for improvement in the safety network at production Rail sector by 11% units in Bahia, Brazil.
The solenoid valves pilot pneumatic Good progress on two major new product initiatives: actuators which control shut down valves for reactors, high performance dryers for Rail and waste heat recovery furnaces and boilers.
Braskem required a solution with a systems for Commercial Vehicles low probability of failure in order to maximise safety standards and also to avoid any unnecessary costly Continued investment in Norgren Express, our marketinterruptions in the operation of the plant.
leading internet, phone and catalogue-based aftermarket solution Solution: Braskem is currently testing a solution integrating Acquiring Analytical Flow Products and Nano-Porous two of our best-in-class Maxseal solenoid valves, into an Solutions Ltd to enhance sector strategy explosion proof redundant valve manifold RVM with the required safety integrity level.
The RVM allows fluids to Market Review flow even if one of the solenoid valves fail, ensuring a high level of availability and reducing unscheduled interruptions.
The economic outlook for 2014 is more positive than in recent Additionally Norgen designed the RVM to reduce its footprint years with the worlds major economies continuing to recover and incorporated a visual valve status indicator to enable from the global economic crisis of 2009-12.
The Purchasing quicker and safer maintenance in the field.
After the valves Managers Indices PMIs have all increased above the 50 successfully complete the test phase, this solution will be mark since the middle of 2013 in December the Eurozone used as a reference at Braskems other sites in Brazil.
In Commercial Vehicles, the North American market is expected to show some improvement after a challenging environment in 2013, while the European truck market is expected to be stable with some impact in the first half resulting from the pre-buy of trucks in the second half of 2013 ahead of the new emissions legislation.
Outlook The PMIs, which are typically a good lead indicator for the Fluid Power business, suggest improving prospects in the general industrial sector.
In the Commercial Vehicle sector growth in the first half will be impacted by the Euro V pre-buy in Europe last year and the ending of a large contract in North America.
Based on this market environment and current order trends we expect modest organic revenue growth in the first half with margins broadly similar to the first half last year.
