30 IMI plc Operational review SEVERE SERVICE DIVISION Revenue Severe Service is a world leading provider of flow control technologies that enable vital industrial and energy 716m production processes to operate safely, cleanly and more Up 4% efficiently.
The division designs and manufactures highly engineered valves, actuators and controls which are able to withstand temperature and pressure extremes and Operating profit intensely abrasive and corrosive cyclical operations.
116.8m The division is a market leader in a number of growing Up 21% end markets including Liquefied Natural Gas LNG, Combined-Cycle Gas Power and Petrochemical.
We have design and manufacturing facilities in 12 countries, more than 400 qualified engineers, a global service network and over 200 dedicated aftermarket specialists.
Performance The full year order intake at 741.7m was up 12% year-on-year 2012: 660.1m.
A number of our end markets performed particularly well, including Oil & Gas, where orders were up 27% and we were successful in winning one of the largest ever orders in our history, which was for a high integrity pressure protection system HIPPS for Roy Twite installation on a gas field in the Middle East.
In the Petrochemical sector, orders were Divisional Managing Director up 11%.
Fossil Power orders were also up 16% on the prior year, with good growth in China, India and Korea.
Nuclear orders were up 19%, despite the on-going difficult Roy joined IMI in 1988 on the Graduate Engineering market conditions following the Fukushima incident, as more safety upgrade projects scheme.
During his career with IMI, he has run all of become available.
Orders to support the aftermarket were up 9%.
While the majority IMIs divisions, including the Severe Service business, which he has led since 2011.
Roy gained his Masters of our markets saw good bookings momentum in 2013, order intake in Iron & Steel degree from Cambridge University.
was down 49%, reflecting the on-going challenges in that market.
Revenues increased 3% to 716m on an organic basis 2012: 686m and operating profit grew 21% to 116.8m 2012: 96.3m.
This strong profit growth reflects the impact of careful project selection and efficiency improvements achieved in our manufacturing processes and supply chain.
As a result, margins increased to 16.3% from 14.0% in 2012.
Oil & Gas Fossil Power Nuclear Petrochemical We are the global market leader in the IMI Severe Service supplies critical, We supply products for new reactors IMI Severe Service is the global leader supply of anti-surge valve and actuator customised turbine by-pass valves and upgrades to existing facilities to in the design and manufacture of systems to the worlds largest LNG to the worlds most efficient power improve safety levels.
To date we have integrated flow control systems for the compression facilities, like Gorgon in stations.
Our valves control high supplied products to over half the critical applications in Fluid Catalytic Australia.
Our systems operate below pressure super-heated steam at worlds reactor fleet.
We also supply -160C, with ultra-fast response to temperatures up to 650C, protecting bespoke valves into the ethylene maximise liquid natural gas production the turbine and optimising power yield.
and propylene production processes, while protecting the compressor.
Globally, we have an installed base of as well as for delayed coking at over one hundred thousand valves and temperatures up to 1,600C.
we are recognised as the leader in the combined-cycle gas sector.
Group Overview Business Review Performance Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Key Achievements Winning the HIPPS order for a gas field in the Middle East, one of the largest single orders in Severe Services history Increasing Fossil Power orders by 16% by targeting the growth regions of China, India and Korea Achieving an increase in global Petrochemical orders of 11%, helped by securing a number of orders in the US where opportunities have increased as a result of shale oil and gas activity CASE STUDY Shipping 84 large bespoke valves, from our Zimmermann CCI helps to keep Alaska pipelines flowing & Jansen business in Germany to a Catofin petrochemical project in Houston, US Improving significantly the operational performance Requirement: As winters can be very long and cold in of our Brno manufacturing facility and our supply Alaska, keeping the oil sufficiently heated is critical for chain management pipeline services.
Bringing to market two new product ranges: highly Solution: In order to ensure production is optimised and engineered ball valves for Oil & Gas applications and flow rates are maintained when temperatures drop to below quarter turn actuators -50F, Alyeska Pipeline Services sought to develop a way of mechanically heating the crude oil by cycling the fluid through a pump.
Market Review Activity in the Oil & Gas sector, particularly LNG, and in the A solution was found in a design that could allow large Petrochemical sector is expected to remain at the current particles to flow through the valve disk stack which could high levels, led by projects in the US.
Growth in the Fossil also withstand the seismic activity that occurs in the region.
Power sector will come from the emerging markets, where The team designed, built and shipped a custom design we will continue to be selective in the projects we undertake.
which helped raise the temperature by nearly 14F, giving In the short-term, the Nuclear market is likely to continue to be the emergency crews the necessary time to repair any faults impacted post-Fukushima, but longer term prospects remain before the oil pressure decreased or froze.
good, particularly in the safety upgrade market.
Our continued focus on delivering the best possible solution for our key global customers in their critical applications, using all the appropriate Severe Service technologies and applications expertise, demonstrates our commitment to excellent quality, long-term business.
This, in conjunction with a focus on the aftermarket, improving project management effectiveness, the increasing utilisation of our cost competitive factories in the Czech Republic, India, Korea and China, as well as the deeper integration of our recent acquisitions will help further improve profits.
Outlook The substantial opening order book combined with good operating performance and the effect of the large HIPPS order is expected to deliver good revenue growth on an organic basis in both the first half and the full year.
Full year margins are expected to show continued progress on last year with first half margins slightly ahead of the first half last year despite increased investment in growth initiatives.
