38 IMI plc BOARD OF DIRECTORS ROBERTO QUARTA MARK SELWAY DOUGLAS HURT ROY TWITE MARTIN LAMB Chairman 64 Chief Executive 54 Finance Director 57 Executive Director 46 Former Chief Executive 54 Roberto Quarta has significant Mark Selway joined IMI and Douglas Hurt joined IMI and Roy Twite has been Managing Martin Lamb was Chief management experience the Board in October 2013 the Board as Finance Director Director of IMIs Severe Service Executive of IMI from 2001 to spanning a broad range of as Chief Executive designate in 2006.
He was previously division since 2011.
Roy joined 2013, having been appointed manufacturing and service and became Chief Executive with GlaxoSmithKline where IMI as a graduate in 1988. to the Board in 1996.
Martin, businesses with global on 1 January 2014.
Mark was he held both financial and From 2001 Roy held roles who has an engineering operations.
Roberto is currently previously Chief Executive operational roles including a including Managing Director background, worked for IMI Chairman elect at Smith & at Boral Limited, Australias number of US and European of IMI Norgren UK 2001, for over 33 years and held a Nephew plc, a partner and leading building materials senior management positions.
President of IMI Indoor Climate number of senior management European Chairman of the company between 2010 and He has a degree in Economics 2004, President of Retail roles across the Group during private equity firm Clayton, 2012.
Prior to that he served from Cambridge University and Dispense 2007 and President this time.
In September 2013, Dubilier & Rice, where he has as Chief Executive of The Weir is a member of the Institute of Fluid Power 2009.
Roy Martin announced his intention worked since 2000.
He is Group PLC for eight years of Chartered Accountants in has a Masters degree from to retire as Chief Executive at Chairman of the Supervisory between 2001 and 2009.
the end of 2013 and from the Board of Rexel SA, and a Before joining Weir he was an is also a non-executive director Board at the AGM in May 2014. non-executive director of executive director at Britax of Tate & Lyle PLC.
He is a non-executive director Spie SA.
His previous board International plc between of Severn Trent Water plc.
For two years of BBA Group plc where he between 2009 and 2011 he was also Chief Executive and was a non-executive director Italtel SpA, executive director of Lend Lease the Australian of BTR plc, and non-executive listed property and construction director of BAE Systems plc, company.
Mark was awarded Foster Wheeler AG, PowerGen an honorary doctorate from plc, Azure Dynamics Corp and the University of West Scotland Equant NV.
Nationality American Italian Australian British British British Committee membership Nominations Committee Chair Executive Committee Executive Committee Executive Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Date of appointment Joined the IMI Board in 2011.
2013 2006 2007 2001 Expertise Significant UK and international Experienced and proven Chief Experienced finance leader, Proven operational and Experienced business leader board experience Executive having held senior finance roles engineering expertise Considerable knowledge of in global businesses Deep knowledge of both Solid track record running Management capability having IMIs businesses engineering and manufacturing international engineering General management run all of IMIs divisions Deep understanding of the businesses experience gained in UK and Strong track record in private Extensive knowledge of end flow control sector Europe equity, mergers and acquisitions In-depth knowledge of relevant markets and customer base end markets including oil & gas Mergers and acquisitions, and energy tax and pensions Key external appointments Chairman elect at Smith & Nephew Non-executive director of Tate Non-executive director of plc & Lyle PLC Severn Trent Water plc Partner and Chairman Europe of Clayton, Dubilier & Rice Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Rexel SA Non-executive director of Spie SA Group Overview Business Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 BOB STACK PHIL BENTLEY CARL-PETER FORSTER ANITA FREW BIRGIT NRGAARD Non-executive director 63 Non-executive director 55 Non-executive director 59 Senior independent Non-executive director 55 non-executive director 56 Anita Frew is Chairman of Bob Stack is on the Board Phil Bentley is Chief Carl-Peter Forster has worked Birgit Nrgaard serves as nonVictrex plc, the FTSE 250 of Earthwatch International Executive of Cable & Wireless in the automotive industry for executive director on a number global manufacturer of high and a non-executive director Communications Plc.
He currently holds of boards including the listed performance polymers, having of Signet Jewellers Ltd.
Previously, Phil served as the non-executive director positions companies DSV A S, WSP inc. previously been the senior Past directorships include Managing Director of British at Geely Automobile Holdings, a and Lindab AB as well as being independent director.
She is also J Sainsbury where he was Gas from 2007 to 2013 and Hong Kong listed company and non-executive Chairman of the senior non-executive director chairman of the Remuneration prior to this, was on the Board Volvo Cars Corporation.
the engineering company NNE of Aberdeen Asset Management Committee for eight years and at Centrica plc from 2000, Pharmaplan A S. Previously, Carl-Peter is the Chairman of plc and a non-executive director Cadbury plc where he was an holding the roles of Group Birgit has held a number of ZMDi AG in Dresden, an analogue of Lloyds Banking Group plc.
Finance Director 2000-2004 senior executive positions in digital semiconductor company She was previously an Executive He was formerly a Trustee of and Managing Director, Europe consulting engineering, the and cofounder of Lead Equities, Director of Abbott Mead Vickers Earthwatch Europe.
He was previously most recent being as Chief a small cap private equity fund plc, and Director of Corporate Finance Director for Diageo Executive of Grontmij Carl Bro, management company in Vienna.
Development at WPP Group plc.
plcs spirits division, and Group Denmark, and Chief Operating Previously he was Group Chief Treasurer.
He has also served Officer of its parent company Executive Officer and Managing in several senior international Grontmij NV in the Netherlands.
Director of Tata Motors Ltd from management roles at BP plc Prior to that she held senior February 2010 to September and lived and worked in China, management positions with 2011 and has held a number of Egypt and the USA.
Danisco, having started her senior management positions with career as a consultant with He has a Masters Degree from both General Motors and BMW.
McKinsey & Co. Birgit has Oxford University and an MBA He was also a non-executive an MSc in Economics from from INSEAD in France.
director of Rolls-Royce Group Copenhagen Business School plc between 2003 and 2006. and an MBA from INSEAD.
He started his career in 1982, as a consultant for McKinsey & Company in Munich.
He has a Diploma in Economics from the Bonn University and a Diploma in Aeronautical Engineering from Technical University in Munich.
Nationality British American British German Danish Committee membership Nominations Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Chair Audit Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Chair Remuneration Committee Date of appointment 2006 2008 2012 2012 2012 Expertise Experienced non-executive Experienced non-executive Former plc group finance Experienced business leader Experienced non-executive director director Extensive business experience Significant international In-depth knowledge of the including 14 years on industrial business experience Senior business leader in both automotive sector Held senior executive positions in boards finance and operational roles engineering consultancy Specialist capability in human Expert in operational excellence In-depth knowledge of resources In-depth understanding of and lean manufacturing Wide ranging sectoral experience investment and asset energy sector including energy, water, Significant experience in management sectors infrastructure and building technology management industries Extensive experience in strategy as well as finance and accounting Key external appointments Chairman of Victrex plc Non-executive of Earthwatch Chief Executive of Cable & Chairman of ZMDi AG Non-executive director of DSV International Wireless Communications Plc A S, WSP inc. and Lindab AB Non-executive director of Non-executive director of Geely Aberdeen Asset Management Non-executive director of Automobile Holdings, Hong Non-executive Chairman of Signet Jewellers Ltd Kong NNE Pharmaplan A S Non-executive director of Lloyds Banking Group plc Non-executive director of Volvo Cars Corporation, Gothenburg, Sweden
