Group Overview Business Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 DIRECTORS REPORT The directors present their report, together with the audited financial statements, for the year ended 31 December 2013.
The Strategic Report is on pages 2 to 35.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary Results and dividend shares are set out in the Companys articles of association, copies The Group consolidated income statement is shown on page 84. of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK, from Segmental operating profit amounted to 321.6m 2012 restated: the Companys website or by writing to the Company Secretary.
300.1m and profit before taxation and discontinued operations Changes to the articles of association must be approved by a amounted to 249.3m 2012 restated: 229.9m.
special resolution of the shareholders 75% majority required The directors recommend a final dividend of 22.5p per 28 4 7p in accordance with the legislation in force at the time.
Subject share 2012: 20.7p per 25p share on the ordinary share capital to applicable statutes, shares may be issued with such rights payable, subject to shareholder approval, on 19 May 2014 to and restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution shareholders on the register at the close of business on 11 April decide or if there is no such resolution or so far as it does 2014.
Together with the interim dividend of 12.8p per 25p share not make specific provision as the Board may decide.
paid on 11 October 2013, this final dividend will bring the total Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys distribution for the year to 35.3p per share 2012: 32.5p per report and accounts, to attend, speak and vote at general 25p share.
meetings of the Company, and to appoint proxies to exercise their rights.
Holders of ordinary shares may receive a dividend Research and development and on a liquidation may share in the assets of the Company.
Expenditure on research and development in the year was 50.0m Subject to meeting certain thresholds, holders of ordinary shares 2012 restated: 45.4m, in addition to this an amount of 3.3m may requisition a general meeting of the Company or propose 2012: 3.9m has been capitalised.
resolutions at Annual General Meetings.
Voting rights for ordinary shares held in treasury are suspended and the treasury shares Shareholders funds carry no rights to receive dividends or other distributions of assets.
Shareholders funds decreased from 635.5m at the end of 2012 to 600.9m at 31 December 2013.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than: Share capital certain restrictions as may from time to time be imposed by As at 31 December 2013, the Companys share capital comprised laws and regulations for example insider trading laws : and a single class of share capital which was divided into ordinary pursuant to the Companys share dealing code whereby the shares of 25p each.
Details of the share capital of the Company directors and certain employees of the Company require are set out in section 4.6 to the financial statements on pages 131 approval to deal in the Companys shares.
The Companys ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Company is not aware of any arrangements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of The Company has a Level 1 American Depositary Receipt ADR ordinary shares or on voting rights.
None of the ordinary shares programme for which Citibank, N. A. acts as depositary.
The ADRs carries any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
are traded on the US over-the-counter market under the symbol The only restrictions on voting rights are those that apply to the IMIAY, where each ADR represents two ordinary shares.
ordinary shares held in treasury, as described above.
Electronic As at 31 December 2013, 1,796,043 shares were held in an and paper proxy appointments and voting instructions must employee trust for use in relation to certain executive incentive plans be received by the Companys registrars not later than 48 hours representing 0.6% of the issued share capital excluding treasury excluding any non-working days before a general meeting, shares at that time.
The independent trustee of the trust has the or subject to the Companys articles of association any same rights as any other shareholder.
Participants in option schemes adjournment thereof.
do not hold any voting rights on the shares until the date of exercise.
Return of cash and share capital consolidation During the year, 316,950 new ordinary shares were issued under On 21 January 2014, the Company announced the terms of a employee share schemes: 292,175 under save as you earn plans return of cash to shareholders of 200p per existing ordinary share and 24,775 under executive share plans.
Shares acquired through of 25p each and a share capital consolidation of every 8 existing Company share schemes and plans rank equally with the shares in ordinary shares of 25p each into 7 new ordinary shares of issue and have no special rights.
52 IMI plc Directors Report contd The return of cash was structured as a B and C share scheme.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the Under its terms, shareholders subject to restrictions in respect next Annual General Meeting to be held on 8 May 2014.
At the of US shareholders and certain other overseas shareholders, next Annual General Meeting of the Company, shareholders will were able to elect whether to receive their cash proceeds as: be asked to give a similar authority, details of which are contained i an immediate income payment the Income Option : ii an in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting.
immediate capital payment the Immediate Capital Option : As at 31 December 2013, 30,883,095 ordinary shares nominal iii a capital payment deferred until after 6 April 2014 the value 7,720,774 were held in treasury representing 9.96% of the Deferred Capital Option : or iv any combination of the above.
issued share capital excluding treasury shares at that time.
This The resolutions required for the return of cash and share capital was also equal to the maximum number of shares held in treasury consolidation including to amend the articles of association of during the year ended 31 December 2013.
On 16 January 2014, the Company were approved by shareholders at a general the Company cancelled 14,598,706 ordinary shares of 25p each meeting of the Company held on 13 February 2014.
The new held in treasury and on 13 February 2014 the Company cancelled ordinary shares of 28 4 7p were admitted to the Official List and 5 ordinary shares of 25p each held in treasury.
As at the date of to trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed this Report, 14,248,836 ordinary shares of 28 4 7p each nominal securities on 17 February 2014. value of 4,071,096 were held in treasury, representing 5.25% of the issued share capital.
On 17 February 2014, the Company issued a total of: i 228,744,051 C shares to satisfy elections or deemed Substantial shareholdings elections for the Income Option: ii 75,928,619 redeemable Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Disclosure B shares to satisfy elections for the Immediate Capital Option: and Transparency Rules is published on a regulatory information and iii 5,475,074 redeemable B shares to satisfy elections for service and on the Companys website.
As at 31 December 2013, the Deferred Capital Option.
On 18 February 2014, a dividend the following voting interests in the ordinary share capital of the of 200p was declared on each C share issued to satisfy an Company, disclosable under the Disclosure and Transparency election or deemed election for the Income Option and all such Rules, had been notified to the Company: shares were then automatically reclassified as deferred shares which were later purchased by the Company, for an aggregate 1 % Held consideration of 1p.
On the same date, each B share issued to satisfy an election for the Immediate Capital Option was Standard Life Investments Limited 5.98% redeemed by the Company for 200p per share.
Each B share 1 issued to satisfy an election for the Deferred Capital election As of the date in the notification to the Company is expected to be redeemed for 200p per share on a date Subsequent to 31 December 2013 and up to the date of between 7 and 14 April 2014. this Report, the Company was notified that the interests of Further details can be found in the circular dated 21 January Amerprise Financial, Inc were 5.011%.
2014, available on the Companys website.
As far as the Company is aware, there are no persons with significant direct or indirect holdings in the Company other Own shares acquired by the Company than those noted above.
In its preliminary results announcement made on 7 March 2013 in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2012, the Statement on corporate governance Company announced its intention to commence a share buyback The required disclosures are contained in the Corporate programme over the following 12 months of up to 175m to Governance Report on pages 41 to 47 and are incorporated ensure that net debt remained at or above the then current level.
into this report by reference.
In 2013 the Company made market purchases of a total of 11,758,395 of its own ordinary shares of 25p each, representing Employment policies 3.7% of the shares in issue at the beginning of 2013 excluding The Group continues to support employee involvement at all levels treasury shares at an aggregate cost of 164.3m nominal in the organisation and strongly encourages each of its businesses value 2,939,599 pursuant to the authorities granted by the to keep its employees informed on Group and individual shareholders at the Annual General Meetings held on 4 May business developments and to make its employees aware of the 2012 and 9 May 2013. financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the The authority granted to the Company at the Annual General business in which they work, using their own consultation and Meeting held on 9 May 2013 to purchase up to 47,863,330 of its communication methods.
A European Works Council has been in ordinary shares of 25p each was replaced by a new authority for operation since 2003 and meets at least once a year to exchange the Company granted at the general meeting held on 13 February views on pan-European issues facing the Group.
At the date of 2014 to purchase up to 40,675,770 of its new ordinary shares of this Annual Report, there are 17 members of the European Works Group Overview Business Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Financial Statements 53 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Council comprising 15 employee representatives nominated Health, safety and the environment from among employees from each of our European businesses, It is Group policy to maintain healthy and safe working conditions covering 11 countries, with the balance being Company and to operate in a responsible manner with regard to the appointees.
The Groups financial results and important initiatives environment.
Information on our key performance indicators in such as health and safety, training and development, and this area is given on pages 24 and 25 and further information employee engagement are communicated through a number is available on page 15 and on our website www.
of mechanisms including the Works Council, newsletters and intranets for the individual businesses and the Companys Donations website and town hall meetings.
No political donations were made during the year.
Share schemes are a long established and successful part of our total reward package, encouraging and supporting employee Directors share ownership.
Full details of employee share schemes are set The membership of the Board and biographical details of the out in the Remuneration Report on page 60 and in section 4.7 directors are given on pages 38 and 39 and are incorporated of the financial statements on pages 133 to 136. into this report by reference.
Sean Toomes and Terry Gateley retired from the Board with effect from 6 March 2013 and A number of people development initiatives are co-ordinated 9 May 2013 respectively.
Phil Bentley assumed the chair of across the Group, which are based on the Companys values the Audit Committee and Anita Frew became the senior of excellence, innovation and integrity.
These initiatives include independent director from 9 May 2013.
Mark Selway was succession and development planning, leadership development appointed to the Board as Chief Executive designate on programmes, the IMI Global Graduate Development Programme 1 October 2013.
Martin Lamb stepped down as Chief and the embedding of the Leadership Blueprint, our Executive on 31 December 2013 and will retire from the competency model, in recruitment and selection, performance Board at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 8 May management processes, succession planning and training 2014.
Mark Selway succeeded Martin Lamb as Chief Executive programmes.
In 2013 we launched the Emerging Managers on 1 January 2014.
Programme to develop our first line leaders and established a formal mentoring programme for our high potentials.
These The rules for the appointment and replacement of directors initiatives and the Companys approach to employee investment are set out in the Companys articles of association.
Each new and talent development are explained on pages 16 and 17. appointee to the Board is required to stand for election at the next Annual General Meeting following their appointment and Our policy on employee diversity and equal opportunity is to Mark Selway will seek election having been appointed to the comply with relevant legislation in the countries in which we Board during the year.
In addition, the Companys articles of operate and to actively promote our diversity goal to recruit the association require each director to stand for re-election at least very best people to execute our strategic priorities and to reflect once every three years.
However, in accordance with the UK the diverse nature of our global business.
We ensure that our Corporate Governance Code, all directors wishing to serve again talent pipelines are diverse, for example our Global Graduate will submit themselves for re-election at the next Annual General Development and Alumni Programme includes people from Meeting and are recommended for re-election.
more than 20 countries, with, in recent years, over 30% of our graduate intake being female.
The Company maintains directors and officers liability insurance and all directors of the Company benefit from qualifying third At all levels we are focused on increasing our diversity as reflected party indemnity provisions which were in place during the in the composition of our Board: with the addition of Mark Selway, financial year.
At the date of this Annual Report there are such Chief Executive designate in 2013, our Board makes up a highly indemnity arrangements with each director in respect of the international and diverse team including our two female noncosts of defending civil, criminal and regulatory proceedings executive directors.
When recruiting we strive to ensure that brought against them, in their capacity as a director, where not our shortlists of candidates are diverse and that our people are covered by insurance and subject always to the limitations set trained to avoid bias in the process in order to ensure fair selection by the Companies Act 2006. criteria.
Our Masterclass in Selection is now part of our on-going training curriculum and in 2013 we launched our on-line toolkit for recruitment and selection.
The engagement of our employees is measured though our Employee Engagement Survey, which we ran again in 2013.
Every effort is made to ensure that applications for employment from disabled employees are fully and fairly considered and that disabled employees have equal opportunity in training, succession planning and promotion.
54 IMI plc Directors Report contd Directors powers Going concern The powers of the directors are determined by UK legislation and The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to the articles of association of the Company in force from time to affect its future development, performance and position are set out time.
The directors were authorised to allot and issue ordinary in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 35.
The financial position of shares and to make market purchases of the Companys ordinary the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities shares by resolutions of the Company passed at its Annual are described in the Financial Statements.
In addition, section General Meeting held on 9 May 2013.
These authorities were 4.4 to the Financial Statements includes the Groups objectives, replaced at the general meeting held on 13 February 2014 by policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk the passing of new resolutions, in a similar form to those passed management objectives: details of its financial instruments and at the Annual General Meeting, in respect of the new ordinary hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The current authorities will expire at the Section 4.5 to the Financial Statements addresses the management conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting to be held on of the funding risks of the Groups employee benefit obligations.
8 May 2014, at which new authorities will be sought.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with long-standing relationships with a number of customers, suppliers Further details of authorities the Company is seeking for the and funding providers across different geographic areas and allotment, issue and purchase of its ordinary shares are set industries.
The Groups forecasts and projections, taking account out in the separate Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, show Directors interests that the Group is able to operate within the level of facilities either in place on 31 December, or renewed since, without the need to The interests of the persons including the interests of any connected renew any further facilities before March 2014.
As a consequence, persons who were directors at the end of the year, in the share the directors believe that the Group is well-placed to manage its capital of the Company, and their interests under share option business risks successfully despite the uncertainties inherent in and incentive schemes, are shown on pages 76 to 78. the current economic outlook.
Change of control After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable The Company and its subsidiaries are party to a number of expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate agreements that may allow the counterparties to alter or terminate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable the arrangements on a change of control of the Company future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern following a takeover bid, such as commercial contracts and basis in preparing the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Other than as referred to in the next paragraph, none of these is considered by the Company to be Disclosure of information to the auditor significant in terms of its likely impact on the Group as a whole.
Each director confirms that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor In the event of a change of control of the Company, the Groups is unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he or main funding agreements allow the lenders to renegotiate terms she ought to have taken as a director to make himself or herself or give notice of repayment for all outstanding amounts under the aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the relevant facilities.
In the current economic climate this could have Companys auditor is aware of that information.
a significant effect on the liquidity of the business.
The Company does not have agreements with any director or Annual General Meeting employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Hilton Birmingham employment specifically resulting from a takeover, although the Metropole Hotel, National Exhibition Centre, Birmingham on provisions of the Companys share schemes include a discretion Thursday 8 May 2014.
Notice of the meeting will be published to allow awards granted to directors and employees under such on the Companys website.
schemes to vest in those circumstances.
Auditor Information included in the Strategic Report Resolutions for the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP Important events since the year-end are described on page 5 as auditor of the Company and to authorise the directors to of the Strategic Report.
All disclosures concerning greenhouse determine their remuneration will be proposed at the next gas emissions as required to be disclosed by the Companies Act Annual General Meeting.
2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013 are contained in page 25 of the Strategic Report.
Likely future By order of the Board developments are also covered in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 35.
John OShea Company Secretary 5 March 2014 IMI plc is registered in England No.
