34 IMI plc Operational review INDOOR CLIMATE DIVISION Revenue Indoor Climate is the leading global provider of technologies that deliver operational and energy efficient 305m heating and cooling systems inside buildings.
The division Up 4% is the recognised expert in the design and manufacture of hydronic distribution systems and room temperature controls, with experience in more than 100,000 Operating profit construction projects world-wide.
64.3m Indoor Climate has design and manufacturing facilities Up 5% in six countries and employs just under 2,000 people.
Performance Revenues of 305m were up 1% on an organic basis 2012: 293m and 4% higher on a reported basis.
Growth in Europe of 4% was partially offset by declines in the emerging markets including China where we have seen a number of construction projects delayed into 2014 and in our automatic balancing valve business in North America.
Since the yearend we have scaled back our interest in a number of the smaller, less profitable emerging markets and focus our efforts on those markets, such as China, Brazil and Russia, where we see the best opportunities for future growth.
Operating profit at 64.3m increased 5% 2012: 61.5m driven by efficiency improvements in our operations and more cost effective procurement activities.
Operating margins of 21.1% increased marginally when compared to last year 2012: 21.0%.
Key Achievements Bringing to market nine new products including a complete new range of pressure Peter Spencer independent balancing and control valves, branded TA-FUS1ON, and a new technology Divisional Managing Director for automatic thermostatic control, the A-Exact Filing four new patents, significantly enhancing the new product pipeline Peter Spencer joined IMI in November 2010 as Business Development Director and was promoted Achieving good sales growth in the key German market to lead IMI Merchandising in January 2012.
In March 2013, Peter was appointed Divisional Managing Continuing to win flagship projects around the world, including two high value state of Director of Indoor Climate.
Prior to joining IMI, the art multi building hospital developments in Belgium and Sweden Peter was the CEO at LPC tissue products and Teleflex Automotive.
Market Review As global energy prices continue to rise government and regional initiatives, including Kyoto, EU 20 20 2, and Europe 2030, will continue to drive increased focus on ensuring buildings, both old and new, are energy efficient and sustainable.
80% of the buildings that will exist in the world in 2050 have already been built and the importance of energy efficient renovation of these buildings will be a cornerstone of the growth of Indoor Climate in the coming years.
Outlook We expect the European construction market to stabilise in 2014 in both residential and non-residential buildings with some countries, including Germany, growing while others continue to weaken.
During the first half of 2014, the benefit from new product launches in the core European markets is expected to largely offset the impact of the Groups decision to scale back our interest in a number of smaller lower margin emerging markets.
Consequently, Indoor Climates first half revenues in 2014 are expected to be broadly flat on an organic basis.
Operating margins in the first half are expected to be lower compared to the first half of 2013 reflecting additional costs relating to the new product launches and the emerging market exits.
In the second half of the year, operating margins are expected to return to more normal levels.
Group Overview Business Review Performance Review Performance Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 second largest Spanish bank embarked on a new project for its headquarters in Madrid.
Energy efficiency and a green working environment were of critical importance in the new design which included large windows to provide each work space with a green view.
As a result the HVAC system not only had to be sustainable, but also overcome the issues of solar gain whilst guaranteeing the ability to control the precise temperature inside.
Solution: TA Hydronics not only provided high performance balancing and control valves, but also full design support, including technical advice and assistance with component selection and positioning within the system to ensure accurate water flow.
CASE STUDY With the solution provided by TA Hydronics the precise water TA Hydronics ensures optimal indoor comfort at Banco control requirements of the building were achieved, whilst fide Bilboa Vizcayas BBVA new headquarters reducing energy consumption from pumping, cooling and Requirement: In order to accommodate the growing needs of heating.
As a result, TA Hydronics has been specified for the internationally expanding BBVA bank, and provide a more phase two of the construction.
efficient, innovative and collaborative working environment, the Non-Residential Buildings Residential Buildings Indoor Climate delivers hydronic solutions globally for the new construction Indoor Climate delivers leading thermostatic control, pressurisation and water and refurbishment of airports, hotels, hospitals, colleges, commercial offices quality solutions both for new and renovation residential projects.
Our user friendly and apartment blocks.
Recent projects include delivering products and system and easy to install products, not only provide quality and reliable household design support for energy efficient HVAC systems in Heathrow Terminal 5, brands, but also help to deliver energy efficiency in markets where consumers the Burj Khalifa, Marina Bay Sands Hotel, Valencia Opera House and Radet are increasingly feeling the strain of rising energy prices.
Our range of Heimeier District Energy.
The division promotes its hydronic expertise by running seminar thermostatic heads have been awarded the highest energy efficiency classification programmes for HVAC consultants, installers and building owners.
under the new European labelling system TELL.
