Board of Directors 123 4 5 6 7 89 10 11 12 External appointments Non-Executive Chairman 3.
Robert Dyrbus, BSC, FCA 13 of McBride PLC and John Menzies plc, and Finance Director a Non-Executive Director of Molson Coors Skills and experience Robert draws on over Brewing Company and William Grant & Sons 25 years of financial experience in listed Holdings Limited.
companies and has been instrumental in the D N Chairman Groups international expansion.
He has overall responsibility for the financial management 2.
Alison Cooper, BSC, ACA and control of the Group, including its treasury, Chief Executive tax, corporate assurance and investor Skills and experience Since being appointed as relations functions.
Chief Executive Alison has led the development Appointment Appointed Finance Director on and implementation of the Groups sustainable demerger in 1996 and stepped down from the sales growth strategy.
Iain Napier, FCMA, CGMA Board on 5 November 2013. in 1999 and, through a number of senior roles, Chairman has contributed significantly to the international External appointments No external Director Skills and experience As a former Chief expansion of the Group.
Executive of Taylor Woodrow PLC and main E Appointment Appointed Director in July 2007. board Director of Bass PLC, Iain brings Appointed Chief Executive in May 2010. considerable senior level board and general 4.
Matthew Phillips, LLB management experience to the Group.
External appointments Non-Executive Director, Corporate Affairs Director Inchcape plc since July 2009.
Appointment Appointed Chairman in January Skills and experience Matthew has held a E 2007.
Non-Executive Director from March 2000. number of senior roles including Company Secretary, General Counsel and Group Corporate and Legal Affairs Director prior to his appointment to the Board as Corporate Affairs Director.
44 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Appointment Appointed Corporate Affairs 8.
David Haines External appointments Partner of DLA Piper LLP Director, June 2012.
US, Executive Chairman and CEO of AGBU, Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director of Interaudi Bank of New External appointments No external Director Skills and experience David brings considerable York, Non-Executive Director of The Morganti appointments.
senior level board experience and is currently Group, Inc. E Chief Executive Officer of Grohe AG.
He joined D N R Grohe in 2004 from Vodafone Group PLC 5.
Oliver Tant, BSc, CA Scotland where he was Global Marketing Director.
Malcolm Wyman, CA SA Executive Director also a former Chairman of Vimpelcom A O. Non-Executive Director Skills and experience Oliver held a number of David gained extensive general management Skills and experience As a qualified accountant senior positions in a 32-year career at KPMG, and sales experience with Vodafone and Mars and former Chief Financial Officer of SAB Miller including Global Managing Director of the earlier in his career.
plc, with responsibility for the groups financial Private Equity Division and Head of UK Audit.
Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director operations, corporate finance and development He was also a member of both the UK and in February 2012. and group strategy, Malcolm brings not only German boards of KPMG.
He brings to Imperial External appointments Chief Executive Officer a wealth of financial expertise but also international experience in change management, of Grohe AG, Director of Joyou AG.
considerable general management experience organisational restructuring, corporate finance to the Board.
He also meets the recent and D A N R and mergers and acquisitions.
relevant financial experience requirements of Appointment Appointed to the Board of 9.
Michael Herlihy, MA Oxon, Solicitor the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Directors in October 2013 and became Non-Executive Director Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director Finance Director on 5 November 2013.
Skills and experience Michael is General Counsel in October 2011 and Chairman of the Audit External appointments No external Director for Smiths Group plc.
He was formerly General Committee in February 2012. appointments.
Counsel and Head of Mergers and Acquisitions External appointments Senior Independent E for ICI PLC with overall responsibility for Non-Executive Director of Nedbank Group corporate acquisitions and divestments and Limited and a Non-Executive Director of 6.
Mark Williamson, CA SA has extensive experience of both private and Tsogo Sun Holdings Limited, both listed on the Deputy Chairman of the Board and public market transactions.
Malcolm is also Senior Independent Non-Executive Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Director in July 2007 and Chairman of the Remuneration of Serco Group plc.
Skills and experience Mark is a qualified Committee in February 2011.
D A Chairman N R accountant, who brings considerable financial External appointments Serves on the board of and general managerial experience to our Board 13.
John Downing, Solicitor Compass Partners International LLP and is and who meets the recent and relevant financial Company Secretary currently General Counsel of Smiths Group plc.
experience requirements of the UK Corporate Skills and experience John joined Imperial in D A N R Chairman Governance Code.
Mark was Chief Financial 2005 having worked for the law firm Linklaters.
Officer of International Power plc until 2012 10.
Susan Murray, CCMI He has had a number of senior legal roles in and has considerable experience of managing Non-Executive Director Imperial and was appointed Head of Group relationships with the investor and financial Legal in 2010.
He played a leading role in the Skills and experience Susan brings to the Board communities.
Prior to joining International Power Altadis acquisition and has considerable a wealth of international general management, plc, Mark was Group Financial Controller and experience in managing key corporate projects strategy and marketing experience, as a former Group Chief Accountant of Simon Group.
related to financing, business development and Chief Executive of Littlewoods Stores Limited Appointment Mark joined the Board in July other commercial matters.
and worldwide President and Chief Executive 2007 and was appointed Senior Independent of The Pierre Smirnoff Company.
Susan has Appointment Appointed Company Secretary in Non-Executive Director in February 2012 and considerable experience as a Non-Executive June 2012. was appointed Deputy Chairman of the Board Director.
She is a former Non-Executive S in January 2013.
Director of SSL International plc, Aberdeen External appointments Senior Independent Asset Management PLC, WM Morrison Non-Executive Director of National Grid plc Supermarkets plc and a former council Key and Non-Executive Director of Alent plc.
member of the Advertising Standards Authority.
E Executive Director D A N R Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director in December 2004.
Ken Burnett, External appointments Non-Executive Chairman S Company Secretary MA, MBA, PhD, M Inst M of Farrow & Ball and Non-Executive Director of N Nominations Committee Non-Executive Director Pernod Ricard SA, Compass Group PLC and Skills and experience Ken, an independent Audit Committee A Enterprise Inns Plc.
Susan is also a fellow of the management consultant, brings significant Royal Society of Arts.
Remuneration Committee R experience of the consumer goods sector in D A N R the Asia Pacific region.
He was President, Asia Pacific of Allied Domecq from 1996 until 11.
Berge Setrakian Our values and code of conduct its acquisition by Pernod Ricard in 2005.
Non-Executive Director As a Board we are responsible for ensuring Prior to joining Allied Domecq, he held senior Skills and experience Berge is a senior partner high standards of behaviour, supported management positions in the Asia Pacific region in the law firm DLA Piper LLP US and brings by Our Values and Code of Conduct, which with Seagram, Interbrew and International extensive expertise in international transactions.
are embedded throughout the business.
Distillers & Vintners Ltd now part of Diageo plc.
He also brings significant experience as a Skills and experience of our Board Non-Executive Director, including within the Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director tobacco sector having been appointed to The wide range of global experience of our in April 2006.
Non-Executive Directors, which includes External appointments Non-Executive Chairman FMCG, finance, mergers and acquisitions, Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director of Elemental Energy Technologies Limited.
and sales and marketing, supports the in June 2008.
Director of Elemental Energy Technologies in-depth tobacco experience of our Asia Pte Limited.
D A N R Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 45
