Logistics Were focused on new services and effective cost management to strengthen our performance in a challenging environment.
Logistics Overview We have one of the largest logistics businesses in Europe, with operations extending across Spain, France, Italy, Portugal and Poland.
There are two key aspects to our business: tobacco and non-tobacco logistics.
Through tobacco logistics we deliver products for domestic and international tobacco companies, including Imperial Tobacco.
Non-tobacco logistics provides specialised services in a number of sectors including telecommunications, transportation, pharmaceutical, publishing and lottery.
We offer all our customers a comprehensive, high quality service encompassing order taking, storage and stock management, order preparation, transport and distribution, invoicing and collection and customer services.
We make more than 40 million deliveries every year to 300,000 points of sale, including tobacconists, convenience stores, grocery stores, kiosks and bookshops, pharmacies, hospitals and petrol stations.
Logistics Performance Our logistics business continues to show resilience, delivering a robust performance in a challenging operating environment.
Distribution fees declined by 5 per cent to 850 million and adjusted operating pro t was down by 2 per cent to 176 million.
However, excluding the impact of the timing of a VAT increase in Italy, adjusted operating pro t increased by 2 per cent.
The stability of our pro t delivery over recent years, against a backdrop of deteriorating economic conditions and declining cigarette market volumes, re ects the expertise of our logistics management team and their diligent focus on generating new growth opportunities and managing costs.
In tobacco logistics, cost saving initiatives and fee increases helped mitigate the impact of tobacco declines.
In non-tobacco logistics we continue growing sales in our direct delivery pharma business and lottery business, and made further ef ciency gains in our transport business.
Our wholesale business also performed well and our publications business is bene ting from a restructuring in Spain and divestment in Portugal.
Our focus on customer service excellence, identifying and developing new growth opportunities and ef ciently managing costs throughout our unique logistics network, will continue to drive the pro table development of the business.
24 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013
