Directors Governance Report Our Non-Executive Directors also play a key role in corporate INTRODUCTION accountability and governance through their membership of One of the Boards primary responsibilities is to ensure that the Boards Committees.
The membership and remit of each the Company is run in the best long-term interests of our Committee are considered on pages 48, 50 and 62.
The open shareholders and wider stakeholders.
We believe this can only atmosphere at our Committee meetings enables our Nonbe achieved if the activities of the Group are supported by Executive Directors to use their judgement, experience and appropriate governance processes applied across the Group.
independence to critically review and, where appropriate, These processes are illustrated below and in the individual constructively challenge strategies proposed by management.
This ensures the further development of our business, effective use of our resources and that we maintain our high standards APPLICATION OF THE UK CORPORATE of conduct.
GOVERNANCE CODE Division of Responsibilities of our Chairman and In September 2012 the Financial Reporting Council published the Chief Executive 2012 edition of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code Whilst retaining a close working relationship, our Chairman and which contains broad principles and speci c provisions to help Chief Executive have clearly fide ned and separate responsibilities boards operate in the best interests of their companies.
This Code divided between running the Board and the business.
They meet applied to Imperial Tobacco throughout the financial year ended regularly between Board meetings to ensure a full understanding 30 September 2013. of evolving issues and to facilitate swift decision making.
They are The Company has applied the main principles of the Code and responsible to our shareholders for the successful delivery of complied with its detailed provisions throughout this financial year.
We detail below how, in practice, the Company has applied these The Role of our Chairman principles and complied with the detailed provisions.
In running our Board the Chairman is responsible for creating an environment which facilitates direct, robust and constructive MATTERS RESERVED FOR THE BOARD challenge and debate.
In creating this environment the Chairman There is a schedule of matters which are dealt with exclusively encourages frank communications and seeks to ensure that the by the Board and on which it must make the final decision.
Executive Directors are open to constructive challenge by the These include approval of the Group and parent company Non-Executive Directors and are willing to consider suggestions financial statements: the Groups business strategy: the annual dispassionately and on their merits.
capital expenditure plan: major capital projects: major changes to the Groups management and control structure: material There were no signi cant changes to the Chairmans external investments or disposals: risk management strategy: sustainability commitments during the year.
and environmental policies: the appointment or removal of The Role of our Chief Executive Directors and the Company Secretary: and treasury policies.
Supported by the Executive Directors and the Operating Executive, our Chief Executive, within the authority delegated BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES by the Board, has day to day management responsibility for Each standing Board Committee has speci c written terms implementing the Groups strategy and running the Group.
of reference issued by the Board and adopted by the In addition, the Chief Executive promotes the Groups values, relevant Committee.
These are available on our website culture and high standards of conduct and behaviour which www.
All Committee chairmen report underpin our reputation and support the delivery of our orally on the proceedings of their Committees at the next meeting sustainable sales growth.
Where appropriate the Committee chairmen also make recommendations to the Board in respect of appropriate The Role of our Senior Independent Director matters, for example the fairness, balance and understandability Our Senior Independent Director is responsible for assisting the of the Annual Report and Accounts.
In addition the minutes of Chairman with effective communications to our shareholders and the Committee meetings are included in the papers distributed is available to them should they have any concerns which have to all Board members in advance of the next Board meeting.
not been resolved through the normal channels of the Chairman, Executive Directors or our Investor Relations Department or if To ensure Directors are kept up-to-date on developing issues these channels are not appropriate.
and to enhance the overall effectiveness of the Board and its Committees, our Chairman and Committee chairmen He is also available to our Non-Executive Directors should they communicate regularly with the Chief Executive and other have any concerns which are not appropriate to raise with the Executive Directors.
Chairman or which have not been satisfactorily resolved by the Chairman.
54 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Non-Executive Directors In order to underpin his independence, we entered into an We believe it is vital to our ongoing success that our Directors agreement with Berge Setrakian, Non-Executive Director, in have the right mix and diversity of backgrounds and experiences.
July 2012 to minimise the risk of any con ict of interest between Our Non-Executive Directors bring a diverse range of business DLA Piper LLP US, where he is a partner, and the Company.
and financial expertise to the Board, which complements This agreement remains in full force and effect.
The Board and supplements the experiences of the Executive Directors.
con rms Berge Setrakians compliance with the terms of this This broad range of expertise and experience enables them agreement and, therefore, his continued independence.
to evaluate information provided and constructively challenge Outside Appointments managements viewpoints, assumptions and performance.
Non-Executive Directors may serve on a number of other boards Following the annual Board performance evaluation on page 56, provided they continue to demonstrate the requisite commitment the Board concluded at its meeting in September 2013 that all to discharge effectively their duties.
The Chairman and the our Non-Executive Directors continue to contribute effectively Nominations Committee review the extent of Non-Executive and constructively to Board debate, to demonstrate commitment Directors other interests throughout the year.
The Board is to their role, to objectively challenge and robustly question satis ed that the Chairman and each of the Non-Executive management and at all times to have the best interests of Directors commit suf cient time to their duties in relation to the our shareholders in mind.
Company, and the Non-Executive Directors have also con rmed that they have suf cient time to ful l their respective obligations We con rm, therefore, that, with the exception of our Chairman to the Company.
who met the independence criteria of the Code on appointment, our Non-Executive Directors remained independent throughout The Board believes, in principle, in Executive Directors and the year as fide ned in the Code.
members of the Operating Executive accepting non-executive directorships of other companies in order to widen their Executive Directors experience and knowledge for the bene t of the Company.
Our Executive Directors duties extend to overseeing the Accordingly, subject to the agreement of the Board, Executive operations of the entire Group, in addition to speci c Directors and members of the Operating Executive are permitted responsibility for managing their own areas of the business.
to accept one external non-executive board appointment and to Con icts of Interest retain any fees received from such appointment.
The Directors are required to avoid situations where they have, Information and Training or could have, a direct or indirect interest that con icts, or possibly The Company is committed to the continuing development of may con ict, with the Companys interests.
In accordance with Directors in order that they may build on their expertise and the Companies Act 2006 the Act, our Articles of Association develop an ever more detailed understanding of the business allow the Board to authorise potential con icts of interest that and the markets in which Group companies operate.
may arise and to impose such limits or conditions as it thinks t. The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, Directors are required to give notice of any potential situational through the Chairman, on matters of corporate governance.
and or transactional con icts, which are considered at the The Board and its Committees are supplied with full and timely following Board meeting and, if considered appropriate, information, including detailed financial information, to enable situational con icts are authorised.
We do not allow any Director Directors to discharge their responsibilities, and the Committees to participate in such considerations or to vote regarding their are provided with suf cient resources to undertake their duties.
All Directors have access to the advice of the Company Secretary The Board has considered and authorised a number of situations and, where appropriate, the services of other employees for all all of which relate to the holding of external directorships and have governance and regulatory matters.
Independent professional been entered in our Con icts Register.
No actual con icts have advice is also available to Directors in appropriate circumstances, been identi ed.
The Board considers that these procedures at the Companys expense.
Following their appointment to the Board, new Directors are As part of our annual review process, during the Board meeting briefed on the duties they owe to the Company as Directors.
in September 2013 we reviewed and reconsidered all situations Tailored induction programmes are arranged which include entered in the Con icts Register.
industry-speci c training, including visits to the Groups businesses and meetings with senior management, as Following the annual review, the Board is satis ed that the appropriate.
They are briefed on internal controls at both head independence of those Directors who have other external board of ce and business unit level, and are advised of the legal appointments or relationships has not been compromised.
and other duties they have as Directors of a listed company.
They are also provided with information on relevant Company policies and governance related matters.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 55 Directors Governance Report Geographical analysis of shareholders Shareholder composition as at 30 September 2013 as at 30 September 2013 UK 54% Institutional 89% United States 29% Non-institutional 8% Rest of Europe 12% Retail 1% Rest of the World 5% Miscellaneous 2% Members of our Audit and Remuneration Committees received The evaluation also showed that the Board and its Committees brie ngs from our external Auditors and remuneration advisor continue to operate effectively.
Areas identi ed for further respectively to ensure they remain up-to-date with current consideration were the ongoing succession plans for both regulations and developments.
No other training needs were Executive and Non-Executive Directors approaching retirement, identi ed in 2013, although ongoing training is available to all the future balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors, and Directors to meet their individual needs.
We provide regular the continuing enhancement of the Groups internal control and brie ngs to Directors on relevant issues such as legislation and risk management processes.
regulation changes and corporate governance developments.
We have addressed the issues identi ed in the 2012 external Performance Evaluation Board evaluation and, in line with the Boards succession plans, During the year the Board reviewed, through detailed we announced in September 2013 the appointment of Oliver Tant questionnaires, its performance, that of its Committees and to succeed Robert Dyrbus as Finance Director.
individual Directors with the aim of improving effectiveness.
Insurance This review considered the overall functioning of the Board We have purchased and maintain appropriate insurance cover in and its Committees, the balance and range of Directors skills, respect of Directors and Of cers liabilities.
The Company has diversity, succession, how the Board works as a unit and also entered into qualifying third party indemnity arrangements for risk oversight.
the bene t of all its Directors, in a form and scope which comply As part of the evaluation, our Chairman held meetings with the with the requirements of the Act.
These indemnities were in force Non-Executive Directors to consider, amongst other things, the throughout the year and up to the date of this Report.
performance of the Executive Directors.
DIALOGUE WITH OUR INVESTORS Our Senior Independent Director also met with the Non-Executive We aim to provide balanced, clear and transparent Directors and the Board, without the Chairman present, to communications which allow our shareholders to understand consider the performance of the Chairman.
how we see our prospects and the market environments in which The feedback obtained was collated into a report which was we operate.
presented to the Board and used as the basis for one-to-one We maintain an active engagement with our key financial development discussions between the Chairman and audiences including institutional shareholders and sell side each Director.
analysts as well as potential shareholders.
During the year there The evaluation did not identify any signi cant areas for concern were regular presentations to and meetings with institutional nor any requirement to provide extra training for our Directors and, investors in the UK, Europe, Asia, Canada and the US to consequently, the Board and its Committees are satis ed they communicate our sales growth strategy and progress and answer are operating and performing effectively.
The evaluation also questions from our investors.
Throughout the year our senior con rmed that all our Directors have suf cient time, knowledge management team present at industry conferences, organised and commitment to contribute effectively to our Board and its by investor bodies and investment banks for their institutional Committees and that it remains appropriately constituted.
Our Director of Investor Communications manages the interaction with these audiences with regular presentations taking place during the year.
56 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS The primary means of communication with the majority of our Percentage shareholders is via our Annual Report and Accounts, Half Year Number of ordinary of issued shares millions share capital Report and website on which we publish Interim Management 1 Invesco Limited 61 6.32 Statements.
These are supported by a combination of 2 presentations, conference calls, one-to-one meetings and BlackRock 53 5.51 investor meetings in the UK, Europe, Asia, Canada and the US.
Morgan Stanley Investment 1 Management Limited 42 4.38 Non-Executive Directors are available throughout the year to 2 meet with major shareholders if requested and are kept up-toFranklin Resources Inc 41 4.24 date with investor opinion including via our annual survey of 1 Direct holding.
To ensure our shareholders have time to consider our Annual We have not received noti cation that any other person holds Report and Accounts and Notice of the AGM and lodge their 3 per cent or more of our ordinary shares.
proxy votes, the documents are made available to them at least The share interests of the Directors, their families and any 20 working days prior to the meeting.
connected persons are shown on page 74.
Other than as We offer all our shareholders the choice of submitting proxy votes disclosed on page 67, there are no agreements between either electronically or in paper format.
We also offer them the the Company and its Directors or employees providing for facility to abstain.
compensation for loss of of ce or employment due to a takeover.
At the AGM, our Chairman and Chief Executive give presentations Information concerning employees and their remuneration is on our performance and current business activities and all given in note 6 to the Financial Statements page 102 and in Directors make themselves available to meet shareholders after the Directors Remuneration Report.
the conclusion of the formal business.
To ensure compliance with the Code, at all general meetings FINANCIAL RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS separate resolutions are proposed on each subject and all We include a review of our operational and financial performance, resolutions are put to a poll.
At the AGM the number of proxy current position and future developments in our Strategic Report: votes for, against and abstentions for each resolution are Strategy, Risks, Performance and Governance sections.
Votes received at the AGM are added to the proxy The pro t attributable to equity holders of the Company for the votes and the final results published through a Regulatory financial year was 937 million, as shown in our consolidated Information Service, on our website and via OTCQX.
Note 3 to the Financial Statements At our 2013 AGM we received votes representing approximately gives an analysis of revenue and pro t from operations page 98.
77 per cent of our issued share capital excluding shares held An analysis of net assets is provided in the Consolidated in treasury.
Balance Sheet on page 89 and the related Notes to the Our next AGM will be held on Wednesday 5 February 2014.
Full details are contained in the Notice of Meeting available on In our Interim Management Statement made on 30 January 2013 our website and, where applicable, posted with this Report.
we stated that we expected around 55 per cent of adjusted operating pro ts to be delivered in the second half of our financial year.
On the basis of our actual results to 30 September 2013, SHARE CAPITAL 55 per cent of adjusted operating pro ts were delivered in the Details of our share capital are shown in note 24 to the Financial second half.
All shares other than those held in treasury are freely transferable and rank pari passu for voting The Directors have declared and proposed dividends as follows: and dividend rights.
million 2013 2012 At our AGM on 1 February 2013 shareholder authority for the Ordinary Shares buyback of up to 106,794,000 ordinary shares of 10 pence each Interim paid, 35.1p per share was obtained.
2012: 31.7p 341 314 As at 30 September 2013 we held 98,688,532 of our ordinary Proposed final, 81.2p per share shares in treasury, which represent 9.24 per cent of issued share 2012: 73.9p 783 729 capital and have an aggregate nominal value of 9,868,853.
Total ordinary dividends, 116.4p per share 2012: 105.6p 1,124 1,043 We have not cancelled these shares but hold them in a treasury shares reserve within our pro t and loss account reserve and The final dividend, if approved, will be paid on 17 February 2014 they represent a deduction from equity shareholders funds.
to our shareholders on the Register of Members at the close Treasury shares do not carry any voting or dividend rights.
The associated ex dividend At 30 September 2013 we had been noti ed of the following date will be 15 January 2014.
We paid an interim dividend on interests in 3 per cent or more of our ordinary shares and there 16 August 2013 to shareholders on the Register of Members have been no changes to this information up to the date of at the close of business on 19 July 2013. this Report.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 57 Directors Governance Report Pension Fund RELATIONS WITH OTHER STAKEHOLDERS Our main pension fund, the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund, is not Charitable and Political Donations controlled by the Board but by a trustee company, the board of As part of our responsible approach and our commitment to which consists of five directors nominated by the Company, one reinvesting in society, we continue to support the communities in director chosen by employees and two by current and deferred which we operate by allocating 3.2 million 2012: 3.1 million pensioners.
This trustee company looks after the assets of the to partnership and community investment.
From this gure, we pension fund, which are held separately from those of the Group have donated 0.2 million 2012: 0.2 million to UK registered and are managed by independent fund managers.
The pension charities operating in the UK, 0.2 million 2012: 0.3 million fund assets can only be used in accordance with the funds rules to UK registered charities operating abroad, 1.6 million 2012: and for no other purpose.
Further details are contained in our 1.6 million through the UK Charities Aid Foundation to charities Remuneration Report on pages 72 and 73. based overseas and 0.2 million 2012: Nil to charities registered and operating abroad.
We have donated the remaining amount Signi cant Agreements That Take Effect, Alter or Terminate of 1.0 million 2012: Nil to leaf partnership projects abroad.
on Change of Control These partnerships have charitable aims under contract but The agreements summarised below are those which we consider are not registered charities.
More detailed information on to be signi cant to the Group as a whole and which contain our approach to supporting community livelihoods can be provisions giving the other party a speci c right to terminate them found in the Responsibility section of our corporate website if we are subject to a change of control following a takeover bid.
All charitable donations and The Group has eight credit facility agreements that provide that, partnership investments are subject to the requirements of our unless the lenders otherwise agree, if any person or group of Code of Conduct.
associated persons acquires the right to exercise more than No political donations were made to EU political parties, 50 per cent of the votes at a general meeting of the Company, organisations or candidates 2012: Nil.
the respective borrowers must repay any outstanding utilisation made by them under the respective facility agreement and Creditor Payment Policy the total commitments under that facility agreement will be Our current policy concerning the payment of the majority of immediately cancelled.
our trade creditors is to follow the Prompt Payment Code sponsored by the Department for Business, Innovation and The eight credit agreements are: Skills copies are available from the Prompt Payment Code a credit facilities agreement dated 16 December 2010 under website at www.
For other which certain banks and financial institutions make available suppliers, our policy is to: to Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC and Imperial Tobacco agree the terms of payment with those suppliers when agreeing Enterprise Finance Limited committed credit facilities across the terms of each transaction: three tranches of $632 million, 600 million and 1,785 million and uncommitted credit facilities in a maximum amount of ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the terms of 800 million, for a period of five years: payment by inclusion of the relevant terms in contracts: and a letter of credit facility agreement dated 2 March 2011 under pay in accordance with our contractual and other which certain banks and financial institutions make available legal obligations.
to Imperial Tobacco Limited a Letter of Credit in a maximum This policy applies to all payments to creditors for supplies of amount of 232.8 million until 31 August 2016: goods and services without exception.
Wherever possible, UK a credit facility agreement dated 16 November 2011 under subsidiaries follow the same policy and international subsidiaries which certain banks and financial institutions make available to are encouraged to adopt similar policies by applying local Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC a committed credit facility of best practices.
300 million for a period of two years which in November 2012 The amount of trade creditors outstanding as at 30 September was subsequently extended for one further year : and 2013 was equivalent to 38 days 2012: 37 days of trade five bilateral credit facility agreements each dated 1 August purchases.
2013 and linked by an overall agreement also dated 1 August 2013, under which the respective lenders each make available to Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC and Imperial Tobacco Enterprise Finance Limited a committed credit facility of 237 million therefore 1,185 million collectively for a period of two years from 22 November 2013.
58 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC the Issuer has issued bonds Imperial Tobacco Finance PLC has also issued bonds in the under a Euro Medium Term Notes EMTN Debt Issuance United States of America under the provisions of section 144a Programme as noted below.
The Company acted as guarantor.
and Regulation S respectively of the US Securities Act 1933.
The final terms of this series of notes contain change of control The Company acted as guarantor.
The final terms of this series of provisions under which the holder of each note will, subject to notes contain change of control provisions under which the holder any earlier exercise by the Issuer of a tax call, have the option to of each note will, subject to any earlier exercise by the Issuer of a require the Issuer to redeem or, at the Issuers option, purchase tax call, have the option to require the Issuer to redeem or, at the that note at its nominal value if: a any person, or persons acting Issuers option, purchase that note at 101% of its nominal value in concert or on behalf of any such person s becomes interested if a i any person as such term is used in the US Securities in: i more than 50 per cent of the issued or allotted ordinary share Exchange Act of 1934 the Exchange Act becomes the bene cial capital of the Company: or ii such number of shares in the capital owner of more than 50 per cent of the Companys voting stock: of the Company carrying more than 50 per cent of the voting or ii there is a transfer other than by merger, consolidation or rights normally exercisable at a general meeting of the Company: amalgamation of all or substantially all of the Companys assets and b as a result of the change of control, there is either: i a and those of its subsidiaries to any person as such term is used reduction to a non-investment grade rating or withdrawal of the in the Exchange Act : or iii a majority of the members of the investment grade rating of the notes which is not raised again, Companys Board of Directors is not continuing in such capacity: reinstated to or replaced by an investment grade rating during the and b as a result of the change of control, there is either: i a change of control period speci ed in the final terms: or ii to the reduction to a non-investment grade rating or withdrawal of the extent that the notes are not rated at the time of the change of investment grade rating of the notes which is not raised again, control, the Issuer fails to obtain an investment grade credit rating reinstated to or replaced by an investment grade rating during the of the notes within the change of control period as a result of the change of control period speci ed in the final terms: or ii to the change of control.
extent that the notes are not rated at the time of the change of control, the Issuer fails to obtain an investment grade credit rating The bonds issued in such manner are as follows: of the notes within the change of control period as a result of the 15 September 2008 600,000,000 8.125 per cent guaranteed change of control.
notes due 2024: The bonds issued in such manner are as follows: 15 September 2008 750,000,000 7.25 per cent guaranteed 11 February 2013 $1,250,000 2.05 per cent guaranteed notes due 2014: notes due 2018: and 17 February 2009 1,000,000,000 9 per cent guaranteed 11 February 2013 $1,000,000 3.50 per cent guaranteed notes due 2022: notes due 2023.
17 February 2009 1,500,000,000 8.375 per cent guaranteed Update on Tobacco Related Litigation notes due 2016: In the Republic of Ireland, the number of tobacco related claims 24 June 2009 500,000,000 7.75 per cent guaranteed notes has fallen from 307 in 1997, to five.
In late July 2013, six claimants due 2019: agreed to withdraw their claims.
Of the remaining five cases i in four of these cases, two are deceased and the claimants 5 July 2011 850,000,000 4.5 per cent guaranteed notes solicitors have been unsuccessful in their efforts to contact due 2018: each claimants family and in the other two cases the claimants 26 September 2011 500,000,000 5.5 per cent guaranteed solicitors have been unsuccessful in their efforts to contact the notes due 2026: and claimant if still alive or his or her family: and ii the final remaining case has been inactive since 2003, and can be assumed to have 2 December 2011 750,000,000 5 per cent guaranteed been abandoned.
Even if it reactivates, it is very likely that it would notes due 2019. be struck out on grounds of delay.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 59 Directors Governance Report Following our acquisition of Altadis in January 2008, we are STATEMENT OF THE DIRECTORS IN currently facing a claim in Spain brought in the Administrative RESPECT OF THE ANNUAL REPORT Court the CADAN on behalf of the Regional Government of AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Andalucia the Junta for reimbursement of hospitalisation As required by the Code, the Directors con rm that they consider expenses allegedly incurred in treating smokers.
The claim that the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and was served on Altadis in July 2009.
In May 2010, preliminary understandable and provides the information necessary for objections were led by Altadis and the other tobacco company shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business defendants.
These were rejected by the CADAN in May 2011. model and strategy.
When arriving at this position the Board The CADAN issued a further decision in July 2012 ordering was assisted by a number of processes including the following: the Junta to provide the co-defendants with a full set of the documentation which was attached to the claim.
In May 2013, the Annual Report is drafted by appropriate senior management the CADAN noti ed the parties that the documentation was with overall co-ordination by the Director of Group available for collection at the court and in June 2013 Altadis led Communications to ensure consistency across sections: its defence and supporting experts report.
In July 2013 the an extensive veri cation process is undertaken to ensure CADAN ordered that the evidentiary period in this case would factual accuracy: not be opened due to fide ciencies in the claimants pleadings.
Altadis is waiting to hear whether the Junta will appeal comprehensive reviews of drafts of the Report are this decision.
undertaken by members of the Operating Executive and other senior management: We are currently facing one claim in Italy against Logista which is the subject of a challenge on grounds of jurisdiction and the an advanced draft is considered and reviewed by the admission of evidence.
This challenge was heard in 2006 but Companys Disclosure Committee, legal advisers and judgment is still awaited.
brokers: and Following our acquisition of Commonwealth Brands in April 2007, the final draft is reviewed by the Audit Committee prior to we are currently facing one claim brought by an individual in the consideration by the Board.
In February 2012, this claim was administratively dismissed without prejudice in an order designated as final.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS Ohio Counsel indicate that there is some chance that the RESPONSIBILITIES defendant could attempt to revive the claim.
A further claim was The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, led in September 2013 against Commonwealth Brands in Florida the Directors Remuneration Report and the Group and the in respect of alleged injuries caused by second hand smoke parent Company financial statements in accordance with from a brand of cigarettes not sold by Commonwealth Brands.
On 17 October 2013 the court dismissed the claim.
The claimant has 30 days from this date to appeal the decision.
Alternatively, Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial the claimant may choose to rele the claim in different terms.
statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have elected to prepare the Group financial statements in We understand that the Saudi Ministry of Health has issued accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards legal proceedings against distributors for international tobacco IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and the parent companies to recover the alleged costs of providing medical Company financial statements in accordance with United care to individuals.
No Imperial Tobacco Group company has Kingdom GAAP United Kingdom Accounting Standards and been served with any court documents in relation to this claim.
Under company law, the Directors must not We understand that the Ministry of Health sought a six-month approve the financial statements unless they are satis ed that stay of proceedings at a hearing on 11 December 2010 and has they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group not applied for the case to be reopened following the expiry of and the parent Company and of the pro t or loss of the Group that stay.
The Ministry of Health may still apply to reopen the for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the case but we are not aware that it intends to do so.
Directors are required to: To date, no action has been successful or settled in favour of select suitable accounting policies and then apply any claimant in any tobacco related litigation against Imperial them consistently: Tobacco or any of its subsidiaries.
Imperial Tobacco has been advised by its lawyers that it has meritorious defences to the make judgements and accounting estimates that are legal proceedings set out above.
We will continue to vigorously reasonable and prudent: contest all such litigation against us.
60 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent Company financial statements respectively: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are suf cient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Act and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 44 and 45, con rms that, to the best of their knowledge: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and pro t of the Group: and the Strategic Report and the Directors Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
By order of the Board John Downing 5 November 2013 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Incorporated and domiciled in England and Wales No: 3236483 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 61
