Optimising Our Portfolio Were focused on driving a global portfolio of consumer inspired brands.
Peter Corijn Group Marketing Director Were proud to have developed a comprehensive total tobacco Strong Specialist Brands portfolio, with strong positions in all the main tobacco categories.
Our Specialist Brands cover the entire tobacco spectrum Its a global portfolio of brands that are inspired by consumers and cigarettes, ne cut tobaccos, cigars, snus and papers and as have huge potential for future growth.
the name implies, they appeal to more speci c consumer groups.
Our cigarette brands are among the most popular in the world Each brand has strength, if not leadership, in its own category and and we have established ourselves as the global leader in ne a track record of delivering good returns.
Collectively, Specialist cut tobacco and papers.
We also have exclusive rights to sell all Brands account for 12 per cent of our tobacco net revenues and luxury Cuban cigars and have a dynamic range of smokeless the aim is to increase this contribution going forward.
Quality Sustainable Growth The work were doing to optimise our portfolio is designed to Our Growth and Specialist Brands are our key portfolio assets and allow the very best of these brands to ourish.
Weve identi ed the therefore vital to our future success.
brands with the most potential for quality sustainable growth and Our remaining brands tend to have a more local market focus and elevated their status within the portfolio to ensure they receive the ful l a variety of roles.
Some have the capacity to continue adding right level of investment and support.
to our volume and revenue momentum: others will add greater Growth Brands Outperforming value by being migrated into Growth Brands.
For our Growth Brands this means grouping together high The optimisation of our portfolio, combined with our realigned quality cigarette brands that have a presence in key markets footprint, is creating a renewed focus on quality sustainable and resonate strongly with a broad range of consumers.
growth and were very excited about making the most of the They account for 41 per cent of our total volumes and include many opportunities that lie ahead.
internationally renowned brands such as Davidoff, Gauloises Blondes, West and JPS.
A number of our Growth Brands are total tobacco offerings, providing consumers with the choice of a cigarette or ne cut tobacco smoking experience.
Were managing our Growth Brands to collectively deliver quality volume, share and revenue growth and Im particularly excited about the opportunities we have for further expanding their total tobacco credentials.
Im also focused on initiatives that will fuel future growth: our Growth Brands outperformed market trends in 2013 and Ill be ensuring that the marketing investments we make to support growth really connect with consumers and strengthen brand equity.
10 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Growth Brands Growth Brands JPS Fine JPS is an excellent example of how were leveraging Fine is a cigarette brand that has a great track brand equity to drive quality growth.
JPS resonates record of growth in Africa and Asia.
The brands strongly with value-seeking consumers and is sold in 20 markets across these territories and is performing well in cigarette and ne cut tobacco performing particularly well in the Ivory Coast, in the EU and Australia.
Specialist Brands Specialist Brands Rizla Premium Cigars Rizla is the worlds number one papers brand and Montecristo, Cohiba and Romeo Y Julieta are our complements our global leadership in ne cut tobacco.
Limited editions A recent pack rejuvenation added a taste intensity continue to support sales growth and through an scale to help consumers choose the brand variant expanding mini range were capitalising on the that best suits their smoking preference.
growing demand for smaller luxury cigars.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 11
