A Realigned Footprint Our new approach provides a strong platform for driving quality growth.
Arthur van Benthem Group Sales Director We sell our brands in a diverse spread of international markets Sharpening our Quality Growth Focus which we previously managed on a geographic basis.
During the Aligning our people to the new structure brings fresh clarity to our year we transitioned to a new approach and now manage our sales agenda and is sharpening our growth focus.
Ive also seen footprint based on the strategic role of each market rather than its even greater collaboration between markets, which is improving geographic location, with markets prioritising Growth or Returns.
creativity and the sharing of ideas.
Growth Markets have large pro t and or volume pools.
In these In the coming year well be further embedding this new strategic markets we typically have shares below 15 per cent and see real approach in the business.
Its a key element of our transition and potential for long-term share and pro t growth.
provides a strong platform for driving quality sustainable growth.
In Returns Markets, which tend to have declining volumes, most Some of our most important Growth and Returns Markets are of our shares are above 15 per cent and we focus on managing highlighted below and on the next page you can get further these strong positions, whilst driving sustainable pro t growth.
insights into the bene ts of the new market clustering from two of our General Managers.
Enhancing Resource Allocation This new classi cation is enhancing the way we allocate resource to markets to support their growth plans and is also improving the consistency of our sustainable growth focus across our footprint.
This includes the way we implement our sales growth drivers: portfolio management, innovation, customer engagement and pricing.
Its an exciting way forward and Ive been delighted with the initial results and the response from our market teams around the world.
Key Growth Markets Key Returns Markets Cambodia Saudi Arabia Algeria Morocco Greece Taiwan Australia Senegal Italy Turkey France Spain Laos USA Germany Ukraine Russia Vietnam Hungary United Kingdom 12 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Returns Market Germany Marcus Schmidt General Manager Weve had another very good year in Germany, growing The previous structure clustered markets geographically, share, volume, pro t and revenue, and were geared up grouping together different markets with different to add to this growth record in the coming year.
Now we all have the same priorities, the same goals and the same challenges and opportunities: The key to our success is our total tobacco focus: weve this commonality is driving greater collaboration, got the right brands in the right segments, which means often with colleagues Id previously not speak with we can provide consumers with a wide range of quality on a regular basis.
Davidoff, Gauloises Blondes, West and JPS are at the core of our portfolio and represent a very powerful Australias a good example: we were separate entities in combination of brands.
the old regional structure, yet our markets have many similarities, so now we talk regularly about how to create Playing to our total tobacco strengths is critical for and maintain a winning agenda.
driving growth in Returns Markets and one of the real bene ts of the new structure is the way it facilitates the Other companies dont have this level of alignment sharing of expertise.
and I believe that over time its going to give us a real competitive advantage.
Growth Market Turkey Gurhan Pasinli General Manager Turkey is the seventh largest cigarette market in the to share ideas on how we can maximise the growth of world: more than 90 billion cigarettes are sold here every Davidoff.
The structures opened up a whole new way year, and this presents us with huge opportunities for of working: its very motivating and a lot of fun, and the growth.
Weve done well over the years to establish a team here in Turkey is very excited about the future.
presence and get our share moving in the right direction: Over the coming year well be building the skills and now we can really build on this with the new structure.
capabilities of our people to further ensure theyre One of the bene ts is the new mindset its created: all fully equipped to put our sales agenda into action.
Growth Markets have the same goals and this allows Well also be strengthening our foundations for growth markets to connect with each other like never before.
by developing a total tobacco approach: were doing very well in cigarette, particularly in the growing For instance, our portfolio is built around two of our superslims segment, and we have some great initiatives important Growth Brands, Davidoff and West, and my planned to expand our portfolio into other growth areas.
marketing team recently met with colleagues in Russia Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 13
