THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES Board OVERVIEW The Directors are collectively responsible and accountable to our shareholders for the long-term sustainable success of the Group.
The Boards role is to provide leadership and direction to management and ensure appropriate resources are available to achieve the Groups objectives as we continue to transition the business in line with our sales growth strategy.
The Board has a key role in ensuring that in achieving these objectives management operates responsibly within our governance framework whilst clearly demonstrating our values and high ethical standards.
The Directors are also mindful of their legal duties to act in the way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the success of the Company for its shareholders and having regard also to the interests of other stakeholders.
Iain Napier As part of the governance framework the Board has adopted a schedule of matters on Chairman which it must make the final decision.
These include approving the Groups strategy, business plans, dividends and major financial announcements.
The Board is also We continue to responsible for approving the acquisition or disposal of assets exceeding thresholds fide ned in our finance manual.
transition the Within this framework the Board delegates responsibility for developing and implementing business in line with the Groups strategy and for day to day management to the Chief Executive who is supported by the Operating Executive OPEX, which she chairs.
our sales growth The OPEX consists of senior executives from across the business.
It oversees brand strategy to create and operational execution and delivers our strategic and financial plans.
The OPEX sustainable value also ensures that effective internal controls are in place and functioning, and that there is an effective risk management process in operation throughout the Group.
Members Achievements for 2013 2014 objectives Iain Napier Signi cant progress with the Back growth through: Chairman strategic transition of the business, investment prioritisation in our Ken Burnett which is strengthening our total tobacco portfolio by both sustainable sales growth capabilities Alison Cooper brand and market: and optimising our cost base.
Robert Dyrbus to 5 November 2013 continuing to support our Continued focus on people with David Haines standalone subsidiary Fontem the appointment of Oliver Tant to Michael Herlihy Ventures to create future growth succeed Robert Dyrbus as Finance Susan Murray opportunities for the Group, Director, the appointment of Mark including e-vapour: and Matthew Phillips Williamson to the position of Deputy Berge Setrakian Chairman and the appointment of maintaining focus on building our new Group Marketing Director.
capabilities and leadership, Oliver Tant from 1 October 2013 including Board succession Mark Williamson Strategic review of cigarette and planning.
Malcolm Wyman ne cut tobacco brands, focusing on optimising the growth potential Build resilience through: of our portfolio and strengthening John Downing realigning our cost base through our market positions.
Secretary our cost optimisation programme: Overseeing the continued ensuring regulatory engagement evolution and improvement of and preparedness: and the Groups risk management and assurance processes.
focusing on employee engagement during the on-going transition agenda.
46 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS MATTERS CONSIDERED BY THE BOARD IN 2013 2012 October Overall business review.
Review of updated business plan.
Receiving reports from the Boards Committees, including recommendations from the Audit Committee in respect of the effectiveness of the Companys risk management and internal control statement, the adoption of the going concern statement, impairment and reappointment of the Auditors and the subsequent agreement to such recommendations.
Review of the 2012 financial results and approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Consideration of the performance, contribution and effectiveness of each Director and recommendation for his or her re-election at the 2013 AGM.
Review of external operating environment.
Manufacturing and supply chain reviews.
Consideration of merger and acquisitions strategy.
Receiving reports from the Boards Committees.
AGM preparation including consideration of the associated interim management statement.
Finance review including consideration of the Half Year results.
Updates in respect of Group insurance and treasury matters.
Finance review including consideration of future nancing.
Review of future business plan.
Divisional sales presentations and reviews.
September Overall business review including business plan.
Consideration of Chairman and Non-Executive Directors fees.
Consideration of independence of Non-Executive Directors.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 47 THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES Nominations Committee OVERVIEW Role The Committee keeps under review and evaluates the composition of the Board and its Committees to maintain the appropriate balance of skills, knowledge, experience and independence to ensure their continued effectiveness.
Appropriate succession plans for the Non-Executive Directors, Executive Directors and the Groups senior management are also kept under review.
The Nominations Committees full terms of reference can be found within the investor relations corporate governance section of our website www.
Composition The Nominations Committee, which meets on an ad hoc basis when required, comprises all the Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by the Group Chairman Iain Napier unless the Committee is dealing with the matter of succession to the Chairmanship Chairman of the Company.
The Chief Executive is invited to attend when appropriate.
Boardroom Diversity The Nominations Appointing the best people to our Board is critical to the success of the Company: the search for candidates and any subsequent appointments are, therefore, made purely on Committee has an merit regardless of gender, race, religion, age or disability.
To maintain the appropriate important role to balance of skills, knowledge and experience we appoint individuals from diverse professional and geographic backgrounds.
Given our commitment to appointing the best play in ensuring the people and ensuring that all employees have an equal chance of developing their careers Board has the right within the Group, we do not think it is appropriate to set targets for Board appointments.
balance of experience Women, including our Chief Executive, currently make up 17 per cent of our Board.
On the retirement of Robert Dyrbus, Iain Napier and Berge Setrakian we expect this to and skills to support increase to 22 per cent.
We also currently have 20 per cent women on our Operating Executive.
Further details on our workforce diversity are set out on page 30. our strategy.
Members Achievements for 2013 2014 objectives Iain Napier In line with the Groups on-going Maintain on-going succession Chairman succession plans Oliver Tant was plans, especially in respect of Ken Burnett identi ed as an appropriate Non-Executive Directors successor to the Finance Director approaching retirement by virtue David Haines and was appointed to the Board of their length of service.
Identify Michael Herlihy on 1 October 2013. the skill set required for a new Susan Murray Non-Executive Director and instruct Mark Williamson was appointed to Berge Setrakian search agencies to identify the position of Deputy Chairman.
Mark Williamson appropriate candidates to allow Active involvement in the the Committee to recommend Malcolm Wyman appointment of the Group appointments to the Board.
Secretary 48 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE IN 2013 Oliver Tant as a suitable successor and recommended to the ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS Board his appointment as Finance Director.
All Directors are appointed by the Board following a rigorous selection process and subsequent recommendation by the At its September 2013 meeting the Board accepted this Nominations Committee.
recommendation and Oliver Tant was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 October 2013 and succeeded Robert Dyrbus as The performance of each Director is considered as part of the Finance Director on 5 November 2013.
The Board recommends Board evaluation process.
Following the 2013 evaluation, a review his election at our 2014 AGM.
of the independence of each Non-Executive Director, especially in respect of those who have served six years or more, and As part of the Boards on-going succession plans, Iain Napier and consideration of the attendance of each Director at Board and Berge Setrakian will retire at the conclusion of the Companys Committee meetings considered below, the Board recommends AGM in 2014, following which, subject to his re-election as a the re-election of all Directors who are standing for re-election at Director, Mark Williamson will become Chairman.
the smooth transition Susan Murray will remain on the Board until September 2014 but will step down from its Audit and BOARD SUCCESSION Remuneration Committees following the 2014 AGM at which During the year the Nominations Committee identi ed the pro le time she will have been a Director for nine years and will no longer and skill set required for Robert Dyrbus successor, carried out be considered independent.
a review of potential internal candidates and instructed Russell The Boards succession plans also include the on-going Reynolds Associates who do not have any other connection review of the skills required for Board members and the with the Company to identify appropriate external candidates.
identi cation of appropriate candidates to replace those Having reviewed the list of potential candidates, and subsequent Directors approaching retirement, together with the overall to meetings with shortlisted candidates, the Committee identi ed balance and skill set of the Board.
MEETINGS OF THE BOARD, BOARD COMMITTEES AND AGM Nominations Audit Remuneration Annual General Board Committee Committee Committee Meeting Total number of meetings in Financial Year 62451 Number of meetings attended in Financial Year Executive Directors Mrs A J Cooper 6 6 1 1 Mr R Dyrbus 6 6 1 1 Mr M R Phillips 6 6 1 1 Non-Executive Directors Mr I J G Napier 6 6 2 2 1 1 Dr K M Burnett 6 6 2 2 4 4 5 5 1 1 Mr D J Haines 6 6 2 2 4 4 4 5 1 1 Mr M H C Herlihy 6 6 2 2 4 4 5 5 1 1 Ms S E Murray 5 5 2 2 4 4 5 5 1 1 1 Mr B Setrakian 6 6 2 2 4 5 1 1 Mr M D Williamson 5 5 2 2 4 4 5 5 1 1 1 Mr M I Wyman 4 6 2 2 3 4 4 5 1 1 1 Due to prior commitments, Berge Setrakian and David Haines were unable to attend one Remuneration Committee meeting.
Malcolm Wyman was unable to attend two Board meetings held on the same day and the associated Committee meetings.
Malcolm Wyman had informed the Board that he would be unable to attend these meetings prior to his appointment to the Board.
The maximum number of meetings for each individual Director is Tenure of Non-Executive Directors the number which they were eligible to attend.
8 years and over 3 5 to 7 years 3 1 to 2 years 2 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 49 THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES Audit Committee OVERVIEW Role The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include assisting the Board in ensuring the integrity of our Annual Report and Accounts and in ensuring that the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
The Audit Committee oversees the internal control, risk management and speaking-up processes together with ensuring that we meet high standards of governance, reporting and compliance.
The Committee also assesses the effectiveness of the Internal Audit department and that of the external Auditors.
Following reviews of the performance and independence of our external Auditors, the Committee decides whether to recommend to the Board their annual reappointment.
Malcolm Wyman The Audit Committees full terms of reference can be found within the investor relations Chairman corporate governance section of our website www.
Composition Our Audit Committee Our Audit Committee comprises six Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Malcolm Wyman.
Both Malcolm Wyman and Mark Williamson meet the requirements of the Code has a key role in and the Committees terms of reference that at least one of its members has recent and relevant financial experience.
ensuring the The Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, Director of Finance and Planning, integrity of our Group Financial Controller, Director of Corporate Assurance, Deputy Company Secretary, financial statements appropriate financial managers and our external Auditors are invited to attend Audit Committee meetings.
At each meeting both the Director of Corporate Assurance and the and the effectiveness external Auditors have the opportunity to meet separately with the Committee without management being present.
of our risk Meetings management Four Audit Committee meetings were held in the financial year, at key times within our processes and reporting and audit calendar.
Members Malcolm Wyman Chairman Ken Burnett David Haines Michael Herlihy Susan Murray Mark Williamson John Downing Secretary 50 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS KEY MATTERS CONSIDERED BY THE AUDIT COMMITTEE IN 2013 2012 October Review of the Groups preliminary results including consideration of the going concern statement and tax risk provisions.
Foreign exchange management, including net investment hedging and related foreign exchange exposure.
Review of the external Auditors independence, including the level of non-audit services.
Consideration of the report from the external Auditors regarding their audit findings in respect of the annual results.
Consideration of the reappointment of our external Auditors.
Review the effectiveness of and reports from the Groups Corporate Assurance function including reviewing the internal control environment, the risk management and the whistleblowing report.
Consideration of the external lawyers letter in respect of tobacco related litigation.
Private review meetings with the external Auditors and Director of Corporate Assurance.
2013 January Consideration of the policy and processes relating to restructuring costs.
Annual review of the Committees terms of reference.
Consideration of the external audit plan.
Assessment of external Auditors effectiveness and consideration of external audit tendering.
Review effectiveness of and reports from the Groups Corporate Assurance function including updates on whistleblowing reports and the Bribery Act.
April Review of the Groups Half Year results including consideration of the going concern statement.
Consideration of any potential indicators of goodwill impairment.
Six-monthly review of restructuring costs.
Consideration of the report from the external Auditors in respect of their review of the Half Year report.
Review of Auditor independence including the level of non-audit services during the first six months.
Review the effectiveness of and reports from the Groups Corporate Assurance function including an update on whistleblowing reports.
September Foreign exchange management, including net investment hedging and related foreign exchange exposure.
Review of consistency of application of accounting policies.
Reviews of segmental reporting, distributable reserves and Treasury policies.
Con rmation of Committee members independence and recent and relevant financial experience.
Consideration of the report from the external Auditors, including IT controls.
Consideration and approval of the Groups Corporate Assurance functions 2014 audit plan.
Review effectiveness of and reports from the Groups Corporate Assurance function including risk management and whistleblowing.
The Audit Committee met in October 2013 and considered matters in line with those considered at its October 2012 meeting, detailed above, speci cally including the content of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 51 The Board and its Committees Audit Committee Signi cant Financial Judgements and Financial Reporting for 2013 How the Committee Addressed these Judgements Goodwill and intangible asset Detailed reports from management were considered by the Committee which also impairment reviews.
Judgements reviewed the methodology applied including ensuring the discount rates used are largely related to the assumptions within an acceptable range.
In addition, the Committee constructively challenged underlying the calculations used to underlying assumptions used within short and long-term growth projections, including value the businesses being tested.
The Committee also considers detailed reporting These assumptions included from, and holds discussions with, the external Auditors.
Following consideration of long-term business and these reports, the Committee reviewed and agreed the impairment of 1.2 billion macro-economic projections.
Further detail on impairment can be found in note 11 on page 105.
The Committee concluded that the intangible assets of our US business were not impaired and approved disclosures in our financial statements.
The treatment of restructuring costs The Committee reviewed a paper prepared by management detailing enhanced internal and their presentation within the guidance on classi cation of costs as restructuring and considered the views of our Groups financial statements.
external Auditors on our policy.
The Committee requested a number of clari cations to the internal guidance and periodically reviewed papers from management on actual and forecast levels of restructuring costs.
The restructuring costs disclosure for inclusion within the Groups full year and half year results were also reviewed.
In order to satisfy itself that the Company has adequate resources for the future and to underpin the use of the going concern assumption in preparing our financial statements, the Committee regularly reviews the Groups committed funding and liquidity positions, its ability to generate cash from trading activities, its ability to raise external funding and its historic record in respect of raising external funds.
The Committee challenged managements funding projections and sensitivity analysis and possible combinations of adverse events and considered mitigating actions available to management.
The Committee considers detailed reporting from, and holds discussions with, the external Auditors.
The Committee subsequently recommended to the Board the adoption of the going concern statement for inclusion in the Annual Report and Accounts.
The key judgements relating to tax risk A review and discussions of provisions with management was undertaken by the provisions and the resulting tax charge.
Committee, including new provisions, the utilisation or release of existing provisions and the status of discussions with relevant tax authorities.
The Committee considered detailed reports from, and had discussions with, the external Auditors in respect of such provisions.
Change of segment reporting The Committee discussed a proposal from management to change the Groups where judgement is required to segmental disclosure to align with the Group strategy and changes to how the ensure disclosure meets technical business is managed.
The Committee reviewed managements paper on the technical requirements and the needs of the requirements for segmental disclosure, considering both the spirit and the letter of the users of our financial statements.
relevant standard, and considered the views of our external Auditors and subsequently agreed with the proposed changes.
Other Signi cant Matters Considered by the Committee How the Committee Addressed these Matters Revenue recognition as with most Local business unit management express clear awareness of their authority limits that companies there is a risk that, in order are in place to control changes in credit limits and prices.
They receive reports from our to boost revenue in the current year, external Auditors regarding their examination of revenue recognition and volume trends arrangements could be made to in all major markets, sales timings and volumes close to the year end, and perceiving facilitate sales that do not meet the historic sales trends.
Following these reviews the Committee was satis ed that the Groups criteria for revenue recognition.
Groups criteria for revenue recognition were met.
Tobacco related litigation the Group Internal reports are provided to the Committee as appropriate and at its half year and is exposed to litigation arising from full year results meetings.
The Committee considered a report from the Groups external claimants alleging smoking related lawyers which con rmed that the Group continues to have meritorious defences to the health effects.
actual and threatened legal proceedings detailed on page 59.
The Groups foreign exchange The Committee regularly considers reports from management, covering foreign management.
exchange exposures, and gains and losses, together with the accounting treatments applied including net investment hedging.
The costs, assets and liabilities of the Groups fide ned bene t retirement schemes are regularly reviewed.
Advice is taken from independent actuaries on the appropriateness of the assumptions used and discussions are held with the external Auditors.
52 Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 OVERVIEW STRATEGY PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIALS Based on its consideration of the report, together with its own INDEPENDENCE OF OUR EXTERNAL on-going assessment, for example through the quality of the AUDITORS external Auditors reports to, and the audit partners interaction  PwC have been the Companys with, the Committee, the Audit Committee remains satis ed with Auditors since its demerger in 1996. the ef ciency and effectiveness of the audit.
It has not, therefore, In order to ensure the independence and objectivity of our considered it necessary to require the audit to be put out to Auditors we maintain and regularly review our Auditor tender.
Following the introduction of the audit tendering provisions Independence Policy.
This policy provides clear fide nitions of in the Code, the Audit Committee will annually consider if the audit services that our external Auditors can and cannot provide.
should be put out to tender.
The Committee considers that for a Our external Auditors may only provide non-audit services where major international group the tendering of external audit must be those services do not con ict with their independence, for well planned to ensure that the Group complies with best practice example tax compliance work.
The policy also establishes a corporate governance as well as ensuring the Group receives a formal authorisation process, including the tendering for non-audit high quality, ef cient and effective external audit service.
services expected to generate fees in excess of 250,000, and There are no contractual or similar obligations restricting the pre-approval by the Audit Committee for allowable non-audit work Groups choice of external Auditors.
Our policy also establishes guidelines for the recruitment of employees or former employees of our external Auditors and for the recruitment of our employees by them.
STATEMENT OF AUDITORS Further details can be found in our Auditor Independence Policy RESPONSIBILITIES which can be found within the investor relations corporate Our statutory Auditors are responsible for forming an independent governance section of our website www.
opinion on the financial statements of the Group as a whole and on the financial statements of Imperial Tobacco Group PLC as To ensure compliance with this policy, during the year our Audit presented by the Directors.
In addition, they also report on other Committee carried out two reviews of the remuneration received elements of the Annual Report and Accounts as required by by our external Auditors for audit services, audit-related services legislation or regulation and report their opinion to members.
The Audit Committee also considered reports Their opinions are included on pages 84 and 131. by both management and the external Auditors which did not raise any concerns in respect of the Auditors independence.
The outcome of these reviews was that performance of the AUDITORS AND DISCLOSURE OF relevant non-audit work by our external Auditors, as detailed in INFORMATION TO AUDITORS note 4 on page 101, was in compliance with the policy and Each of the Directors in of ce at the date of approval of this was the most cost-effective way of conducting our business.
Annual Report and Accounts con rms that: No con icts of interest were found to exist between such audit so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information and non-audit work which principally related to tax advisory work.
that is, information needed by the Companys Auditors in The Audit Committee con rms that the Company continues to connection with preparing their report of which the Companys receive an independent audit service.
Auditors are unaware: and In line with our Auditor Independence Policy, the Group Audit each has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a partner is required to rotate after a maximum of five years seven Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant years for subsidiary companies.
Accordingly, David Charles audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors rotated off the engagement after the 2013 Annual General are aware of that information.
Meeting and was succeeded by John Maitland: an agreed succession plan was in place well in advance of this handover.
The Board accepted at its October 2013 meeting the Committees recommendation to put a resolution to reappoint PwC as Auditors to the Company to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
AUDIT QUALITY AND APPROACH TO AUDIT TENDER As part of a formal review process, audit effectiveness questionnaires are completed by members of the Audit Committee and certain executives and finance employees from across the Group.
Based on the responses to the questionnaires, management produce a report for detailed consideration by the Audit Committee.
Imperial Tobacco Group PLCAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 53
