STRATEGIC REPORT Knowledge and information in the academic market The critical role of education and research in the knowledge economy The modern world is defined by change In the current knowledge-based economy, High quality, specialist education is th and innovation.
In the 19 century the the source of innovation is typically the crucial to ensuring those entering the Industrial Revolution heralded the start research community, whether through workforce have the skill sets to contribute of mass production.
In the same way, commercial research and development most effectively and that those already th the Digital Revolution of the late 20 teams, in laboratories, or in universities.
employed continually develop their st and early 21 century introduced the Their expertise provides the building expertise.
Emerging markets such as China Information Age.
blocks on which all areas of business and India are competing aggressively can build in order to develop and grow.
in this global skills race following huge Ongoing education enables individuals investment in education infrastructure and organisations to stay ahead in their and IT skills development.
As people across the world become Human capital remains a key component more skilled at accessing information via of value in this knowledge-based economy.
technology, so readily accessible research The workforce in the Information Age must from trusted and authoritative sources be computer literate, well versed in using becomes increasingly valuable.
and interpreting data, and able to develop algorithms and run simulations.
08 Informa insight Academic Publishing Revenue Informa is a leading publisher of academic journals and books.
These are reported within our Academic Publishing division and include over 1,700 journals and over 93,000 book titles.
Our journals are a validation and distribution platform for high level academic research, with only those research articles reaching a certain quality threshold, as determined through a rigorous peer review process, being passed fit for publication.
When linked with the highest standards of online publication, this ensures that our journal brands are trusted and relied upon by researchers worldwide.
Our journals are, thus, an integral element of the global research value chain.
Our books are a reference and learning tool in similar, Subscriptions 51% specialised subject areas to our journals, but offering a more Copy Sales 49% complete study of particular themes across the spectrum of teaching through to research.
All our journals and front list of books are available in digital format, with modern search technology enabling researchers to identify and extract relevant data and information quickly and accurately.
Ongoing digital innovation creates opportunities to leverage our content and expertise into new products and services.
The largest customer segment for our journals and books is university libraries around the globe.
The significant investment behind secondary education and learning infrastructure in developing markets therefore, offers a rich opportunity for our business to target in the future.
Currently, Academic Publishing generates around 14% of its revenue in emerging markets.
Objective Activity in 2013 Progress Outcome To develop new open access Launch of Cogent OA, Team recruited and a Greater choice and flexibility business models and products a bespoke open access portfolio of new journals for authors and funding publishing unit in development for launch bodies: increased distribution in 2014 of research To develop our ebook Expanded ebook product All new titles available Format flexibility and product proposition range and quality: improved electronically and over 20% of innovation for customers: digital distribution and book revenue generated from production efficiency marketing ebooks versus 16% in 2012 Leverage our digital expertise Development of the South Archive launched and first Creation of a new digital into new product categories Asian Culture and History sales of the product secured database product category with Archive, a unique digital minimal investment: a unique collection of over five student learning resource million pages of material 09
