STRATEGIC REPORT Informa, a culture of insight, intelligence and innovation continued Business Model Resources and Value Created Relationships People Subscriptions 2.0% Over 6,500 employees Attendees Advertising -4.1% -5.5% Financial Headroom to grow and invest Informa EBITDA to net debt of 2.2 times Copy Sales Exhibitors 5.8% 14.0% Infrastructure Sponsorship 6.5% Presence in 24 countries Shared service centre structure Subscriptions Exhibitors Copy Sales Subscription revenue is Exhibitor revenues represent Copy sales are the sales of IP management generated from customers space sold at our events one-off information.
The who either receive a series in order for our clients medium can be a book, a of publications, or as is to raise awareness and single journal or a report, the norm nowadays, have or sell their products and delivered in hard copy or Insight access to the data online.
It is an ideal way electronic format.
Revenue Our subscriptions typically for our customers to forge is recognised on the sale of last for a period of three new relationships through the product.
Market leading expertise months to a year and are face-to-face meetings, sell Advertising paid prior to the product or showcase their products.
Multiple sector depth Advertising represents being delivered made Exhibitor space at an event the sale of space either available.
Subscription ranges from several booths virtually or in a hard copy revenue is recognised at a conference to 400,000 publications.
There are over the period of the square metres and is products where advertising subscription.
recognised as revenue is the main driver and when the event is held.
Attendees others where advertising In order to gain access to Sponsorship is simply a supplemental many of our events there is In all of our leading events earnings stream.
This can we have partners that revenue stream is volatile, be as small as a few pounds want to be associated with which makes advertising for a consumer show up to the event.
Through their led products risky, but for several thousand pounds participation they can products where advertising for a niche, must attend, create, develop and increase is non-core it is a low cost industry event.
Depending brand awareness, furthering source of revenue.
Revenue on the type of event, the their credibility within a is recognised on publication.
monies are usually collected target audience to develop in advance or at the door.
contacts and exposure for Revenue is recognised when their business.
This revenue the event is held.
is recognised when the event is held.
Value Reinvested INFORMA PLC 06 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 Value Added Value Protected Outcomes People Leveraging knowledge Strategy Leverage our deep knowledge An evolving, innovative model th Britains 5 top employer and network to provide the creating sustainable value over insight our customers need.
the short, medium and long term.
Development of individuals Developing specialist knowledge across the businesses and proprietary content.
Environmental Risk management Building communities Intensity ratio of just 1.73 tonnes of CO per Creating platforms that facilitate A balanced approach.
2 employee interaction, debate and innovation, helping to cultivate relationships Financial and build communities.
Significant returns to shareholders and to Harness technologies Market insight reinvest in the business Develop technology to drive efficiency Thought leaders expertise in a and increase flexibility, improving the dynamic market.
Embedding consistently high our content and insight into our customer workflow, and leveraging Insight technology to stimulate interaction within communities, ultimately driving Externally recognised improved decision making and a higher return on investment.
Geographic penetration Performance monitoring Leveraging our global reach Focused on the issues that are and support network to drive materially important to the business.
penetration of both existing and new products into new markets.
Value Reinvested Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 07
