STRATEGIC REPORT Demand for knowledge and insight Specialist business information drives competitive advantage The days of information on file, in the There is no shortage of data: the While companies may be focusing office, are disappearing.
Technological challenge lies in filtering, understanding on niche markets, because business advances mean a far more mobile and interpreting what is available.
Market opportunities are increasingly global, workforce can access important business intelligence and informed, data backed their horizons are increasing, not information from multiple sources, decision making is the new currency of narrowing.
Location is no longer a anywhere in the world, at any time.
constraint in the knowledge economy, with the internet making the global The ready availability of information means village a reality.
Best practices and there are fewer barriers to entry in many processes migrate quickly and global areas of business, intensifying competition industry standards are increasingly and squeezing margins.
Companies need to be companies and individuals to focus efforts constantly up to speed with what and become experts in niche areas.
is happening in their sphere.
Data is now recognised as a strategic asset and highly focused, insightful information in a fast changing environment can lead to greater differentiation, smarter decisions, better results and growth.
10 Informa insight Business Intelligence Revenue Informa owns a large number of specialist business information and data products servicing multiple sectors.
These are reported within our Business Intelligence division and we operate around 100 products in our business information portfolio.
The common thread across them is a focus on niche customer segments, providing highly specialised, rich data and information.
Moreover, the vast majority of our content is proprietary, created by skilled teams of journalists, editors and analysts.
We were quick to recognise the technological shift across the information industry and have made significant investments to migrate our products from traditional print format onto digital Subscriptions 82% platforms, with over 90% of Business Intelligences revenue now Copy Sales 13% generated electronically.
Advertising 5% Our two biggest end markets are the financial services and pharmaceutical industries, representing approximately 60% of Business Intelligences revenue.
While the health of these sectors is a key driver of our own performance, we believe that the need for specialist business information that drives improved decision making and increases return on investment, transcends macro factors and goes to the heart of business performance in all sectors in the modern environment.
This creates significant opportunities for Business Intelligence, if it can leverage its content and brands more effectively into workflow tools that are embedded in the daily decision making process of our customers.
The real challenge for Business Intelligence is the pace of change in its markets.
Technology is constantly evolving, offering new tools that drive greater efficiency and insight.
Customer demands grow in tandem, with information investment driven increasingly by performance impact and global reach.
These dynamics require flexible and informed management and a commitment to consistently invest behind products, processes and platforms.
Objective Activity in 2013 Progress Outcome To become a digital only Moving the Lloyds List The last print version of Minimal customer impact, information business product portfolio to Lloyds List was published neutral financial impact, be published solely in in December.
Future editions focused digital product digital format are digital-only innovation going forward To expand our global Establishment of a Data extraction and Unique opportunity presence, particularly partnership in China validation process in place to commercialise in fast growth markets to exploit granular and first data collected specialist Chinese medical data medical data from 2014 To provide data rich Embed targeted data driven Clinical Research Organisations Over 33% growth both intelligence with relevant subscription products with CRO targeted for core volume and value of opinion and analysis major client groups growth of SiteTrove product CRO subscribers 11 STRATEGIC REPORT The rise and rise of communities and connectivity The power of communities in the knowledge economy The networking power of digital Community networks enable the rapid Face-to-face meetings allow people to communications and social media brings dissemination of news and data, the hear tone of voice and emphasis, as well like minded individuals and companies sharing of ideas, best practice and as to pick up on facial expressions and across the world closer together.
body language that online communications They can also help identify new cannot do.
Trust is an essential part of customers and forge commercial business relationships and it is easier to relationships that ultimately drive develop this through personal interaction 1 global trade.
By improving lines of communication, Platforms that bring communities together the Digital Revolution undoubtedly in real-time outside of the digital ecosystem, increases efficiency and lowers costs for have an important role in initiating, companies and individuals.
But the flipside strengthening and expanding relationships is that the level of face-to-face interaction that otherwise would be superficial or not across communities diminishes and human exist at all.
One meeting or conference can rapport is marginalised.
be worth a hundred emails or tweets.
Such events become increasingly valuable in the knowledge economy.
pdf 12 Informa insight Global Events Revenue Informa is one of the leading organisers of exhibitions and conferences in the world.
We produce over 3,000 events annually, in over 70 countries.
Our conferences and exhibitions enable companies from all over the globe to meet face-to-face, share ideas, establish forums and ultimately build new working relationships.
We deliver real value by connecting people, enabling them to develop transparency and trust in a way that is just not possible online.
Global Events offer not only the opportunity to showcase new technology, products and services but provide an ideal platform to network, develop fresh leads and secure new and profitable business in both developed and emerging markets.
Attendee 42% Exhibitor 40% Thought leaders and industry experts can shape discussion and Sponsorship 16% debate through presentations at our conferences.
We create and Advertising 2% manage conferences across the globe and cover a broad range of sectors.
We examine the latest discoveries, trends, technology and assess the impact of regulation.
By bringing people together we help individuals and businesses learn from one another.
Our focus on geographic expansion underlines our commitment to repeat leading and successful business events in new countries.
By introducing these events to new regions we help more businesses connect but also increase the visibility of Informa globally.
The recent acquisition of a stake in Baiwen, the owner and organiser of the annual China Beauty Expo CBE, demonstrates our intention to take Informas expertise and experience into new markets.
Through another acquisition, global events and partnering software provider EBD Group EBD, we are able to bring people together in a new way.
By intricately profiling and partnering our delegates, we help them identify business opportunities and develop strategic relationships.
In addition to full-scale exhibitions and conferences, we have a large training element to our Global Events business.
We offer niche training courses and seminars providing businesses with the opportunity to develop their expertise and grow.
Objective Activity in 2013 Progress Outcome To expand our Acquisition of a stake Leverage our existing expertise Established a local exhibition exhibition presence in Baiwen, the owner in the Beauty segment to grow presence in China with a in fast growth markets of CBE CBE and launch new events leading global event in an into China attractive sector Enhance the engagement Acquisition of EBD and its Established a plan to roll out Addition of EBD brand and and value for attendees at partnering360 software partnering concept to other knowhow of partnering concept.
our conferences established conferences in the Successful rollout should Group through 2014 increase conference value and improve rebooking rates Reduce the Groups Reduce the volume Exit from conference activities Increased weighting of Global exposure to small of conferences produced in Italy, Spain and Portugal Events revenue to exhibitions domestic conferences and disposal of certain with no impact on the rest and LSEs, reducing volatility conference assets of the Group and improving the growth profile and quality of earnings 13
