Directors Report The Directors present their Annual Report The notice concerning forward-looking 1 January 2014 and will stand for election and Accounts on the affairs of Informa plc statements is set out on page 146. at the AGM on 23 May 2014.
Dr Pamela the Company and its subsidiaries the References to the Company may also Kirby will step down as Senior Independent Group or Informa, together with the include references to the Group.
Director and from the Board at the AGM Financial Statements and Auditors Report, on 23 May 2014.
Stephen Carter was ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING for the year ended 31 December 2013.
This re-elected as a Non-Executive Director The Annual General Meeting AGM will Directors Report forms part of the Strategic at the AGM in 2013.
He stepped down be held on 23 May 2014, at Radisson Blu Report of the Company as required by the from this role to take up the role of CEOHotel, Flughafen Zrich, CH-8058 Zurich, Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Designate on 1 September 2013 and took Switzerland, at 9am Central European Directors Report Regulations 2013, which up the role of Group Chief Executive on Time.
The notice is being dispatched as can be found on pages 2 to 33.
Peter Rigby retired as Chief a separate document to all shareholders Executive, and Adam Walker resigned as CORPORATE STRUCTURE and is also available at www.
Informa plc is a public company limited The notice sets out the resolutions to be There were no further changes to the by shares, incorporated in Jersey and proposed at the AGM and an explanation Board during the year.
It has a primary on each resolution.
The remuneration and interests of listing on the London Stock Exchange.
DIVIDENDS the Directors who held office as at REGISTRATION AND DOMICILE 31 December 2013 in the share capital of the The Directors have declared a second Company are set out in the Remuneration As at 31 December 2013, the Companys interim dividend for the year of 12.50p per Report on pages 50 to 65.
All the Directors registered office was Lime Grove House, ordinary share, to be paid on 27 May 2014 to offer themselves for election or re-election Green Street, St Helier, Jersey, JE1 2ST.
ordinary shareholders registered as at the as noted above, by shareholders at the On 1 April 2014, the Companys registered close of business on 2 May 2014.
Together AGM to be held on 23 May 2014.
Details of office was changed to 22 Grenville Street, with the first interim dividend of 6.40p per the contracts of the Executive and NonSt Helier, Jersey, JE4 8PX.
The Company is ordinary share paid on 12 September 2013, Executive Directors with the Company can registered in Jersey under number 102786. this makes a total for the year of 18.90p per be found on pages 55 and 63.
There are no The Company is domiciled in Switzerland ordinary share 2012: 18.50p.
agreements in place between the Company with its head office at Gubelstrasse 11, The Company operates a Dividend and its Directors and employees providing CH-6300, Zug.
Access Plan for all its shareholders and for compensation for loss of office of As announced on 10 December 2013, as a result of this pays a second interim employment whether through resignation, the Board has resolved to recommend dividend rather than a final dividend.
purported redundancy or otherwise that that the corporate domicile of the Parent Those shareholders who hold fewer than occurs because of a takeover bid.
Further Company of the Group should return 100,000 shares are deemed to consent information on payments to Directors can to the UK during 2014.
This is subject to receive their dividends from Informa be found in the Remuneration Report on to shareholder approval.
A shareholder DAP Limited, a UK incorporated Informa pages 55 and 60.
No Director was materially circular and prospectus will be issued to Company.
Those shareholders holding interested in any contract of significance.
shareholders and a General Meeting GM over 100,000 shares may elect to join the DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES is anticipated to be held sometime in the Dividend Access Plan by completing an second half of 2014.
This form is available from Indemnities are in force under which the the Companys Registrars whose contact Company has agreed to indemnify the STRATEGIC REPORT details can be found on pages 36 and Directors, to the extent permitted by The Strategic Report describes the 147.
If shareholders holding over 100,000 Jersey law and the Companys Articles of Companys performance during the shares do not elect to join the Dividend Association Articles, in respect of any year, business model, strategy, principal Access Plan, dividends will be received liability arising out of, or in connection risk factors and corporate responsibility from the Company, which is domiciled in with, the execution of their powers, duties activities.
As a whole the Annual Report Switzerland and may be subject to Swiss and responsibilities, as Directors of the and Accounts provides information about tax regulations.
Shareholders may elect to Company, any of its subsidiaries or as a the Groups businesses, its financial receive shares instead of cash from their trustee of an occupational pension scheme performance during the year and likely dividend allocation through the Dividend for employees of the Company.
on appointments to the Board in 2013 can be found in the Nomination Committee CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS INTERESTS Report on page 49.
The Company has COMPLIANCE The names of Directors of the Company purchased and maintains Directors and A report on corporate governance, and are set out on pages 34 and 35, which Officers insurance cover against certain the ways in which the Company complies includes brief biographical details.
legal liabilities and costs for claims in with the provisions of the UK Corporate connection with any act or omission by its The Non-Executive Directors of Informa, Governance Code the Code as Directors and officers in the execution of being Derek Mapp, Dr Pamela Kirby, John published in September 2012 is set out their duties.
Davis and Dr Brendan ONeill were all reon pages 41 to 44, and forms part of this elected as Directors at the AGM held on report by reference.
Cindy Rose was appointed to The Strategic Report as set out on the Board as a Non-Executive Director on pages 2 to 33 of this document, forms 1 March 2013 and was elected as a Nonthe management report for the purposes Executive Director at the AGM held on of the UK Financial Conduct Authoritys 15 May 2013.
Geoffrey Cooper, Helen Owers Disclosure and Transparency Rule and Gareth Bullock were appointed to DTR 4.1.
the Board as Non-Executive Directors on Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 37 GOVERNANCE Directors Report continued APPOINTMENT AND REPLACEMENT CHANGES TO THE COMPANYS ARTICLES Financial risk management objectives and OF DIRECTORS policies including a description of when The Company may amend its Articles by hedge accounting has been applied and The rules for appointment and special resolution approved at a GM.
the Groups exposure to price risk, credit replacement of the Directors are set GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk are out in the Articles.
Directors can be explained in Note 32.
The Company is required to disclose the appointed by the Company by ordinary Groups greenhouse gas emissions as resolution at a GM or by the Board upon SIGNIFICANT EVENTS required by the Companies Act 2006 the recommendation of the Nomination There have been no significant events Strategic Report and Directors Report Committee.
The Company can remove a since the reporting date, except as Regulations 2013.
Details of the Groups Director from office, including by passing outlined in Note 40. emissions are contained in the Corporate an ordinary resolution or by notice being Responsibility section of the Strategic given by all the other Directors.
SHARE INFORMATION Report which can be found on pages Substantial Shareholdings POWERS OF THE DIRECTORS 32 and 33 and form part of the Directors As at 31 December 2013, the Company had The powers of the Directors are set Report disclosures.
been notified of the following substantial out in the Articles and provide that the POLITICAL DONATIONS interests over 3% in the issued ordinary Board may exercise all the powers of the The Group made no political donations share capital of the Company.
The table Company including to borrow money up during the year.
below details those shares held under to an aggregate of three times a formula discretionary management and therefore based on adjusted capital and reserves.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS total voting rights.
The Company may by ordinary resolution In relation to the use of financial authorise the Board to issue shares, and instruments by the Group, a review increase, consolidate, sub-divide and is included within Note 32 to the cancel shares in accordance with its Consolidated Financial Statements.
As at 31 December 2013 As at 26 March 2014 Number % Number % of shares held of shares held Lazard Asset Management 36,209,894 6.00% 35,582,059 5.89% Invesco Limited 32,885,072 5.45% 32,885,072 5.45% Norges Bank 30,298,228 5.02% 30,298,228 5.02% FMR LLC Fidelity 30,022,241 4.97% 30,205,516 5.00% Standard Life Investments Ltd 29,987,315 4.97% 30,063,942 4.98% Prudential Plc Group of Companies 29,956,016 4.96% 29,956,016 4.96% AXA Investment Managers UK Ltd 29,941,074 4.96% 29,941,074 4.96% Share Capital or other special rights and restrictions as Voting Rights the Company may by special resolution As at 31 December 2013, the Companys Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to decide or, if no such resolution is in effect, issued share capital comprised 603,941,249 attend and speak at GMs of the Company or so far as the resolution does not make ordinary shares with a nominal value and to appoint one or more proxies or, specific provision, as the Board may of 0.1p each.
Details of the authorised if the holder of shares is a corporation, a decide.
No such resolution is currently in and issued share capital, together with corporate representative.
Subject to the recommendation of movements in the issued share capital hands, each holder of ordinary shares who the Board, holders of ordinary shares may during the year, are shown in Note 33 of being an individual is present in person receive a dividend.
On liquidation, holders the Consolidated Financial Statements.
or being a corporation is present by a of ordinary shares may share in the assets duly appointed corporate representative, Rights and Obligations of the Company.
Holders of ordinary not being himself a member, shall have one Attaching to Shares shares are also entitled to receive the vote and on a poll, every holder of ordinary Companys Annual Report and Accounts The rights attaching to the Companys shares present in person or by proxy shall and, subject to certain thresholds being ordinary shares, being the only share have one vote for every share of which he met, may requisition the Board to convene class of the Company, are set out in the is the holder.
Electronic and paper proxy a GM or the proposal of resolutions at Articles, which can be found at www.
appointments and voting instructions AGMs.
None of the ordinary shares carry informa.
Subject to Jersey law, must be received not later than 48 hours any special rights with regard to control of any share may be issued with or have before a GM.
A holder of ordinary shares the Company.
attached to it such preferred, deferred can lose the entitlement to vote at GMs INFORMA PLC 38 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 where that holder has been served with a trust are no more than sufficient to satisfy including links to employee consultation disclosure notice and has failed to provide the requirements of the Groups share and engagement.
In 2013 Informa was th the Company with information concerning schemes for one year.
The shares held by ranked 5 overall for all UK companies.
interests held in those shares.
Except as these trusts do not have any special rights All UK employees are eligible to participate set out above and as permitted under with regard to control of the Company.
in the HM Revenue & Customs Approved applicable statutes, there are no limitations While these shares are held on trust Share Incentive Plan SIP once they have on voting rights of holders of a given their rights are not exercisable directly completed six months service with the percentage, number of votes or deadlines by the relevant employees.
Further information on the SIP for exercising voting rights.
arrangements concerning these trusts and can be found in the Remuneration Report their shareholdings are set out on page 63.
Restrictions on Transfer of on page 53.
Securities in the Company Purchase of Own Shares EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES There are no restrictions on the transfer At the end of the year, the Directors had Informa believes in equality of opportunity of securities in the Company except that: authority, under a shareholders resolution and all recruitment and promotion passed on 15 May 2013, to purchase the Directors may from time to opportunities are based solely on merit.
No through the market up to 10% of the time refuse to register a transfer individual employee or potential employee Companys issued ordinary shares as at of a certificated share which is not will receive less favourable treatment 9 April 2013 the date on which the AGM fully paid, provided it meets the on the grounds of age, gender, sexual notice was published.
This authority requirements given under the Articles: orientation, disability, colour, race, religion, expires at the conclusion of the AGM of nationality or ethnicity.
the Company to be held on 23 May 2014. transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using CREST and The Companies equal opportunity policy CHANGE OF CONTROL the Directors can refuse to register not only covers recruitment and promotion There are no significant agreements to a transfer of an uncertificated share but also training and development which the Company is a party that take in accordance with the regulations opportunities.
The policy also acts as a effect, alter or terminate upon a change governing the operation of CREST: guide to all staff and management on of control following a takeover bid nor acceptable behaviour at work standards.
legal and regulatory restrictions may any agreements between the Company be put in place from time to time, for In situations where an individual and its Directors or employees providing example insider trading laws: employees circumstances change, it is our for compensation for loss of office or policy to do everything reasonably possible employment that occurs because of a pursuant to the Companys share to ensure we facilitate a successful return takeover bid except for the Groups dealing code whereby the Directors to work, be it in the same job or a different private placement loan notes and facilities and certain employees of the Company role.
The Group has a very proactive described in Note 31 of the Consolidated require approval to deal in the approach to flexible working opportunities Financial Statements.
Companys shares: and as a result currently 14% of our UK EMPLOYEE CONSULTATION work force are part time.
where a shareholder with at least The Group manages an ongoing program a 0.25% interest in the Companys AUDITOR to ensure staff are informed on matters certificated shares has been served Each of the persons who is a Director at affecting them and are provided with with a disclosure notice and has the date of approval of this Annual Report regular updates on the performance of failed to provide the Company with confirms that: the Group.
This is achieved by inviting information concerning interests in staff to view the half and full year results those shares: or so far as the Director is aware, there is presentations, delivering half and full year no relevant audit information of which the Directors may decide to suspend results presentations adapted for staff by the Companys auditor is unaware: and the registration of transfers, for up to webinar, providing a Q&A facility, email 30 days a year, by closing the register updates and informal and formal meetings.
the Director has taken all the steps that of shareholders.
The Directors cannot All material is recorded and available on he she ought to have taken as a Director suspend the registration of transfers the Intranet for staff unable to join at the in order to make himself herself aware of any uncertificated shares without prescribed times.
of any relevant audit information and to obtaining consent from CREST.
establish that the Companys auditor is The Group actively seeks regular feedback aware of that information.
There are no agreements between holders from staff.
In 2013 comprehensive staff of ordinary shares that are known to the surveys were conducted in Taylor & Deloitte LLP have expressed their Company which may result in restrictions on Francis, Informa Business Information and willingness to continue in office as auditor the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
many of our Global Events businesses.
and a resolution to reappoint them will be Results of these surveys and subsequent proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Shares Held on Trust action plans were shared with staff.
Shares are from time to time held by a trustee in order to satisfy entitlements of The Group continues to participate in the employees to shares under the Groups UK Top Employers ranking.
Usually the shares held on involves questioning on many factors, Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 39 GOVERNANCE Directors Report continued GOING CONCERN BASIS International Accounting Standard 1 the Financial Statements have been requires that financial statements present prepared in accordance with the Each of the persons who is a Director fairly the Companys financial position, applicable set of accounting standards noted on pages 34 and 35 at the date financial performance and cash flows and give a true and fair view of the of approval of this Annual Report and for each financial year.
This requires the assets, liabilities, financial position Accounts confirms that: faithful representation of the effects of and profit or loss of the Company The Groups business activities, together transactions, other events and conditions and the undertakings included in the with the principal risk factor likely to affect in accordance with the definitions and consolidation taken as a whole: and its future development, performance and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, the management report, which is position are set out in the Chairmans income and expenses set out in the incorporated into the Directors Statement and Strategic Report on pages International Accounting Standards Report, includes a fair review of 2 to 33.
Boards Framework for the preparation the development and performance and presentation of financial statements.
As set out on pages 28 to 31 a number of the business and the position of of principal risk factors could potentially In virtually all circumstances, a fair the Company and the undertakings affect the Groups results and financial presentation will be achieved by included in the consolidation taken as position.
In particular the current economic compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
a whole, together with a description of climate creates uncertainties over the level However, the Directors are also required to: the principal risk factors.
of demand for the Groups products and properly select and apply In addition, each of the Directors as at the services.
The Group adopts an extensive accounting policies: date of this report considers the Annual budgeting process in forecasting its Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, trading results and cash flows and updates present information, including is fair, balanced and understandable and these forecasts to reflect current trading accounting policies, in a manner that provides the information for shareholders on a regular basis.
provides relevant, reliable, comparable to assess the Companys performance, and understandable information: The Groups net debt and banking business model and strategy.
covenants are discussed in the Financial provide additional disclosures Approved by the Board and signed on Review on page 25 and the exposure to when compliance with the specific its behalf by liquidity risk is discussed in Note 32 to the requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to Consolidated Financial Statements.
enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events The Group sensitises its projections Rupert Hopley and conditions on the entitys financial to reflect possible changes in trading Company Secretary position and financial performance: and performance and cash conversions, taking 21 February 2014 into account its substantial deferred make an assessment of the Companys revenues 316.0m at 31 December 2013. ability to continue as a going concern.
These forecasts and projections for the The Directors are responsible for: period up to 31 December 2015, show that the Group is expected to be able keeping proper accounting records that to operate within the level of its current disclose with reasonable accuracy at facility and meet its covenant requirements any time the financial position of the for a period of one year from the date Company and enable them to ensure of the signing of the Groups financial that the financial statements comply statements for the year ended with the Companies Jersey Law 1991: 31 December 2013. safeguarding the assets of the After making enquiries, the Directors have Company and for taking reasonable a reasonable expectation that there are steps for the prevention and detection no material uncertainties that may cast of fraud and other irregularities: and significant doubt about the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
the maintenance and integrity of the Accordingly, they continue to adopt the corporate and financial information going concern basis in preparing the included on the Companys website.
annual report and financial statements.
Legislation in the UK governing the DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in The Directors, whose names are set other jurisdictions.
out on pages 34 and 35, are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and In accordance with DTR 4.1.
12R, the Financial Statements in accordance Directors confirm that, to the best of with the Companies Jersey Law 1991. their knowledge: Under that law the Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
INFORMA PLC 40 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013
