What we do ACADEMIC PUBLISHING Revenue % Our Academic Publishing business, Taylor & Francis, comprises of the imprints Routledge, Psychology Press, 32 Garland Science, CRC Press, Focal Press and Cogent OA.
Revenue continuing They are a leading international academic publisher with over two centuries of experience producing high level academic journals and books.
Its main subject areas are % behavioural and social sciences, humanities and science, 5.3 technology and medicine.
We offer 93,000 titles and over Organic Revenue 1,700 journal titles for a wide ranging audience including researchers, students, academics and, to some extent, the cross over professional market.
United Kingdom 16% North America 46% Europe 13% RoW 25% Revenue BUSINESS INTELLIGENCE Our Business Intelligence division serves the information needs of corporations and governments worldwide 31% in a large range of sectors, including IT, telecoms and Revenue continuing media, life sciences and healthcare, banking and financial services, maritime, automotive and logistics, agricultural commodities, energy consumer packaged goods and retail.
3.9% Organic Revenue United Kingdom 15% North America 47% Europe 20% RoW 18% Revenue GLOBAL EVENTS Global Events represents a considerable area of expertise.
With long established and highly experienced teams 37% working in the various businesses around the world, Revenue continuing we have established an enviable reputation as one of the worlds largest publicly owned events, conference and training organisers.
Many of our large events such as The Monaco Yacht Show, Super Return, Arab Health 3.0% and Cityscape have become the premier shows in the Organic Revenue respective sectors.
United Kingdom 11% North America 14% Europe 33% RoW 42% Employees GLOBAL SUPPORT Informas Global Support division provides services, support and expertise to the businesses within Informa as well as communicating Informas performance externally.
It consists of a number of departments which are responsible for specific tasks such as accounting, compliance, human resources, technology, legal, tax and customer support.
By supporting the businesses in this manner our management teams can focus their effort on growing and developing their product offerings.
Shared Services 65% Technology 20% Other 15% In this document organic refers to results adjusted for material acquisitions and disposals and the effects of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 05
