STRATEGIC REPORT Informa Intelligence: talent, passion and professionalism A business is only as good as the people it employs.
The breadth and depth of talent within Informa has been central to its success over the years.
The Company places great value on innovation, insight, social awareness, and expertise.
We showcase some of the people within Informa that encapsulate these qualities.
I am involved in One Young World, an annual Summit where the most valuable young Patrice Gallimore talent from global and national companies, NGOs, universities and other forward-thinking organisations are joined by world leaders.
To see so many people gather with the same Managing Editor, ideals is amazing.
Attending exceeded any possible expectation I had.
It was inspiring Informa Business Information to see people even younger than me doing incredibly brave and significant projects, perhaps building businesses or non-profits.
My personal aim is to bring a food education to kids in the New York area.
Informa has supported me so well and offered me a lot of development which Im ecstatic about.
Since Ive been in this role, so many things have happened.
Whats more, Im more confident now, I feel I can and do so much and I really London, UK appreciate the company for that.
I started my first job as Marketing Manager in the London office after graduating with Yang Zhang a masters degree in international management.
I had the chance to work on a variety of industry events straight away.
Within a few months, I was given the opportunity to Senior Marketing Manager, specialise on larger scale events, including a successful launch event which continued to Informa Australia run for five years.
When Informa acquired IBC and formed Informa Maritime & Energy a year and half after I joined the company, I was trusted to manage a team on my own and was promoted to divisional marketing manager.
Australia After two years with the London office, I decided to move to Australia.
Its great working for a global company like Informa because you get the opportunity to relocate.
Its been three and half years since my move I am now the senior marketing manager for the Maritime and Transport Division in the Sydney office, responsible for the planning and execution of marketing campaigns for events ranging from niche technical workshops through to large scale annual conferences and exhibitions with attendees up to 7,000.
The strong personal and professional relationships developed over the years are just one of the reasons that I love working at Informa.
The management here is very open-minded and receptive of my ideas, allowing me to be creative and giving me a level of professional autonomy that I enjoy.
As project manager, I get to see events from the planning stages right through Kristian Sylwan to completion.
As well as identifying commercially viable topics for future events, Im responsible for researching topics, inviting the right speakers, negotiating fees Project Manager, and copywriting.
Informa Sweden I started at Informa at a junior level three years ago and have managed to reach a senior level within that time giving me more responsibility, especially when it comes to generating new topics.
Ive also been trusted with a number of big events both established and new.
Having joined Informa from university, Im very grateful that I Sweden have been given this level of responsibility so early in my career.
The biggest challenge in my job is finding out what the core topics are for a specific event, but this is also the most interesting aspect.
As a project manager you come across people and knowledge from industries that you didnt even know existed!
The best thing about being a part of Informa is the number of offices we have around the world.
I have been inspired by successful events from various countries.
My colleagues in other parts of the world are generous in sharing their strategies and experience, which is very helpful when developing events for the Swedish market.
INFORMA PLC 16 Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 Im the Beijing-based exhibition manager for the life science sector, working on major events Brittany Qiao including the Hospital Build exhibition, the Private Hospital conference and the Medical Record conference.
My role is split between project management and VIP sales.
Ive also recently taken Exhibitions Manager, partial responsibilities on other new inbound events during my directors maternity leave.
Informa Beijing One of the great things about Informa is the opportunity to progress your career: I have been promoted three times in the past five years since I joined Informas Beijing office.
I have progressed from sales executive to sales manager and most recently exhibition manager.
To know that your hard work will be recognised is highly motivational.
The more responsibility and challenges I am given, the more I am able to reach my potential and extend my capabilities.
Beijing I really enjoy leading my team members to achieve their various goals, and communicating with a range of people, including clients and partners.
My goal is to have a happy family and a happy job and Im well on the way to achieving that!
I look after a region, the Middle East, Africa and Asia, and handle Sinead Gorman everything from a legal perspective in the offices in that region.
I also look after Informa Exhibitions outside the Americas and Canada.
I used to be based in London, but moved to Corporate Counsel Dubai just over a year ago so I can better manage the time zones for this side of the world.
Informa Group I spend about half of my time on day-to-day commercial work and the other half on corporate matters, e. g. acquisitions and joint ventures.
Informa Exhibitions has really expanded in the last few years, so Im frequently involved with either buying single events entire companies, or putting together the legal arrangements needed to launch in a new territory or industry sector.
Dubai, UAE Whats great about my role is that it is interesting and varied: no two matters I work on are the same.
Most of the time this is great, but it can also be quite daunting!
Working in an events role can be very off-the-cuff, which is a challenge for a lawyer we generally like plans and templates and these go right out of the window sometimes!
International work is also quite complex, with customs and the different ways of life in different countries being just as important to bear in mind as the actual law when trying to pull together a new deal.
I get to travel quite a bit in my role last week I was in Egypt, Dubai and China.
Thats not a typical week, but its nice not to be tied to my desk all day.
The best part of my role is the people.
There are so many different personalities at Informa.
We come across the whole spectrum working in the legal team.
We are involved with everybody: everyone has a link to legal.
My personal goal is to assist customers in a way that betters their experience with our Anita Braun products.
When I say customers, I include authors as well as the customers who purchase our journals.
Without authors we dont have a product to sell, so I see it as a chicken and Customer Service Supervisor, egg issue who comes first?
One is as important as the other.
I am a very detail orientated Taylor & Francis person, so I try to anticipate a customers needs to make sure their query is completely resolved and they dont have to come back with more questions.
Our global department motto is rapid and right the first time and I try to do everything to live up to that.
I also consider internal customers my colleagues within Informa as customers too.
Philadelphia, USA Informa has given me the opportunity to meet and work with some pretty amazing people across the globe and I feel that I actually make a difference.
I am thrilled to be working with a company that takes its role in society seriously.
Informa has a Corporate Responsibility Department.
Staff work on initiatives to help us become greener, with various activities and contests for the best ideas that can be moved forward within the company.
I believe we need to be good stewards of our earth.
Informa gives and encourages giving among our people.
We have a day that we can use as a volunteer day annually.
During the recent crisis with the typhoon in the Philippines, the company partnered with a large charity and matched employee contributions to that charity.
Things go from the top down, so, I think, when employees see leaders doing something, that encourages them.
Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 31 December 2013 INFORMA PLC 17
