John Rennocks Executive Chairman Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Dates of Appointment: Chairman December 2003 Non-Executive Director Chairman and Chief Executive Officer March 2004 December 2011 Date of Appointment: January 2005 Executive Chairman January 2012 Committee Membership: Chairman of the Audit Committee and member Committee Membership: Chairman of the Nominations Committee of the Nominations Committee Background and relevant experience: Andy joined Inmarsat in December Background and relevant experience: John has broad experience in 2003 and held the joint role of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until emerging energy sources, support services and manufacturing.
He became Executive Chairman in 2012.
Andy served as President as an Executive Director Finance of a number of public companies and Chief Executive Officer of Sprint PCS, a NYSE listed global national including British Steel plc Corus Group plc, Powergen plc and Smith & wireless carrier for four years, and previously as Chief Executive Officer Nephew plc.
His previous career has included various management positions with US West and AT&T and as a Non-Executive Director on External Appointments: Non-Executive Chairman of Diploma plc and various listed companies.
Mr Sukawaty holds a BBA and MBA respectively Non-Executive Director of Greenko Group plc.
from the University of Wisconsin and Minnesota.
Stephen Davidson External Appointments: Non-Executive Chairman of Ziggo B. V. Independent Non-Executive Director Date of Appointment: June 2005 2.
Rupert Pearce Chief Executive Officer Committee Membership: Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Dates of Appointment: Executive Director July 2011 Member of the Audit and the Nominations Committees Chief Executive Officer January 2012 Background and relevant experience: Stephen was Global Head of Background and relevant experience: Rupert joined Inmarsat in January Media and Telecoms Investment Banking and subsequently Vice Chairman 2005 as Group General Counsel and from January 2009, additionally held of Investment Banking at West LB Panmure.
His previous career has the position of Senior Vice President, Inmarsat Enterprises.
He became included various senior positions in investment banking.
He was Finance an Executive Director in July 2011 and CEO in January 2012.
Previously, Director, then Chief Executive Officer of Telewest Communications plc and Rupert worked for Atlas Venture, where he was a partner working with the has been Chairman of the Cable Communications Association.
firms European and U. S. investment teams.
He has also been a partner at the international law firm Linklaters, where he spent 13 years specialising External Appointments: Chairman of Datatec Limited and Mecom Group in corporate finance, mergers & acquisitions and private equity plc LSE and holds several other Non-Executive Directorships.
Kathleen Flaherty Rupert received an MA First Class in Modern History from Oxford Independent Non-Executive Director University and won the 1995 Fulbright Fellowship in U. S. securities law, Date of Appointment: May 2006 studying at the Georgetown Law Center.
He has been a visiting fellow of the Imperial College Business School, London lecturing on the schools Committee Membership: Member of the Remuneration Committee Entrepreneurship programme, and is the co-author of Raising Venture Capital Wiley.
Background and relevant experience: Kathleen served on the Board of a number of public companies including Marconi Corporation plc, Telent plc External Appointments: None.
She was President and Chief Operating Officer of Winstar International.
Her previous career has included senior roles as Chief Marketing Officer with AT&T and other senior roles with BT and MCI Communications Inc. Kathleen was a non-executive director of GenTek Inc until October 2009 and Hibu plc until March 2014.
Kathleen holds a PhD in Industrial Engineering and Management Sciences from Northwestern University, Illinois.
External Appointments: A member of the McCormick Advisory Board and its executive committee of Northwestern University.
Non-executive director of Hibu plc formerly Yell Group plc.
INMARSAT PLC 38 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 6.
Simon Bax Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Date of Appointment: May 2009 Date of Appointment: June 2013 Committee Membership: Member of the Audit Committee Committee Membership: Member of the Remuneration Committee Background and relevant experience: Janice held several senior Background and relevant experience: Simon Bax was, from 2008 to 2013, positions both in the US government and in the private sector.
She CEO of Encompass Digital Media Inc, which provides technical services to was formerly Head of Delegation and US Ambassador to the World broadcasters, cable networks and government agencies.
He previously Radiocommunications Conference, Assistant Secretary for Communications served as CFO and Executive Vice President of Pixar Animation and CFO and information at the Department of Commerce and Senior Advisor to and President of Studio Operations of Fox Filmed Entertainment.
Mr Bax the Chairman at the Federal Communications Commission in the US.
holds an honours degree in History from Cambridge University and is a chartered accountant.
External Appointments: Non-Executive Director of Orbital Sciences Corporation and CSG Systems, Inc.
External Appointments: Non-executive director of MobiTV.
Director of the British Bobsleigh and Skeleton Association and a member of the Gonville 7.
Sir Bryan Carsberg and Caius Development Campaign Board.
A member of the Academy of Independent Non-Executive Director Motion Pictures Arts and Sciences and the British Academy of Film and Date of Appointment: June 2005 Television Arts.
Committee Membership: Member of the Audit and Remuneration 10.
Alison Horrocks Committees Senior Vice President Corporate Governance and Company Secretary Background and relevant experience: Sir Bryan is a Chartered Date of Appointment: February 1999 Accountant.
He spent eight years as Director General of the Telecommunications head of Oftel, and then served as Director Background and relevant experience: Alison joined Inmarsat in 1999 and General of Fair Trading and Secretary General of the International provides corporate governance advice and acts as Company Secretary to Accounting Standards Board.
He was previously Chairman of the the Board and its Committees.
She is Chairman of the Trustee Company Council of Loughborough University, a Non-Executive Director of responsible for Inmarsats UK pension plans.
Cable and Wireless Communications plc, RM plc and a non-executive She was Group Company Secretary of International Public Relations plc, a Chairman of MLL Telecom Limited.
He was knighted in January 1989. worldwide public relations company, for 11 years prior to joining Inmarsat.
External Appointments: Novae Group plc.
Dr Abraham Peled Independent Non-Executive Director Date of Appointment: June 2013 Tony Bates will join the Board as an Executive Director and as our Chief Financial Officer on 2 June 2014.
Committee Membership: Member of the Nominations Committee Background and relevant experience: Dr Peled spent from 1995 to 2012 with NDS Group plc, a digital pay-TV company, and served as Chairman and CEO from 2004 to 2012.
He was Senior Vice President of Cisco from August 2012 to January 2014 and has previous senior management experience with IBM and Elron.
Dr Peled has a BSc and MSc in Electrical Engineering and a PhD in Digital Signal Processing.
In March 2013, Dr Peled was awarded the Lifetime Achievement Award by Digital TV Europe.
External Appointments: Principal to CyberCloud Ventures.
Senior advisor on technology businesses to Permira.
INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 39
