Report of the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2013 Alison Horrocks flow forecast and the most recent five-year long range financial Senior Vice President Corporate Governance plan.
In addition, the Directors considered the maturity profile of and Company Secretary existing debt facilities, other liabilities as well as actual and forecast covenant calculations.
Furthermore, the forecasts and covenant The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report and the calculations were stress tested by applying a set of downside audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2013. scenarios.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue Post-balance sheet events in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, Details of material post-balance sheet events are included in Inmarsat continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing note 38 to the consolidated financial statements.
Results and dividends On-Market Purchase Authority The results for the year are shown in the Consolidated Income The Directors authorities are determined by UK legislation and Statement on page 75. the Articles of Association.
At the 2013 AGM, the Directors were authorised by shareholders to allot ordinary shares up to agreed A final dividend of 28.82 cents US$ will be paid on 30 May 2014 limits and to have the ability to make market purchases of ordinary to shareholders on the share register at the close of business on shares.
Shareholders are being requested to renew these 16 May 2014. Dividend payments are made in Pounds Sterling authorities at the 2014 AGM.
based on the exchange rate prevailing in the London market four business days prior to payment.
Indemnities and insurance Inmarsat plc maintains appropriate insurance to cover Directors Share capital and control and Officers liability for itself and its subsidiaries as permitted The Companys ordinary shares of Euro 0.0005 each are listed on under the Articles of Association.
The insurance covers individual the London Stock Exchange LSE: ISAT.
L. Details of the issued Directors and Officers personal legal liability and legal defence share capital of the Company, together with movements in the costs for claims arising out of actions taken in connection with issued share capital during the year can be found in note 24 to the Group business.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity consolidated financial statements.
provides cover where the Director Officer is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Directors, the Company The Company has one class of ordinary share which carries no Secretary, and certain employees serving as Directors of rights to fixed income.
On a show of hands, each member present subsidiaries at the Groups request have been granted indemnities has the right to one vote at our general meetings.
On a poll, each on terms consistent with the applicable statutory provisions.
member is entitled to one vote for each share of Euro 0.0005 held.
No amount has been paid under any of these indemnities All 853,181 ordinary shares held by the Inmarsat Employee Share during the year.
Ownership Trust carry voting rights.
Health and safety There are no specific restrictions on the size of holding or on the The Group is committed to maintaining high standards of health transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general and safety for its employees, customers, visitors, contractors and provisions of the articles of association and prevailing legislation.
anyone affected by its business activities.
During 2013, we have The Directors are not aware of any arrangements between worked more closely with our subsidiary companies to harmonise shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of health & safety best practice.
Rupert Pearce, our CEO, is the securities or on voting rights.
No person has any special rights of director designated for health & safety matters at board level.
control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Environmental Performance and Strategy We operate in over 70 locations with a combined workforce of Going concern approximately 1,600 staff.
Due to our diversity of activities the The Directors acknowledge the latest guidance on going concern.
Company recognises it has some impacts affecting the local and Despite the current volatility in financial markets and uncertain global environment.
However, it should be noted that the satellite economic outlook, the Directors believe that the Group has a industry and our own business is low on the scale of carbon resilient business model, strong free cash flow generation and generators.
is compliant with all its financial covenants.
In making their assessment of going concern, the Directors considered the Board-approved budget, the 15-month rolling forecast, the cash INMARSAT PLC 40 Annual Report & Accounts 2013 Strategic report 01-37 Governance 38-71 Financial statements 72-124 Significant environmental impacts include the use of natural As this is the first occasion that Inmarsat plc has produced a resources, the consumption of energy and water, the production of consolidated Greenhouse Report there is no comparable data.
a variety of waste, as well as staff and visitors who travel extensively.
Greenhouse Gas Emissions: Scope 1 and 2 In previous annual reports we reported CO emissions that have 2013 usage 2 Scope Description tonnes CO2e resulted from operating the building at 99 City Road, London.
Scope 1 Direct emissions 1,055 In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Scope 2 Indirect emissions 13,808 Directors Report Regulations 2013 we are now required to report Total emissions 14,863 our greenhouse gas emissions across the world.
Inmarsats Broadband Global Network BGAN carries voice All energy, fuel and waste management are controlled by the and data services across the globe and is provided by the three Business Environment team, which is based in London.
The intensity ratio of tCO 2 emission as a factor of Million Megabytes of IP over our BGAN Environment Improvement in 2013 Network is 438:1.
We regularly look for opportunities and initiatives to drive down consumption in the London office where the largest contingent of Inmarsats Greenhouse Gas Report has been developed following staff is based.
The projects below summarise the work carried out a GHG Discovery Project conducted in collaboration with Carbon in 2013.
Carbon r eduction energy efficient controllers fitted to main air Next year we will ensure that third party verification will be handling units which provide fresh and conditioned hot or cold completed prior to data publication.
Modifications to boilers and pipe work to improve efficiency.
Inmarsats waste management strategy in London is to divert the maximum amount of waste away from landfill for either recycling or 3.
Stagger plant on off times.
Our initial initiative in 2007 saw all waste broken into two streams, recyclable and residual waste.
W e have initiated a rolling reach 80% of waste being diverted into the recyclable stream.
programme to change where practical.
Unfortunately we were unable to reach the targets as the nature of our waste was split 50 50 in terms of recyclable and non-recyclable.
Install movement sensors in common ar eas to switch lighting In 2009 it was decided to divert any landfill waste to Energy on off.
Through incineration the waste is converted to electricity and fed into the national grid.
Over 99% of the waste we produce 6.
Alterations to existing, obsolete, lighting contr ol system to is now diverted away from landfill into these more sustainable eliminate excessive on times.
Extensive use of our Building Management System to ef ficiently Going forward we are committed to adopt a similar strategy at control the building operating times in terms of occupancy and our larger sites across the globe.
Installation of adiabatic system to impr ove efficiency of air Voluntarily we are including our Scope 3 travel emissions in cooled condensers.
Inmarsat plc is in the process of centralising all travel management activities for the Group and our agencies have Greenhouse Gas Emission agreed to supply the emission data.
We have adopted a policy and management system for greenhouse gas quantification and disclosure based on the ISO Our Scope 3 emissions provided by our travel booker which 14064-1:2006 methodology which has been used to calculate accounts for the management of 40% of the businesss travel.
Scope 1 and 2 emissions for 2013, and we have followed the definitions set out in this standard.
Figures were calculated using Greenhouse Gas Emissions: Scope 3 emission factors from the UK Governments GHG Conversion Scope 3 Description 2013 Factors for Company Reporting 2013 and we have taken data Miles travelled Miles 10,999,639 from our Carbon Reduction Commitment.
Other Indirect emissions Scope 3 tonnes CO e 2,905,227 In measuring the greenhouse gas emissions across our 70 or more 2 locations around the world, certain sites were excluded from our 2014 will see further centralisation of travel management which will analysis on the grounds of materiality.
We have adopted a provide greater visibility over Scope 3 emissions.
materiality threshold of 10% for GHG reporting purposes.
Our review was carried out on 23 sites where emissions could be reasonably estimated as material.
Following completion of the survey a further four sites were excluded as the electricity was not both consumed and purchased by us.
INMARSAT PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2013 41 Report of the Directors for the year ended 31 December 2013 continued Financial instruments Auditors Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of Each of the Directors has confirmed that: the Group, including hedging policies and exposure of the entity i so far as the Dir ector is aware, there is no relevant audit to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk are given in information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and notes 3 and 32 to the consolidated financial statements.
ii the Dir ector has taken all the steps that he she ought to have Research and development taken as a Director to make him herself aware of any relevant The Group continues to invest in new services and technology audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor necessary to support its activities through research and is aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance Political donations with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
During the year, no political donations were made.
It remains the policy of the Company not to make political donations or incur A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP as Auditor of the Company political expenditure.
However, the Directors recognise that and to authorise the Board to determine its remuneration will be occasions arise where it may be in the best interests of proposed at the 2014 AGM.
shareholders for the Company to be able, if appropriate, to participate in public debate and opinion-forming on matters 2014 Annual General Meeting which affect its business.
To avoid inadvertent infringement of the The Annual General Meeting will be held on 7 May 2014 at requirements of the Companies Act 2006, shareholders are asked 10.00am at 99 City Road, London EC1Y 1AX.
The Notice of annually to give authority at the Annual General Meeting for the Meeting which sets out the resolutions to be proposed at the Company to make political donations and to incur political forthcoming AGM is enclosed with this Annual Report.
By order of the Board Interests in voting rights At 6 March 2014, the Company had been notified, in accordance Alison Horrocks FCIS with chapter 5 of the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Senior Vice President Corporate Governance Transparency Rules, of the following significant interests: and Company Secretary 6 March 2014 Percentage of voting rights over ordinary shares of 0.0005 each Lansdowne Partners Limited 11.07% BlackRock Inc 5.58% KDDI Corporation 4.85% MassMutual Life Insurance Company 4.03% Artemis Investment Management 3.15% Note: Voting rights are based on the information we believe is a disclosable interest to the Company, adjusted for the issued share capital as at 6 March 2014.
INMARSAT PLC 42 Annual Report & Accounts 2013
