Targeted Portfolio WINNING MODEL TARGETED PORTFOLIO DISCIPLINED EXECUTION We are focused on a Targeted Portfolio operating: in the most attractive markets for IHG: in the highest opportunity segments based on guests occasion needs: and an asset-light business model, which means we focus on franchising and managing hotels rather than owning them.
Hotel Indigo Tianjin Haihe, Peoples Republic of China Attractive markets Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent States These countries present opportunities for new construction Our growth strategy is focused on the largest and or fastest and conversions as well as strong demand for branded hotels, growing markets in which IHG has strong existing brand and in 2013, we signed 1,737 rooms 10 hotels into our development presence or an opportunity to build a brand presence, pipeline.
As at 31 December 2013, the total number of open rooms where our scale and revenue delivery systems confer the was 5,283 19 hotels with 3,883 rooms 17 hotels in the pipeline.
greatest benefits and markets which are aligned to our asset-light business model.
In these markets, we seek to Our priority markets take market share through our portfolio of brands, in the In November 2013, we stated our 10 priority markets, which include right locations, according to guest demand.
a number of key emerging markets and more developed markets US US, Middle East, Germany, UK, Canada, Greater China, India, Russia and the Commonwealth of Independent States, Mexico and According to Smith Travel Research, the US is the largest Indonesia.
Information on our priority markets can be found at market for brandedhotels, with 3.4 million rooms, accounting for www.
70 per cent of all US rooms available.
The segment in the US with the greatest share is midscale, with 1.34 million branded hotel Outside our priority markets rooms, and IHGs Holiday Inn brand family comprising Holiday Inn Outside our priority markets, we focus onbuilding presence in key Hotels & Resorts, Holiday Inn Club Vacations, Holiday Inn Resort gateway cities and resorts where our brands can generate revenue and Holiday Inn Express is the largest in this segment.
As at premiums from high business and leisure demand.
For example, 31 December 2013, we had a total of 391,580 rooms 3,244 hotels in 2013, we opened an InterContinental hotel in Osaka, our first open and 63,860 rooms 604 hotels in the pipeline across the InterContinental to open in Japan for over 15 years, and an region.
Of the open ones, the Holiday Inn brand family comprised InterContinental in Lagos, Nigeria.
We also announced a 15-hotel 271,936 rooms 2,483 hotels.
multiple development agreement in Australia for the Holiday Inn Greater China Express brand.
In Greater China, IHG continues to build on a position of Our performance across the Group and in each of our regions is set out strength.
Having entered the market early 2014 will mark on pages 40 to 50. our 30th anniversary in the region, we continue to develop our relationships with key local owners and grow our presence rapidly.
Future developments In a country with 790,670 branded hotel rooms Smith Travel As the industry continues to grow, IHG faces increased competition Research, IHG has over 68,545 rooms 208 hotels open and from other global branded hotel companies and other providers 54,590 rooms 174 hotels in our development pipeline.
of accommodation discussed in the Industry overview section Our pipeline reflects our strategy to deepen our penetration in on pages 10 and 11.
We recognise this and have developed our key cities such as Beijing and Guangzhou, ensuring we have Winning Model, which underpinned by Disciplined Execution, more hotels in key resort locations such as Sanya, and targeting enables us to continue to deliver high-quality growth.
tier 2 and tier 3 cities with a growing middle-class demographic.
India For details on our Winning Model see pages 18 and 20 to 27 and Disciplined Execution see pages 18, 19 and 30 to 33.
During 2013, we continued to increase our presence in India particularly through Holiday Inn and Holiday Inn Express, Our KPIs, including Net rooms supply, are set out on pages 38 and 39. opening a total of 818 rooms 5 hotels and signing 1,404 rooms See pages 36 and 37 for how IHG manages its principal risks.
Accordingly, as at 31 December 2013, we had a total of 3,152 open rooms 18 hotels and 9,088 rooms 45 hotels in the pipeline.
28 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Crowne Plaza Barcelona Fira Center, Spain Hotel Indigo Hong Kong Island, Peoples Republic of China Highest opportunity segments Our portfolio of brands is targeted around these differing occasion segments, focusing on those which we believe have Typically, the traditional hotel industry segment definitions are the greatest growth opportunity and strongest resilience to focused on the price point and the offer luxury, upscale, midscale theindustry economic cycle.
We also concentrate on those and economy.
However, we recognise that guests choose hotels areas where our scale and revenue delivery systems confer on the basis of a range of needs and the same guest may stay across greatest benefits.
more than one hotel segment, dependent upon the occasion and As shown below, each of IHGs brands is focused on some of their needs.
We are therefore refining our approach, so that we these guest occasions and each brand seeks to address the position and tailor our hotels to meet those guest needs, as defined needs of these in a unique way, through the eyes of its target by the occasion they are travelling for and their need for travelling.
guests, to bring the guest experience to life.
Guest occasion We have also identified that to be successful in the future, a brand Wehave segmented the market into nine globally relevant needs to provide a global, local and personal experience to build and differentiating categories of guest occasion set out below, trust see page 20 and the 2014 IHG Trends Report available at which have differing strengths dependent upon the geographical www.
By understanding these guest occasions, we are able to deliver a number of core basic guest needs that are brand RevPAR and Guest HeartBeat are KPIs see pages 38 and 39. agnostic and serve to deliver a baseline level of consistency across all our brands, whilst also focusing on the nine identified guest occasions, so that each of our brands delivers the relevant guest experience for the occasion.
Brand Guest occasion Mixing business with pleasure: Short break experience: Social identity.
Business productivity: Building business interactions.
Business productivity: Romantic getaway: Short break experience.
Family time: Mixing business with pleasure: Social identity.
Information on each of our preferred brands can be found on page 17.
