Our strategy for high-quality growth We focus on delivering high-quality growth, which for us means delivering consistent, sustained growth in cash flows and profits over the longer term.
We do this by staying focused on our Targeted Portfolio and building preferred brands, driven by a deep understanding of guests needs.
IHGs Winning Model, combined with a Targeted Portfolio underpinned by Disciplined Execution, Value creation: will drive superior returns for IHGs shareholders.
P referred brands delivered through our people Our portfolio of nine complementary, differentiated Preferred brands preferred brands are brought to life by our people delivered through whodeliver on each of our brand promises.
Superior owner our people See pages 17 and 20 to 23. proposition 2.
Build and leverage scale 5 1 For each of our brands, we aim to deliver high-quality growth with scale positions in the most attractive geographic markets.
In key cities in our priority markets, we aim to build scale through our market share in that 4 2 location.
Ef fective Build and channel leverage 3.
Strong brand portfolio & loyalty programme 3 management scale By building a strong brand portfolio and loyalty programme, IHG is able to offer an unparalleled choice for guests and owners.
Effective channel management portfolio & loyalty We focus on delivering against a guests needs across the programme entirety of their journey.
We manage all our booking channels to provide a compelling experience that allows a guest to make the choice of the most appropriate booking channel for their needs.
Superior owner proposition IHG is committed to delivering a compelling and preferred offer to our owners through a combination of strong owner relationship management, particularly Scale and I nvestment in through the IHG Owners Association, and effective efficiency of developing great operational support through our tools and services.
operations talent and technology Seepages 26 and 27. platforms Key Performance Indicators KPIs We measure our performance through a holistic set ofselected KPIs which monitor our success in achieving our strategy and measure the progress ofthe Group to deliver high-quality growth.
Management of our principal risks Seepages 36 and 37 for how IHG manages its principal risks and uncertainties.
18 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Our purpose is to create Great Hotels Guests Love Superior shareholder returns Targeted Portfolio Attractive markets Our growth strategy is focused on markets which are the largest and or fastestgrowing, markets in which IHG has Attractive markets strong existing brand presence or an opportunity to build a brand presence, and markets that are aligned to our business model.
Highest opportunity segments We target our portfolio in the largest consumer segments withgreatest growth opportunity and in those parts of the Highest opportunity segments market where our scale and revenue delivery systems confer greatest benefits.
Managed and franchised model We focus our business model on franchising and managing hotels, thereby enabling us to concentrate on building strong, Managed and franchised model preferred brands based on relevant guest needs.
Scale and efficiency of operations We leverage our global and regional scale to maximise the efficiency of our operations, driving process improvements, C ommitment tightly managing our costs proportionate to our revenues and to responsible evolving our corporate infrastructure and corporate support business practices functions.
Investment in developing great talent and technology platforms We support the delivery of the Winning Model by investing in the development of talent and technology platforms that provide the foundation for future growth.
Commitment to responsible business practices Responsible business is part of IHGs DNA and at the heart of everything we do.
We believe that doing the right thing in the right way enables us to make a positive contribution to the communities where we operate and gives us competitive advantage by enhancing and protecting the reputation of our brands and empowering our people.
