GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Our preferred brands Our portfolio of complementary and Holiday Inn Hotels&Resorts differentiated brands consistently deliver on guests needs.
Offers the perfect mix of business and pleasure 1,168 hotels open for todays comfort-seeking traveller by Information on how we deliver our preferred 249 hotels providing an inviting, familiar atmosphere brands is set out on page 20. in the pipeline where guests can relax and enjoy themselves.
InterContinental Hotels&Resorts Holiday Inn Resort Our international luxury brand is located in Offers leisure guests fun and relaxation in some 178 hotels open 38 hotels open most of the worlds key cities and many resort of the worlds best holiday destinations, with the 51 hotels destinations acrossmore than 60 countries 14 hotels peace of mind of a trusted brand name.
The brands ethos is to provide in the pipeline insightful, meaningful experiences that enhance our guests feeling that they are in a global club.
HUALUXE HotelsandResorts Holiday Inn ClubVacations Launched in March 2012 as the first luxury Formed as IHGs timeshare brand as part of 21 hotels international hotel brand where every element 10 properties open a strategic alliance with the family of Orange in the pipeline has been designed specifically to suit the tastes Lake Resorts under an exclusive licensing 1 property and sensibilities of the Chinese guest.
It focuses and marketing agreement.
The portfolio is a in the pipeline on the unique aspects ofChinese etiquette, the collection of resorts in the US, offering spacious importance of rejuvenation, status recognition, villa accommodation for families in great local customs and heritage.
Crowne Plaza Hotels&Resorts Holiday Inn Express The brand supports career-focused travellers, Aimed at smart business or leisure travellers 391 hotels open 2,258 hotels open putting them in control of their travel experience who appreciate value without compromising 94 hotels 473 hotels so they can be on top of their work and at the on efficiency and style.
in the pipeline in the pipeline topof their game.
Hotel Indigo Staybridge Suites IHGs boutique brand, artfully combines the IHGs extended-stay brand for business and 55 hotels open modern design and intimate service associated 196 hotels open leisure travellers who are spending an extended with a boutique hotel with the peace of mind and time away from home and prefer a warm, 51 hotels 80 hotels ease of staying with one of the worlds largest home-like and community environment.
in the pipeline in the pipeline branded hotel companies.
Each Hotel Indigo hotelreflects the local culture, character and history of the surrounding area.
EVEN Hotels&Resorts Candlewood Suites Launched in February 2012, the brand was IHGs extended-stay brand in North America 5 hotels created to meet the large and growing demand 312 hotels open aimed at providing guests with a relaxed, casual in the pipeline for a hotel brand to help wellness-minded and home-like environment at a great value.
80 hotels travellers maintain their balance on the road.
in the pipeline Strategic Report 17
