Our business model Our business model As at 31 December 2013: Brand Marketing and Hotel IHG capital IHG ownership distribution Employees ownership intensity income Franchised Fee % of We operate 3,977 hotels under franchise IHG IHG Third-party Third-party Low rooms agreements 84.67% revenue Managed Fee % of total IHG & We manage 711 hotels 15.14% IHG IHG Third-party Low revenue plus Third-party % of profit Owned and leased All revenues IHG IHG IHG IHG High We own and lease 9 hotels less than 1% and profits IHG often employs the General Manager only.
Managed and franchisedmodel Capital expenditure Ourbusiness model is focused on franchising and managing In some situations, IHG supports its brands by using its capital hotels, rather than owning them, enabling us to grow at an to build or support the funding of flagship assets in high-demand accelerated pace with limited capital investment.
Currently, locations in order to drive growth.
We plan to recycle capital by 88per cent of our Group operating profit before regional and selling these assets when the time is right and to reinvest central overheads and exceptional items is derived from elsewhere in the business and across ourportfolio.
This business model We have committed up to $150 million to assist with the launch allows us to focus on building preferred brands based on guests of our EVEN Hotelsbrand to demonstrate the success and needs, and on strong delivery systems, such as our branded economics of the brand.
In 2013, IHGacquired three existing hotel websites and call centres.
Our model allows us to create hotels which are being converted to EVEN Hotels, the first of greater returns for owners whilst leaving asset management which are due to open in 2014.
In the future, we would look to and real estate to our local third-party owners with the recycle this capital, just as we previously did for both the necessary expertise.
Staybridge Suites and Hotel Indigo brands.
We adapt this business model by market as necessary, for example, Asset disposals in some markets we have in place managed leases to allow our business to grow.
Managed leases are properties structured for As part of our asset-light approach, in May 2013, we disposed of legal reasons as operating leases but with the same characteristics our leasehold interest in InterContinental London Park Lane for as management contracts.
In other markets we choose gross cash proceeds of 301.5 million $469million.
IHG secured partnerships and joint ventures where appropriate.
a 30-year management contract onthe hotel, with three 10-year extension options at IHGs discretion, giving an expected contract A key characteristic of the franchised and managed business length of 60 years.
model is that it is highly cash generative, with a high return on capital employed.
The asset-light approach means IHG benefits In December 2013, we announced our agreement to dispose of from the reduced volatility of fee-based income streams, 80per cent of our interest in the InterContinental New York ascompared with the ownership of assets, resulting in a Barclay for $240 million and retain the remaining 20per cent high-quality income stream.
It enables us to focus on growing in a joint venture with a total circa $175 million refurbishment.
our fee revenues Group revenue excluding owned and leased Under the agreement, IHG will secure a 30-year management hotels, managed leases and significant liquidated damages contract on the hotel, with two 10-year extension options at and fee margins operating profit as a percentage of revenue, IHGs discretion, giving an expected contract length of 50 years.
excluding revenue and operating profit from owned and leased In February 2014, the Group signed an agreement to sell the hotels, managed leases and significant liquidated damages.
InterContinental Mark Hopkins San Francisco for $120 million in Dependent upon the market maturity, owner preference and, cash and enter into a long-term management contract on the hotel.
in certain cases, onthe particular brand, hotels can be franchised or managed.
For example, inthe US, a mature market, IHG operates Our breakdown by managed, franchised, owned and leased hotels for alargely franchised business, working together with our owners to each region is set out on pages 40 to 50. deliver preferred brands.
In contrast, in Greater China, IHG operates a predominantly managed business where IHG is responsible for operating the hotel on behalf of its owners.
Fee revenues and Fee margins are KPIs see pages 38 and 39.
The System Fund The System Fund is managed byIHG for the benefit ofhotels In addition to management or franchise fees, hotels within in the IHG System with the objective of driving revenues for the the IHG System pay assessments and contributions which hotels.
Total income for the System Fund in 2013 was $1.35 billion are collected by IHG for specific use within the System Fund.
2012: $1.25 billion and these funds are used to pay for marketing, The System Fund also receives proceeds from the sale of the IHG Rewards Club loyaltyprogramme andthe global IHG Rewards Club points see page 50 for further information.
TheSystem Fund is planned to operate at break even and does not result in a profit or loss for IHG.
16 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013
