Industry overview Where the industry is now The global hotel industry The global hotel industry comprises approximately 14.6 million Global industry RevPAR growth 2013 v 2012 rooms, according to Smith Travel Research, and these are broadly segmented into branded multiple hotels under the same brand 4.5% 4.4% name and independent non-branded hotels.
Growth in demand is driven by economic growth and an increasing trend for domestic and global travel resulting in part from favourable demographics and globalisation of travel.
There are a number of key industry metrics which are widely recognised and used to track performance.
These include revenue per available room RevPAR, average daily rate and rooms supply growth.
These are amongst the key performance measures actively monitored by IHG.
IHG also monitors macroeconomic indicators such as gross domestic product GDP trends, which is a leading IHGs KPIs are set out on pages 38 and 39. indicator in hotel industry trends.
The branded hotel market Smith Travel Research estimates that the branded hotel market IHGs 2014 Trends Report see page 20 and accounts for 51.5% of the total hotel market.
com trends report identified that consumers is fragmented in terms of key brand players with the top five trust brands with a heritage and they value the comfort and branded hotel companies of which IHG is one accounting for only security established global brands provide.
However the 41% of the total branded hotel market in terms of open rooms and collision of globalisation, localisation and personalisation 72% of the development pipeline hotels in planning and under means that brands need to stay relevant by becoming 3D construction but not yet open.
However, as can be seen in the managing their global, local and personal assets simultaneously.
graph on the right, globally, the branded hotel market is increasing its share of the total hotel market, due to the advantages a brand US Industry Annual Revenues Indexed to 2005 can bring to hotel performance over that of independent hotels.
150 Source: Smith Travel Branded hotels have shown an increased resilience through the 140 Research STR.
economic cycles, with the big branded players showing clear 130 Note: revenue outperformance, as well as benefiting from advantages 120 Independents are hotels 110 not assigned to a brand in terms of economies of scale across a broad portfolio of hotels.
100 90 Big brands are any brand In the US, around 70% of the industry supply is branded.
In fast afliated with the parent 80 developing markets, such as China and India, branded penetration company of Hilton, IHG, 70 is lower, at around 20 to 30%.
However, this is expected to increase Marriott, Wyndham, 60 Choice, Accor or Starwood.
significantly over the coming decades as branded hotels gain 50 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 traction due to the advantages of reliability, guest safety and Industry Independents Big brands security and consistency of standards that large global brandsbring.
The different business models within the hotel industry The global hotel industry operates under a number of different Whilst an owner-operated hotel enables the owner to have full business models, depending on whether a hotel is branded or control over hotel operation, it requires high capital investment.
The four models typically seen are owned, leased, In contrast, for hotel brand owners, a managed or franchised managed or franchised: model enables quicker rooms growth due to the lower capital investment, but this requires strong relationships with third-party Owned hotels are owned and operated by an owner who bears hotel owners.
all the costs associated with the hotel but also benefits from all of the income: IHG's business model is set out on page 16. a leased model is similar, except that the owner-operator of a hotel does not have outright ownership of the hotel but pays rental fees to the ultimate owner of the property: under a managed model, the owner of a hotel will use a third-party manager to operate the hotel on its behalf and will pay the manager management fees and, if the hotel is operated under a third-party brand name, brand licensing fees: and a franchised hotel is owned and operated by an owner under a third-party brand name and the owner will pay a brand licensing fee to the brand owner.
10 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 2013 2012 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Where the industry is heading Shortterm drivers and global trends Short-term industry trends are shaped by differing economic, In developed markets, recent industry revenue growth has political or physical factors impacting local geographical markets.
been driven largely by an increase in the room rate as occupancy Since the economic crisis of 2008 09, GDP growth has returned to levels have returned to previous peak levels, but the growth key economies, leading to an increase in disposable income and an in supply of rooms has been below the long-term average.
increase in demand for hotel rooms.
Typically, the industry would In emerging markets, growth has been as a result of both an meet this demand through an increase in the supply of rooms.
increase in room rate and the supply of rooms.
The industry is also impacted in the short-term by local market economic or political factors.
Long-term drivers and global trends In the long term, growth in the hotel industry is driven by a number The development of social networking and photo sharing has of trends: changed the way in which people think about travel, with the sharing of travel experiences, reviews and recommendations having a Economic greater impact on travel decision-making.
These recommendations, The travel and hotel industries have benefited substantially from combined with the ability to compare prices and review the richer long-term macroeconomic trends.
Global GDP growth in the last information that is available online, allow travellers to make 10 years of circa 4% per annum has contributed to increasing informed decisions and book their travel options with greater disposable income and a greater number of middle-class control and immediacy, leading to an increase in travel to a variety households, particularly in emerging markets such as Greater of destinations.
China, with a greater propensity to travel.
IHGs 2014 Trends Report see page 20 found that the rapid rise Over the long term, global economic growth and more sophisticated of technology-enabled personalisation is helping to shape the financialmarkets in emerging countries has led to a 1.8% increase experience guests want when they travel.
It also found that in global total hotel rooms supply over the last eight years.
personalised brand experiences which resonate with the local Improvements in physical infrastructure, particularly in emerging culture are particularly important for the fast-growing number markets, have allowed hotels to more effectively meet the needs of international travellers from emerging markets.
of guests and to open up new destinations for travel.
Changing technological trends and changes in consumer behaviour Demographic will continue to shape the industry.
During the last 10 years the typical traveller demographic has Social changed.
Travellers travel for a variety of reasons and no longer Other trends also present new opportunities to travel.
Increased travel for a singular purpose, such as only business or leisure.
competition and capacity amongst airlines, lower air fares and Across the globe, the type of traveller can range from single people more relaxed travel and immigration restrictions in many regions to multi-generation families.
The younger workforce is driving have made international travel a viable option for an increasing more diverse and informal working patterns, with an expectation number of people.
that hotels will cater for flexible working arrangements.
A growing ageing population with the desire, and means to travel, is expected Competitors to significantly increase travel flows and lead to an overall increase These long-term drivers and global trends are changing the in demand for travel services.
competitive landscape within the travel industry.
Competitors are no longer simply branded or independent hotels, but now include Technology travel intermediaries and companies offering alternative lodging Technology has played an important role in shaping the travel solutions and search options, providing inspiration for travel industry.
A decade ago, internet access and the role of digital ideas and aggregating a range of travel solutions.
Many of these technology in planning, booking and experiencing travel was very businesses are also not subject to regulations such as fire and limited.
Today, the reach and role of digital technology is very different.
life safety, food safety and local industry regulations, which apply The internet, increasingly accessed through mobile devices, to traditional hotel operators.
has established itself in developed markets as the preferred method to research, plan and book travel.
In emerging markets, online purchasing and international travel are relatively new to travellers, and therefore personal interactions remain key, making the role of the traditional travel agent important.
Industryexperts estimate that about 12 to 15% of tickets and rooms are booked online in China and of that online market, approximately 70 to 80% are booked through third-party intermediaries.
Source: Smith Travel Research for industryfacts.
