Disciplined Execution WINNING MODEL TARGETED PORTFOLIO DISCIPLINED EXECUTION Successful delivery of our strategy for high-quality growth requires Disciplined Execution comprising: scale and efficiency ofoperations: investment in developing great talent and technology platforms: and commitment to responsible business practices.
Crowne Plaza Beijing Lido, Peoples Republic of China Scale and efficiency ofoperations We continue to drive process improvements and cost-saving initiatives: our strong multi-lingual guest support team in the Philippines With almost 687,000 rooms in nearly 100 countries and territories supports global reservations, sales and guest relations and around the world, we leverage our global and regional scale to loyalty marketing: maximise the efficiency of our operations.
We focus on driving over 500 business support roles have been moved to our efficient operational processes and tightly managing our costs Business Service Centre in Gurgaon, India, providing centralised proportionate with our revenues to: accounting services for IHG corporate offices and owned and drive fee margin growth whilst investing in a strong platform managed hotels: and for the future: the hardware for our central reservations system is managed offer our owners access to market-leading capabilities and by IBM, one of our largest corporate clients.
practices that significantly contribute to hotel performance: maximise the investments we make in building preferred brands Information on how we build and leverage scale can be found on page 24. assisting us to increase guest satisfaction which we monitor through Guest HeartBeat : and strengthen our revenue delivery system to increase system contribution to revenue.
Investment in developing great talent For example, in Greater China we have made various technology investments to drive and convert demand and enhance the guest and technology platforms experience, including being the first international hotel company to launch a standalone Chinese website and being the only We support the delivery of the Winning Model by investing in the international hotel company in Greater China working with Alipay, development of talent and technology platforms that provide the the leading local payment system, to integrate their system into foundation for future growth.
This is of critical importance in a market where credit Development of great talent cards are not the primary means for paying online and enables us to offer more prepaid products for our guests.
We know that our brands are brought to life by the people working in our hotels who support the consistent delivery of the brand promise Information on our Effective channel management strategy can be in each hotel.
Talent is key to our success, both at a corporate level found on page 25. and in our hotels.
We continue to invest in systems and tools to develop our people in the corporate environment and at our hotels and our People Tools explained on page 22 are available for our owners and hotels.
Case study Revenue Management Our innovation in revenue management tools and techniques is Our people strategy is detailed on pages 21 to 23. one particular example of our investment in technology platforms.
Development of great technology platforms IHG Revenue Management is a core strategic tool that brings together available rooms, rates and marketing at the hotel level, Keeping up with new technologies and systems is also key to our co-ordinating with our channels to drive reservations to our hotels success.
IHG invests across a range of technology platforms to at the right price.
ensure that our revenue delivery and guest experience systems are at the forefront of innovation in the industry.
This includes This expertise is available to hotels through the IHG PERFORM investment in reservation technology platforms, guest-facing service, a pricing system designed to increase RevPAR and booking channels and new mobile services, as well as investment deliver profitable rate recommendations to a hotel.
The IHG to support the guest experience in hotels such as the development PERFORM system integrates local demand forecasting, of digital check-in services and the provision of wifi internet access.
competitive data analysis and price sensitivity modelling to recommend optimum pricing for each day based on the market Locally tailored systems dynamics and guest type for each hotel.
This enables IHG We also invest in technology to ensure our revenue delivery systems hotels to effectively price their rooms within the context of and guest experiences are tailored to local markets based on a highly dynamic competitive market environment.
knowledge of local market conditions and travellers.
30 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Commitment to responsible This is why, for us, our commitment to responsible business practices is an essential part of our Disciplined Execution and underpins our strategy.
business practices For IHG, responsible business comprises five key elements explained Responsible business is part of IHGs DNA and is at the heart of below, all of which assist us in seizing the opportunities behaving everything we do.
Doing the right thing in the right way enables us to responsibly gives us to innovate, protect the environment, creating job make a positive contribution to the communities where we operate and opportunities and help foster community resilience.
We therefore not only gives us a competitive edge by enhancing and protecting the reputation have specific responsible business KPIs, but our responsible business of our brands.
It also ensures that we act in a manner which is mutually practices are also an important driver to both the Employee Engagement beneficial for our business, and all of our stakeholders, employees, and Guest HeartBeat KPIs.
guests, corporate customers and owners, who are also increasingly considering whether the businesses they interact with, share their Our KPIs are set out on pages 38 and 39. values and act responsibly.
It also helps us deliver profitable growth and create shared value, thereby ensuring that we are preferred by guests, The principal risks associated with Reputation and brand protection employees and owners in the long term.
Our responsible business Governance and leadership practicescomprise: Our Chairman, the Board and its Committees provide a strong leadership and governance structure, promoting responsible business behaviours by maintaining high standards of corporate governance, corporate responsibility, internal controls and risk management and compliance with law and regulation.
Information on our Board and governance processes can be found on pages 56 to 73.
Trusted preferred brands We ensure that we have a reputation for delivering a consistent and superior guest experience, providing a safe and secure environment and proactively engaging with our communities.
Our brands are valuable assets and doing business responsibly enhances their reputation, building trust and brandpreference.
Information on our brands can be found on pages 17 and 20 and information on our approach towards health, safety and security can be found on page 35.
People A core part of beinga responsible business is our commitment to ensuring that the actions ofall those working at IHG maintain and enhance our trusted reputation by operatingan ethical business.
To help our people put this ethos into practice we continually keep under reviewour internal programmes, policiesand training.
Information on our people strategy can be found on pages 21 to 23 and internal programmes, policies and training on page 32.
Delivery We have in place an effective system of internal controls and risk management to identify, assess, prioritise and mitigate risks to our business, guests and employees and enable us to achieve our shared objectives, which is an essential part of being a responsible business.
Information on our risk management practices and systems of internal controls can be found on pages 34 to 37 and 70.
Corporate Responsibility CR Our three flagship CR programmes IHG Green Engage, IHG Academy and IHG Shelter in a Storm Programme aim to proactively manage the environmental impacts of our operations, to provide people skills and job opportunities in the communities where we operate and to support our hotels, colleagues, guests and communities in times of disaster.
Information on our approach to CR can be found on page 32.
Strategic Report 31 WINNING MODEL TARGETED PORTFOLIO DISCIPLINED EXECUTION Corporate responsibility 2013 to 2017five-yeartargets: Reduce our carbon footprint per Contribute a total of $10 million to For our 2013 performance against these occupied room by 12% across our communities through monetary targets, which are KPIs, see page 39. entire estate against a 2012 baseline donations and in-kind support, including funds deployed through the To view our Corporate Responsibility Reduce water use per occupied IHG Shelter in a Storm Programme Report: www.
com responsibility roomby 12% in water-stressed IHGPlanetCR Facebook page: areas against a 2012 baseline Track and report supply chaindiversity www.
com  Provide skills and improved Integrate Corporate Responsibility employability to 20,000 people criteria into the selection and evaluation through theIHG Academy process forall preferredsuppliers Internal programmes, policies and training Corporate Responsibility CR We have in place a range of programmes, policies and training, During 2013, we focused our efforts on driving the best use of the which we regularly keep under review and which are communicated tools we provide.
In September, we released our external targets via e-learning and face-to-face training modules in order to raise set out above to measure our impact on a global and local level understanding of key legal and regulatory areas.
These include our over a five-year period from 2013 to 2017.
We aim to create more Code of Conduct, environment, supporting our community, human sustainable communities and better lives through our hotel rights, competition, anti-bribery, data privacy and crisis management operations and toachieve this we focus our activities in areas policies and brand safety standards.
integrated with the way we operate our business.
Environmental sustainability In 2013, we refreshed our Code of Conduct, which is applicable We have committed our hotel estate to designing, building and toall Directors, officers and employees and available on the operating more environmentally sustainable hotels through IHG Companys website at www.
com investors under corporate Green Engage, our online system to measure, monitor, manage governance.
It consolidates and clarifies expected standards of and report on energy, carbon, water and waste.
behaviour, and communicates the ethical values of the Group.
Sustainable communities Aconfidential disclosure channel also provides employees with a To reinforce our mission to create shared value in our communities, we: means to report any ethical concerns they may have.
provide local people with skills development and employment Human rights opportunities through the IHG Academy, a pioneering As part of putting the human rights policy into practice, in 2013 we collaboration between IHG hotels and offices and education set up a cross-functional working group to ensure we are focused providers and for community organisations: and on the key areas of human rights relevant to our business, such as provide donations for shelter and vital assistance and making sure we provide decent working conditions for all of our guidance on the actions our hotels can take to support their employees, and ensuring the rights of the local people where we communities when disaster strikes through the IHG Shelter operate are protected.
We are working to raise further awareness in a Storm Programme.
As part of this programme, we have of our human rights approach in our hotels around the world and established IHG Shelter Fund for our fundraising activities.
will continue to add to our suite of training materials over the next For information on IHG Academy visit www.
year to support these efforts.
During the year, we continued to work with the International Tourism Partnerships Human For information on IHG Shelter in a StormProgramme visit Trafficking Working Group to address the issue of human www.
trafficking with other hotel companies.
We are also a signatory of the UN Global Compact, aligning our operations and strategies with the 10 universal principles that include commitments to human rights and labour standards.
We are currently working with Our activities are supported by the Board through the Corporate our internal Procurement team to further embed our human rights Responsibility Committee, whose Report can be found on page 68. policy and vendor code of conduct in our contracts.
IHG Green Engage can help 301 IHG Academy programmes During 2013, $1.2 million was hotelsbecome 10 to 25% more in 50 countries raised for the IHG Shelter Fund energyefficient 6,391 participants benefited As part of IHGs fundraising 2,646 hotels enrolled in IHG Green fromthe IHG Academy in 2013 event, Race around the World, Engage over half of our global hotels IHG colleagues raised $442,116 for the IHG Shelter Fund 32 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION IHGs global greenhouse gas GHG emissions 1 1 2013 2012 Reporting boundary Measure Scope 1 Direct emissions 424,329 516,586 Scope 2 Indirect emissions 1,561,135 1,638,160 Global corporate offices and Total GHG emissions tCO e 1,985,464 2,154,746 2 managed, owned and leased hotels IHGs chosen intensity measurement GHG emissions per occupied 56 64.5 room kgCO e per occupied room 2 Scope 1 Direct emissions 1,327,416 1,342,670 Scope 2 Indirect emissions 3,358,380 3,241,159 Global corporate offices and franchised, Total GHG emissions tCO e 4,685,796 4,583,829 2 managed, owned and leased hotels IHGs chosen intensity measurement GHG emissions per occupied 31.2 32 room kgCO e per occupied room 2 1 Reporting period commencing on 1 October and ending on 30 September.
Global greenhouse gas GHG emissions Methodology We have worked with Best Foot Forward togive us an up-to-date Scope picture of IHGs carbon footprint and assess the performance We are required to report on the GHG emissions from our corporate over the past few years.
BestFoot Forward used a sampling and offices and managed, owned and leased hotels where we have extrapolation methodology to estimate our GHG emissions.
operational control under the Companies Act 2006.
We have also chosen to report on our GHG emissions from corporate offices and For 2013, in line with the methodology set out in the GHG Protocol all of our hotels as our GHG emissions reduction target is based Corporate Standard, the sample covered 1,372 hotels out of our total upon this.
We report Scope 1 and 2 emissions as defined by the GHG protocol We are continuing to improve the quantity and quality of the data as follows: reported by hotels using IHG Green Engage to improve the accuracy of our GHG reporting.
Scope 1 Direct emissions : combustion of fuel and operation of facilities: and The results in the table above include all of our branded hotels but do not include emissions from 87 hotels.
We do not have sufficient data Scope 2 Indirect emissions : electricity, heat, steam and cooling to estimate their emissions and we believe them to be immaterial.
Due to the delay in hotels receiving their energy bills it is not possible to report accurately GHG emissions from 1 January to 31 December and therefore we have defined our GHG emissions reporting year as the period commencing on 1 October and ending on 30 September.
External recognition The InterContinental Hotels & The IHG Shelter in a Storm Programme Member of the FTSE4Good Index.
Resorts brand became the first hotel was awarded the Best Initiative in brand to have all of itsIHG corporateSustainable Development and Social managed restaurants in the US Responsibility at the 2013 Worldwide and Canada become Certified Hospitality Awards.
GreenRestaurants by the Green Restaurant Association.
