Winning Model WINNING MODEL TARGETED PORTFOLIO DISCIPLINED EXECUTION IHGs Winning Model is our framework for delivering superior value creation throughour brands, our peopleand our systems.
5 1 4 2 3 Preferred brands delivered through IHGs 2014 Trends Report our people IHGs 2014 Trends Report, Creating Moments of Trust the key to building successful brand relationships in the Our portfolio of nine preferred brands set out on page 17 are brought Kinship Economy, highlights the need for hotel brands to be to life by our people whodeliver on each of our brand promises.
3D 3 dimensional, managing their global, local and personal assets simultaneously, in order to win future guests.
Preferred brands This primary research is based on a study of 7,000 international Our portfolio of brands comprises complementary, differentiated travellers worldwide and uncovers critical success criteria for brands that clearly and consistently deliver on guests needs.
global brands delivering localised and personalised guest Building a portfolio of preferred brands that resonate with our experiences, enabled by technology.
guests, and therefore ourowners, is crucial.
com trends report through our guests wanting to stay with us and pay more to do so thereby driving RevPAR and delivering better returns on investment for our owners.
For IHG, a hotel brand is a promise of a consistent, relevant and differentiated hospitality experience: Global Coherence our guests focus on this from a location, product and service perspective, all for the right value: and our owners focus on this in terms of revenue delivery, relevant and purposeful brand standards and the broader support they TRUST receive from being part of aglobal brand.
Local Personal Relevance Differences Our research into guest needs and the guest occasions described on page 29 and our consumer insight research helps us gain a deeper understanding of what travellers around the world want from their relationships with hotel brands as set out on the right, and together assist us in defining our brands.
We use our guest satisfaction measurement tool, Guest HeartBeat, to measure brand preference and guest satisfaction.
We are always looking to find ways to improve Guest HeartBeat scores and meet guest expectations.
RevPAR and Guest HeartBeat are KPIs see pages 38 and 39 and are performance measures for our incentive plans see pages 74 to 97.
The principal risks associated with Preferred brands, Owner proposition and Reputation and brand protection are set out on pages 36 and 37.
20 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Winning Ways: Do the Aim higher Work better right thing together Joyce Zhuang Show we care Celebrate difference International Mobility Manager, IHG Our people we offer our people our Room to be yourself commitment, whichis brought to life by four promises.
In order to deliver our preferred brands, IHG recognises the Room to be yourself: importance of the people who work across its hotels to deliver Room to have a great start: This assists us in recruiting the right differentiated brand experiences and the brand promise for our guests.
people for each brand and role.
We offer new recruits a structured Our people strategy orientation programme to provide them with an understanding of Our expanding business requires us to continually look for additional IHGs strategy and values.
colleagues to work in IHG hotels and deliver our preferred brands.
Room to be involved: We use various channels, including To meet the challenges that are associated with recruitment, conferences, team meetings and our intranet site refreshed in our people strategy is designed around attracting, retaining and 2013, to communicate with employees on matters relating developing the very best talent in the industry to service the needs to theGroups business and performance and share information of our guests, to engage and energise the talented and passionate on people, policies and news across IHG.
We also provide our people who work in our hotels and corporate offices, and to bring our employees opportunities to give regular feedback to ensure brands to life every single day, creating Great Hotels Guests Love.
IHG meets expectations and delivers on its commitments.
Twicea year, we ask our employees and those working in our The four pillars of our people strategy are: managed hotels excluding our joint venture hotels to 1.
Developing a BrandHearted culture participate in an Employee Engagement survey.
Each of our brands offers a distinct promise to our guests and Room to grow: We promise our people all the support, being BrandHearted means putting our brands at the heart of experience and training they need to perform at their best everything we do.
and provide various development opportunities.
Making IHG a great place to work Room for you: We understand it is important to recognise We are dedicated to building a strong employer brand in order to achievements and communicate these throughout our business.
attract the best possible talent to meet our strategic objectives: Our Employee Engagement survey score is a KPI see page 38 and a we ask our people to live our Winning Ways set out above, performance measure for our annual incentive plan see pages 74 to 97. a set of behaviours that define how we interact with our guests and colleagues: and 2013 2012 2011 Our people Americas 2,548 2,552 2,895 Given our franchised and managed business model, IHG does Europe 1,602 1,866 1,574 not employ all those who work in IHG hotels.
Greater China 1,083 1,051 1,000 We employ all those working at our corporate offices and at our Central 1,401 1,317 1,292 owned and leased hotels including managed lease hotels and the Total 8,179 7,981 7,956 costs of these are borne by IHG.
We typically employ the General Manager and in some cases, other hotel workers at In addition, as at 31 December 2013, the Groups employees included our managed hotels, but the costs of these employees are not 4,615 2012: 4,431, 2011: 3,885 employees who worked directly on borne by IHG.
We do not employ any persons working at our behalf of the System Fund and whose costs are borne by the System franchised hotels.
In line with IHGs business model, IHG also employs 578 2012: 587, 2011: 577 General Managers who work in our IHG employed 8,179 people worldwide during the year ended managed hotels and whose costs of $135m 2012: $132m, 2011: $125m 31December 2013, whose costs were borne by the Group.
Of these, are borne by those hotels, and, in the US predominantly, there are 94 per cent were employed on a full-time basis and 6 per cent 12,588 2012: 12,494, 2011: 14,596 other hotel workers in our managed were employed on a part-time basis.
hotels who have contracts or letters of service with IHG whose costs The geographic distribution of the average number of these of $376m 2012: $430m, 2011: $448m are borne by those hotels.
employees over the last three years is shown in the table to the right.
When the Groups entire estate is taken intoaccount including those working in ourfranchised and managed hotels over 350,000 people worked globally across all IHGsbrands as at 31 December 2013.
Strategic Report 21 WINNING MODEL TARGETED PORTFOLIO DISCIPLINED EXECUTION InterContinental Ningbo, Peoples Republic of China 3.
Delivering world-class People Tools to our owners and hotels Case Study Talent in Greater China To deliver our preferred brands throughout all of our hotels, With over 200 open hotels and 170 hotels in the pipeline, wedeveloped a set of People Tools, industry-leading best practices IHG leads the market in terms of system size and hotel tailored specifically for our brands, to assist hotel management signings in Greater China.
People are our single biggest and human resources teams hire, train, involve and recognise asset and we have over 50,000 people working across our colleagues.
They work to help increase employee retention, hotels and in the next three years, wewill create circa 30,000 performance, guest satisfaction, drive efficiencies and increase jobs.
To assist with this, we leverage our scale in Greater revenue for our owners.
In 2013, we launched an e-learning China to provide our people with opportunities to grow their modulefor our People Tools, available in three languages.
careers within IHG and offer them a variety of locations, roles and different experiences to assist in retaining talent.
Building a strong leadership and performance culture We build strong leadership from the top andour Board and As an example, 70 per cent of our General Manager vacancies Executive Committee leadership and governance processes are filled internally and they are developed through our are set out on pages 56 to 76. training programmes for example see page 26.
We also support the career development of the management team in The Group performance culture in our corporate offices is aligned hotels providing a structured way to help them map their with our strategic priorities for our senior executives, as shown career paths across hotel functions accompanied with in our incentive plan measures, explained in the Directors learning guides.
To assist with our recruitment at the entry Remuneration Report on pages 74 to 97. level, at the end of 2013, we had 30 IHG Academy programmes with local schools and over 2,300 participants undertook The principal risks associated with People, talent and culture are set out on placements with IHG.
We also started the IHG Management pages 36 and 37.
Trainee programme and I-Grad Future Leaders programme, for new graduates from across our hotels in Greater China.
2013 initiatives and events Leveraging our scale, we will continue to invest heavily in These included: developing our people across all levels of the organisation and attract new talent across the region.
the launch of a bespoke Facebook page in India, a new IHG careers page on Russias number one social media site and a countryspecific careers website in Greater China: a Winning in IHG workshop was held in Singapore, which shared best practice learnings from our AMEA region toassist other colleagues from other regions: our annual Celebrate Service week was held to say thank you to all those working at our hotels and corporate offices: and development of our online peer-to-peer recognition tool, Bravo!, as an app to download on a mobile phone or tablet.
22 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Number of persons Number of employees of each Number of employees of Number of employees of each gender on our gender whoare part of our each gender who are senior of each gender who are Board of Directors senior leadership population managers employed by the employed by the Group and at our corporate offices and Group including directors whose costs are borne by central reservation offices of subsidiaries the Group and employed by the Group Female Female Female Female 4 31% 10 21% 25 21% 3,649 45% Male Male Male Male 9 69% 38 79% 92 79% 4,530 55% Celebrating diversity and inclusion External recognition As a global organisation operating in nearly 100 countries and Our brands and our employer brand have won many awards territories around the world, we recognise the importance and in 2013, including: benefit of ensuring our workforce fully represents the communities the Holiday Inn brand won the Best Mid-Market Hotel in which we operate and the guests who stay in our hotels.
Brand in the World and Asia Pacific by the readers of In 2013, we introduced a new Global Diversity and Inclusion Business Traveller for the 13th successive year in2013: Policy to further our commitment in this area.
We also made the Holiday Inn brand was ranked Highest in Guest progress in our Talent Review processes, enabling us to increase Satisfaction Among Mid-Scale Full Service Hotel Chains local representation in emerging markets, gender balance in in the US, for the third year in a row by J. D. Powers and our leadership teams and international representation in our Associates see page 188 : globalfunctions.
Market Metrix Hospitality Index named Staybridge Suites brand as one of the Top 10 Brands in Customer Satisfaction In 2014, we will continue to focus on these areas by strengthening globally in quarter 3 and quarter 4: the support available internally and also by working with suppliers who comply with our Global Diversity and Inclusion Policy and Market Metrix Hospitality Index named Candlewood Suites principles set out therein.
brand as Best Midscale Hotel Brand in the Americas region for three consecutive quarters quarters 2, 3 and 4 : We reviewed the composition of our global management teams and InterContinental Hotels & Resorts was awarded a total of have set out the following objectives: 22 accolades at the 2013 World Travel Awards, including to maintain at least 25 per cent female representation on the Worlds Leading Hotel Brand for the seventh time and our Board: the fifth consecutive year: to strengthen female representation in our global senior InterContinental Hotels & Resorts won Best Business leadership population, with a target of reaching 25 per cent in Hotel Chain Worldwide at the 2013 Business Traveller three years: and Awards: to sustain a healthy balance of gender in the whole Hotel Indigo Shanghai on the Bund was named Best employee organisation.
Boutique Hotel at the TTG China Travel Awards 2013: We are committed to providing equality of opportunity to all IHG was ranked third in 2013 The Sunday Times 25 Best employees without discrimination and providing an inclusive Big Companies To Work For in the UK: environment.
Every effort is made to ensure that applications IHG was listed in TheJobCrowds The Top Companies For for employment from disabled employees are fully and fairly Graduates To Work For in 2013 14: considered and that disabled employees have equal opportunities IHG was named in the 2013 Worlds Learning Elite for the in training and promotion.
third consecutive year: and IHG was named in the China Best EmployerAwards.
Our Boards commitment to supporting diversity is set out on page 62.
Strategic Report 23 WINNING MODEL TARGETED PORTFOLIO DISCIPLINED EXECUTION 5 1 5 1 4 4 2 2 3 3 Build and leverage scale Strong brand portfolio &loyalty programme For each of our brands, we aim to deliver high-quality growth through building scale positions in the most attractive geographic By building a strong brand portfolio and loyalty programme, markets.
In key cities, we build scale through increasing our IHG is able to offer an unparalleled choice for guests and owners.
market share of rooms in that location.
As our brands focus on Our nine complementary brands are connected through a leading a range of occasion segments meeting guest needs in different loyalty programme.
IHGs loyalty programme was relaunched on ways see page 29, we use our consumer research to target the 1 July 2013 with a new name: IHG Rewards Club previously Priority right brands for each location.
Club Rewards, reflecting the history of innovation, reliability and integrity that is at the heart of IHG.
The name, IHG Rewards Club, Increased scale enables us to drive more revenue and create cost clearly identifies all our brands together under the IHG family and synergies for both IHG and our owners.
More hotels in an area has driven a 10 percentage point increase in the awareness of IHG encourages guests to use our direct reservation channels to search as a brand family.
and book our hotels and provides corporate customers with good coverage of key locations.
We can also centralise and co-ordinate Through our strong brands and loyalty programme we are able to: operational support, national or city-level marketing campaigns cross-sell each of our brands, recognising that guests stay and deliver efficient procurement practices, including negotiating across our brand portfolio, depending on their needs and the reduced commission rates with online travel agencies.
occasion see page 29 : Net rooms supply, Total gross revenue, Fee revenues, RevPAR, System strengthen our owner proposition by increasing the number and contribution to revenue and Fee margins are KPIs see pages 38 and 39. winning the loyalty of our guests, thereby driving higher RevPAR premiums and increasing total gross revenue see page 26 : and The principal risks associated with Owner proposition are set out on encourage more direct bookings, increasing revenue for IHGs page 37. owners see page 25.
In 2013, IHG Rewards Club delivered around 38.2 per cent of total rooms revenue to our hotels: part of our system contribution to Case study IHG Voice revenue explained on page 25.
IHG Voice is a premium pay-for-performance solution available to all of our hotels for managing local telephone reservations.
The principal risks associated with Preferred brands and Reputation The solution transfers reservation enquires made to a specific and brand protection are set out on pages 36 and 37. hotel to experienced sales operatives with expert local and regional knowledge, located in a number of core locations in each region.
The specially trained sales agents use the proven reservation booking methods of our award-winning central reservations offices, ensuring that guests are able to make the right booking for their needs and for any given occasion.
It also maximises cross-sell opportunities.
If a particular hotel is unable to meet a IHG Rewards Club is the worlds first and largest hotel loyalty guests needs then the guest is provided with alternate suitable programme, with 77.4 million members globally.
It offers IHG hotel suggestions.
The service therefore maximises guest industry-leading benefits and increased opportunity for points bookings to the IHG System, delivering incremental revenue redemption across our portfolio.
As part of the relaunch, to the hotel with improved average daily rate and RevPAR, IHG Rewards Club offered enhanced benefits for members whilst providing a superior booking experience for the guest.
including free internet access across all hotels globally.
The IHG Voice reservations solution means that hotels can IHG Rewards Club has been named Best Hotel Rewards concentrate on focusing their attention on providing a great Program in the World for eight years running by Global Traveler guest service and experience for those staying at their hotel.
magazine and Program of the Year by the Freddie Awards for By driving operational efficiencies and using technology in this way, the service also allows IHG to drive a low cost of sale the Middle East and Asia Oceania for 2013 without compromising the quality of the channel.
24 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 5 1 4 2 3 Effective channel management Web and mobile Web-based bookings now account for over $3.5 billion of IHGs Our channel management strategy aims to deliver the highest quality total rooms revenue to our hotels.
As hotels and other booking revenues to IHG hotels at the lowest possible cost, recognising that competitors continue to invest in the online experience, we expect the guest experience changes along the entirety of their travel direct web sales to continue growing at the expense of traditional journey.
Guests use multiple devices and new technology to reservationservices.
personalise their travel experience from choosing where they want Mobile technology is also a growing booking and guest channel.
to go, to what they want to do and, of course, where they want to stay.
We were the first major hotel chain to offer branded mobile apps Our focus is therefore to deliver against a guests needs across the across all our brands.
Mobile visits accounted for over 30 per cent entirety of this journey, which we break down into five distinct steps: of our website visits, while over 50 per cent of our emails are Dream, Plan, Book, Travel, and Share.
We continue to innovate in this area We use our systems and technology to drive demand for our hotels, in line with advancing technology.
manage revenue per booking and encourage guest loyalty, thereby Reservations centres delivering the highest quality revenues to IHG hotels at the lowest We operate 12 central reservations offices globally, with 13 possible cost and maximising owner returns.
However, we recognise different language capabilities to help potential guests and IHG that guest trends, technology and the competitive environment Rewards Club members with queries they may have in their travel are continually evolving.
It is therefore important that we keep planning and to make bookings.
In 2013, our global call centres abreast of new technologies and systems to keep pace with these answered more than 21 million calls, and accounted for almost to continue to deliver a consistent, locally relevant and differentiated $2 billion total rooms revenue to our hotels.
Travel agents In 2013, IHGs direct and indirect systems and channels delivered IHG works with a number of third-party distribution partners 69 per cent of total rooms revenue to our hotels system to support revenue delivery to our hotels, including online travel contribution to revenue.
OTAs represent a role within IHGs distribution Our booking systems and channels strategy, most specifically around infrequent, comparison-shopping Our multi-lingual web and mobile sites, call centres and global leisure travellers.
Therefore, IHG, on behalf of its owners, sales force allow guests to use the channel most appropriate for has leveraged its global footprint to secure deals with the lowest their needs, to plan and book our hotels.
We also recognise that aggregate cost of sale for our owners, increasing their revenue.
social media has an important role to play as part of the booking Sales force process as a method of advocacy and influence.
As a result, we Our global sales teams are dedicated to securing profitable deals have changed the way we communicate with our guests, using with corporate clients and travel agents and leveraging our social marketing innovations to make connections between hotels technology platform to connect hotels to global distributions and guests and, through our Guests Rating and Review tool, systems, in ways that independent hotels and small chains cannot providing our guests a forum to share their thoughts.
In 2013, they helped our circa 2,130 corporate accounts understand and plan for their future corporate travel.
Total gross revenue, System contribution to revenue and RevPAR are KPIs see pages 38 and 39.
The principal risks associated with Channel management and technology platforms are set out on page 36.
IHG Rewards Club We leverage our relaunched loyalty programme, IHG Rewards Club, further explained on page 24 with 77.4 million members around the world, to encourage more direct bookings.
In 2013, this delivered around 38.2 per cent of total rooms revenue to our hotels.
Strategic Report 25 WINNING MODEL TARGETED PORTFOLIO DISCIPLINED EXECUTION 2013 IHG Americas Investors & Leadership Conference, Las Vegas, Nevada, US 5 1 4 2 3 Superior owner proposition IHG continues to focus on delivering value to owners by pricing our fees in a way that reflects the services, tools and brand value that IHG is committed to delivering a compelling and preferred offer to our we deliver and we therefore drive a competitive branded fee structure hotel owners through a combination of strong owner relationship to support owners in achieving premiumreturns.
As explained on management and effective operational support.
page 16, a franchised and managed business model requires us to focus on fee revenues and fee margins both KPIs.
We recognise the importance of owners in a managed and franchised business model and we therefore focus on building Guests, employees and owners are increasingly looking for excellent relationships with our owners, through the IHG confirmation that the business they interact with share their Owners Association.
We are therefore committed to responsible business practices, and our corporate responsibility We compete with other hotel brands when an owner chooses a programmes are integrated with our business and our owner brand for their hotel and we have therefore developed a strong proposition.
As set out on page 27, this is also a key priority area owner proposition and a range of tools and services to drive for the IHG Owners Association and are therefore KPIs for IHG.
revenues and make us the first choice for owners.
Our owner offer For our KPIs see pages 38 and 39.
Our owners are provided with a range of tools and services to The principal risks associated with Owner proposition are set out on assist them in all areas of their operations, for example, providing pages 36 and 37. them with access to our revenue systems which work to drive IHG Owners Association higher revenue streams to hotels, and our booking and reservation channels, to increase guest bookings thereby increasing system The IHG Owners Association represents theinterests of nearly contribution to revenue and total gross revenue, explained on page 2,000 of our owners who together own 3,000 IHG hotels globally.
This is one part of our broader online Hotel Solutions site We work together to improve total revenue for our hotels and enabling owners to search for, identify and get assistance with a RevPAR, further strengthen IHGs brands and enhance the large range of hotel-based issues, such as human resources and guest experience.
This network of knowledge is accessible by all IHG As set out in the Chairman of the IHG Owners Associations message hotels worldwide and ensures that IHG continues to deliver on page 27, we have worked together with the IHG Owners Association solutions for our owners needs.
in 2013 to make further progress on our agreed priorities.
We also manage brand consistency risk for our owners by focusing on driving brand standards an important set of guidelines for Progress against IHG Owners Association Priority 4: each brand that support the delivery of a consistent branded hotel Todevelop the strongest General Manager talent and guest experience and thereby assist in increasing guest in the industry satisfaction measured through Guest HeartBeat and driving We have invested heavily in our approach to hiring, brandpreference and growth in RevPAR both KPIs.
training and developing General Managers.
To assist with this, we launched: General Manager Programme: This helps new General Managers become great brand ambassadors, deliver preferred brands, inspire their teams and achieve great results.
The programme offers branded selection At our 2013 annual Owners Conference in Las Vegas, we had over tools to assist owners and recruiters hire the right 5,500 owners and General Managers attending and we took the General Managers for the right brand and hotel and opportunity to inform these key stakeholders about our future thereafter provides a General Manager with a tailored strategy and receive their feedback.
Journey to Brand Manager General Manager Professional Development Programme: This helps experienced General Managers to focus on how a General Manager can consistently deliver the brand experience to drive results and maximise the profitability of our hotels.
26 IHG Annual Report and Form 20-F 2013 GROUP PARENT COMPANY OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS ADDITIONAL INFORMATION IHG Owners Association Chairmans message The IHG Owners Association works together with IHG to create Finally, and my personal focus, was the refresh of the long-term value for owners.
Strong standards, consistently applied, deliver the brand promise and we have worked with Last year in the Annual Report 2012, the 2013 IHG Owners IHG to simplify and clarify the brand standards.
IHG started with Association Chairman, Mike Hembree, noted that the IHG the Holiday Inn Express brand, and took each and every standard Owners Association was changing its ways of working with through a rigorous review.
At the end, more than 40,000 words IHG to better focus on how we work together.
In autumn 2012, were removed from the Holiday Inn Express Standards manual the following five key priorities around which we would strive for The Americas region and an industry-leading online resource to organise our work were agreed between IHGs Executive has been created, enabling owners and General Managers to Committee see page 65 and the IHG Owners Association: quickly find and implement the standards.
IHG will adopt a similar 1. deliver the strongest brand portfolio in the industry: approach for all the other brands.
2. deliver the strongest set of tools in theindustry: Looking ahead, the IHG Owners Association will continue its 3. develop the strongest approach to standards in the industry: mission to help each owner find success with IHG hotel brands.
We will continue to focus on increasing profitable revenue, 4. develop the strongest General Manager talent in the decreasing operating expenses, and maximising our industry: and relationship with IHG.
5. maintain the strongest reputation for doing business the right way.
Buggsi Patel 2014 Chairman As the 2014 IHG Owners Association Chairman, I am proud to IHG Owners Association note that our new ways of working have reaped solid results.
Together, we launched a new professional development programme for existing and new Holiday Inn brand family General Managers.
Our officers and volunteer leaders played an instrumental part in developing the programme, giving an For information on the IHG Owners Association go to www.
owner perspective on what a General Manager needs to become a successful Brand Manager.
This new programme is now rolling out through all IHG brands, and I am confident that they will all see the same success that we have seen in the Holiday Inn brand family.
We have worked with IHG to drive brand preference and have encouraged owners to use IHGs guest satisfaction measurement tool, Guest HeartBeat, as a measure of how well we are delivering against guests expectations.
Hotels with higher Guest HeartBeat scores for overall experience tend to see higher RevPAR and we are therefore continuing to find ways to improve Guest HeartBeat scores and meet guest expectations.
