OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT 57 This authority will also be used in connection with the may be purchased at a price ranging between the nominal placing of 12,897,771 shares representing approximately value for each share and an amount equal to the higher of 9.9 per cent of the Companys issued ordinary share i 105 per cent of the average of the middle-market price capital by J. P. Morgan Cazenove and Numis Securities with of an ordinary share for the five business days immediately institutional placees, the proceeds from which will be used, preceding the date on which the Company agrees to buy together with other funds, to finance the purchase of the the shares concerned and ii the higher of the price of the facilities services business of Rentokil Initial plc should last independent trade and the highest independent current shareholders approve this transaction at the General bid on the London Stock Exchange at the time the purchase Meeting to be held on 17 March 2014. is carried out.
This authority expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM on 13 May 2014.
No shares have been In accordance with the guidelines issued by the Association of repurchased by the Company under the authority granted at British Insurers the ABI, the directors propose Resolution 18 the 2013 AGM.
set out in the Notice of AGM to renew the authority granted to them at the 2013 AGM to allot shares up to an aggregate Resolution 20 set out in the Notice of AGM will be proposed nominal value of one-third of the Companys issued share as a special resolution in order to renew this authority.
capital plus a further one-third i. e. two-thirds in all where Although the directors have no immediate plans to do so, the allotment is in connection with a rights issue.
they believe it is prudent to seek general authority from shareholders to be able to act if circumstances were to arise Under section 561 of the 2006 Act, if the directors wish in which they considered such purchases to be desirable.
to allot unissued shares for cash other than pursuant to This power will only be exercised if and when, in the light an employee share scheme they must first offer them to of market conditions prevailing at that time, the directors existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings a prebelieve that such purchases would increase earnings per emptive offer.
Resolution 19 set out in the Notice of AGM share and would be for the benefit of shareholders generally.
will be proposed as a special resolution in order to renew the Any shares purchased under this authority will be cancelled directors authority to allot shares for cash other than by way unless the directors determine that they are to be held as of rights to existing shareholders.
By restricting such authority treasury shares and the number of shares in issue will be to an aggregate nominal value of no more than 5 per cent of reduced accordingly.
the Companys total issued equity capital, the Company will be in compliance with the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Whilst the Company does not presently hold shares in Principles the Principles.
treasury, the Treasury Shares Regulations allow shares purchased by the Company out of distributable profits to be Shareholders should note that the Listing Rules of the FCA do held as treasury shares, which may then be cancelled, sold not require shareholders specific approval for each issue of for cash or used to meet the Companys obligations under shares for cash on a non-pre-emptive basis to the extent that its employee share schemes.
The authority sought by this under section 570 of the 2006 Act the provisions of section 561 resolution is intended to apply equally to shares to be held are disapplied generally.
If given, this authority will expire on by the Company as treasury shares in accordance with the the date of the next AGM of the Company.
The Principles also Treasury Shares Regulations.
request that in any rolling three-year period a company does not make non-pre-emptive issues for cash or of equity securities SHAREHOLDERS RIGHTS exceeding 7.5 per cent of the companys issued share capital General without prior consultation with shareholders.
The percentages The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are set out in the of shares issued by the Company on a non-pre-emptive basis in 2006 Act and the Companys Articles of Association.
A copy 2013 and in the period 2011 to 2013 pursuant to employee share of the Articles can be obtained on request from the Company schemes calculated by reference to the Companys closing Secretary.
The Articles may only be changed by special issued share capital at 31 December 2013, were 1.71 per cent resolution of shareholders which requires, on a vote on a and 2.52 per cent respectively.
show of hands, at least three-quarters of the shareholders or proxies present at the meeting to be in favour of the Save for issues of shares in respect of various employee resolution or, on a poll, at least three-quarters in nominal share schemes, the directors have no current plans to make value of the votes cast by shareholders or their proxies to be use of the renewed authorities sought by Resolutions 18 in favour of the resolution.
and 19 although they consider their renewal appropriate in order to retain maximum flexibility to take advantage of A shareholder whose name appears on the register of business opportunities as they arise.
members may choose whether those shares are evidenced by share certificates certificated form or held in electronic REPURCHASE OF SHARES form uncertificated in CREST.
The Company has authority under a shareholders resolution passed at the 2013 AGM to repurchase up to 12,709,595 of the Companys ordinary shares in the market.
The shares 58 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED If a person fails to give the Company any information Voting required by a notice served on him by the Company under Subject to the restrictions set out below, a shareholder section 793 of the 2006 Act which confers upon public is entitled to attend or appoint another person as his companies the power to require information to be supplied representative a proxy to attend and to exercise all in respect of a persons interests in the Companys shares or any of his rights to speak, ask questions and vote at any then the Company may, no sooner than 21 days later, and general meeting of the Company.
A shareholder may also after warning that person, serve a disenfranchisement notice appoint more than one proxy, provided that each proxy is upon the shareholder registered as the holder of the shares appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share in respect of which the section 793 notice was given.
Unless or shares held by that shareholder.
A proxy need not be a the information required by the section 793 notice is given shareholder of the Company.
within 14 days, such holder will not be entitled to receive The right to appoint a proxy does not apply to a person who notice of any general meeting or attend any such meeting has been nominated under section 146 of the 2006 Act to of the Company and shall not be entitled to exercise, either enjoy information rights a Nominated Person.
He she personally or by proxy, the votes attaching to such shares may, however, have a right under an agreement with the in respect of which the disenfranchisement notice has registered shareholder holding the shares on his her behalf been given unless and until the information required by to be appointed or to have someone else appointed as a the section 793 notice has been provided.
Alternatively, if a Nominated Person does not have The Company operates a number of employee share such a right, or does not wish to exercise it, he she may have schemes.
Under some of these arrangements, shares are a right under such an agreement to give instructions to the held by trustees on behalf of employees.
The employees are person holding the shares as to the exercise of voting rights.
not entitled to exercise directly any voting or other control In accordance with section 327 of the 2006 Act, in order rights.
The trustees abstain from voting on these shares.
to be valid, any form of proxy sent by the Company to General meetings shareholders or any proxy registered electronically in No business may be transacted at a general meeting relation to any general meeting must be delivered to the unless a quorum is present consisting of not less than two Companys registrars not later than 48 hours before the time shareholders present in person or by proxy or by two duly fixed for holding the meeting or any adjourned meeting.
In authorised representatives of a corporation.
Two proxies of calculating the 48-hour period no account shall be taken of the same shareholder or two duly authorised representatives any part of a day that is not a working day.
Full details of of the same corporation will not constitute a quorum.
the deadlines for exercising voting rights in respect of the 2014 AGM are set out in the Notice of AGM.
An AGM must be called on at least 21 days clear notice.
All other general meetings are also required to be held on Subject to any rights or restrictions for the time being at least 21 days clear notice unless the Company offers attached to any class or classes of shares and to any other shareholders an electronic voting facility and a special provisions of the Articles of Association or statutes, on a resolution reducing the period of notice to not less than vote on a resolution at a general meeting on a show of hands 14 days has been passed.
The directors are proposing every shareholder present in person, every proxy present Resolution 22 set out in the Notice of AGM to renew the who has been duly appointed by one or more shareholders authority obtained at last years AGM to reduce the notice entitled to vote on the resolution and every authorised period for general meetings other than AGMs to at least representative of a corporation which is a shareholder of the 14 days.
It is intended that this shorter notice period will Company entitled to vote on the resolution, shall have one only be used for non-routine business and where merited vote.
If a proxy has been duly appointed by more than one shareholder and has been instructed by one or more of those in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
shareholders to vote for the resolution and by one or more The business of an AGM is to receive and consider the of those shareholders to vote against it, that proxy shall have accounts and balance sheets and the reports of the one vote for and one vote against the resolution.
On a poll, directors and auditors, to elect directors in place of those every shareholder present in person or by proxy shall have retiring, to elect auditors and fix their remuneration and one vote for every share held.
A resolution put to the vote at a general meeting shall be Providing that notice is given to the Company no later than decided on a show of hands unless the notice of the meeting six weeks before an AGM or no later than the date on which specifies that a poll will be called on such resolution or a the notice of an AGM is given, shareholders representing poll is before the resolution is put to the vote on a show at least 5 per cent of the total voting rights of all the of hands or on the declaration of the results of the show of shareholders who have a right to vote at the AGM or at least hands directed by the Chairman or demanded in accordance 100 shareholders who have that right and who hold shares with the Articles of Association.
in the Company on which there has been paid up an average sum per shareholder of at least 100, may require the
