OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT 59 Company to include an item in the business to be dealt with The Company is not aware of any agreements between its at the AGM.
shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Dividends Subject to the provisions of the 2006 Act, the Company may, Subject to the 2006 Act, the directors may refuse to register by ordinary resolution, declare a dividend to be paid to the any transfer of any share which is not fully paid whether shareholders but the amount of the dividend may not exceed certificated or uncertificated, provided that the refusal does the amount recommended by the directors.
The directors not prevent dealing in shares in the Company from taking may also pay interim dividends on any class of shares on any place on an open and proper basis.
dates and in any amounts and in respect of any periods as The directors may also decline to register the transfer of any appear to the directors to be justified by the distributable certificated share unless the instrument of transfer is duly profits of the Company.
stamped if stampable and accompanied by the certificate Liquidation of the shares to which it relates and such other evidence as If the Company is wound up the liquidator may, with the the directors may reasonably require to show the right of the sanction of a special resolution of the Company, and any other transferor to make the transfer.
sanction required by law, divide amongst the shareholders Transfers of uncertificated shares must be conducted the whole or any part of the assets of the Company.
He may, through CREST and the directors can refuse to register for such purposes, set such value as he deems fair upon any transfers in accordance with the regulations governing property to be divided and may determine how such division the operation of CREST.
shall be carried out as between the shareholders or different classes of shareholders.
The liquidator may also transfer the All share transfers must be registered as soon as practicable.
whole or any part of such assets to trustees to be held in trust for the benefit of the shareholders.
No shareholder can SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS be compelled to accept any shares or other securities which As at 31 December 2013 the Company had been notified of would give him any liability.
the following interests in the voting rights over shares, as shown in the table below: MODIFICATION OF RIGHTS If at any time the capital of the Company is divided into Number of % of total Nature of different classes of shares, the rights attached to any class Name of holder ordinary shares voting rights holding or any of such rights may be modified, abrogated, or Mondrian Investment 9,272,292 7.18 Indirect varied either: Partners Ltd Henderson Global 8,541,009 6.62 Indirect a with the consent of the holders of 75 per cent of Investors Ltd the issued shares of that class: or JPMorgan Asset 6,592,992 5.11 Indirect b with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a Management Holdings separate general meeting of the holders of the shares Inc of the class.
Standard Life 5,988,205 4.64 Direct and Investments Ltd indirect The rights attached to any class of shares shall not unless otherwise provided by the terms of issue of the shares of Norges Bank 4,915,250 3.81 Direct that class or by the terms upon which such shares are for Prudential plc the time being held be deemed to be modified or varied group of companies 4,354,580 3.37 Direct by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu therewith.
Between the year end and the date of this report, the The Company may by ordinary resolution, convert any paidCompany has been notified that the interests in the voting up shares into stock, and reconvert any stock into paid-up rights over shares of Standard Life Investments Ltd and shares of any denomination.
JPMorgan Asset Management Holdings Inc have changed as follows: TRANSFER OF SHARES Standard Life Investments Ltd increase to 6,715,225 There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of shares 5.20 per cent securities in the Company, or on the size of a shareholders holding, which are both governed by the Articles of JPMorgan Asset Management Holdings Inc decrease to Association and prevailing legislation.
In accordance with below minimum threshold.
the Listing, Prospectus, and Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the FCA, certain employees are required to seek the approval of the Company to deal in its shares.
