78 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED REMUNERATION POLICY This part of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out the remuneration policy for the Company with effect from 13 May 2014, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM to be held on that day.
SUMMARY OF REMUNERATION POLICY FOR 2014 ONWARDS The following table summarises the main elements of the executive directors remuneration policy for 2014 onwards, the key features of each element, their purpose and linkage to our strategy.
Details of the remuneration arrangements for the nonexecutive directors are set out on page 84.
Purpose and Element of pay link to strategy How operated in practice including framework for assessing performance Maximum opportunity Base salary To recruit and retain Reviewed annually with any changes generally taking effect from 1 July.
There is no prescribed executives of a maximum annual increase.
Salaries are determined taking into account: suitable calibre for The Committee is guided the experience, responsibility, effectiveness and market value of the the role and duties by the general increase executive: required.
for the broader workforce but recognises that the pay and conditions in the workforce: Reflects the market higher increases may be rate for the individual pay relativities within the Group: appropriate where an and their role.
individual is promoted, broadly the median position in light of remuneration within other changes role, where the similar companies and the Company: and size, composition and affordability, given the profits of the Company.
or complexity of the Group changes or where Normally paid monthly in cash.
an individual is materially below market comparators or is appointed on a below market salary with the expectation that his her salary will increase with experience and performance.
Benefits To provide benefits Car cash allowance and or company car and fuel or fuel allowance.
The value of benefits may commensurate vary from year to year Private medical insurance.
to the market in depending on the cost to Permanent health insurance.
which the Company the Company.
operates and or the Life assurance.
Additional benefits may market in which the be provided and the range Relocation expenses, allowance for disruption and ongoing expatriate director is based of those benefits may benefits.
and in line with vary taking into account policies applicable Directors and officers liability insurance.
market practice, the to all other senior relevant circumstances Reasonable personal use of mobile telephone.
and the requirements of the executive.
Pension To provide benefits A Company contribution calculated at up to 15% of base salary Employers defined commensurate to the for executive directors provided they are making the maximum contribution and or pension market in which the 8% employee contribution.
cash supplement up to a Company operates.
total maximum of 15% of Employees whose pension provision exceeds HMRC limits are permitted base salary.
to opt out of making pension contributions and instead receive the Company contribution as a non-bonusable salary supplement.
Employees who elect to take the cash allowance still benefit from the life cover of four times base salary provided to members of the pension scheme and death-in-service cover.
Employees who have not chosen to opt out of making pension contributions are eligible to participate in the Companys SMART Pensions arrangement.
SMART Pensions is a salary sacrifice arrangement set up by the Company providing an option for employee pension contributions to be met by their employer following a corresponding sacrifice in their contractual pay.
This scheme affords the Company a saving in employers National Insurance contributions.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 79 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Purpose and Element of pay link to strategy How operated in practice including framework for assessing performance Maximum opportunity Annual To incentivise the Targets are set by the Committee in relation to stretching targets Maximum opportunity: Variable Pay achievement of that are set annually by the Board.
annual targets, A majority if not all of the bonus will be based on financial targets and Entry level performance: rewarding strong a minority if at all of the bonus may be based on other performance No more than 10% of operational metrics linked to the business strategy.
performance in Annual Variable Pay is deliverable in cash, an element of which must A graduated scale of line with and in be invested in Company shares until the shareholding guidelines are targets operates between excess of targeted achieved.
entry level and maximum performance.
If an executive directors shareholding in the Company is less than 100% of his basic salary, a percentage of the net Annual Variable Pay receivable in excess of 25% of basic salary is required to be invested in Company shares in accordance with the arrangements stated below: for the balance of any Annual Variable Pay received between 25% and 50% of basic salary, 30% of the net Variable Pay must be invested in Company shares and 70% may be retained: and for the balance of any Annual Variable Pay received between 50% and 100% of basic salary, 50% of the net Variable Pay must be invested in Company shares and 50% may be retained.
Company shares so acquired must be held for three years.
The Committee has the overriding discretion to adjust the bonus outcome up or down subject to the overall 100% maximum to ensure the payment is fair and appropriate in all the circumstances.
Clawback applies to any overpayment of Annual Variable Pay in the event of misstatement, error or misconduct for a period of one year after the date on which a payment is made.
Annual Variable Pay is not pensionable.
Performance To provide a longer PSP awards may be granted each year to senior executives.
Maximum: 150% of basic Share Plan term incentive to salary at the date of grant The awards will usually vest no earlier than the third anniversary of PSP reward executive for the executive directors, the date of grant, provided that the performance conditions have been directors for save in exceptional satisfied over a three-year period commencing on 1 January in the year achieving the circumstances in relation of the award.
Groups longer to recruitment or retention Dividends notionally accrue on awards from the date of award and an term objectives.
where an award of up to equivalent cash sum will become payable on vesting to the extent that 200% of basic salary at the To provide alignment the shares ultimately vest.
with shareholders Clawback applies in the event of misstatement, error or misconduct for and provide a No more than one-third of a period of one year after the date on which a payment is made.
any part of a performance Awards will be made in the form of nil-cost options.
condition can vest for achieving the threshold Long-term incentive awards vest based on three-year performance performance level.
against a challenging range of EPS and, separately, relative TSR performance targets.
EPS performance targets are set after having due regard to internal planning and market expectations for the Companys performance and relative TSR performance is measured against a bespoke comparator group of similar companies.
No more than one-third of each part of an award vests for achieving the threshold performance levels with full vesting for achieving the maximum performance targets under each element e. g. upper quartile TSR performance with graduated scales operating between performance points.
No awards vest for below threshold performance levels.
The Committee will review the performance conditions each year prior to awards being made e. g. to determine whether the TSR peer group continues to remain appropriate, whether the range of EPS performance targets remains appropriate and, more generally, in light of the Companys long-term strategy and growth aspirations.
Should there be a material change in the Companys performance conditions e. g. introducing an additional performance metric appropriate dialogue with the Companys major shareholders would take place along with a full explanation in the Annual Report on Remuneration to support any such change.
80 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Purpose and Element of pay link to strategy How operated in practice including framework for assessing performance Maximum opportunity All-employee To support and The Company currently provides two all-employee HMRC-approved share The executive directors are share schemes encourage share schemes for its employees, the Interserve Sharesave Scheme 2009 entitled to participate in ownership by the Sharesave Scheme and the Interserve Share Incentive Plan 2009 both schemes on the same employees at all the SIP.
terms as all other eligible levels.
Maximum Under the Sharesave Scheme, eligible employees may enter into a savings opportunity is the same for contract for a minimum fixed term of three years and at the end of the all participants as defined savings period they have the option to buy shares in the Company at an within the terms of the exercise price fixed at the start of the savings contract.
scheme and prescribed Under the SIP, eligible employees are offered the opportunity to invest preby HMRC.
tax earnings subject to HMRC limits per tax year in Company shares under a regular monthly share purchase plan or by up to two lump sum payments per tax year or a combination of the two.
Shares so purchased are placed in trust.
The shares can be released from the trust to participants at any time, but income tax and national insurance contributions are payable on their value should they be released within five years of their purchase date.
The SIP rules also provide for matching shares and free shares up to certain prescribed limits to be given to participants.
Dividend payments on SIP shares are reinvested in dividend shares and must be held in the trust for three years.
Shareholding Under the Shareholding Guidelines executive directors are expected to retain no fewer than 100% of guidelines shares net of taxes following an option exercise or award vesting under the PSP, until such time as a shareholding equivalent to 100% of their base salary has been achieved.
Shares purchased under the Annual Variable Pay arrangements, the Sharesave Scheme and the SIP also count toward this limit.
Share options and vested, but unexercised, PSP awards do not count towards satisfying these Guidelines.
The Remuneration Committee retains the discretion to adjust the requirement to invest Annual Variable Pay in Company shares and retain share awards on vesting in appropriate circumstances.
Notes to the table The Committee will select financial and, if appropriate, strategic measures as targets for Annual Variable Pay that are key performance indicators for the business over the short term.
For the long-term incentives, the Committee will select a combination of measures that provide a good focus on the outcomes of the Companys strategy together with sustainable improvements in long-term profitability.
The Committee sets appropriate and demanding targets for Variable Pay in the context of the Companys trading environment and strategic objectives.
The Committee considers that, for awards made to date, a combination of normalised EPS and TSR for the Executive Board is the most appropriate measure of performance for awards made under the PSP.
The EPS target rewards significant and sustained increases in value and delivers strong line of sight, whilst the TSR performance condition provides balance by rewarding good relative stock market performance and introduces an element of share price-based discipline to the package.
The blend of these two complementary measures is considered to reduce the risk level of the PSP compared to the position if a single metric applied to the entire award.
There are no performance conditions for the Sharesave Scheme and SIP as they are all-employee share plans aimed at encouraging wider employee share ownership.
The remuneration policy for the executive directors is designed with regard to the policy for employees across the Group as a whole.
There are some differences in the structure of the remuneration policy for executive directors and other senior employees, which the Committee believes is necessary to reflect the different levels of responsibility of employees across the Group.
In particular, as remuneration levels overall are higher, performance-linked variable pay comprises a much higher proportion of remuneration at more senior levels and there is more of a focus on Group results, rather than business unit or individual performance.
This provides a stronger alignment of interest between senior executives and investors.
Specifically, benefits provided to executive directors with the provision of a cash allowance and or company car benefit the element that is considered significant in value terms and limited to 30,000 are aligned with those provided to senior managers across the Group, as is participation in the PSP, which is limited to the top 130 or so senior employees.
Senior employees below Executive Board level are provided with lower levels of awards that only have an EPS-based performance condition.
For the avoidance of doubt, in approving this Directors Remuneration Policy, authority is given to the Company to honour any commitments entered into with current or former directors such as the payment of a pension or the vesting or exercise of past share awards that have either been set out in previous remuneration reports or disclosed to and approved by shareholders and in respect of outstanding share awards as detailed on pages 91 to 94 of the Annual Report on Remuneration.
Details of any payments to former directors will be set out in the Annual Report on Remuneration as they arise.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 81 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED 1,045,073 1,033,106 1,027,607 DISCRETION RETAINED BY THE COMMITTEE Annual Variable Pay and Long-Term Incentive 40% 40% 40% 601,394 Plan flexibility 589,427 583,928 18% The Committee will operate the Companys incentive 19% 19% plans according to their respective rules and consistent 23% 26% 23% 27% 351,825 27% 24% 339,858 334,359 with normal market practice, the Listing Rules and HMRC rules where relevant including flexibility and discretion in a number of respects and as set out in the respective plan rules.
In particular, but not limited to, the Committee has 100% 58% 33% 100% 59% 34% 100% 57% 33% flexibility regarding: the testing of a performance condition Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum over a shortened performance period: how to deal with a Managing Director, Managing Director, Managing Director, Equipment Services Support Services Investments and UK Construction change of control or restructuring of the Group as set out LTIP Annual Variable Pay Fixed Pay in more detail on page 83 : determination of a good bad leaver for incentive plan purposes: and adjustments required Assumptions: in certain circumstances e. g. rights issues, corporate restructuring, events and special dividends.
Minimum fixed pay only, including salary effective 1 July 2013, 15 per cent of salary pension contribution The Committee also retains the discretion to adjust the or 15 per cent of salary contribution in lieu of pension targets and or set different measures and alter weightings and benefits received in the 2013 financial year.
for the Annual Variable Pay arrangements and PSP or to remove the effects of one-off events in relation to On-Target minimum plus 50 per cent of the maximum the PSP if events occur that cause it to determine that payout under the Annual Variable Pay plan, and 34 per the metrics are no longer appropriate and amendment is cent PSP vesting.
required so they can achieve their original intended purpose Maximum minimum plus 100 per cent of the and to waive some or all of the shareholding guidelines in maximum payout under the Annual Variable Pay plan, exceptional circumstances.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION SCENARIOS Dividend equivalent payments provided for under the PSP The charts below show how the composition of the have been disregarded and no share price growth assumed executive directors remuneration packages varies at for the purposes of these charts.
different levels of performance under the remuneration policy to be implemented in 2014.
A substantial portion of SERVICE CONTRACTS AND POLICY ON PAYMENTS the remuneration packages are performance related and FOR LOSS OF OFFICE therefore this is illustrated for three different performance Service contract policy scenarios: minimum fixed pay only, on-target performance All newly appointed executive directors will have contracts and maximum performance.
terminable at any time on up to one years notice.
Under the terms of the contract, should notice be served by either party, the executives can continue to receive basic salary, 1,723,415 benefits and pension for the duration of their notice period during which time the Company may require the individual to continue to fulfil their current duties or may assign a 1,240,308 period of garden leave.
41% 978,034 Contracts also contain the ability, at the Companys 19% discretion, to make a payment in lieu of notice of up to of 41% 703,564 one years basic annual salary.
24% 558,757 19% 27% 24% 27% 401,645 Details of the current executive directors service contracts are summarised below.
Each contract has an indefinite 100% 57% 32% 100% 57% 32% unexpired term and a notice period of one year.
Minimum On-target Maximum Minimum On-target Maximum Name Date of contract Chief Executive Finance Director S L Dance 10 January 2008 LTIP Annual Variable Pay Fixed Pay T P Haywood 30 November 2010 B A Melizan 10 January 2008 A M Ringrose 13 December 2001 D I Sutherland 1 January 2011 82 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Copies of the service contracts are available for inspection by shareholders at the AGM.
The Committee will continue to keep under review the terms of executive directors service contracts.
The table below summarises the policy on payments to executive directors for loss of office.
The overriding principle will be to honour contractual remuneration entitlements and determine on an equitable basis the appropriate treatment of deferred and performance-linked elements of the package, taking account of the circumstances.
Failure will not be rewarded.
1 2 3 Element Resignation Departure on agreed terms Good leaver Salary after Nil For existing directors up to one years basic Nil cessation of salary.
Newly appointed executive directors employment can continue to receive basic salary for the duration of their notice period of one year.
The Company will have the discretion to make a payment in lieu of notice comprising up to 12 monthly instalments of base salary which would be mitigated proportionate to income received through alternative employment.
Pension and Nil For existing directors up to one years Nil benefits benefits and pension.
For newly appointed directors up to one years benefits and pension as part of the PILON as detailed above.
Annual Nil if the executive May be payable at the discretion of the May be payable at the Variable Pay departs before the Committee based upon performance and discretion of the Committee payment date unless pro-rated for the proportion of the financial based on performance prothe Remuneration year worked.
No payment will be made in rated for the proportion of Committee determines respect of any period of notice not worked.
Performance All awards, including Awards will lapse upon cessation of Awards may be exercised within Share Plan those which have employment unless the Committee 12 months of the vesting date.
vested but are decides otherwise in which case awards Where employment ends before unexercised will may be exercised within 12 months of the vesting date, awards may only lapse immediately the vesting date.
be exercised to the extent that upon cessation of Where employment ends before the vesting the performance conditions have employment.
date, awards may only be exercised to the been satisfied, but will be reduced extent that the performance conditions pro-rata based upon the period have been satisfied, but will be reduced of time after the grant date and pro-rata based upon the period of time ending on the date of cessation after the grant date and ending on the of employment relative to the date of cessation of employment relative three-year performance period to the three-year performance period unless the Committee, acting fairly unless the Committee, acting fairly and and reasonably, decides that such reasonably, decides that such a reduction is a reduction is inappropriate in any inappropriate in any particular case.
All-employee In accordance with the scheme rules.
share schemes Sharesave and SIP Other payments Nil Depending upon circumstances the Nil Committee may consider payments in respect of any statutory entitlements, outplacement support and assistance with legal fees.
1 For example, normal resignation from the Company or termination for cause e. g. gross misconduct.
2 This may cover a range of circumstances such as business reorganisation, changes in reporting lines, change in need for the role, termination as a result of a failure to be re-elected at an AGM.
3 For compassionate reasons such as death, injury or disability, retirement with the agreement of the employer.
Should a compromise agreement be reached with an individual, in terms of quantum it will be within the maximum amounts set out above.
OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT 83 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED There are no provisions in executive directors service agreements entitling them to terminate their employment or receive damages in the event of a change in control of the Company.
The Annual Variable Pay scheme does not include any provision entitling early or any payment to be made on a change in control of the Company.
In the event of change of control, PSP awards would be eligible to vest based on i the extent to which performance targets had been met, as assessed by the Committee, over the shortened performance period and ii subject to a pro rata reduction for time which the Committee retains discretion to disapply if it considers it appropriate to do so.
As an alternative, and in agreement with an acquiring company, the awards may be replaced with equivalent awards in the acquiring companys shares.
The Sharesave Scheme provides that if a change in control of the Company occurs, any options may be exercised within a month or such longer period as the Board may permit up to a maximum of six months.
There are also rollover provisions similar to those under the PSP explained above.
RECRUITMENT REMUNERATION In cases where the Company recruits a new executive director, the Committee will follow the policy set out below to determine his her ongoing remuneration package.
In arriving at a total package and in considering quantum for each element of the package, the Committee will take into account the skills and experience of the candidate, the market rate for a candidate of that experience as well as the importance of securing the preferred candidate.
The remuneration package for a new executive director would be set in accordance with the terms of the Companys approved remuneration policy in force at the time of appointment.
Element General policy Specifics Salary At a level required to Discretion to pay a lower basic salary with increases at a rate above attract the most appropriate inflation over two to three years as the new appointee becomes candidate.
Pension and In line with Company policies.
Where appropriate, relocation expenses arrangements may be provided.
benefits Annual In line with existing schemes.
Specific targets could be introduced for an individual where necessary Variable Pay for the first year of appointment if it is appropriate to do so to reflect Maximum opportunity 100% the individuals responsibilities and the point in the year in which they of base salary.
Performance In line with Company policies An award may be made in the year of joining or, alternatively, the award Share Plan and PSP rules.
can be delayed until the following year.
Targets would be the same as for other directors.
Maximum award up to 200% of basic salary at the date of grant may be made.
Other share awards The Committee may make an Awards would, where possible, take into account the awards forfeited in 1 or remuneration incentive award to replace terms of vesting periods, expected value and performance conditions.
remuneration forfeited on an For unvested performance-related awards, awards of broadly similar executive leaving a previous quantum allowing for the impact of any performance targets, with employer, where to do so appropriate performance conditions.
would be in the commercial interests of the Company.
1 The Committee may make use of the flexibility provided in the Listing Rules to make such awards if deemed appropriate in terms of replacing forfeited variable pay.
In the case of an internal appointment, any variable pay element awarded in respect of the prior role may be allowed to pay out according to its terms on grant, adjusted as relevant to take into account the appointment.
In addition, any other ongoing remuneration obligations existing prior to appointment may continue as appropriate.
EXTERNAL DIRECTORSHIPS The Board is comfortable with the principle of executive directors sitting on another company board as a non-executive in order to assist with their development, subject to the prior approval of the Chief Executive and the Board.
Any fees earned in that capacity may be retained by the executive director.
84 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED TERMS OF APPOINTMENT AND REMUNERATION POLICY FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Non-executive directors are appointed initially until the first AGM of the Company following appointment, when they are required to stand for election by shareholders.
Non-executive directors do not have service contracts, they are engaged by letters of appointment which are terminable upon one months notice by either party, without compensation, save for the Group Chairman whose appointment is terminable upon six months notice by either party, without compensation.
The dates of appointment of the non-executive directors are set out below: Name Date first appointed Date last re-elected Lord Blackwell 1 September 2005 13 May 2013 L G Cullen 1 October 2005 13 May 2013 A K Fahy 1 January 2013 Elected 13 May 2013 K L Ludeman 1 January 2011 13 May 2013 D A Thorpe 1 January 2009 13 May 2013 D A Trapnell 11 July 2003 Retired 13 May 2013 SUMMARY OF REMUNERATION POLICY FOR NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Element Purpose and link to strategy How operated in practice Maximum opportunity Fees To recruit and maintain The Group Chairmans fee is reviewed by the Committee There is no prescribed non-executives of a without the Group Chairman present.
suitable calibre for The Committee is guided The remuneration policy for the non-executive directors, the role and duties by the general increase in other than the Group Chairman, is determined by a subrequired.
the non-executive director committee of the Board comprising the Group Chairman market and for the broader and the executive directors.
employee population but Non-executive directors receive a fee for carrying out on occasions may need to their duties, together with additional fees for the Senior recognise, for example, an Independent Director and for those non-executive directors increase in the scale, scope who chair the primary Board committees i. e. Audit and or responsibility of the role.
Other fees may be introduced if considered appropriate, for example in the event of exceptional levels of additional time being required, or new responsibilities being assigned in response to corporate developments.
The non-executive directors and the Group Chairman do not currently receive benefits, but the Board retains a discretion to introduce such benefits if considered appropriate.
The fees of the non-executive directors are determined by the Board taking into account amounts paid by other similar-sized listed companies, the time commitment of the individual, role and responsibilities.
Fees are reviewed in detail biennially with an annual interim review.
CONSIDERATION OF EMPLOYEE VIEWS Although the Committee does not consult directly with employees on executive remuneration we do run a biennial employee survey where employees are able to express their views on a range of issues including their own remuneration.
The Committee considers the general basic salary increase as well as pay and conditions for the broader salaried employee population when determining the annual salary increases for the executive directors.
The Committee receives an annual report for all employees whose basic salary is in excess of 120,000 p. a. detailing the significant elements which make up total remuneration.
This enables the Committee to assess the impact of remuneration decisions upon the total cost of employment.
