66 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED reviewing the promotion of the Companys brand: COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE The Financial Conduct Authority requires the Company setting the Groups annual budget and plan: to disclose how it has applied the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in September 2012 approval of the annual and half-year report: the Code and whether there has been compliance with its provisions throughout the financial year.
In the case of declaration of the interim and recommendation of non-compliance, the Company must specify those provisions the final dividend: with which it has not complied and give reasons for this.
ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal The Code may be found on the Financial Reporting Councils controls and an effective risk management and assurance website www.
strategy: The directors consider that the Company has complied fully monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups Health and with the provisions of the Code applicable to it throughout Safety Policy: the accounting period ended 31 December 2013 with the following exception: control over major contracts including joint ventures and capital expenditure: and Provision B.
1.2 of the Code requires at least half the board, excluding the Chairman, to comprise non-executive monitoring progress with the Groups SustainAbilities Plan.
directors determined by the board to be independent.
As at year end, the Board comprised five executive and four Board composition non-executive directors plus the Chairman.
The Board The role of the Group Chairman and Chief Executive are believes that the diversity of skills and experience which split and clearly defined in written terms of reference.
the executive directors bring to the Board particularly in relation to their own operating divisions is more valuable The role of the Chairman than maintaining parity between the number of executive The Group Chairman is responsible for the leadership of and non-executive directors.
Furthermore, the Board the Board and creating the conditions for overall Board and considers its non-executive directors to be sufficiently individual director effectiveness, both inside and outside independent and of such calibre and number that their the boardroom.
The Group Chairman regularly considers views may be expected to be of sufficient weight that succession planning and the Boards composition with the no individual or small group can dominate the Boards Nomination Committee and ensures effective communication decision-making processes.
with shareholders and other stakeholders.
THE BOARD The Group Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary, sets the agenda for Board meetings and ensures that Board Operation of the Board members receive timely information and are briefed on The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for issues arising at Board meetings to assist them in making its decision, whilst day-to-day operational decisions are an effective contribution.
managed by the Executive Board, as referred to on page 68.
The role of the Chief Executive In order to facilitate the efficient use of its time the Board The Chief Executive bears primary responsibility for the has delegated certain of its powers to Board committees, management of the Group and in leading the formulation details of which are set out later in this report.
From time to of and, once set by the Board, implementing strategy.
time the Board also establishes certain other committees to The Chief Executive chairs the Executive Board and Risk deal with a specific issue which the Board has approved.
Committee, leads the executive management team and Key matters dealt with by the Board during the course of the investor communications and is responsible for social and year, in addition to ongoing monitoring of the operational ethical matters within the Group.
and financial performance of the Group, were: The role of the Company Secretary The Company Secretary is responsible for distributing Board setting the health, safety and environmental targets for papers and other information sufficiently far in advance of each the Group: meeting for the directors to be properly briefed, presenting reviewing the Groups strategic direction, governance, certain papers to the Board and its committees, advising on ethics, values and reputation risk management: Board procedures and ensuring the Board follows them.
reviewing IT in the Support Services business and its use The Board papers include information from management on more generally to obtain competitive advantage: financial, business and corporate issues.
Matters requiring Board and committee approval are generally the subject of a the assessment of a number of potential acquisitions written proposal and circulated as part of the Board papers.
including the proposed acquisition of the facilities The Company Secretary plays a key role in the good governance services business of Rentokil Initial plc: OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 67 of the Company and in particular by supporting the Group The Board also holds a strategy day in January each year to Chairman on all Board matters pertaining to governance.
review the strategic direction of the Group.
Non-executive director independence The Group Chairman held one formal session with the and appointments non-executive directors without any executive directors The Group Chairman and the non-executive directors are being present and a number of informal discussions both considered by the Board to be independent in character and with and without the Chief Executive being present.
The judgement and free from any relationships or circumstances non-executive directors also met once during the year, which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, under the chairmanship of the Senior Independent Director, their judgement.
without either the Group Chairman or the executive directors being present.
The non-executive directors have complementary skills, experience and qualifications in a wide range of economic Board induction, time commitment and development sectors and so are able to bring independent judgement to On appointment, new directors take part in an induction bear on matters for consideration.
programme arranged by the Company Secretary, which includes training on the duties of a listed company On 1 January 2013 Anne Fahy was appointed as a nondirector by the Groups corporate lawyers, meetings with executive director.
At the conclusion of the AGM on management and other corporate advisers, and operational 13 May 2013 David Trapnell retired from the Board, site visits.
Les Cullen succeeded him as Senior Independent Director and Anne Fahy replaced Les Cullen as chair An ongoing programme of site visits, staff meetings and of the Audit Committee.
business presentations provides additional opportunities for the Chairman and non-executive directors to visit various The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders operations of the Group and to receive insight and feedback should they have any concerns which contact through other from employees.
channels has failed to resolve or for which such contact may be inappropriate.
He also provides a sounding board for During the year under review the non-executive directors the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for the other have attended a number of seminars and or other nondirectors when necessary.
executive forums relevant to their roles.
As at 31 December 2013 the Board comprised ten Development below Board level has been through the members: the Group Chairman, five executive and four Trusted Partner Programme, Ingenuity at Work and Coaching non-executive directors.
All are Group-wide leadership development programmes, offered at different management levels, Meetings established to support the ambitious vision of the business.
The Board normally meets monthly throughout the year and The programmes include topics associated with the new on an ad hoc basis to consider any matters which are timecorporate vision, values and SustainAbilities Plan.
Attendance at Board and committee meetings is set achieve the vision, these programmes aim to enhance out in the table below.
leadership capability as well as strategic relationships across the different businesses within the Group.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Performance evaluation Number of Meetings 13 5 6 5 During the course of the year the performance of the Lord Blackwell 13 6 5 directors was reviewed by the Group Chairman and the Chief L G Cullen 13 5 6 5 Executive and, in the case of the Chief Executive, by the S L Dance 13 Group Chairman, having consulted with other directors.
The Group Chairmans performance was reviewed by the Senior A K Fahy 13 5 6 5 Independent Director who held separate meetings with each T P Haywood 13 of the directors and the Company Secretary.
K L Ludeman 13 5 6 5 The overall time commitment of the non-executive directors B A Melizan 13 in the attendance of Board meetings visits was in the order 1 D J Paterson 4 of 15 days in addition to the time taken to read Board A M Ringrose 13 5 papers and attendance at four meetings held by the D I Sutherland 13 Group Chairman.
