OVERVIEW STRATEGIC REPORT GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT 57 This authority will also be used in connection with the may be purchased at a price ranging between the nominal placing of 12,897,771 shares representing approximately value for each share and an amount equal to the higher of 9.9 per cent of the Companys issued ordinary share i 105 per cent of the average of the middle-market price capital by J. P. Morgan Cazenove and Numis Securities with of an ordinary share for the five business days immediately institutional placees, the proceeds from which will be used, preceding the date on which the Company agrees to buy together with other funds, to finance the purchase of the the shares concerned and ii the higher of the price of the facilities services business of Rentokil Initial plc should last independent trade and the highest independent current shareholders approve this transaction at the General bid on the London Stock Exchange at the time the purchase Meeting to be held on 17 March 2014. is carried out.
This authority expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM on 13 May 2014.
No shares have been In accordance with the guidelines issued by the Association of repurchased by the Company under the authority granted at British Insurers the ABI, the directors propose Resolution 18 the 2013 AGM.
set out in the Notice of AGM to renew the authority granted to them at the 2013 AGM to allot shares up to an aggregate Resolution 20 set out in the Notice of AGM will be proposed nominal value of one-third of the Companys issued share as a special resolution in order to renew this authority.
capital plus a further one-third i. e. two-thirds in all where Although the directors have no immediate plans to do so, the allotment is in connection with a rights issue.
they believe it is prudent to seek general authority from shareholders to be able to act if circumstances were to arise Under section 561 of the 2006 Act, if the directors wish in which they considered such purchases to be desirable.
to allot unissued shares for cash other than pursuant to This power will only be exercised if and when, in the light an employee share scheme they must first offer them to of market conditions prevailing at that time, the directors existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings a prebelieve that such purchases would increase earnings per emptive offer.
Resolution 19 set out in the Notice of AGM share and would be for the benefit of shareholders generally.
will be proposed as a special resolution in order to renew the Any shares purchased under this authority will be cancelled directors authority to allot shares for cash other than by way unless the directors determine that they are to be held as of rights to existing shareholders.
By restricting such authority treasury shares and the number of shares in issue will be to an aggregate nominal value of no more than 5 per cent of reduced accordingly.
the Companys total issued equity capital, the Company will be in compliance with the Pre-Emption Groups Statement of Whilst the Company does not presently hold shares in Principles the Principles.
treasury, the Treasury Shares Regulations allow shares purchased by the Company out of distributable profits to be Shareholders should note that the Listing Rules of the FCA do held as treasury shares, which may then be cancelled, sold not require shareholders specific approval for each issue of for cash or used to meet the Companys obligations under shares for cash on a non-pre-emptive basis to the extent that its employee share schemes.
The authority sought by this under section 570 of the 2006 Act the provisions of section 561 resolution is intended to apply equally to shares to be held are disapplied generally.
If given, this authority will expire on by the Company as treasury shares in accordance with the the date of the next AGM of the Company.
The Principles also Treasury Shares Regulations.
request that in any rolling three-year period a company does not make non-pre-emptive issues for cash or of equity securities SHAREHOLDERS RIGHTS exceeding 7.5 per cent of the companys issued share capital General without prior consultation with shareholders.
The percentages The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are set out in the of shares issued by the Company on a non-pre-emptive basis in 2006 Act and the Companys Articles of Association.
A copy 2013 and in the period 2011 to 2013 pursuant to employee share of the Articles can be obtained on request from the Company schemes calculated by reference to the Companys closing Secretary.
The Articles may only be changed by special issued share capital at 31 December 2013, were 1.71 per cent resolution of shareholders which requires, on a vote on a and 2.52 per cent respectively.
show of hands, at least three-quarters of the shareholders or proxies present at the meeting to be in favour of the Save for issues of shares in respect of various employee resolution or, on a poll, at least three-quarters in nominal share schemes, the directors have no current plans to make value of the votes cast by shareholders or their proxies to be use of the renewed authorities sought by Resolutions 18 in favour of the resolution.
and 19 although they consider their renewal appropriate in order to retain maximum flexibility to take advantage of A shareholder whose name appears on the register of business opportunities as they arise.
members may choose whether those shares are evidenced by share certificates certificated form or held in electronic REPURCHASE OF SHARES form uncertificated in CREST.
The Company has authority under a shareholders resolution passed at the 2013 AGM to repurchase up to 12,709,595 of the Companys ordinary shares in the market.
