60 INTERSERVE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The directors do not have any interest in any other Group APPOINTMENT AND REPLACEMENT OF DIRECTORS company, other than as directors.
No director has, or has The Board must comprise of not less than three and no had, a material interest, directly or indirectly, at any time more than twelve directors.
Directors may be appointed during the year under review in any contract significant to by shareholders by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, any director DIRECTORS INDEMNITIES AND INSURANCE appointed by the Board since the last AGM may only hold office until the date of the next AGM, at which time that As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, director must stand for election by shareholders.
qualifying third-party indemnities have been in place throughout the period under review and remain in force at The Articles also require one-third of the directors to retire the date of this report in respect of liabilities suffered or by rotation at each AGM.
Any director who has not retired incurred by each director.
The Company also undertakes by rotation must retire at the third AGM after his or her last to loan such funds to a director as it, in its reasonable appointment or re-appointment.
However, in accordance with discretion, considers appropriate for the director to meet the Corporate Governance Code, which requires all directors expenditure incurred by him in defending any criminal of FTSE 350 companies to be subject to annual re-election or civil proceeding or in connection with any application by shareholders, the Board has again decided that all the under section 661 3 or 1157 of the 2006 Act on terms which directors will be subject to re-election at this years AGM.
require repayment by the director of amounts so advanced upon conviction of final judgment being given against No person other than a director retiring at a general meeting him.
The deeds of indemnity are available for inspection shall, unless recommended by the directors for election, be by shareholders at the Companys registered office.
The eligible for election to the office of director unless, not less Company also maintains an appropriate level of directors than seven nor more than 21 days beforehand, the Company and officers insurance in respect of legal actions against the has been given notice, executed by a shareholder eligible to directors.
Neither the qualifying third-party indemnities nor vote at the meeting, of his intention to propose such person the insurance provide cover where the director has acted for election together with a notice executed by that person fraudulently or dishonestly.
of his willingness to be elected.
On 26 September 2007 the rules of the Interserve Pension The Company may, by ordinary resolution, of which special Scheme were amended in order to provide the directors of notice has been given in accordance with section 312 of the Interserve Trustees Limited, the corporate trustee of the 2006 Act, remove any director before the expiration of his Interserve Pension Scheme, with a qualifying pension scheme period of office and may, by ordinary resolution, appoint indemnity to the extent that insurance has not been taken out another person in his stead.
by the trustee to cover its liabilities, or such liabilities cannot be paid from the proceeds of any insurance taken out by the DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS INTERESTS trustee.
That qualifying pension scheme indemnity remains in The following have served as directors during the year: force at the date of this report and is available for inspection by shareholders at the Companys registered office.
Lord Blackwell Group Chairman Adrian Ringrose Chief Executive In January 2011 an indemnity was given to the trustees of Les Cullen Senior Independent Director from 13 May 2013 the Douglas Group Compass Pension Plan for any claim, Steven Dance costs, loss, damages and expenses which may be made 1 Anne Fahy against them or which they may pay or incur save as a Tim Haywood consequence of breach of trust committed knowingly and Keith Ludeman intentionally or as a result of negligence in connection with Bruce Melizan the administration of the Plan and the winding-up of the 2 David Paterson Plan.
Two of the trustees were also directors of one or more Dougie Sutherland Group subsidiary companies.
This Plan was formally wound David Thorpe up on 7 January 2011 but the indemnity remains in force.
3 David Trapnell Senior Independent Director to 13 May 2013 In January 2012 an indemnity was given to the trustees of Non-executive director 1 Appointed to the Board on 1 January 2013 the Interserve Retirement Plan against all and any claims, 2 Retired from the Board on 30 April 2013 3 costs, damages and expenses which may be made against Retired from the Board on 13 May 2013 them or which they may pay or incur in connection with The biographical details of the directors of the Company are their administration of the Plan and the winding-up of the given on pages 52 to 55.
Plan other than liabilities arising as a consequence of breach of trust committed knowingly and intentionally.
One of The directors beneficial interests in, and options to acquire, the trustees was also a director of various Group subsidiary ordinary shares in the Company, are set out in the Directors companies.
This Plan was formally wound up 31 January 2012 Remuneration Report on pages 91 to 95 of this Annual Report but the indemnity remains in force.
