Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Contents Overview Strategic report Directors report Governance Financial statements Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties register, all senior executives and their direct reports are Principal risks This section sets out a description of the principal risks and uncertainties required to complete an annual return to confirm that The Group is affected by a number of risk factors, some of management controls have been effectively applied during which, including macroeconomic and industry specific cyclical that could have a material adverse effect on the Intertek Groups theyear.
The return covers operations, compliance, risk risks, are outside the Groups control.
Some risks are particular strategy, performance, results, financial condition and reputation.
The principal risks of which we are aware are detailed below including a commentary on how the The Risk Control and Assurance Committee RCA, Group mitigates these risks.
These risks and uncertainties do comprisingsenior Intertek executives, complements the Risk framework the Group faces, the controls and assurance processes in place notappear in any particular order of potential materiality or workofthe Audit & Risk Committee.
The RCA oversees the The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment and and any mitigating actions or controls.
Bothroles report to the probability of occurrence.
development of the internal control framework, reviews the oversight of the Groups risk management framework which Audit & Risk Committee, attend itsmeetings and meet with riskmatrices and risk management procedures, monitors issues There may be other risks that are currently unknown or regarded isdescribed in the Corporate Governance Report on pages members alone each year.
and provides guidance to management.
The RCA makes as immaterial which could turn out to be material.
Risks are formally identified and recorded in a risk register for recommendations to the Intertek Executive Management Team risks could have the potential to impact the performance of the The Head of Internal Audit and the Head of Legal, who report each operating division and support function.
The risk register and develops the Groups integrated responses to changes Group, its assets, liquidity, capital resources and its reputation.
to the Chief Financial Officer and Chief Executive Officer is updated at least twice each year and is used to plan the inthe regulatory environment.
respectively, have accountability for reporting the key risks that Groups internal audit and risk strategy.
In addition to the risk Principal risk Context Associated strategic priorities Possible impact Mitigation Operational Harm to the Groups The Group relies on its reputation to maintain and grow Leading positions Failure to meet financial performance Risk Management Framework and associated controls and assurance processes, reputation business.
Adverse litigation, ethical breaches and operational inkeyindustries and financial position expectations.
including contractual review and liability caps where appropriate.
failures have the potential to damage its reputation.
There is Exposure to material legal claims, Quality Management Systems: adherence to these is regularly audited and Please refer to page 8 alsoa risk that poor performance of services leads to a loss of associated costs and wasted reviewed by external parties, including accreditation bodies.
confidence in the Groups standards and reputation for quality management time.
Code of Ethics which is communicated to all staff, who undergo regular training.
Whistle-blowing programme, monitored by the Audit & Risk Committee, Loss of existing or new business.
where staff are encouraged to report, without risk, any fraudulent or other activity likely to adversely affect the reputation of the Group.
Zero-tolerance policy with regard to any inappropriate behaviour by any individual employed by the Group, or acting on the Groups behalf.
Media comments with regard to Group activities are centrally reviewed so thatsenior management can, where necessary, take appropriate action on atimely basis.
Relationship management and communication with external stakeholders.
Loss of accreditation The Group relies on being awarded and retaining appropriate Leading positions Loss of business in the relevant Quality assurance procedures and controls embedded in its operations to leading to loss accreditations and affiliations around the world in order to inkeyindustries industry and damage to the ensure that it holds and maintains the necessary accreditations and that the ofbusiness provide its certification services.
required operational standards are applied.
relationships Operations are regularly subjected to audit and review by external parties including accreditation bodies, governments, trade affiliations, retailers, Please refer to page 8 manufacturers and clients.
Accreditation is usually held at an industry, country or site level and loss ofaccreditation will not mean loss of accreditation across the Group.
Key staff reliance and The Group operates in specialised sectors and needs to attract Investing in our people Reduced ability to HR policies and systems.
depth of management and retain employees with relevant experience and knowledge Customer orientated competeeffectively.
in order to take advantage of all growth opportunities.
Lose talent to competitors Employee survey.
Please refer to page 8 andlosemarket share.
Political risk The Group operates in over 100 countries including some Global network Reduction in opportunities in Monitoring of any incidents of political or social unrest and taking mitigating action.
where political instability can result in disruption to operations aparticular geography.
Operations across many industries and countries diversifies the risk profile of Please refer to page 8 and the suspension, change or termination of contracts at Changes to terms of contracts.
The Group receives tax incentives in certain Reduction or confiscation of Group The Group utilises internal and external expertise to keep abreast of tax and jurisdictions, resulting in a lower tax charge to the income assets, potentially without reasonable otherlegislations.
There is no guarantee that these reduced rates recompense: or increase in the willcontinue tobe applicable.
14 15 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Contents Overview Strategic report Directors report Governance Financial statements Strategic report Principal risks and uncertainties continued Principal risk Context Associated strategic priorities Possible impact Mitigation Operational continued Cyclical risk All businesses are subject to cycles, with supply and demand Leading positions A sustained downturn in the economic The Group has a diversified service offering to a wide range of industries and fluctuating for economic or other factors over time.
During times inkeyindustries cycle can result in a lower return on geographies.
This reduces the risk of a downturn in any one sector or region of cyclical strength this can place the business under pressure Global network invested capital, as revenue and margin having a material impact on the long-term viability of the Group.
Where a tomeet peaks in demand whilst maintaining quality standards, Targeted acquisitions levels come under pressure.
downturn does occur, the Group seeks to reduce, where possible, the cost whilst in cyclical downturns there is a requirement to restructure base whilst retaining its core capability to take advantage of the cyclical Please refer to page 8 the business.
IT systems risk The Group is dependent on IT systems for principal business Leading positions Damage to reputation leading to loss Information systems policy and governance structure.
The failure of one of these systems can cause significant inkeyindustries of business and media attention.
Tested and constantly evolving disaster recovery and business continuity operational disruption and loss of revenue.
Given the ongoing Global network Cost to rectify.
plans to minimise the impact if a failure does occur.
consolidation of the Groups IT systems and data management, Process efficiency Loss of systems and data impacts the Internal and external audit testing.
thishas been added as a new risk this year.
ability to perform services and earn Please refer to page 8 revenue in an efficient manner.
Legal and Regulatory Claims The Group is involved in claims where an event is found or is Leading positions Financial impact fines by regulators, Effective Quality Management Systems and assurance procedures and controls, perceived to be caused by the negligence of the Group.
It could inkeyindustries suspension of accreditation, including contractual review and liability caps where appropriate.
subject the Group to claims for personal injury or property Customer orientated compensation.
All significant incidents that could potentially result in a claim against the Group damage by customers, sub-contractors, employees or members relationships Loss of business contract termination.
are immediately reported to compliance officers and logged in an incident ofthe public which could lead to the payment of damages and Criminal and Civil Action.
database so that they can be properly managed.
The Group Head of Legal Please refer to page 8 result in reputational damage which could in turn lead to a loss of Loss of reputation.
reports any significant claims to the Audit & Risk Committee.
There is a risk that a legal dispute could adversely affect counsel is appointed if appropriate.
the reputation of the Group and result in significant financial loss.
Crisis management policy in place.
Seeking contractual protection from loss where possible.
Bribery and corruption The Group operates in countries which are recognised to have Global network Legal action and fines against Code of Ethics and training, risk assessments, Audit & Risk Committee, higher bribery and corruption risks.
whistle-blowing policy and policies and systems.
Please refer to page 8 Debarment from being able The Group employs local people in each country who are aware of local legal toparticipate in tenders.
There are also extensive internal compliance and Loss of reputation.
audit systems to facilitate compliance.
Expert advice is taken in areas where Media activity.
The Group continues to dedicate resources to ensure compliance with the UK Bribery Act and all other anti-bribery legislation.
Financial Financial The Group could suffer financial loss either through Leading positions Corresponding loss of value The Group has financial and management controls in place to ensure that irregularity risk misappropriation of assets or the misrepresentation inkeyindustries and reputation could result in funding theGroups assets are protected from major financial risks.
being withdrawn or provided at A detailed system of financial reporting is in place to ensure that monthly Please refer to page 8 higher interest rates, and negative financial results are thoroughly reviewed.
The Group also operates a rigorous market sentiment.
programme of internal audits and management reviews.
Independent external auditors review the Groups half year results and audit the Groups annual financial statements.
16 17 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Contents Overview Strategic report Directors report Governance Financial statements S Str tra at te eg gic ic r re ep po or rt t Intertek Executive Management Team The day-to-day 1 2 5 6 management of the Group is undertaken bythe Intertek Executive ManagementTeam.
3 4 7 8 1 3 5 7 Wolfhart Hauser Jonathan Lawrence Stefan Butz Jay Gutierrez Chief Executive Officer Group Vice President, Human Resources Executive Vice President, Industry & Assurance, Executive Vice President, Commodities Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals Joined Intertek in 2002.
Appointed to the Board as Chief Joined Intertek in 2005.
Jonathan leads Human Resources as Joined Intertek in 1997.
In addition to Commodities, Jay is Executive Officer in March 2005 after serving as a Non-Executive amember of the Group Executive.
He also directs sustainability Joined Intertek in 2008.
In addition to Industry & Assurance responsible for operations in Australasia, South East Asia, Director since November 2002.
Wolfhart Hauser was previously and internal communications across the Intertek Group.
Before and Chemicals & Pharmaceuticals, Stefan Butz has responsibility LatinAmerica and the Caribbean and Sub Saharan Africa.
Chief Executive Officer and President of TV Sddeutschland AG joining Intertek, Jonathan was a member of the Bureau Veritas for operations in Europe, FSU, Middle East and North Africa.
JayGutierrez assumed his current role in January 2008, and for four years and Chief Executive Officer of TV Product Services Global Executive as Group Vice President Human Resources.
Stefan joined Intertek from TV SD, where he held the added Government Services in January 2009 and Minerals for 10 years.
Starting his career with various research activities Prior to moving into business services in the testing, inspection position of CEO Americas, with an earlier role as Head of inJanuary 2011.
Previously, he was Vice President for the Oil, he went on to establish and lead a broad range of successful and certification sector, Jonathan held HR, Quality Management Corporate Development.
Prior to this he was a Strategy Chemical and Agri division in the Americas.
Jay has 30 years international service industry businesses.
He has held several and operations roles in the automotive, chemicals and general Consultant with Accenture Germany.
experience in the cargo inspection and testing industry.
Prior non-executive board director and chairman roles in a variety manufacturing sectors, starting his career as a Chartered tojoining Intertek he spent eight years as General Manager 6 Gregg Tiemann oftechnology companies.
Engineer in the machinery industry.
During his career he has fora North American cargo inspection and testing company.
Executive Vice President, Consumer Goods, been based in the UK, France and the USA.
2 8 Lloyd Pitchford Julia Thomas Commercial & Electrical 4 Ann-Michele Bowlin Chief Financial Officer Vice President, Corporate Development Joined Intertek in 1993.
In addition to Consumer Goods and Chief Information Officer Joined Intertek in 2010.
Appointed to the Board as Chief Commercial & Electrical, Gregg is responsible for operations Joined Intertek in 2013.
Julia Thomas has responsibility for Financial Officer in April 2010.
Lloyd Pitchford previously spent Joined Intertek in 2009.
Ann-Michele Bowlin was appointed inNorth America, Hong Kong, Japan, Korea and Taiwan.
theGroup functions of Corporate Development and Group 10 years with BG Group plc in various operational and corporate Chief Information Officer in September 2010.
Ann-Michele Priorto assuming his current role, Gregg Tiemann was President Marketing.
Before joining Intertek, Julia spent 12 years in finance roles in the UK and Middle East: the last five of which Bowlin joined as Group Vice President of Shared Services, to of Interteks Commercial & Electrical division in Europe and investment banking with J. P. Morgan Cazenove and Rothschild, were as Group Financial Controller.
He previously worked for work with business and finance leaders to develop and deliver theAmericas, having started as General Manager of the focusing primarily on mergers & acquisitions.
Mobil Oil Corporation in various financial, commercial and the Group shared services strategy.
Ann-Michele previously LosAngeles and Mexico City laboratories in 1993.
Lloyd holds responsibility for Finance, held director level roles for Ernst & Young consulting with joining Intertek, Gregg worked in sales and marketing for Tax, Treasury, Audit, Investor Relations, Company Secretariat industries including oil & gas, manufacturing and services.
andIT, and for operations across the Indian Subcontinent.
Prior to this, she spent over 13 years in technology leadershippositions.
18 19 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Contents Overview Strategic report Directors report Governance Financial statements S Str tra at te eg gic ic r re ep po or rt t Operating review Industry & Assurance Commodities Powering safer futures Supporting global trade Our performance in 2013 Our performance in 2013 Total revenue was 709.3m, up 7% at both actual and constant Total revenue was 586.6m, up 2% at actual exchange rates, Industry & Assurance division Commodities division exchange rates.
Excluding acquisitions revenue growth was 4%.
and 3% at constant exchange rates.
Excluding acquisitions Key business lines include Industry Services, Exploration Key business lines include Cargo, Analytical Assessment, Total adjusted operating profit was 82.2m, up 6%.
Total adjusted operating profit was &Production, Business Assurance and Food & Agriculture.
Government & Trade Services and Minerals.
These service acquisitions adjusted operating profit was up 3% at constant 70.0m, down 9%.
Excluding acquisitions adjusted operating These service a wide range of industries including oil, gas, awide range of industries including petroleum, mining, exchange rates.
The total adjusted operating margin remained profit was down 11% at constant exchange rates.
The total nuclear, power, renewable energy, construction, food, minerals and biofuels.
constant at 11.6% at actual exchange rates.
The organic adjusted operating margin decreased 160 basis points to 11.9% chemical and agriculture.
adjusted operating margin at constant exchange rates at actual exchange rates.
The organic adjusted operating Our services decreased 20 basis points.
margin at constant exchange rates decreased 180 basis points.
Our services Analytical assessment Certification Asset integrity Certification Inspection Consulting Revenue growth was driven by demand for Technical Inspection Revenue growth was driven by oil cargo inspections globally, management Consulting services in China, Brazil and the Middle East.
Over the last few with the USA leading this growth with the expansion of shale Technical inspection Training Market drivers years, growth in global energy has driven increased new capital oil extraction and rail transportation activities.
This growth was Auditing Staffing As global trade continues to develop, we expect underlying and production based spending on oil and gas projects, offset by minerals experiencing a pronounced downturn in demand for commodities to increase, with a resulting particularly by the integrated oil companies, supporting very 2013, where lower commodity prices, especially gold, continue demand for testing and inspection services.
high levels of Industry Services growth.
During 2013, this high to deter exploration activity, particularly in Australia, Brazil and Market drivers level of spending growth was moderated by discretionary Africa.
The reduced demand also put increased pressure on Developing market energy demand, combined with spending mainly in the USA on energy sector plant and Financial highlights prices within laboratory based activities.
The impact of the maintenance expenditure to extend the lives of in-service equipment and training contracts being deferred or ending, sharp fall in exploration was lessened by increased analysis of assets, will continue to drive demand for services.
Change Change at holding back the pace of growth for Intertek services.
iron ore production and shipments led by demand from China.
at actual constant Thissoftness will continue to affect Intertek in 2014, alongside Financial Highlights 2013 m rates rates Financial highlights Product Conformity Programmes in Government & Trade the intentional reduction insome large low value contracts Revenue 586.6 2% 3% Services had flat revenue against the prior year, with the Change Change at thataccount for approximately 30m of divisional revenue.
Adjusted operating profit 70.0 9 % 9 % growth in the first half reversed in the second half following at actual constant Over the medium-term, growth in energy demand and related Financial Highlights 2013 m rates rates changes in a key customer programme that declined in value.
Adjusted operating margin 11.9% 160 bps 160 bps infrastructure especially from new sourcesand destinations Revenue 709.3 7% 7% This programme change will impact revenue by approximately willcontinue to drive demand for Intertek services.
Revenue at actual rates m Employees 5m during 2014 alongside a continuing weak minerals market.
Adjusted operating profit 82.2 6% 7% Business Assurance grew well in the period particularly in North Further investment in the North American shale regions will Adjusted operating margin 11.6% 0bps 0bps 2013 2013 586.6 10,239 America with sector programmes in aerospace and automotive provide growth in this division, alongside increasing production, Revenue at actual rates m Employees and new global accounts increasing revenue across the world.
shipment and use for oil and petrochemicals inemerging and 2012 572.3 2012 10,352 developed markets.
Revenue from Food Services grew strongly in the UK and 2013 709.3 2013 8,972 Europe as food contamination scares prompted increased The margin decline in the year was first half weighted, mainly 11 years of dedicated lab testing 2012 665.6 2012 7,329 demand for analytical testing and supply chain auditing.
due to the minerals revenue decline, which moderated with and support The Agriculture business grew well overall with particularly cost reduction measures during the second half.
Intertek provides outsourced strong growth in Latin America and Canada partially offset laboratory services to the Sasol Wax Promoting food safety by trade restrictions in some markets.
Increased scrutiny over Durban Supply Centre, and has As South Africas population food and agricultural quality, variety and provenance will operated there for over 11 years.
continues to grow, Intertek, working continue to support testing, inspection and supplier auditing Tosupport Sasol, we analyse a alongside local communities and for this business.
widerange of petroleum-based organisations, is helping to promote In 2013 Intertek acquired Global X-Ray & Testing Corporation waxes, synthetic waxes, paraffin effective food safety systems including GXT for 44.9m, a USA based company that specialises in waxes, petroleum jellies and other the launch of dedicated food safety non-destructive testing services to the onshore and offshore wax related products used in training programmes and workshops.
Three bolt-on acquisitions for a total consideration of 2.0m Aiding development of Intertek is responsible for all in-process were also completed in this division in the year, two providing Copenhagens infrastructure and final quality control and quality services to the food industry and one offering design services Intertek signed a contract to design, assurance checks.
Noproduct, either to manufacturing and industrial plants.
manufacture, install and commission solid or liquid, isreleased without acorrosion and stray current corrosion Interteks certification, and our monitoring system for the Danish dedication tocustomer service capitals metro extension project, exemplifies the true spirit of delivering Cityringen.
This will assist with the a valued, quality service.
effective running of the system, which is one of the largest underground rail construction projects in Europe.
