Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Contents Overview Strategic report Directors report Governance Financial statements Strategic report Our industry Intertek operates in the global quality industry.
We help our customers Our customers are typically other businesses, including companies, to improve their products, assets and processes and achieve their governments and not-for-profit entities.
Market drivers in the sectors whereweoperate Quality can mean anumber of different things The quality industry has a number of different growth The growth drivers for the industry asawhole also include market drivers that impact thesectors in which depending on theviewpoint of our customer or drivers, some macroeconomic, andothers unique to we operate.
Within these sectors our customers are being challenged across all aspects oftheir operations, theend userof a product or service.
Quality can the challenges faced byour customers.
with constant pressure to improve quality, reduce costs and differentiate their offering.
This provides an bedefined as: opportunity for Intertek to support them intheir operations, thereby driving growth in our business.
Customer market drivers How we can help Safety Global trade and emerging market trade growth Increased focus on global supply chains We help our clients gain assurance on quality Our customers create products and infrastructure using suppliers along their supplychain to reduce the risk of Evolution of outsourcing consulting andcomponents across multiple countries astheyseek to gain product, brand and operational failures and costandstrategic advantages.
Desirability Sustainability Industry consolidation This strategy also increases risk, with provenance across Quality thesupplychainbeing an area of focus.
Network service expansion Market drivers in the sectors where we operate New product development We develop methods to test the reliability and Companies are constantly challenged to develop new products performance of new products, and consult andtechnologies, to create new markets, increase sales and onproduct design, development and production.
Integrity Performance torespondtodiverse end-user demands.
Growth drivers We help protect brands, reduce costs and Global trade and emerging market trade growth improve efficiency.
The quality industry benefits from the growth in global trade, with increased shipments of commodities, materials Energy growth and development Our customers require more quality, and products resulting in the need for increased testing Global demand for energy is driving increased development  assurance support across the supply chain.
and trading of energy resources and infrastructure.
intheir expanding resourceproduction and Safety trading activities.
As emerging markets develop, global brands look to enter these markets to achieve growth, while local brands focus Reducing the risk of injuries and danger to life and health Our services encompass both capital and on improving their product offering to compete against fromproducts, materials, components and operations.
operational maintenance expenditure across these new entrants.
Both these forces drive demand the entire asset life cycle.
Sustainability Increased regulation Our experts advise clients on how to navigate Evolution of outsourcing consulting Improving the social, health and environmental impact Quality, safety and environmental regulations and industry standards newregulations to maintain compliance.
As companies have outsourced non-core activities such ofproducts and processes.
continue to expand and change across companies andcultures.
asquality and safety related services, participants in the They also help clients understand the complex quality industry have assumed responsibility for providing rulesaround entrytonew markets.
Performance these services, which has helped expand the size of the Optimising the technical output of products or processes.
Local market development As end-user expectations of quality change, so Industry consolidation Consumers in developed economies trust brands and companies that wework with customers to develop solutions Integrity The industry is in a constant state of consolidation as perform and deliverproducts with consistent quality.
Consumers in toenhance the quality they deliver totheir companies that provide niche services are integrated emerging markets are increasingly demanding higherlevels of quality endclients.
Ensuring the composition, reliability and durability of intolarger organisations that can deploy those services across adiverse range of criteria, creatingnewmarkets for local and infrastructure, materials, commodities, components toawider customer base.
Network service expansion Brand promotion and protection Intertek can help brands achieve consistent Desirability As global trade has increased, and transport links Branding is an important means of differentiation for companies in quality across theiroffering by monitoring haveimproved, the quality industry has expanded Producing more appealing products or materials, with new acrowded marketplace.
The development and promotion ofthese compliance with global standards, auditing geographically at a rapid rate.
Providing services to innovations to meet the preferences of multiple users.
brandstakes a significant investment, and there is ongoing effort supply chains and ensuring consumers customers in new geographic locations, and in new toprotect this investment over time.
6 7 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Contents Overview Strategic report Directors report Governance Financial statements Strategic report Our strategy and business model Delivering on our strategy The market drivers in our customers industries create opportunities In order to measure the financial impact of the Groups strategy, forusto provide services and to grow our business.
weuse a variety of key performance indicators KPIs to monitor theperformance of the Group and operating divisions.
How do we respond to these opportunities?
Our key performance indicators At Intertek our business model is focused on supporting During 2013 the Group reported solid financial results as the strength of its portfolio and strong structural Leading Investing in organisations needs for quality as they arise in the context positions in key our people growth drivers mitigated near-term cyclical weakness in some markets.
ofglobal trade, targeting the testing, inspection and certification industries of goods, commodities and infrastructure along supply chains 1 Revenue m Organic revenue at constant exchange Adjusted operating profit m and across different markets.
3 rates m Strategy Targeted Process While focusing on global trade, we deliver our services through and business acquisitions efficiency anetwork of locations and employees who have in-depth model 6.3% 4.3% 2.2% knowledge of their local markets.
We are organised into 2013 2,184 2013 343 2013 2,140 divisionsand business lines, allowing a greater degree of Customer Global specialisation amongst our employees and ensuring alignment orientated network 2012 2,054 2012 335 2012 2,052 relationships with our customers.
2011 1,749 2011 281 Page 10 for our Strategy in action Revenue growth measures how well the Group is Organic revenue growth, 4% at constant exchange A measure of how well the Group is controlling expanding its business.
Growth of 6% includes the rates, excludes the distortion caused by the timing costs.
Adjusted operating profit grew 2% contribution made by seven acquisitions in 2013. ofacquisitions.
withmixed market conditions in key sectors Our strategy reflects our global focus and local delivery model, as we concentrate our efforts on the andgeographies.
industries, locations and services most demanded by our customers.
1 1 Organic adjusted operating profit Adjusted operating margin % Adjusted cash flow from operations m Our plan How we will achieve our aims Principal risk 1,3 atconstant exchange rates m Leading positions We are organised into business lines to reflect the needs of Harm to the Groups 1.2 % 60 bps 14.2% inkey industries our customers, and concentrate on industry sectors where we reputation have the critical size to hold leading positions and provide our Please refer to page 14 2013 2013 394 2013 333 15.7 customers with world-class services.
2012 345 2012 337 2012 16.3 Customer orientated We aim to create long-term partnerships with our customers Key staff reliance relationships tohelp them improve their competitive advantage.
By 2011 315 2011 16.1 Please refer to page 14 investing in relationships for the long-term, we can deepen our understanding of their businesses.
Measures profitability of the Group excluding Margin measures profitability as a proportion of Shows the ability of the Group to turn profit into acquisitions: down 1% at constant exchange rates, revenue.
Decreased in 2013 due to challenges in cash.
Global network We have a global network of offices and labs that can react Political risk but in line with prior year at actual rates.
certain markets see Financial review.
quickly to changes in global, interregional and local trade.
Please refer to page 14 Thenetworkallows us to deepen our position in established 2 Adjusted diluted earnings Dividend per share pence Return on invested capital % and growing markets, and help our customers with the flow 1 per share pence ofgoods across boundaries.
Investing in ourpeople Our people are our core assets and are chosen for their Key staff reliance 5.6% 12.2% 100 bps technical expertise, their values andtheir understanding of Please refer to page 14 2013 2013 138.6 2013 46.0 18.4 local markets and culture.
We provide training for personal growth and to ensure we continue to deliver expert services 2012 131.2 2012 41.0 2012 19.4 toour customers.
2011 107.2 2011 33.7 2011 16.8 Targeted acquisitions We will achieve our strategic priorities through both organic Cyclical risk investment, but also through targeted acquisitions.
We acquire Please refer to page 16 companies which provide access to new services, markets, A key measure of value creation for the Board.
Dividend per share measures returns provided Measures how effectively the Group generates EPSincrease of 6% reflects good toshareholders, and reflects strong underlying profit from its invested capital.
Acquisitions technologies or skills that expand our service offering.
reduceROIC in the short term but drive long-term growth.
Process efficiency Process efficiency allows us to streamline core operations IT systems risk andprovide more time for adding value for our customers.
Adjusted operating profit, adjusted operating margin, adjusted cash flow from operations and adjusted diluted earnings per share EPS are stated before Asglobal standards converge we adopt best practices Separately Disclosed Items, which are described in note 3 to the financial statements.
2. wherever we find them in a relentless pursuit of Dividend per share for 2013 is based on the interim dividend paid of 15.0p 2012: 13.0p plus the proposed final dividend of 31.0p 2012: 28.0p.
Growth at constant exchange rates compares both 2013 and 2012 at the average exchange rates for 2013.
Organic revenue excludes acquisitions processimprovement.
and disposals in the past two years.
