Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Contents Overview Strategic report Directors report Governance Financial statements Strategic report Sustainability and CSR In March, Intertek was awarded a Certificate of Merit by the Our business World Customs Organisation, in recognition of the inspection Our mission is to add value for our By helping companies to produce greener, safer products and and training work we do for the Mozambican Revenue services and to operate in a more sustainable way, Intertek customers by helping them achieve Authority to ensure the quality and safety of goods being makes a substantial positive impact on the planet and human exported to Mozambique.
In June, Shanghai CIQ Customs, their desired level of quality and safety well-being.
Immigration & Quarantine published its satisfaction index of for their products, assets and processes: local certification bodies.
The index was compiled following a Contributing to industry standards survey of 454 certified companies by the Shanghai Academy of Intertek employs hundreds of regulatory experts across the to protect their brands and enable Social Sciences.
The survey made a comprehensive assessment world, helping companies in highly regulated industries to their success inthe global marketplace.
of 20 certification bodies 15 of them foreign-invested in areas achieve global, regional and local compliance.
We help our such as credibility, service standard and impartial operation.
customers to effectively comply with complex global Intertek tops the list of foreign-invested and is ranked regulations, such as the EU REACH Registration, Evaluation, numbertwo out of all 20 the first being Shanghai Academy and Authorisation of Chemical Substances EC1907 2006, ofEnvironmental Sciences.
food contact materials and new chemical notifications and biocides active ingredients and formulations.
Our experts Providing innovative solutions to todays global needs workactively on international and national committees, such At Intertek, quality is our way of defining the safety, Our support to the worlds energy industries covers a broad Interteks history dates back over 130 years to some of the asthe International Consumer Products Health and Safety sustainability, performance, functionality, integrity or range of logistics, testing, inspection, certification and worlds early pioneers in scientific innovation and trade.
Organisation, International Federation of Inspection Agencies, desirability of a product, asset or process: and the need consulting expertise, helping them to run their operations Thomas Edison, inventor of the first electric light bulb, International Standards Organisation and the International for quality arises at many separate and interrelated points efficiently and safely.
We are also a world leader in the established the Lamp Testing Bureau, later named the Electrical Association for Food Protection.
renewable energy sector, providing testing and inspection Testing Laboratories, which is the ETL mark that Intertek ofbiofuels, photovoltaics solar panels, wind turbines, applies today.
That spirit of innovation continues.
In Germany, Supporting ethical supply chains The global marketplace is becoming increasingly challenging lithiumbatteries and charging systems for electric vehicles.
Interteks Transportation Technologies business has provided In recent years, consumers have become increasingly interested for all of us.
By 2050 the global population is estimated to electric vehicle charging stations as part of the eE-Tour Allgu in the social and environmental aspects involved in the reach over 9 billion, putting the worlds water, food and In our own operations, during 2013, we established an project efficient electric mobility and tourism in the Allgu development of what they purchase and demand products energy sources and climate under severe strain.
Intertek improved process for collecting Greenhouse Gas GHG region being run by partners from business and academia.
thathave been sustainably and ethically sourced and ishelping its customers to address these global challenges.
emissions data for all our sites worldwide and also increased Todate, the project has enabled more than 50 different electric manufactured.
We support our clients in monitoring their the boundary of both our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions We provide a range of services that span the entire water life vehicles to be made available to tourists and residents to hire or suppliers with Social Responsibility Audits and Workplace data, further details of which can be found on pages 34 cycle.
We conduct environmental impact assessment and borrow at various rental stations in the Allgu region.
Trials are Conditions Assessment to prohibit the use of forced or child and35.
modelling studies for desalination plants to provide vital also being conducted for potential applications of electric labour, discrimination or harassment, as well as assessing drinking water, assess reservoir quality and measure the We remain committed to reducing our own ecological vehicles for everyday use by companies and community physical facilities of the unit, such as health and safety, impact of treated discharged wastewater.
footprint and will continue to drive environmental initiatives schemes in the region.
chemicalproducts, systems management and environment.
This report details our current Our comprehensive evaluations of food production, With food traceability becoming increasingly important across Interteks Ethical Sourcing Forum is a unique industry event sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility CSR qualitymanagement systems, testing programmes, factory the global supply chain, Interteks Food Services business is thatbrings together members of the global sustainability performance and shows how our people, through the environment and product and process controls, positions us demonstrating its commitment to the challenges faced by the community to address emerging supply chain challenges.
workthey do every day, are helping to create a healthier, to certify the entire food supply chain.
We enable developing industry through becoming a founding sponsor of a Global Utilising Interteks industry experts and thousands of reports safer andbetter quality of life for all.
nations to increase their global food exports and help Food Traceability Centre which is run in partnership with the collected over many years of Corporate Responsibility and ESG reducethe incidence rates of food-borne diseases, Institute of Food Technologists IFT.
The Centre provides Environmental, Social & Governance supplier audits, the event such as salmonella and E-coli.
unbiased, knowledgeable and scientific-based advice to the provides companies with the business intelligence and data global food industry, providing insight and understanding they need to make informed decisions on their increasingly intofood traceability.
The IFT will act as a central point offshore, outsourced supply chains.
whereindustry, academic, and government experts can work Ensuring safety and quality in a developing world together with consumer groups to conduct research, discuss Wolfhart Hauser The rise in middle class consumers in the growth economies challenges, adopt best practices and implement practical Chief Executive Officer hasresulted in a broader variety of products entering the traceability solutions.
marketplace and a greater demand for quality.
Developed Intertek is also an approved Certification Body for the nations have for some time required exporters to obtain a In this section Roundtable of Sustainable Palm Oil RSPO Supply Chain Certificate of Conformity before shipping in order to clear Certification.
Palm oil is the most widely used vegetable oil and Our business Intertek people Our environment Our communities customs, which has unintentionally led to unsafe and unreliable is a common ingredient in many foodstuffs and personal care How we are making a Our commitment to the Taking responsibility for our Giving back to the products being forced into emerging economies.
Oil palms can only be cultivated in tropical areas positive contribution to the welfare and development impact on the environment.
communities touched Intertek has helped to eliminate this situation.
As more andincreasing demand due to population growth is putting planet through our work ofour people.
developing nations have implemented and enacted mandatory pressure on local environments and ecosystems.
legislation for imported goods, Intertek Conformity Assessment RSPO Supply Chain Certification ensures traceability along all Programmes ensure that poor quality and sub-standard See pages 31 and 32 See pages 32 to 34 See pages 34 and 35 See pages 36 and 37 stages of the agri-food value chain including refining, trading, products cannot be imported and so are eliminated from manufacturing and distribution of palm oil products.
30 31 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Contents Overview Strategic report Directors report Governance Financial statements Strategic report Sustainability and CSR continued In the field of medicine, Intertek provides a wide range Investing in our people Intertek people Male : Female by region of analytical and testing services to address the issues of During 2013, we further extended our online training Intertek is a diverse company of more than 36,000 employees, Americas 8,466 quality, purity, stability and chemical problem solving in programmes to a total of 26,000 employees in 61 countries, operating in over 100 countries.
As a global company, we the development of in vitro diagnostic devices and reagents.
6,206 providing access to more than 280 internally-developed enable our people to share their skills and knowledge across In vitro devices are used to perform tests on samples, such courses, webinars, assessments and instructor-led training.
geographical, cultural and technical borders.
We have a 2,260 as blood, urine and human tissue, to help detect infection, Todate, more than 211,000 online courses have been strong emphasis on professional collaboration, training and diagnose a medical condition, prevent disease or monitor completed byover 16,500 people.
Asia 18,394 development and this, together with the strength of our drug therapies.
Better targeted diagnostics can lead to better 10,670 collective leadership, ensures that our people remain inspired A sustainable executive talent pipeline is paramount to meeting treatment decisions and therapies.
During 2013, Intertek to deliver world-leading quality solutions.
Intertek is committed our near-term and future strategic goals.
The Intertek Executive launched a new testing panel that can identify the early signs 7,724 to maintaining high standards of fairness, respect and safety Academy was established in 2012 to enhance our leadership of osteoporosis low bone density.
Conventional technology, and adheres to the principles of the UNs Convention on EMEA pool for future business needs and growth and prepare Intertek 10,004 such as bone mineral density scans, only enables us to diagnose Human Rights and the International Labour Organisations leaders to deliver our strategy.
Those invited to participate are 6,791 osteoporosis after it has developed: whereas Interteks testing core conventions.
already established and proven managers from across the panel only needs 2ml of blood to test three key indicators Male 3,213 Group and the Academy gives participants the opportunity inorder to diagnose osteoporosis early and monitor the Employee survey 2013 Female toenhance their leadership skills and to grow with Intertek effectiveness of treatment.
The results of our 2012 employee engagement survey showed overthe coming years.
Throughout the programme At 31 December 2013 Intertek employed 36,864 people, an increase of us that there were three particular areas where we needed Offering vital support in the development of alternative participantsare supported by coaching from both in-house 5.7% over the previous year.
to increase our attention globally: Organisation Direction energy resources andexternal mentors.
clarity ofstrategy, our progress and future direction, As demand for clean and renewable energy continues to grow Intertek total workforce gender breakdown In China Intertek has, for the sixth year in a row, been voted as Social and Environmental Responsibility, and Performance significantly, Intertek is able to provide the most comprehensive one of the 100 Best HRM Companies in a survey initiated by Management and Rewards.
From this, we took a number testing, certification and consulting expertise in the industry.
com the most influential HR services provider and social of initiatives to make positive changes in these areas and this Our services include testing of solar panels and wind turbines, media recruitment platform in China.
Intertek is the only has resulted in apositive improvement across all categories in wave and tidal consultancy, and biomass and biofuels testing testing, inspection, certification TIC company that has been our 2013 engagement survey.
The results of our 2013 global and inspection.
In 2013, Intertek was proud to receive the 64% 36% consecutively credited since the event first took place in 2008. employee survey show that overall engagement is up 2% on ProCana Brasil Prmio MasterCana Award for expert services China is the largest employing country in Intertek, with the previousyear.
to the biofuels industry in Brazil for the second year in a row.
This prestigious award recognises the important role Intertek Areas making most progress are: has played since 1998 in supporting the large and growing Professional conduct people: opportunities for personal development: training to Brazilian biofuels industry.
Intertek is committed to maintaining the total confidence of improve skills in the current job: receiving on-going feedback: itscustomers and shareholders.
One of the Groups primary Male Stewardship and governance process: respecting safety rules: having the tools to business objectives is to ensure both compliance with local, Female Intertek is committed to building a sustainable business.
Its collaborate and to do the job: improving process efficiency: national and international laws, and the accuracy and validity Board of Directors oversees and is responsible for the Groups processes which help provide good customer service: Interteks gender diversity reflects the industries and qualification profiles ofreports and certificates that it provides to customers.
strategy, performance and risk management see pages 41 to co-operation across the business: and typical of individuals working in the countries and business lines in which 47.
The Board acknowledges the importance of diversity in the weoperate.
The foundations of our Compliance Policy rest with our society: management support to diversity: social responsibility boardroom as a driver of good governance.
As at 31 December employees, each of whom must sign the Companys Code of in the community.
2013, the Boards composition was 20% female and 80% male Ethics, confirming acceptance of the high standards expected Revenue and headcount Areas that are improving but need continued focus are: and for the senior leadership group 314 people at the end of of them in all business dealings.
The Code requires that 2,184 2013, 20% female and 80% male.
To read more about our employees act with integrity and in an open, honest, ethical ensuring employees can speak up and challenge traditions: 2013 36,864 Board Diversity see page 45. and socially responsible manner.
The Code of Ethics is clarifying the business strategy and values: 2,054 2012 supported by regular in-service training, advice on ethical issues better co-operation between businesses and sharing 34,882 Sustainability and CSR are integrated into Intertek through and well-publicised internal telephone hotlines, allowing bestpractices: and 1,749 policy distribution.
Our operations and support functions are 2011 31,712 protected reporting of concerns regarding non-compliance.
better communications keeping employees informed responsible for identifying and evaluating risks applicable to 1,374 Intertek has a strict policy of zero-tolerance regarding breaches andtaking their opinions into account.
2010 their areas of the business and the design and operation of 27,044 of compliance policy.
suitable internal controls see Principal Risks on pages 14 Areas that are still in need of attention are: Revenue m 1,237 2009 to17.
The Board has overall accountability for Interteks 25,183 During 2013 there were 15 reports of non-compliance which Headcount information, resources and feedback to develop as sustainability and CSR, with Group-wide strategy and were substantiated claims requiring remedial action.
Reports aprofessional: and implementation being the responsibility of the Group Vice Total number of Intertek employees over the last five years in relation ofnon-compliance are closely monitored and the Audit & Risk benefits, recognition, equity of rewards.
torevenue shows continuing growth in employment and careers.
Committee periodically reviews the outcomes of the hotline We will continue with the global and local activities and compliance reports on behalf of the Board.
implemented as a response to the surveys.
