Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Contents Overview Strategic report Directors report Governance Financial statements Directors report Governance Other statutory information In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Act, In addition, at the AGM in 2013 the Directors were empowered Credit Suisse Group AG gave notice on 11 October 2013 that 2006 the Act and UK Listing Authority Disclosure and were in force during the course of the financial year ended by the shareholders to allot equity securities, up to 5% of the they had an indirect interest on 9 October 2013 in 8,245,135 Transparency Rules, the following section describes the matters 31December 2013, for the benefit of the Directors and, at the Companys issued share capital, for cash under section 570 of ordinary shares, representing 5.11% of the ordinary shares that are required for inclusion in the Directors Report.
date of this Report, are in force in relation to certain losses and the Act.
It is intended that this authority be renewed, up to 5%, inissue at that date.
liabilities which they may incur or have incurred in connection at the forthcoming AGM.
Legal & General Group plc gave notice on 4 June 2013 that Directors with their duties, powers or office.
they had an indirect interest on 3 June 2013 in 4,847,796 The Directors who held office during the year are set out below: Purchase of own shares ordinary shares, representing less than 3% of the ordinary Dividend Shareholders also approved the authority for the Company shares in issue on that date.
Sir David Reid Chairman The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 31.0p per tobuy back up to 10% of its own ordinary shares by market Marathon Asset Management LLP gave notice on 31 January Wolfhart Hauser Chief Executive Officer ordinary share 2012: 28.0p making a full year dividend of purchase until the conclusion of the AGM to be held this year.
2014 that they had an indirect interest on 31 July 2013 in less Lloyd Pitchford Chief Financial Officer 46.0p per ordinary share 2012: 41.0p which will, if approved The Directors will seek to renew this authority for up to 10% than 5% of the voting rights in respect of ordinary shares Edward Astle Non-Executive Director at the AGM, be paid on 6 June 2014 to shareholders on the ofthe Companys issued share capital at the forthcoming AGM.
Alan Brown Non-Executive Director register at close of business on 23 May 2014.
This power will only be exercised if the Directors are satisfied Morgan Stanley Investment Management Inc gave notice Christopher Knight Non-Executive Director that any purchase will increase the earnings per share of the Share capital on16 September 2013 that they had an indirect interest on ordinary share capital in issue after the purchase and Louise Makin Non-Executive Director The issued share capital of the Company, and details of the 12September 2013 in 8,135,786 ordinary shares, representing accordingly, that the purchase is in the interests of shareholders.
Michael Wareing Non-Executive Director movements in the Companys share capital during the year, 5.04% of the ordinary shares in issue at that date.
The Directors will also give careful consideration to gearing Mark Williams Non-Executive Director areshown in note 15 to the financial statements.
Political donations levels of the Company and its general financial position.
Any appointed 1 September 2013 At the AGM in 2013, the shareholders passed a resolution, The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends shares purchased in this way may be held in treasury which, Lena Wilson Non-Executive Director on a precautionary basis, to authorise the Company to make when declared, to receive the Companys report and accounts, theDirectors believe, will provide the Company with flexibility donations to EU political organisations and to incur EU political to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to in the management of its share capital.
Where treasury shares The biographies of the Directors at the date of this Report expenditure as such terms are defined in the Act not appoint proxies and exercise voting rights.
A waiver of dividend are used to satisfy share options or awards, they will be classed areset out on pages 38 and 39.
The Companys Articles of exceeding 90,000.
During the year the Group did not make exists in respect of 323,739 shares held by the Intertek asnew issue shares for the purpose of the limit on the number Association contain provisions relating to the retirement, any political donations 2012: nil.
It is the Companys policy GroupEmployee Share Ownership Trust at 31 December 2013. of shares that may be issued over a ten-year period under our election and re-election of Directors but, in accordance with not, directly or through any subsidiary, to make what are There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in relevant share plan rules.
best practice, all Directors will stand for election or re-election commonly regarded as donations to any political party.
Significant relationships at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
However, at the forthcoming AGM of the Company, The rights attached to shares in the Company are provided by The Group does not have any contractual or other relationships shareholders approval will again be sought to authorise Directors powers and Articles of Association the Articles of Association, which may be amended or replaced with any single party which are essential to the business of the theGroup to make political donations and or incur political The Directors are responsible for the management of the by means of a special resolution of the Company in a General Group and therefore no such relationships have been disclosed.
expenditure as such terms are defined in Sections 362 to Company and their powers to do so are determined by the Meeting.
The Directors powers are conferred on them by UK 379of the Act.
Further details of this will be contained in provisions of the Act and the Companys Articles of Association.
Social and community issues legislation and by the Companys Articles of Association.
The Articles of Association set out the internal regulation of the We encourage our local managers to foster community links Company and cover such matters as the rights of shareholders, No ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to appropriate to the businesses they manage.
Further details are Auditors the appointment or removal of Directors and the conduct of the control of the Company and there are no restrictions on voting given in our Sustainability and CSR Report on pages 30 to 37.
The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, have indicated their willingness Board and general meetings.
Copies are available upon request rights except that a shareholder has no right to vote in respect Employees to continue in office and a resolution that they be reappointed from the Group Company Secretary, and will be available at the of a share unless all sums due in respect of that share are fully The Group offers equal opportunities to all employees and will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM in accordance with Companys AGM.
Further powers are granted by members in paid.
There are no arrangements known to the Company by applicants regardless of race, creed, sex, ethnic origin, age Section 489 of the Act.
general meeting, and those currently in place are set out in which financial rights carried by any shares in the Company are or disability.
Disabled persons are considered for employment Annual General Meeting detail within the appropriate section of this Report.
held by a person other than the holders of the shares, nor are where they have appropriate skills and abilities to perform a The Notice convening the AGM, to be held on 16 May 2014, there any arrangements between holders of securities that may job.
Employees who become disabled during their working lives Directors interests result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting isavailable for download from the Companys website.
The will be retained in employment wherever possible and will be Other than employment contracts, none of the Directors of the rights known to the Company.
All issued shares are fully paid.
Notice details the business to be conducted at the meeting and given help with any necessary rehabilitation and retraining.
Company had a personal interest in any business transactions includes information concerning the deadlines for submitting of the Company or its subsidiaries.
The terms of the Directors Shares are admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange proxy forms and in relation to voting rights.
Material interests in shares service contracts and the Directors interests in the shares and and may be traded through the CREST system.
The following disclosures of major holdings of voting rights share awards of the Company, in respect of which transactions Statement of disclosure of information to auditors Allotment of shares have been made and have not been amended or withdrawn are notifiable to the Company under the UK Listing Authority The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this At the AGM held in 2013 the shareholders generally and to the Company pursuant to the requirements of the UK Listing Disclosure and Transparency Rule 3.1.
2 are disclosed in the Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is unconditionally authorised the Directors to allot relevant Authority Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5: Remuneration Report on pages 56 to 69. no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors securities up to approximately two-thirds of the nominal BlackRock Inc. gave notice on 12 December 2013 that they are unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that he amount of issued share capital.
It is the Directors intention Directors indemnities had an indirect interest on 10 December 2013 in less than or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or toseek renewal of this authority in line with guidance issued The Board believes that it is in the best interests of the Group to 5% of the ordinary shares in issue at that date.
herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish bythe Association of British Insurers.
The resolution will be attract and retain the services of the most able and experienced Capital Research and Management Company gave notice that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
setout in the Notice of AGM.
directors by offering competitive terms of engagement, on17 May 2013 that they had an indirect interest on including the granting of indemnities on terms consistent with 16 May 2013 in 9,473,059 ordinary shares, representing the applicable statutory provisions.
Qualifying third-party 6.00% of the ordinary shares in issue at that date.
70 71 Intertek Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Contents Overview Strategic report Directors report Governance Financial statements Directors report Governance Statement of Directors responsibilities Independent Auditors Report to the members of Intertek Group plc only Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity Opinions and conclusions arising from our audit Our response Our audit procedures included, among others, Annual Report and the financial statements of the corporate and financial information included on the 1 Our opinion on the financial statements is unmodified using our own tax specialists, in the UK, USA and China, to The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the We have audited the financial statements of Intertek Group plc assist us in assessing and challenging the assumptions and and the Group and Parent Company financial statements in preparation and dissemination of financial statements may for the year ended 31 December 2013 set out on pages 76 to judgements made by the Directors of the Group: checking the accordance with applicable law and regulations.
differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
In our opinion: accuracy of the computation of local income tax amounts: and assessment of specific local tax issues.
In assessing the Directors Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state assumptions, we have used both our own tax specialists Parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
ofthe annual financial report of the Groups and of the parent companys affairs as at knowledge of recent tax cases and, where available, external Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial Each of the Directors, whose name and functions are listed on 31December 2013 and of the Groups profit for the year data on the pattern of recent local tax settlements.
Inassessing statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting pages 38 and 39, confirm that to the best of their knowledge: then ended: the level of deferred tax asset balances recognised in the Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law the Group financial statements have been properly prepared the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the statement of financial position we compared the assumptions andhave elected to prepare the Parent Company financial in accordance with International Financial Reporting applicable set of accounting standards, give a true and fair used in respect of future taxable income to the Groups statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and Standards as adopted by the European Union: view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or long-term forecasts for the relevant countries.
We challenged applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the parent company financial statements have been properly loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the the Groups long-term forecasts by evaluating the assumptions prepared in accordance with UK Accounting Standards: and Under company law the Directors must not approve the consolidation taken as a whole: and methodologies used by the Group.
In particular, we the financial statements have been prepared in accordance financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give the Directors Report includes a fair review of the considered the assumptions relating to the forecast revenue with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006 and, atrue and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and development and performance of the business and the growth and profit margins in the relevant countries using asregards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the Parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
position of the Company and the undertakings included externally derived data and our own assessments in relation IAS Regulation.
Inpreparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial inthe consolidation taken as a whole, together with a tokey inputs.
We also assessed the adequacy of the Groups statements, the Directors are required to: description of the principal risks and uncertainties that 2 Our assessment of risks of material misstatement related disclosures in Note 6. theyface: and In arriving at our audit opinion above on the financial select suitable accounting policies and then apply 3 Our application of materiality and an overview of the the Companys 2013 Annual Report & Accounts, taken statements the risks of material misstatement that had themconsistently: scope of our audit asawhole, presents a fair, balanced and understandable thegreatest effect on our audit were as follows: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable The materiality for the Group financial statements as a whole assessment of the Companys position and prospects, and and prudent: was set at 16.5m.
This has been determined with reference Completeness and valuation of the customer claims provides information necessary for shareholders to assess the for the Group financial statements, state whether they have toa benchmark of Group profit before tax, which we consider provision 9.7m : Companys performance, business model and overall strategy.
been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by to be one of the principal considerations for members of the Refer to page 49 Audit & Risk Committee Report, page 82 theEU: The Directors Report comprising pages 38 to 72 and the Group Company in assessing the financial performance of the Group.
accounting policy and page 99 financial disclosures.
for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether Strategic Report comprising pages 4 to 37 have been approved Materiality represents 5.2% of adjusted Group profit before The risk The completeness and valuation of the customer applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, by the Board and signed on its behalf by: tax, as disclosed on the face of the income statement, and claims provision, as a result of the impact that a material subject to any material departures disclosed and explained 5.9% of unadjusted Group profit before tax.
customer claim could have on the Groups financial position.
inthe Parent Company financial statements: and Wolfhart Hauser We agreed with the Audit & Risk Committee to report to it all prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Chief Executive Officer Our response Our audit procedures included, among others, corrected and uncorrected misstatements we identified through unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the contacting all lawyers that the Group has engaged with, in 28 February 2014 our audit with a value in excess of 1m, in addition to other Parent Company will continue in business.
respect of key claims, in the last 24 months, assessing whether audit misstatements below that threshold that we believe Registered Office all potential exposures have been identified based on the The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting warranted reporting on qualitative grounds.
25 Savile Row opinion of the relevant external lawyers: testing the Groups records that are sufficient to show and explain the Parent London Audits for Group reporting purposes were performed by audit controls over the collation and monitoring of the claims from Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy W1S 2ES teams in the following countries: Australia, Azerbaijan, management from across the Group locations: and, based on at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and Registered Number: 4267576 Bangladesh, Brazil, China, France, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, all the information collated, assessing the assumptions made by enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with Malaysia, Netherlands, Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, the Directors of the Group in calculating the provision.
We also the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for Taiwan, United Arab Emirates, and Vietnam: and the Group assessed the adequacy of the Groups related disclosures in taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard auditors performed audits for Group reporting purposes in the notes 13 and 22. the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and UK.
These audits were all performed to local materiality levels, other irregularities.
Valuation of current tax and deferred tax balances, which ranged from 0.1m to 2.4m.
Specified audit procedures and impact on the income tax expense Net current tax Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also were performed by overseas auditors in respect of the key USA liability 41.4m.
Net deferred tax liability 5.8m : responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, units.
In addition, the Group auditors performed specified audit Refer to page 49 Audit & Risk Committee Report, page 82 Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance procedures over certain finance and holding units, as well as accounting policy and pages 87 to 90 financial disclosures.
Statement that complies with that law and those regulations.
certain 2013 acquisitions, in the following countries: Australia, China, France, Hong Kong, UK, US.
The reporting included the The risk The tax charge on profits is determined according to key units in all of the countries identified as being considered complex tax laws and regulations.
Where the effect of these laws material to the Group as set out in note 2. and regulations is unclear, judgements are used in determining the liability for the tax to be paid.
The related deferred tax assets and liabilities require judgement in determining the amounts to be recognised, with consideration required to begiven to the timing and level of future taxable income.
