Our Business Model Everything that we do is about enhancing our customers productivityandpro tability Our technologies are used by customers in Revenue by business segment % Who are we?
plants and facilities around the world, helping Invensys is a global technology Software 15 to give them a competitive edge by speeding Industrial Automation 53 company that works in partnership up their processes, improving accuracy, Energy Controls 14 saving time, cutting waste and boosting their with a broad range of industrial and Appliance 18 safety and sustainability performances.
commercial customers to design With a deep understanding of our customers and supply advanced technologies industries and their business needs, our that optimise their operational long-term sustainable growth is driven performance and pro tability.
From byanabsolute commitment to project and oil re neries and power stations to commercial execution excellence, which also mining companies and appliance drives our reputation as a partner of choice.
Whereas previously Invensys had three manufacturers, our market-leading divisions Invensys Operations Management, software, systems and controls How are we structured?
Invensys Rail and Invensys Controls our lines enable our customers to monitor, of business are now grouped into four The sale of Invensys Rail has provided us with business segments: Software, Industrial control and automate their the opportunity to streamline the organisation Automation, Energy Controls and Appliance.
products and processes, thereby and create an operational and financial These are outlined below.
structure that enables us to make substantial maximising safety, ef ciency, cost savings while providing greater reliability and ease of use.
transparency as to the true value of our market-leading businesses.
What products and solutions do we provide?
Business segment Overview Core brands 1.
Software Design, simulation and optimisation software SimSci Trading, planning and scheduling software SimSci Operations and asset management software Wonderware Avantis Visualisation and supervisory control software for real-timeproduction Wonderware management 2.
Industrial Automation Safety systems Triconex Control systems Foxboro Field devices and high-precision measurement and instrumentation Foxboro TM products Foxboro Eckardt 3.
Energy Controls Industrial controls Eurotherm Commercial controls Eliwell Ranco Residential controls Drayton Eberle Robertshaw Monitoring controls IMServ TM Centeron 4.
Appliance Components and systems that control the operation of appliances Robertshaw Ranco Paragon TM UNI-LINE 10 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview Our Software business is one of the worlds 1.
Software leading developers and suppliers of industrial Revenue by destination % software with strong positions in process design, simulation and optimisation, UK 2 realtime operations management and Rest of Europe 25 asset management.
North America 43 South America 6 Our portfolio includes: Asia Pacic 18 Africa Middle East 6 Wonderware the worlds leading visualisation andsupervisory control software for real-time production management SimSci a leading supplier of process design, simulation and optimisation Revenue by line of business % software Design, Simulation & Avantis asset management software Optimisation 28 used to ensure the reliable operation of Trading, Planning & production plants and processes Scheduling 2 Operations & Asset Our software portfolio enables our customers Management 32 to maximise the value of their manufacturing HMI & Supervisory 38 operations and supply chains across a broad range of industries.
From oil re neries and power stations to mining companies and chemical manufacturers, our products help our customers to design, plan and operate Revenue by type % their production processes in order to maximise ef ciency and pro tability, while Licence 51 enhancing reliability, safety and sustainability.
Services 27 Support 22 The industrial software market is fragmented with many  companies providing specialist software products that would complement our own portfolio.
We therefore intend to be a consolidator in this market and we recently expanded our SimSci product range with the acquisition of Spiral Software, which specialises in integrated solutions for the oil re ning industry, ranging from crude assay management to re nery supply chain optimisation.
Our investment in research and development is focused on improving the functionality of our software products to address the increasingly complex business requirements of our customers in todays digital world.
Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.
com 11 Our Business Model continued Our Industrial Automation business is a global 2.
Energy Controls supplier ofcontrol systems and safety systems Revenue by destination % Revenue by destination % to customers operating some of the worlds largest and most complex industrial plants, UK 2 UK 31 such as oil refineries, power stations both Rest of Europe 18 Rest of Europe 44 fossil fuel and nuclear and petrochemical North America 29 North America 15 plants.
Our Foxboro I A distributed control South America 2 South America 9 Asia Pacic 6 Asia Pacic 27 system DCS is a world leader in industrial Africa Middle East 2 Africa Middle East 15 automation and our Triconex emergency shutdown system is recognised as the worlds leading safety system.
Our Foxboro and Foxboro Eckardt businesses also manufacture and supply a full range of field devices and pressure, flow and analytical measurement and instrumentation products.
Revenue by line of business % Revenue by line of business % During the year, 12% of Industrial Systems 73 Industrial 40 Automationrevenue came from our Nuclear 12 Residential 31 Nuclearline of business.
Field devices 15 Commercial 15 Monitoring 14 We have the second largest base of installed DCSs in the industry and many of those systems will need to be replaced over the coming decade.
As a result, we will be investing further in our DCS and safety systems to ensure that we maintain ourmarketpositions for these state-of-the-art technologies.
Revenue by sector % Energy Controls comprises four lines ofbusiness: Oil & gas 38 General industries 23 Industrial Utilities & power 19 Our Industrial line of business manufactures Petrochemicals 6 arange of high-precision controllers and Discrete manufacturing 3 recorders under the Eurotherm brand.
Other 11 Products and services include process control and temperature control solutions in life sciences, heat treatment, plastics and glass, where reducing our customers cost of energy is critical to their business success.
To enhance our niche market positions, we willcontinue to invest in product development and seek to acquire  companies, whose specialist products complement our own portfolio.
12 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Overview Commercial 4.
Appliance Our business model Our Commercial line of business designs and How do we generate revenue?
Revenue by destination % supplies a range of controls under the Eliwell Our revenue can be broken down as follows: and Ranco brands for use in refrigeration, 15% Software, 53% Industrial Automation, UK 1 heating, ventilation and air-conditioning.
Rest of Europe 15 14% Energy Controls and 18% Appliance.
Ourcustomers are original equipment North America 57 manufacturers, large project installers and South America 16 Our customers are primarily large, global Asia Pacic 9 systems integrators in the food preservation, companies with complex production Africa Middle East 2 food preparation and comfort sectors.
processes spanning a broad range of industries, including oil re neries: chemical, Our growth in Commercial will be driven by gas, lique ed natural gas LNG, power, geographic expansion and the introduction pharmaceutical and mineral processors: ofnew products such as wireless-based foodand drinks companies: appliance solutions for refrigerated transportation.
Our Appliance business is the worlds largest manufacturers: metals and mining companies: supplier of components and systems that water and wastewater facilities: and pulp and Residential control the operation of appliances, including paper mills.
Our Residential line of business designs, cooking, refrigeration, laundry and manufactures and distributes heating controls Our businesses are well-positioned to dishwashing, in both the residential under the Drayton, Eberle and Robertshaw capitalise on markets that have long-term andcommercial sectors.
brands, including room thermostats, time structural growth prospects.
Speci cally, We supply the midto high-end of the home controls, thermostatic radiator valves and ourmarkets in oil, gas and power will continue appliance market, providing seven of the underoor heating controls, predominantly to be driven by the need for new green eld worlds top 10 appliance manufacturers with foruse in homes.
capacity in rapidly developing economies components and systems that enhance their such as India and China and by our existing Our growth in Residential will be driven by appliances by improving their operating and customers desire to maximise the ef ciency geographic expansion and the introduction of sustainability performances.
of their brown eld sites in the developed new products based on smart home energy world.
During the year, 12% of the Groups revenue Monitoring from continuing operations came from large Our IMServ business provides data contracts, fide ned by us as those in excess measurement, visualisation and control of10 million.
These large contracts sit within services for large industrial, commercial our Industrial Automation business segment.
andretail energy users, as well as full market Our route to market varies by product: settlement services for managing wholesale electricity trading.
Our Software routes to market vary depending upon the solution and are either Our market-leading Centeron Wireless Tank direct or indirect through distributors and Monitoring System uses state-of-the-art radio systems integrators: and sensor technology to remotely monitor storage tanks in a number of applications, The majority of our Industrial Automation including petroleum, propane, chemicals sales are direct: andagriculture.
Our Energy Controls sales are largely indirect through distributors: and Our Appliance sales are primarily direct tooriginal equipment manufacturers.
com 13 Our Business Model continued What is our strategy?
Project and commercial The sale of Invensys Rail to Siemens for execution excellence 1,742million has been transformational Project and commercial execution excellence forInvensys.
In summary, it has enabled us sits at the heart of our long-term sustainable todeal with the Groups legacy UK pension growth strategy and it will continue to drive our issues, return cash to shareholders and reputation as a partner of choice.
We will enable signi cant investment in our refocused therefore be continuing to invest in employing strategy on our higher-margin, faster-growth the best people for each project and providing markets.
The sale is also enabling us to them with the delivery support they need to simplify the Groups management structure achieve consistently high levels of customer and make substantial cost savings, while satisfaction.
creating an operational and financial structure that provides greater transparency as to the Developing our portfolio true value of our market-leading businesses.
through acquisition We will supplement our organic growth by In our Appliance segment we will be looking pursuing an active but disciplined programme tobuild upon the signi cant investments that of bolt-on acquisitions designed to broaden we have made in restructuring and product and enhance our market positions and development during the last five years.
product ranges, predominantly in our Demand in its markets remains subdued but Software and Energy Controls business our investments will ensure that its operating segments.
performance will improve signi cantly as the appliance market recovers.
Supporting and expanding our We will now be focusing our investment customerbase ongrowing the lines of business within our We have a considerable base of customers Software, Industrial Automation and Energy whose prime focus is on maximising the Controls business segments, which offer reliability and ef ciency of their existing plants attractive long-term growth prospects with and facilities.
As a result, the opportunities for high returns on investment and excellent cash upgrading or replacing their control and safety conversion.
Ourlong-term sustainable growth technologies are signi cant and we will will therefore be driven by: continue to provide them with outstanding service and support in order to capitalise Growth in software onthis.
We will also continue to secure new We will be focusing on expanding the breadth green eld contracts to expand our base and depth of our higher-margin software ofinstalled technologies and provide further businesses, which represent a major engine of opportunities for selling other products.
We will achieve this through In addition, we will seek to expand into acquisitions and additional investment in newindustry sectors.
Currently, 39% of our research and development.
revenue from continuing operations comes from the oil & gas, petrochemicals and utilities Maintaining and developing & power sectors.
Our aim is to acquire strong leading technologies positions in new sectors by broadening our As a leading technology company, research Software product range.
and development is fundamental to what wedo, so we will continue to invest in our state-of-the-art technologies to ensure that they remain best in class a nd are evolving to meet the needs of our customers in both the developed world and in rapidly developing economies, such as China and India.
During the year, we invested 4.5% of continuing operations revenue on research and development 2012: 4.2% : in Software, the investment was 19.3% of segment revenue.
14 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Business Review Business Review 16 Key Performance Indicators 18 Invensys Operations Management 20 Invensys Controls 21 Invensys Rail discontinued 22 Financial Review 27 Financial Policies 28 Corporate Responsibility 33 Risks and Uncertainties Our Industrial Automation business is a global supplier ofcontrol systems, safety systems and instrumentation to customers operating someofthe worlds largest and most complex industrial plants, such as oilre neries, power stations both fossil fuel andnuclear and petrochemical plants.
