Business Review Financial Policies Statement of accounting policies Interest rate risk Translation exposure The Groups Financial Statements have been The Group is exposed to risk arising from the The majority of the Groups operating capital prepared in accordance with International effect of changes in oating interest rates on isemployed in overseas locations and is Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs in issue the level of interest it receives on its cash denominated in foreign currencies, particularly that are endorsed by the European deposits, and pays interest on its facility US dollars.
As a consequence, changes in Commission and effective at 31 March 2013. drawings.
exchange rates affect both net asset values The Groups accounting policies under IFRSs and reported results.
As at 31 March 2013 and 31 March 2012, are set out in Note 2 to the Group Financial Invensys had no signi cant borrowings.
The Parent Credit risk Company Financial Statements have been The Group is exposed to risk if a counterparty Currency risk prepared in accordance with UK Generally to a financial instrument fails to meet its Transaction exposure Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP contractual obligations.
Such a risk arises Currency transaction exposure arises when and include details of the Companys principally in relation to receivables due from businesses face revenue o r costs in a accounting policies.
customers and cash deposited with banks or currency other than their own.
The incidence other financial institutions.
of this risk varies across the Group and is Treasury policy subject to change.
However, the majority This exposure has peaked following the The Groups treasury policy is approved by ofrevenue and costs will usually be in the receipt of the Invensys Rail disposal proceeds, theBoard and seeks to ensure that: functional currency of the business prior to the anticipated return of cash.
appropriate financial resources are available undertaking the transaction.
Where this is not The Group monitors the identity of the for the maintenance and development the case and the exposure is signi cant, it is counterparties with whom it deposits cash oftheGroups businesses: the Groups policy for the business units to and transacts other financial instruments so the financial risk of currency, interest rate hedge their exposures.
The Group asto control exposure to any territory or and counterparty credit exposure is predominantly uses forward currency institution.
As far as it is both feasible and understood, measured and managed contracts to manage transaction exposure.
practical to do so, cash is held centrally by the appropriately: and The Group is also subject to exchange risk Treasury department.
Risk is assessed using the Treasury department operates as a cost when making bids, particularly on major ratings from major credit rating agencies.
centre and that no speculative transactions contracts, where movements against the are undertaken.
speci c exchange rate assumed within a bid Further information on the risks arising from would lead to a change in the anticipated financial instruments is included in Note 19 Funding, liquidity and treasury margin on the contract should the bid be tothe Group Financial Statements.
If it is likely that the bid will be Operating within the strict controls of successful and the resulting foreign currency theGroups treasury policy, the Treasury exposure would be signi cant then the department manages this risk, ensuring that currency risk will be hedged.
suf cient funding and liquidity is available tomeet the expected needs of the Group together with a prudent level of headroom toallow for cash ow and bank guarantee variability.
In addition to the free cash ow ofthe Group, Invensys adopts a exible approach to liquidity management using amixture of long-term debt facilities and short-term cash deposits.
Funding was provided by a 250 million bank facility whichmatures in March 2017.
This was reduced to 150 million following the completion of the Invensys Rail disposal.
The undrawn level of these facilities together with the Groups cash balances are the key measures of the Groupsliquidity.
Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.
