Our Board of Directors The role of the Board is to provide the vision and entrepreneurial leadership of the Group.
Diversity inthe Boards composition is a driver to effectiveness and, as detailed below, our directors are drawn from a variety of backgrounds.
They have a range ofgeneral and sector-speci c skills and international experience which is invaluable inchallenging and developing the Groups strategy.
Chairman Executive directors Sir Nigel Rudd 66 Wayne Edmunds 57 David Thomas 58 Victoria Hull 51 Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Of cer Chief Legal Of cer & Company Secretary Appointed a non-executive Appointed a director and Chief Appointed Acting Chief Financial Appointed a director on Appointment director and Deputy Chairman Financial Of cer on 1 June 2009 Of cer on 24 March 2011 and 29 November 2011. on1 January 2009 and became and became Chief Executive on became Chief Financial Of cer Chairman on 17 July 2009.
Nominating Committee None None None Committee Chairman membership Remuneration Committee Formerly Chairman of Alliance Formerly CFO of Invensys Joined Invensys in 2002 as Joined Invensys in 2001 as Skills and Boots plc, Pilkington plc, Process Systems, having joined Group Controller.
Held a number General Counsel and also previous WilliamsHoldings plc, Kidde plc the Group from Reuters America, of senior posts across the Group appointed Company Secretary experience and Pendragon PLC: Deputy Inc.
He previously held senior most latterly as SVP Business inJanuary 2006.
Formerly a Chairman of Barclays Bank PLC: financial roles in the technology Risk.
Formerly a senior partner at solicitor with Clifford Chance LLP, and non-executive director of sector, including 17 years at Ernst & Young LLP.
Member of working in their corporate finance BAE Systems plc.
Lucent Technologies, Inc. the Auditing Practices Board until department and Executive his term expired in July 2012.
Director, General Counsel and Fellow of the Institute of Company Secretary of Telewest Chartered Accountants in Communications plc.
Chairman of Heathrow Airport None None None Principal Holdings Limited and the external Business Growth Fund: appointments non-executive director of Sappi Limited: and senior adviser to Barclays Bank PLC.
Heisa Deputy Lieutenant ofDerbyshire and Chancellor of Loughborough University.
Nationality British American British British 42 Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Changes to the Board Francesco Caio and Pat Zito, who are non-executive directors, will not be seeking re-election this year, and will retire from the Boardat the 2013 AGM.
Non-executive directors Bay Green 69 Paul Lester 63 Deena Mattar 47 Michael Parker 66 Dr Martin Read 63 Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Senior Independent Director Non-executive director Appointed a non-executive Appointed a non-executive Appointed a non-executive Appointed a non-executive Appointed a non-executive director on 1January 2005 director on 1January 2010. director on 19May 2011. director on 16 May 2006 director and Chairman of and became the Chairman andbecame the Senior theRemuneration Committee ofthe Audit Committee on Independent Director on 18 July 2009.
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Chairmanuntil 16 May 2013 Chairmanfrom 17 May 2013 Chairman Nominating Committee Audit Committee Nominating Committee Nominating Committee from 2013 AGM Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee from 2013 AGM Formerly Vice Chairman of Formerly Chairman of Marine Group Finance Director and Group Chief Executive of Chief Executive of Logica plc Dresdner Kleinwort Limited, Current Turbines Limited: member of the board of Kier British Nuclear Fuels Limited from 1993 to 2007.
Formerly where hespecialised in Group Managing Director of Group plc from 2001 to 2010.
BNFL from 2003 until his on the boards of British advising on mergers and Balfour Beatty plc: Chief Formerly a senior manager of retirement in June 2009.
Airways Plc, Siemens acquisitions and other Executive of Graseby plc and the Property and Construction Formerly President and Chief Holdings Plc, Boots Group activities.
Non-executive VT Group plc: and nonDivision of KPMG LLP.
Fellow Executive Of cer of The Dow PLC, Asda Group plc and director of RPC Group plc executive director of Chloride of the Institute of Chartered Chemical Company.
He led a UK andAxis-Shields plc where Group plc.
Accountants in England Chairman of Liverpool Vision Government review on back he was also chairman of the andWales.
of ce and IT ef ciency across audit committee.
Fellow of the public sector which theInstitute of Chartered reported in 2009.
Trustee of Help the Hospices Chairman of Peverel Services Non-executive director Non-executive director of Chairman of the and a specialist adviser to the Limited, Survitec Group andchairman of the audit PVCrystalox Solar plc and Remuneration Consultants Markets Division of the Limited, Paribas Group, committee at Lamprell PLC SNC-Lavalin Group Inc. Group and non-executive Financial Conduct Authority.
Norland Managed Services until 27 May 2013 and RM Trustee of the Royal Society director of Lloyds of London.
Non-executive director of for the Prevention of Accidents Member of the UK Holdings Limited and the John Wates Group Limited.
and also the Energy Institute: Government Cabinet Of ce Laing Infrastructure Fund.
and Chairman ofStreet Ef ciency and Reform Board.
Senior adviser to Actis Capital LLP and Zensar Technologies Limited.
British British British British British Invensys plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 www.
