Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Effectiveness Professional development Evaluation A comprehensive induction programme is in place for In line with the recommendations of the Code, each year allnew directors which takes into account their previous aformal performance evaluation review is undertaken of experience, background and role on the board and is the board, its committees and the directors individually.
designed to further their knowledge and understanding In2012, the evaluation process was undertaken externally ofthe groupand their associated role and responsibilities.
by the Inzito Partnership, an independent party, which had All new directors are provided with key board, operational no other connection with the company.
In 2013, the and financial information: attend meetings with other performance evaluation was conducted internally with the members of the board, senior management and their assistance of the Company Secretary.
extended teams: receive briefings on their legal and This involved the completion by each director of a regulatory responsibilities as directors and the approach questionnaire designed to establish their perceptions in togovernance within AMEC: and, where possible, meet areas such as the current composition of the board: board AMECs major shareholders.
Where a new director is to dynamics and the relationships between board members: serve on a board committee, induction material relevant the effectiveness of the boards processes and its interaction tothe committee is also provided.
TheCompany Secretary with its committees: the quality and sources of information assists the Chairman in the co-ordination of induction presented to the board: the boards oversight of operational andongoing training.
The Chairman endeavours toreview matters: and the support available from the Company the training and development needs of the directors at Secretary.
Views were also sought on the sufficiency of least annually.
strategic and risk oversight afforded to the board and on No new board directors were appointed in 2013. the level of interaction and engagement withshareholders.
Ongoing training, relevant to each directors individual The responses were analysed by the Company Secretary and development needs, continues after appointment.
The aim a report of the issues raised was prepared for discussion is to ensure the further enhancement of their skills and by the board at its June 2013 meeting.
In summary, knowledge of the business, so they continue to effectively theresults were positive and demonstrated sustained fulfil their role on the board and its committees.
Internally progress against the outcomes of the 2012 evaluation facilitated training is arranged by the Company Secretary process.
Areas for improvement were again relatively on topics and issues relevant to the operation ofthe board minor and included the following: and responsibilities of the directors.
Use isalso made of Whilst satisfied with the current composition and external auditor and advisor training programmes.
collective performance, the board is aware it would be Individually the directors also from time to time attend beneficial to appoint additional board members who seminars and conferences related to their areas of would complement and strengthen the existing skill set expertise and responsibility.
and experiences, and so further improve board diversity The board receives presentations from management on and the effective discharge of their duties changes and significant developments inthe business.
One key area of focus remains increased interaction Atthe December 2013 board meeting, the Group HSSE onstrategy and engagement with the group presidents Director gave a presentation on HSSE matters and security of the three business units, to allow greater oversight risk management.
ofthe direction and effectiveness of the new organisational structure The board also receives regular updates on changes inlegislation and regular communications from the In considering the future shape of the business, Company Secretarys office on key developments in thegreater prioritisation of management development corporate governance.
and succession planning was also agreed.
To further develop the directors understanding of the In accordance with the terms of the Code, the next groups operations and culture, the board undertakes externally facilitated board evaluation review will be visitsto various places of AMEC business.
As previously undertaken no later than 2015. mentioned, the board visited a Canada-based oil sands project site in 2013.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 83
