Effectiveness continued Accountability Evaluation continued Internal control In addition and as required by the Code, during the year the The board is responsible for reviewing AMECs systems of Senior Independent Director, having taken the views of the internal control.
The reviews cover the effectiveness and non-executive and the executive directors, reviewed the adequacy of financial, operational, compliance and risk performance of the Chairman.
The Senior Independent management systems and are undertaken regularly.
Director met with the Chairman in February 2014, to review These systems can, however, only provide reasonable his performance during 2013.
The Chief Executive assurance against material misstatement or loss, as they conducts annual performance development reviews with are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of his direct reports.
failure to achieve business objectives.
The board and its committees have an ongoing process Information and support that is reviewed regularly by the board and accords with the The Company Secretary is fundamental in ensuring the Turnbull guidance, for identifying, evaluating and managing efficiency and effectiveness of the board and is responsible significant risks faced by AMEC, including strategy, major for ensuring that the directors have timely access to full, projects to be undertaken, significant acquisitions and accurate and relevant information.
Agendas and supporting disposals, as well as entry into and exit from different papers for board and committee meetings are circulated markets.
This process has been in place for the year under approximately one week prior to the meeting date to allow review and up to the date of approval of this report.
Where sufficient time for review to enable informed debate and appropriate, business decisions are reached following a challenge at meetings.
Where the directors, particularly structured and documented review of potential non-executive directors, require further insight on an issue, opportunities and threats, taking steps designed to the Company Secretary will facilitate this fromthe business manage or mitigate any risk exposure.
or relevant members of the senior management team.
Members of senior management are regularly invited to The threats and opportunities associated with tender attend board meetings to present on specific projects and submissions are reviewed by commercial review boards issues.
The Company Secretary ensures that the correct atvarious levels in the group, in line with delegated board procedures are followed and that the board is informed authorities.
The highest value tenders are, in addition, on legislative, regulatory and governance matters related reviewed by the tender review committee.
AMEC applies to its operation.
In addition to the advice and services of the aset of contracting principles, under which the level Company Secretary, a formal process exists for the directors ofapproval required is dependent on the contractual to obtain independent professional advice, at the companys provision in question.
The most significant issues in terms expense, where appropriate and necessary to discharge of risk require the approval of the relevant business unit their responsibilities.
The Company Secretary is responsible lead and the Group Commercial Director.
for the organisation and co-ordination of access to such The internal control processes are complemented by an advice.
The Company Secretary is also accountable for annual control self-assessment exercise carried out by ensuring that an accurate record is taken of all meetings theprincipal businesses.
This covers health, safety and ofthe board and its committees.
If a director had a concern environment, legal, commercial and contractual, financial, about the running of the company or a proposed action information technology and human resources.
The results that could not be resolved, this would be recorded in the are reviewed by the board, through the audit committee, minutes.
In addition, upon resignation, should a director aspart of the ongoing internal control monitoring process.
have any such outstanding concerns, they would be invited to provide the Chairman with a written statement for AMEC has interests in a number of joint arrangements circulation to the board.
There were no director resignations where controls may not be reviewed as part of AMECs during the year.
The appointment and removal of the formal corporate governance process because of the joint Company Secretary is one of the matters reserved for management responsibilities.
reviews rests with the joint venture and joint operations boards and these are reviewed from time to time as part ofAMECs normal internal audit process.
m Details of significant joint arrangements can be found on page148 84 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Group internal audit review the AMEC plc risk register and make Risk management process recommendations as appropriate A consistently applied methodology is used at project, operating company and group levels to identify the key review, approve and make recommendations risks that could have a significant impact on the ability inrespect of those risks which AMEC is willing ofAMEC to achieve its objectives.
These are recorded toacceptor assume in the ordinary course of inrisk registers and evaluated to determine the likely business riskappetite impact and probability of occurring.
review any issues raised by other committees of Control actions are developed to mitigate or eliminate theboard that impact on the risk profile of AMEC risksthat are considered unacceptable.
Risk owners review any emerging risks and any potential impact areidentified and given responsibility for ensuring they may have on risk appetite  with appropriate review dates.
review and consider reports on key risk issues such The risk registers are reviewed and updated at least asnew business and geographical locations for quarterly with the relevant risk owners.
operations or projects Reporting and monitoring issue risk reports and make recommendations Reporting directly to the board, the risk management totheboard.
committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and meets atleast twice each year to: m Principal business and strategic risks are identified in the Strategic report review risk management policies, procedures andprocesses Roles and responsibilities Plc Risk oversight Board n ensure appropriate risk management processes are in place n ensure management is positioned Management teams Chief Executive Head of Risk to identify and respond to risk functional heads Management risk committee Legacy n ensure relevant information is raised to the appropriate level.
Business units Business Unit Risk owner risk manager Management teams Business unit Head of functional heads n participate in the identification of risk heads Commercial n participate in the identification of risk management action plans n ensure action plans are implemented n monitor and report on risk status.
Operating units Operating Unit Management teams Operating unit functional heads Head of heads Commercial Risk co-ordinator n ensure risk management process is followed n facilitate risk management reviews Projects n collate and issue risk management Project team Project manager Project risk reports registers owners n promote learning and consistency.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 85
