Remuneration committee Shareholder approval for our current long-term incentive The remuneration committees arrangement, the PSP, expires in May 2015.
Over the principal aims are to attract and retain coming year we will be reviewing what we want to put to good management and to incentivise shareholders in terms of renewing that plan.
As a result, we expect that we will need to seek further shareholder them to increase the value of AMEC approval at the 2015 AGM for modifications to the policy forits shareholders that is shown here and being proposed to the 2014 AGM.
Although 2013 showed further year-on-year improvement, the pace of growth slowed reflecting the downturn in our Dear shareholder, mining market in particular.
This is explained in more This is our first report prepared under the new reporting detail on page 41.
The overall results were lower than had regulations and, in line with best practice, it has been been targeted for bonus purposes at the start of the year arranged in two parts.
and this is reflected in the overall remuneration of the executive directors being significantly reduced from 2012.
The first part of our report, on pages 62 to 68, describes Annual bonus payments were reduced and the PSP awards our remuneration policy.
This is now subject to legally made in 2011 are expected to vest at lower levels.
We are binding shareholder approval, resolution number 4 at ofcourse aware of the economic environment in which our2014 AGM.
The second part of this new format report, thecompany operates and the need to calibrate incentives on pages 69 to 77, is our annual report on remuneration.
Nonetheless, your committee continues to This explains how our policy has been implemented take a robust approach to setting performance measures during2013 and is subject to an advisory vote resolution 3. and targets.
We want to ensure that high reward is only We have reviewed our remuneration policy in the light of achieved for outstanding performance.
Minor changes have We have reviewed the effectiveness of the application been made, with new directors contracts now providing ofourremuneration policy to date and continue to be explicitly for mitigation and a malus provision included satisfied that the overall approach also provides good inPerformance Share Plan PSP awards from 2014 alignment of executive behaviour with shareholder onwards.
The policy is otherwise essentially unchanged interests and does not encourage excessive risk.
Both from that approved by shareholders in an advisory vote ofour executive directors have high levelsofpersonal lastyear.
shareholdings, considerably in excessofour minimum The proposed acquisition of Foster Wheeler has just been guideline see page 76. announced.
During 2014, we will consider whether any It has been my privilege to serve as Chairman of this ofour remuneration approaches need to be changed committee for the last 8 years.
During this time we have inthelight of this including, as noted on page 69, any seen significant change within AMEC and I believe our appropriate adjustments to annual bonus and long-term approach to remuneration matters has played an incentive targets.
We will also discuss how to take account important role in supporting this.
of the revised company strategy, as it moves from Vision 2015 to2015 and beyond.
Tim Faithfull Chairman of the remuneration committee 13 February 2014 The committees terms of reference can be found at amec.
com aboutus culture corporategovernance or on request from the Company Secretary 60 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Membership of the remuneration committee The committee is also supported by the companys human resources department who may from time to time use Meeting attendance third parties to provide data and technical advice.
Tim Faithfull Chairman 3 3 Linda Adamany 3 3 The committee normally meets three times a year and has Neil Carson 3 3 an established annual agenda of items that it considers at John Connolly 3 3 the various meetings, the major elements of which are Colin Day 3 3 1 summarised below: Simon Thompson 2 3 Chairman Non-executive director February Confirmation of short and long-term 1 Flight delays caused by severe weather in the US in December 2013 incentive outcomes prevented Simon Thompson from attending a committee meeting Approval of Directors remuneration that day report The remuneration committee comprises all the New LTI awards non-executive directors including the Chairman.
August Shareholder feedback consultation Thequorum forthecommittee is two members.
Remuneration policy including risk review The Chief Executive and the Group Human Resources Committee processes and appointment Director attend meetings by invitation.
of consultants As noted on page 6, Tim Faithfull will be retiring as a December Review of individual base salaries and director at the conclusion of the 2014 AGM.
He will be total remuneration succeeded as committee chairman bySimon Thompson.
Incentive plan targets In considering the matters within its remit, the committee No additional meetings were held during 2013. takes account of recommendations from the Chairman in respect of the Chief Executive and from the Chief Executive in respect of the other executive directors and designated executives.
It is advised independently by New Bridge Street NBS.
NBS was reappointed by the committee in 2013 and its terms of engagement are available from the Company Secretary.
NBS does not undertake any material additional work for the company.
NBS is wholly owned by Aon Corporation and while other companies within the Aongroup do undertake material work for the company, this is not in the area of executive remuneration and arrangements are in place within the Aon Group to ring-fence NBS from other services provided.
Accordingly, the committee does not believe that the independence ofits adviser is compromised in any way.
NBS was paid 44,000 during the year for the advice provided to the committee on the basis of time expended and seniority ofindividuals providing the advice.
The committees terms of reference can be found at amec.
com aboutus culture corporategovernance or on request from the Company Secretary AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 61
