Recommended offer for Foster Wheeler The release, publication or distribution of this document in Forward-looking statements certain jurisdictions may be restricted by law and therefore This document contains statements which constitute persons in suchjurisdictions into which this document forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements isreleased, published ordistributed should inform include any statements related to the expected benefits themselves about and observe suchrestrictions.
orestimated synergies resulting from atransaction with Foster Wheeler and are generally identified by words such SHAREHOLDERS OF FOSTER WHEELER ARE URGED as believe, expect, anticipate, intend, estimate, will, TOREAD ANY DOCUMENTS REGARDING THE may, continue, should and other similar expressions.
PROPOSED OFFER WHEN THEY BECOME AVAILABLE Forward-looking statements are subject to various risks INCLUDING THE EXHIBITS THERETO AS THEY WILL and uncertainties, manyof which are difficult to predict and CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION ABOUT THE generally beyond the control ofAMEC, that could cause PROPOSED OFFER.
actual results and developments to differ materially from The registration statement, the Schedule TO and other those expressed in, or implied or projected by, the related documents in relation to the proposed offer will forward-looking statements.
beavailable electronically without charge at the SECs AMEC does not undertake to update any of the forwardwebsite, www.
gov, after they have been filed.
looking statements after this date to conform such Anymaterials filed with the SEC may also be obtained statements to actual results, to reflect the occurrence without charge at AMECs website, amec.
Participants in the Solicitation AMEC, Foster Wheeler and their respective directors and executive officers and other members of management IMPORTANT INFORMATION: andemployees may be deemed to be participants in the This document is for informational purposes only and solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed offer.
doesnot constitute or form part of an offer to sell or the Information about AMECs directors and executive officers solicitation of an offer to buy or subscribe to any securities, will be made available in the registration statement on nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction Form F-4 when filed.
Information about Foster Wheelers in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful directors and executive officers is available in its Form prior to registration or qualification under the securities 10-Kfor the year ended December 31, 2012 dated March 1, laws of any such jurisdiction.
Other information regarding the participants in the sole discretion, take such action as it may deem necessary proxy solicitations and a description of their direct and to extend an offer in any such jurisdiction.
This document indirect interests, by security holdings or otherwise, will isnot an offer of securities for sale into the United States.
becontained in the prospectus proxy statement and other No offering of securities shall be made in the United States relevant materials to be filed with the SEC regarding the except pursuant to registration under the US Securities Act transaction, if an offer is made, when they become of 1933, or an exemption therefrom.
Investors should read the prospectus proxy In connection with the recommended offer, AMEC expects statement carefully when it becomes available before tofilea registration statement on Form F-4, which will making any voting or investment decisions.
You may include a prospectus and joint proxy statement of AMEC obtainfree copies of these documents using the sources and Foster Wheeler the prospectus proxy statement, indicated above.
and a Tender Offer statement on Schedule TO the Schedule TO.
The proposed offer will be made exclusively by means of, and subject to, the terms and conditions set out in, an offer document containing and setting out the terms and conditions of the offer the OfferDocument and a letter of transmittal and form ofacceptance the Acceptance Forms to be delivered toFoster Wheeler, filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission the SEC and mailed to Foster Wheeler shareholders.
The recommended offer will bemade by AMEC or an affiliate of AMEC and not by any other person, including Bank of America Merrill Lynch orBarclays.
02 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Recommended offer for Foster Wheeler On 13 February 2014, AMEC announced that it had entered Key anticipated benefits of the combination include: into a definitive agreement with Foster Wheeler AG FosterWheeler under which AMEC will make a Positioning AMEC to serve across the whole oil recommended offer to acquire the entire issued and to be andgas value chain, adding mid and downstream issued share capital of Foster Wheeler the acquisition.
capabilities toAMECs existing upstream focus and bringing new customer relationships The full announcement is available on AMECs website, amec.
The acquisition is also referenced in this report, Improved geographic footprint, more than doubling particularly to show how it could accelerate achievement AMECs current revenues in the Growth Regions, ofAMECs growth strategy.
increasing AMECs Latin America exposure and bringing scale benefits Under the terms of the acquisition, Foster Wheeler shareholders would receive 0.8998 new AMEC securities Annual cost synergies, estimated by AMEC to and $16.00 in cash for each Foster Wheeler share.
beatleast $75 million, and additional significant taxsynergies The cash portion of the consideration will be financed by acombination of AMECs existing cash resources and new Significant revenue synergies, including crossdebt financing.
The securities portion of the consideration selling services to the combined customer base, will be satisfied by the issuance of approximately 90 million such as expanding the brownfield and environmental new AMEC securities to Foster Wheeler shareholders, serviceoffering internationally into the mid and which, at the election of Foster Wheeler shareholders, will downstream markets be issued in the form of either ordinary shares or American Retaining AMECs low-risk and cash-generative depositary shares for which AMEC will seek a US listing.
Foster Wheeler has a similar On completion of the acquisition, Foster Wheeler business model, with predominantly cost-plus shareholders will hold shares in AMEC representing contracting and an asset-light engineering and approximately 23 per cent of its enlarged share capital projectmanagement business andit is expected that two non-executive directors of Combining two highly skilled workforces with Foster Wheeler will join the AMEC board.
industry-leading engineering and project The acquisition is expected to be double-digit earnings managementexpertise accretive in the first 12 months following completion, and Adding a robust and profitable power equipment ROIC is expected to exceed the cost of capital in the second business with a solid backlog of orders.
AMEC expects to have a pro-forma trailing 12 months ratio of net debt to EBITDA of approximately 1.6 times following completion.
Due to its size, the acquisition is a class 1 transaction under the UK listing rules and therefore requires the approval of AMEC shareholders.
Completion of the transaction will also be subject to AMEC having received valid acceptance to the offer from holders of Foster Wheeler shares holding a minimum of 80 per cent of the total issued share capital of Foster Wheeler, regulatory and anti-trust approvals, a Foster Wheeler shareholder vote, and the satisfaction of other customary closing conditions.
The acquisition is expected to close in the second half of2014.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 03
