Our expertise What this means for ourstrategy Our people We provide high value services consulting, engineering, project and construction management Our customers andsupply chain management across the life cycle ofourcustomersassets.
Our global We have a particularly strong reputation for delivering Our expertise reach engineering solutions for complex projects and operating in remote and harsh locations.
Our markets Our customers capital expenditure plans can be cyclical.
Our diversified model protects us from this.
We work in four end markets, on a variety of energy and commodity projects, around the world, and through the asset life cycle, How we work including operational support and maintenance.
Our core services include: Consulting In each market or sector, the Business consulting: provided to the oil, gas and mining industries, helping support our customers in achieving rangeof services provided to maximum value from their assets.
We are Commercial: provided by commercial consulting and cost experts in designing, delivering and management subsidiaries Rider Hunt International and maintaining strategic and complex Aquenta Consulting.
assets, offering total life of asset Environmental: full service capabilities covering a wide support from feasibility planning range of disciplines, including environmental engineering and science, geotechnical engineering, water resources, right through to decommissioning.
materials testing and engineering, engineering and In 2013 we have been focused on maximising growth surveying, and programme management.
opportunities, by ensuring the widest range of AMEC Technical: delivering projects and solving problems.
services is provided in each of our three geographies, Forexample, in the mining market we are involved in ore and for each of our four markets.
resource estimation, mine planning and feasibility studies.
The AMEC Way is a very simple concept.
It is Recent examples include: fundamentally about improving the way we deliver ENEL, Italy: environmental master services agreement projects to customers, using best practices.
It is not for oil and gas, on and off-shore engineering in Italy one size fits all it is flexible and scalable so canbe adapted to local markets.
Collaboration between our Scottish Government: specialist support and technical people is a key differentiator in a competitive market expertise to Resource Efficient Scotland programme place and we need to provide ourcustomers with the Vale: front end loading study for underground nickel mine best we have to offer.
at Voisey Bay, Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada.
20 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Engineering PMC and PEMS work for KNPC Our engineering services are at the heart of our project delivery to our customers.
We have a global network ofengineering centres delivering high performance, Following on from the award of the project management cost-effective technical solutions to our customers.
consulting PMC work on the new refinery atAlzour in Ourapproach to engineering, the AMEC Way, means 2012, KNPC also extended AMECs projectengineering acommon user experience, independent of location.
and management services PEMS contract for the Wecan deploy the best mix of our capabilities through three existing oil refineries in Kuwait atMina Al Ahmadi, awell-integrated work share and technical performance Mina Abdullah and Shuaiba for another five years.
We have a particular expertise in undertaking large and complex projects in remote areas and in extending the Additional work on Clair Ridge for BP lifeof assets in the mid to late stages of their life cycle.
After completing the conceptual engineering studies Recent examples include: Nexen, UK: provision of brownfield engineering, and the define phase of Phase 2, AMEC delivered detailed engineering and project management services procurement, construction and commissioning servicesunder six-year contract for the construction and installation phase of two new bridge-linked platforms in 20112012.
In 2013, we were BG, UK: engineering, procurement, construction, awarded the hook-up and commissioning HUC roles.
commissioning and project management for all ofitsfacilities in the central North Sea until 2015 Samsung C&T, Australia: detailed design and engineering services for Package 3 of Roy Hill ironoremining project.
Project management Construction and construction management This is one of our core services, helping to deliver our The services provided by AMEC are designed to enhance consulting, engineering excellence and construction services the quality and value of construction projects by focusing to our customers.
We provide construction management on the quality of materials, the construction practices, and advice and support, health, safety, sustainability, environmental the level of care and quality control in the construction and quality HSSEQ directionand support, and commissioning process.
We focus on project management, construction and start-up.
We have developed and refined state-of-the-art techniques, subcontractor management, health and safety, systems, procedures and specifications for the management quality assurance and quality control.
and control of engineering, procurement, construction and Recent examples include: commissioning of process and industrial facilities worldwide.
Sappi, South America: engineering, procurement The AMEC Way defines a common approach toexecuting construction management EPCM services for Go Cell projects within AMEC.
It combines an assurance framework project, modifications to enable the production of for project delivery with access to acomprehensive chemical cellulose reference framework of guidance, tools such as Convero Sempra US Gas & Power, US: engineering, our integrated project management system and best procurement and construction for its 250MW solar practice examples.
Together these processes provide a project at Copper Mountain 3 standard approach to complete, successful delivery of projects to our customers.
Imperial Oil, Canada: engineering, procurement and construction management at the Kearl oil sands project in Alberta.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 21 Our expertise continued Recent examples include: Project management continued ConocoPhillips, Timor Sea: operations and Recent examples include: maintenance support for Bayu-Undan Clough AMEC BP: Azerbaijan: project and construction management services as part of the ATA consortium delivering the EDF, UK: engineering and technical services to the Shah Deniz 2 gas field in the Caspian Sea existing fleet of UK nuclear reactors KNPC, Kuwait: project engineering and management OPG, Canada: technical consultant in support of existing services contract worth 158 million over five years at nuclear operations.
three refineries in Kuwait Decommissioning zADCO, UAE: recently extended PMC contract on the We have substantial experience of nuclear Upper zakum offshore development decommissioning and waste management in the UK, Canada, Eastern and Western Europe and the former Rio Tinto, Mongolia: various AMEC locations collaborating Soviet Union.
We can be involved from initial concept to provide underground mining engineering, technical and through to hands-on decommissioning and clean-up, support services on the Oyu Tolgoi copper-gold project.
andalso provide in-house specialist services, such as Commissioning safety case and health physics support.
These skills are AMEC acquired qedi in 2011 to enhance our worldwide highly transferable to mature oil and gas assets, such specialist completions and commissioning capability.
We asthose inthe North Sea.
operate across the project life cycle and within a variety of Recent examples include: industries, particularly oil and gas and mining.
We have NDA, UK: AMEC plays a key role as part of Nuclear also developed bespoke GoTechnology which allows usto Management Partners NMP in managing the deliver technical standardisation across projects, improves decommissioning of the Sellafield complex.
This the accuracy of planning and ultimately reducesthe risk of contract was recently extended for five more years revenue or reputation losses duringcommissioning.
BP, UK: decommissioning management services provided Recent examples include: by qedi onthe Valhall platforms, using GoTechnology TAQA, UK: engineering, procurement, construction and suite of project management applications.
commissioning services for modifications to the Tern platform in the Cladhan field in the UK North Sea Other services We also offer a range of other specialist and GDF SUEz, UK: HUC services for the four platforms .
com and our sustainability report Operations and maintenance Once built, we support the operation of our customers assets and seek to extend their life through enhanced production, recovery and reduced operating costs.
Servicesinclude: What didnt go to plan in 2013 We earned a reduced contribution from our stake Asset support: comprehensive specialist shutdown inNMP, reflecting lower performance against key overhaul, maintenance, mechanical and electrical performance measures atSellafield M&E construction, tankage and special engineeringservices We recorded a loss on our contract with Teesside Gas Processing Plant TGPP in the UK as a result of delays Production operations: including production and cost over-runs.
optimisation services provided by Performance Improvements Ltd PI.
22 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Managing the challenges The principal risks and uncertainties related to our expertise are: Information technology IT AMEC is exposed to the risks that the IT systems on AMEC has appropriate controls in place in order to mitigate which it relies fail and or that sensitive data held by the risk of systems failure and data loss, including systems thegroup is lost.
back-up procedures and disaster recovery plans and also has appropriate malware protection, network security controls and encryption of mobile devices.
Following a recent comprehensive review of data governance and security, an information governance committee has been established to ensure consistent policies and practices in relation to the storage, movement, retention and destruction of data.
Project delivery Failing to maintain discipline and meet customer AMEC operates a system of globally applied policies and expectations on project delivery could result in damage procedures.
toreputation, loss of repeat business and potentially These, combined with comprehensive management leadto litigation and or claims against AMEC.
oversight, the risk management process, project reviews, internal audit, peer reviews and customer feedback, mitigate the risk to successful project delivery.
m See also risks for: staff recruitment and retention page 16 Measuring success Priorities for 2014 Our revenue growth and profitability are major indicators We provide a wide range of high value services to our ofour success.
We also seek to maintain a mix of capex customers.
Our ability to act as One AMEC and to deliver related to our customers capital expenditure excellence every time are key differentiators in a programmes and opex related activities.
1 2 Underlying revenue growth Margin stability We will continue to focus on combining the skills of our people to offer even better support to our customers.
12% 9.2% 8.8% 8.9% In 2014 we will also continue to look for opportunities toexpand our capabilities and to extend our addressable market, such as through the proposed acquisition of Underlying revenue, excluding EBITA margin, as described FosterWheeler.
incremental procurement on page 39, excluding per cent incremental procurement 3% 2% 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 1 2 Underlying revenue growth Margin stability 12% 9.2% 8.8% 8.9% Underlying revenue, excluding EBITA margin, as described incremental procurement on page 39, excluding 1 2011 and 2012 are as reported in those years.
In calculating 2013 figures, per cent incremental procurement 3% 2% 2012 has been restated as shown in note 1 page 1 2 2011 is as reported.
