How we work What this means for ourstrategy Our people We have deliberately adopted a low-risk approach to theway in which we do business, which improves the Our customers predictability of our results.
The majority of our contracts are cost-plus, where we are Our global paid our costs plus an agreed profit margin.
Many of our Our expertise reach contracts also include additional performance payments toalign our objectives with our customers.
We do take on lump sum, or fixed price, contracts where we know the Our markets customer and the project well.
We may partner with EPC contractors to gain access toprojects which would otherwise be unavailable to us.
How we work Forexample, in 2012 we created a joint venture with Samsung Heavy Industries and Samsung Engineering.
Under the terms of this arrangement, we will carry outdetailed engineering for fixed and floating offshore platforms, FPSOs and subsea pipelines for their offshore We have a low-risk contracting oil & gas projects.
model: we sell our peoples time and expertise, usually on a costRevenue by contracting style plus basis.
By using common systems we can deliver work Lump sum 20% consistently and share work Reimbursable 65% Target price15% acrossoffices.
As a result, our business is more sustainable, andour financial performance lessvolatile than others.
By using common systems we can deliver work In 2013 we have again focused on working together as consistently and share work across offices.
One AMEC ensuring customers get the best AMEC AMEC is a cash generative business.
Our priority is has to offer every time and increasingly collaborating tocreate value by investing for growth.
If no suitable between teams, offices and countries.
For instance, our opportunities are available, we will return surplus cash work for Vale at Voisey Bay involves mining, power and toshareholders.
E&I services, and our work for Eskom in South Africa covers nuclear, renewable, transmission and 2013 achievements included: distribution and mining skills.
We believe that by collaborating, improving and growing, we will ensure we are achieving our goals.
This is at thecore of our 2015 and beyond strategy and these concepts have been communicated and promoted throughout the year, including in our annual employee magazine, On reflection, available on our website We are increasingly collaborating to provide integrated services to our customers.
For example, 34 per cent ofthe E&I services provided in the Americas in 2013 were to non-E&I markets oil & gas, mining and cleanenergy 24 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Following the organisational restructuring in late 2012, in 2013 a new shared services centre SSC was created Our approach to sustainable business in Manila, the Philippines.
As well as consolidating Growth Regions HR and finance activities in one location, Our growth aspirations will only be achieved by focusing the SSC will increasingly provide global support activities.
on our customers and how wedeliver to them safely The SSC will save cost and more importantly, by and sustainably.
undertaking the routine tasks, will allow client-facing We believe sustainable business is the balance of offices to focus on delivery economic, environmental and social responsibilities, Our High Value Delivery Centres HVDCs in Shanghai, meeting the requirements of our stakeholders, China: Jakarta, Indonesia: and Santiago, Chile are consistently, in line with living our values.
Our increasingly acting as hubs, working collaboratively with sustainability strategy is described using three offices elsewhere in the world to serve our customers.
interwoven elements living our values, excellent They provide the same competencies, the same level project delivery and sustainable growth.
ofdelivery and quality, use the same tools and have Our customers face increasing legislative and other thesame culture.
In 2013 the Aberdeen office delivered pressures to operate in a sustainable way and we at anFPSO floating, production, storage and offloading AMEC are in an ideal place to support them, working vessel conversion, executing around 100,000 hours of withour partners and supply chain.
They are looking workshare of which around 55,000 were in Jakarta forsustainability solutions: minimising resource use We continued to transition more than 30 finance, HR water, materials, energy, considering long-term social and project management systems into one integrated requirements on our projects utilising local workforce global application Microsoft Dynamics andsuppliers, supporting the local communities in whichwe work and ensuring the delivery of safe We continued to support SOS Children as our projects inherent within the design, on site during globalstrategic charity.
We also provided expertise delivery and onwards during the operation.
toIFRC, designing transitional shelters to be used indisaster situations In each of these areas, we utilise our internal programmes and tools, along with AMECs We successfully implemented a sustainability in technicaland scientific expertise, to ensure practice online training programme as part of an excellentcustomer delivery.
employee awareness and engagement programme around our approach to sustainability in its widest sense We want to ensure that sustainability is integrated into the very core of our business and within our decision Our carbon reporting and data capture systems have making processes.
Our approach and our recent been updated in line with the new mandatory carbon achievements are described throughout this strategic reporting requirements see page 26 report as they form a key element of our business We were included in the Dow Jones Sustainability model.
Further details can be found in the 2013 Indexfor the tenth year in succession and were given sustainability report, to be issued in April 2014. asilver class sustainability award by RobecoSAM GlobalSustainability Index We were recognised by Greenbiz Group and Trucost asaNatural Capital Efficiency Leader.
What didnt go to plan in 2013 breaches of environmental permitting regulations which In 2012 we created joint ventures with Samsung resulted in odour pollution asmentioned previously and with Aibel to deliver projects for the oil & gas industry in the Norwegian In June 2013, Sellafield Limited was fined 700,000 Continental Shelf.
Despite good bidding activity, afterincorrectly disposing of low-level radioactive waste.
neitherhas yet resulted in additional work Although this was not under AMECs management control or responsibility, we are a part of the NMP joint In April 2013, Global Renewables Lancashire venture which is the parent body organisation for the OperationsLtd, in which AMEC is a 50 per cent site atSellafield.
shareholder, was fined 150,000 as a result of five AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 25 How we work continued Greenhouse gas emissions 2013 CO emission 2 Year ended 31 October in tonnes The 12-month period to 31 October, rather than the calendar year, Combustion of fuel and operationof facilities 24,449 has been used.
This ensures actual data can be used, even for those regions where energy fuel usage is more difficult to access.
Electricity, heat, steam and By reducing reliance on estimation, amore accurate footprint can coolingpurchased for own use 31,438 be provided in a timely manner.
Per employee 1.93 In our figures, we use accepted methods of calculation based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Per 1 million revenue 14.06 Reporting Standard revised edition.
We first adopted our operational control approach in2001.
This is the first year in which global greenhouse gas We have previously provided estimated calendar year figures for CO 2 emissions have been presented in this format.
The emissions, using Defra emission conversion factors.
As more than figures show scope 1 and 2 emissions from our global 70 per cent of our revenue is generated outside of the UK we have switched to using national conversion factor guidelines eg EPA, business where we have operational control.
Asaresult, carbon data m Forfurther information please refer toAMECs previously reported is no longer directly comparable.
2013 sustainability report Managing the challenges The principal risks and uncertainties related to how we work are: Mergers and acquisitions A failure to execute, complete and successfully integrate Our strategic plan previously Vision 2015, now 2015 and targeted, value-enhancing acquisitions represents a risk beyond includes a structured internal review of identified togrowth.
target acquisitions, followed by an established and robust due diligence and integration planning process.
Legacy risk Litigation and business claims from divested and non-core The established Investment Services team manages these businesses, such as Global Renewables, remain a risk claims withinternal and external legal advice.
seek cost-effective management of litigation and promote commercially sensible settlements where appropriate.
Managing non-core legacy assets until divestment mayrequire skills that are not common to the rest AMEC has made provisions for the legacy issues that ofthecompany.
arebelieved to be adequate and is not aware of any other current issues relating to disposed businesses which are likely to have a material impact.
Specialist teams with the appropriate knowledge are brought in as required.
Ethical breach A substantive ethical breach and or non-compliance AMEC has a number of measures in place across thegroup withlaws or regulations could potentially lead to to mitigate this risk, including: embedded policies and damageto AMECs reputation, fines, litigation and procedures: Code of Business Conduct: segregation of claimsfor compensation.
duties: management oversight: financial and operational controls: independent third-party reporting system for raising concerns: appointment of ethics officers: anti-fraud m See also risks for: IT page 23, health, safety andother internal audits: legal team advice: ethics training and security page 16 and project delivery programme: and oversight by the ethics committee of page 23 theboard.
26 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Measuring success Priorities for 2014 This is a wide-ranging topic and the key performance In 2014 we will focus on growing our revenue without indicators we use to track our progress reflect this.
significantly changing our low-risk business model.
A key financial KPI is our cash conversion, which was particularly strong in 2013.
We target over 90 per cent We are also targeting to increase the amount of workshare conversion of operating profit into cash and collaboration between teams and offices.
This ensures customers get the best AMEC has to offer, every time.
Our reputation depends on us delivering projects successfully for our customers.
One of the non-financial One of the attractions of the proposed combination KPIs we use is whether our project and peer reviews are ofFoster Wheeler with AMEC is that both companies being implemented in line with our plans.
We met our haveasimilar approach tohow they work.
Approximately targets for this KPI in 2013 69percent of Foster Wheelers Quarter 3 2013 order bookcame from cost-plus or similar contracts.
They We have tracked our carbon emissions since 2008, havea strong reputation for delivery and they arealso when we set a target of reducing emissions per cashgenerative.
Since that time we have significantly increased awareness and improved reporting.
The group itself has also changed.
Despite substantial progress in many areas, we have not achieved our target.
See the 2013 sustainability report for more detail.
Carbon emissions Cash conversion Tonnes per employee, scope 1, 2 and 3 3.2 99% 93% 3.0 89% 2.4 See page 26 and 2013 sustainability Operating cash flow as defined report for further details on page 39, note 3 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Carbon emissions Cash conversion Tonnes per employee, scope 1, 2 and 3 3.2 99% 93% 3.0 89% 2.4 See page 26 and 2013 sustainability Operating cash flow as defined report for further details on page 39, note 3 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 27
