Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Our global reach What this means for ourstrategy Our people As well as building our presence in our established geographies of the UK and North America, we are looking Our customers to expand in the Middle East, Australasia and South America.
We need to not only build on our existing market positions but also to enhance our capabilities and expand our Our global Our expertise reach geographic coverage.
Wesee this expansion as coming from a combination ofacquisition and organic growth.
In addition, some of our customers are increasingly looking Our markets for us to take responsibility for a wider range of services and capabilities, for example integrating power and water services into a mining project.
We need to be organised to How we work respond to thiseffectively.
Our organisation structure is designed to promote collaboration between markets and geographies, to deliverenhanced growth and incentivise our people tocollaborate and sell One AMEC.
We manage the business in three geographic units: Americas, m The introductory investor presentation on our website carries further details on our market position, competitors and Europeand Growth Regions.
This growth priorities structure is designed to promote Americas collaboration between AMECs Americas generated 56 per cent of group revenues in 2013. people so that our customers The portfolio of activities is well balanced across AMECs benefit from the best we can offer four markets.
We believe this enhances We have a good conventional oil & gas position, with our growth opportunities.
ourvisibility in Gulf of Mexico enhanced by our work onMWCS Increasing collaboration, breaking silos, integrating AMEC is a market leader in the provision of project acquisitions and working as one team will make management and engineering services to the Canadian usmuch stronger than we already are.
Improving mineable oil sands and is building in-situ experience efficiency and productivity will build resilience and helpus to stay ahead of our competitors and deliver We are a leading mining consultant and a tier 1 excellence to our customers.
EPCMplayer Our group presidents of each business unit are We have growing solar and bioprocess positions in incentivised to work collaboratively, with a proportion theUS and are well positioned in nuclear and wind oftheir bonus dependent on this measure.
inCanada Our proposed acquisition of Foster Wheeler is expected We are a leading player in the provision of to significantly add to the scale of our Growth Regions environmental services in North America.
more than doubling our revenue in that area.
We manage legacy and non-core activities through Investment Services.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 35 Our global reach continued Americas continued Europe Europe generated 31 per cent of group revenue in Revenue split by market 2013, largely from conventional oil & gas and nuclear.
Environment & Infrastructure 19% We have a long-standing oil & gas business in theNorthSea, with a market-leading position Oil & Gas 35% inbrownfield activities Clean Energy 27% Our nuclear capability has developed over the last Mining 19% 60years and supports the full life cycle of nuclear energy, from new build to reactor support and onto decommissioning, including new nuclear in the UK Locations: There are major offices in Calgary, Toronto, Saskatoon, Vancouver in Canada: Atlanta, GA, Greenville, We are positioned for further growth in the environment SC, Houston, TX, in the US: Santiago, Chile: Belo Horizonte, & infrastructure market.
In addition, environmental and Revenue split by market infrastructure services are provided through a large Environment & number of local offices throughout North America.
Infrastructure 4% Customers include: Arizona Public Service, BC Hydro, BP, Bruce Power, Canadian Natural Resources Limited, Clean Energy 27% Dominion, ExxonMobil, Freeport McMoRan, Honeywell, Oil & Gas 69% Imperial Oil, International Power, K&S Potash, MeadWestvaco, MWCS, Newmont, Ontario Power Generation, PotashCorp, Recurrent Energy, RTI International, Sempra, Syncrude.
Locations: In the UK, there are major offices in Aberdeen, Recent projects include: Oil & gas: Marine Well Darlington, Great Yarmouth, London, Knutsford, Containment System MWCS : scheduled for delivery in Newcastle.
We also have smaller offices elsewhere early 2014, US: ongoing oil sands work for Imperial Oil, intheUK and in Europe.
Syncrude, CNRL, Suncor, Shell and AMR among others, Customers include: Apache, AWE, Bluewater, BG, and the provision of environmental services in US shale gas BP, Britannia, Centrica, ConocoPhillips, EDF, Enquest, Mining: Vale: front end loading study to develop Fairfield Energy, GDF SUEz, MOD, National Grid, NDA, underground nickel mine at Voisey Bay, Canada: various RollsRoyce, Sabic, Scottish Power, Shell, Talisman, mining consulting projects and a number of existing Wales& West Utilities.
copper, gold and potash EPCM projects for Newmont, Recent projects include: Oil & gas: BP: hook-up Thompson Creek, PotashCorp and K&S Potash andcommissioning two new Clair Ridge platforms: Clean energy: Dominion: EPC contracts to design and BP:maintenance and operations for Forties pipeline construct solar arrays in Georgia and Indiana, US: Sempra system: BG: engineering, procurement, construction, US Gas & Power: EPC contract to design and construct commissioning and project management for all facilities 250MW solar array in Nevada, US incentral North Sea: ConocoPhillips: detailed engineering and procurement for existing Judy platform and the Environment & Infrastructure: Honeywell: alliance hook-up and commissioning of the new Jasmine facilities: agreement, working on more than 80 environmental GDF SUEz: FEED, engineering, procurement, hook-up remediation and stewardship projects.
andcommissioning services, Cygnus field: Nexen: EPC services for North Sea offshore assets: OMV: engineering services framework upgrade of green and brownfield on and offshore facilities JV : Shell ONEgas: asset support: Talisman: brownfield engineering five-year call-off contract: TAQA: EPC modifications to Tern oil production platform and new subsea tie-back to the Cladhan field.
36 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Clean energy: AWE: strategic partnership agreement Locations: There are major offices in Baku Azerbaijan : Kuala Lumpur Malaysia : Manila the Philippines : Jakarta toprovide implementation services at Aldermaston, UK: Horizon: framework agreement to provide specialist Indonesia : Kuwait City Kuwait : Abu Dhabi UAE : Perth, Brisbane Australia : Shanghai China : Singapore: engineering and technical design services for proposed nuclear new build programme, UK: Magnox: project Johannesburg South Africa.
management resource contract to support decommissioning Customers include: ADMA-OPCO, AFCEC, AIOC, Arcelor at ten UK sites, in JV: NDA: Sellafield site decommissioning Mittal, Arrow Energy, BG, BP, ConocoPhillips, Dundee as a part of NMP: Nuclear Energy Company of Slovakia: Precious Metals, KEIL, KNPC, KOC, Origin Energy, environmental impact assessment services associated Samsung C&T, Swakop Uranium, US Army, zadco.
with new nuclear programme: Wales & West Utilities: gasinfrastructure replacement programme.
Recent projects include: Oil & gas: BP: project and construction management services within the AMEC Environment & Infrastructure: Scottish Government: Tekfen Azfen consortium for the Shah Deniz 2 offshore specialist consultancy support to the resource efficiency platforms, Azerbaijan announced January 2014 : Abu Scotland programme: UK Environment Agency: Dhabi Marine: Project Management Consultancy services framework contract for environmental and remediation contract for Umm Lulu Phase-2, Abu Dhabi: Chevron: services for the National Contaminated Land Consultancy.
operational readiness services for Wheatstone facility JV, Australia: ConocoPhillips: asset support for Bayu Undan Growth Regions gas facilities JV, East Timor Sea: ENI: onshore turnaround Growth Regions contributed 13 per cent of group revenue and maintenance support, Australia: KOC: PMC services in 2013, driven by conventional oil & gas.
In our 2015 and for a portfolio of major upstream projects, Kuwait: KNPC: beyond strategy, it is the business unit we believe has the PEMS contract at three refineries and support to new greatest potential for growth.
The business also needs refinery at Al zour, Kuwait: zADCO-zakum Development greater scale.
In 2013 a new shared service centre was Company: programme management consultancy established in Manila to serve the Growth Regions.
We have a strong engineering and PMC position in the Mining: Samsung C&T: design and engineering services oil & gas market in the Middle East and a long-standing for iron ore handling and processing facilities at Roy Hill, position in Azerbaijan.
The Clough AMEC joint venture is Australia.
based in Australia Environment & Infrastructure: US Army Corp of Our mining position was developed with the acquisition Engineers: various pieces of work on bases in the region, of GRD Minproc in 2009 including at Al Udeid Air Base in Qatar.
In clean energy, we have a presence in the nuclear sector in South Africa Investment Services This principally comprises the Incheon Bridge PPP project We have a growing position in the environment & in Korea and the Lancashire Waste PFI project, both now infrastructure market and support US Federal activity operational, the groups insurance captive, AMECs on bases in this region.
resident UK wind development activities and a range ofother non-core activities.
Revenue split by market Clean Energy 3% Environment & Infrastructure 15% Mining 12% What didnt go to plan in 2013 The resignation of the Group President, Growth Regions Oil & Gas 70% for personal reasons.
Samir Brikho is leading this business unit until a replacement is appointed Underlying revenue growth in Growth Regions was 2percent.
Although good progress is being made intheMiddle East, the Australian market remains challenging.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 37 Our global reach continued Managing the challenges The principal risks and uncertainties related to our global reach are: Restructure to focus on expansion ofglobalfootprint In 2012 AMEC restructured the business to focus on Closely defined roles and responsibilities have been delivering growth generally and expanding the global identified across operations and functions with a formal footprint specifically into Growth Regions.
A failure of review process initiated to monitor performance and thisstrategy could result in failure to meet targeted ensure appropriate remedial actions are put in place growthlevels.
AMECs growth strategy previously Vision 2015, now 2015 and beyond identified, by geography, theopportunities and risks across the markets in which AMEC operates.
The strategy is regularly reviewed for continued relevance and covers both organic growth and mergers and acquisitions.
m See also risks for: geopolitical and economic conditions page 19, ethical breach page 26 and mergers and acquisitions page 26 Measuring success Priorities for2014 Our Vision 2015 strategy measures success in terms of In 2014 we will be looking to: growth in earnings per share, from the base point in 2009.
We expect the rate of growth Other non-financial measures we track include: inunderlying revenue, excluding incremental Number of our employees who complete ethics procurement, in 2014 to be good trainingin the year.
In 2013 almost 21,000 employees Appoint a new group president, Growth Regions, completed online or face-to-face anti-bribery and withthe experience and energy to develop this corruption training businessunit to its maximum potential The contribution we make to our local communities.
Continue to promote collaboration across markets In2013 AMEC donated over 400,000, matching the andgeographies fundraising activities of our staff.
Complete the proposed acquisition of Foster Wheeler and commence the integration programme.
1 Revenue growth EPS growth 0.0% 16% 0.0% 0.0% 11% Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations before 7% intangible amortisation and exceptional items 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 1 Figures for 20102012 have been restated as shown in note 3 page 1 38 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013
