Our markets What this means for our strategy Our people We have purposefully and deliberately positioned AMEC across these four markets and believe this diversified Our customers approach minimises risk and maximises opportunity overthe long term.
Our global We look for strategic opportunities to enhance our position Our expertise reach in our chosen markets.
For example, if our acquisition of Foster Wheeler goes ahead, it would complement our existing upstream oil and gas position byadding mid and Our markets downstream activities.
It would also increase our exposure to gas markets.
How we work Competitive environment There is no one competitor operating in all the same markets, with the same geographic footprint and with asimilar approach to risk as AMEC.
Further details on the competitive landscape by market We provide similar services can be found in our introductory investor presentation ineachof our four markets onamec.
oil&gas, mining, clean energy, Global market trends andenvironment & infrastructure ExxonMobils report, 2013 The Outlook for Energy: winning work through strong AViewto 2040, identifies population growth and increasing urbanisation as key factors for increased energy demand.
customer relationships and Itsees a 35per cent growth from 2010 to 2040, even ourproven ability to deliver withsignificant efficiency gains and expects the worlds successfully, even in harsh or population to grow by more than 25 per cent between 2010and 2040, to nearly nine billion people.
Many of Outlook 2030 suggests world income in 2030 will be theskills we provide our customers double that of 2011 in real terms.
The International Energy Agency IEA World Energy Outlook Each of our end markets is expected to grow in the long 2013 sees the growth in primary energy demand coming from term.
AMEC is carefully positioned across sectors so as non-OECD countries, with China, India and the Middle East to benefit whatever the relative weighting in the energy accounting for 60 per cent of the increase, and emerging mix.
Our markets are also all cyclical their diversity economies 90percent of the growth.
OECD countries are means we are not dependent onany one part of the expected to see a shift away from oil and coal, towards energy mix.
The IEA is forecasting world oil demand to grow from 87 million barrels a day, to 101 million The services we provide see pages 20 to 23 run barrels in 2035. acrossthe life cycle of our customers assets, from consulting, engineering and construction management Technology is facilitating the development of resources to project management, operations and maintenance such as tight oil and shale gas, which are expected to and decommissioning.
allowthe US to meet all its energy needs from domestic resources by 2035.
At the same time, developing new Growth will inevitably put further pressure on the sources of energy is becoming more complex, with availability of suitably qualified engineers, consultants resources often in harsh or remote regions.
Our people strategy isacore enabler of our growth aspirations.
28 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials IEA believes a global investment in energy supply natural gas liquids and unconventional sources.
The rise being driven by light-tight oil, Canadian oil sands, natural infrastructure of $37 trillion is required between 2012 and 2035, with a disproportionately high share taken by OECD gas liquids and increased deepwater production in Brazil.
countries because of higher unit costs for capacity additions The IEA estimates that meeting the worlds energy needs and the need to replace ageing infrastructure.
Oil and gas will require spending approximately $1.6 trillion per year on collectively account for almost $19 trillion of the total average, with about $700 billion being spent on oil and gas investment, with most of the balance being power.
development, and the remainder on power generation.
A more detailed analysis is shown in each market section Morgan Stanleys latest global exploration and production on the following pages.
spending analysis suggests that in the period between 2012 and 2020, global upstream spending will grow at approximately 5.5per cent per annum, with offshore AMECs markets spending growth of8.2 per cent per annum.
2013 revenue by market In general, oil and gas resources are increasingly difficult E&I 14% to extract.
Projects have become larger and more complex and environmental pressures have increased.
As existing infrastructure ages and reserves are being depleted, more Clean Energy 24% Oil & Gas 50% sophisticated performance and efficiency improvement solutions are required, particularly in brownfield operations.
Mining 12% In the UK, an interim report to the Secretary of State proposes a new regulator to help maximise economic recovery of the substantial remaining UK oil & gas resource.
Oil & Gas Oil and gas producers want oil services companies, such Growth is driven by the long-term rise in energy demand.
as AMEC, to provide experts with proven experience in Resources are becoming increasingly difficult to access delivering projects on time, on budget, without harming with a shift towards more frontier and deepwater people or the environment.
This plays to AMECs expertise in Many international oil companies IOCs are renewing complexand harsh locations.
theirfocus on overall levels ofcapital expenditure, though The market national oil companies NOCs are largely unaffected.
The IEA estimates oil supply in 2012 was 89.2 million Thismay impact totalmarket growth rates.
barrels per day mb d. Since 2000 more than two-thirds Assets are maturing, with declining reservoir production ofsupply growth has come from unconventional oil, and ageing infrastructure, at the same time that the suchas light-tight oil, oil sands and ultra-deepwater number of offshore facilities is increasing, to over 9,000 andnatural gas liquids.
During 2013 China has overtaken globally.
These factors are increasing the focus on the the US as the worlds largest net oil importer.
offshore maintenance, modifications and operations Oil demand is forecast to increase to 101 mb d by 2035.
MMO market, which the Douglas Westwood MMO report This is driven by the transport sector in China, India and 2014 expects to be worth around $672 billion between 2014 Middle East and occurs despite the dampening effect of and 2018.
Although the modifications market in particular efficiency measures, environmental policies and relatively is affected by changes in the oil price, such projects can high prices in OECD countries.
Overthe period to 2040, represent a much better economic alternative than ExxonMobil expects natural gas toovertake coal as the greenfield projects.
number two global fuel, behind oil.
2013 oil & gas revenue by business unit Brent crude oil price has averaged $110 for the past three years in real terms.
Gas prices have, however, continued Growth Regions 19% toexhibit significant regional differences, with US prices Americas 39% averaging one-third of those in Europe, and one-fifth in Japan.
A change from todays production mix is also expected, Europe 42% with crude oil falling and a greater share being taken by AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 29 Our markets continued Recent examples: Oil & Gas continued AMECs position Unnamed customer: engineering design of topside AMEC offers a wide range of services to a broad range modifications to an existing FPSO, together with ofcustomers, including IOCs, NOCs and independent procurement activities and project management services operators in Europe, Americas, Middle East and Africa, ConocoPhillips: Jasmine: hook-up and commissioning theCaspian, South-east Asia and China.
We do not operate services for the new topside facilities.
in early cycle exploration or drilling, but are involved in every part of the project delivery phase.
The majority of AMEC is a market leader in the provision of project ouractivity is for offshore assets, where we support fixed management and engineering services to the upstream platforms and floating production units, largely above surface mining Canadian oil sands sector, with a history thewater.
stretching back to the worlds first oil sands plant in 1967.
Historically our focus has been on mineable oil sands, Wealsosupport onshore oil and gas fields, booster though we also have in-situ expertise.
This technology is stations, gathering centres, tank farms, gasoil separation increasingly being used and on larger projects.
Recent oil plants and pipelines.
We do more work on oil projects, sands projects include: andare relatively under-represented on gas projects.
Thevast majority of our oil & gas revenues comesfrom Imperial Oil: Kearl initial development and expansion upstream projects.
AMEC has global experience of delivering large and complex We also work on shale gas and coal bed methane projects, greenfield projects, with capabilities in deepwater and providing services such as environmental impact hostile conditions.
We have developed a strong position assessments and water table management.
infrontier regions including the Caspian and have a good AMEC is aware of the environmental concerns raised track record in proactively helping customers deal with byactivities in many of these areas.
The full range of our environmental pressures.
Recent examples include: environmental and infrastructure services can be used BP Clair Ridge: engineering and project management toensure that customers meet and, where possible, services EPMS and hook-up and commissioning for exceed local legislation, providing them with solutions the main platform toenvironmental challenges.
For example: MWCC: designing and delivering components of the Kuwait, Gulf War remediation: PMC contract to modular equipment for the Marine Well Containment remediate dispose of highly contaminated material System MWCS arising from the first Gulf War, with the project managed by a long-standing AMEC customer, KOC.
BP Shah Deniz: project and construction management services for the stage 2 development of the Shah Deniz m Further information on our recent projects can be found on our website, amec.
com gas field in the Caspian Sea, Azerbaijan GDF SUEz, Cygnus gas field: following FEED work, Mining detailed design and hook-up and commissioning.
General macro and commodity pricing uncertainty is affecting the near-term outlook for the mining industry, AMEC is also a leading international provider of asset increasing volatility.
Long-term fundamentals remain support services.
Recent activity includes: robust, supported by increasing urbanisation in Chevron, Wheatstone: Clough AMEC joint venture emergingmarkets.
working on the operability, reliability and maintainability ORM component of this offshore facility The market An additional 2 billion people in emerging markets Fairfield Energy, Dunlin field: two new life of field areexpected to become urbanised in the period to 2035, contracts covering general operating services and akey underlying driver of long-term growth in this brownfield engineering and construction requirements.
Short-term views are more cautious, with lower We are a market leader in UK North Sea brownfield commodity prices and general economic uncertainty services and provide more integrated solutions to new causing some softening of exploration spending and the entrant operators in the region.
AMEC is increasingly postponement or cancellation of more marginal projects.
providing more sophisticated solutions, for example, At the same time, investors in major mining companies adapting existing facilities to cope with both mature arelooking for greater cash returns.
reservoir conditions and new tie-backs developments.
30 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials The business is a recognised leader in environments 2013 mining revenue by commodity type All others 6% where projects have significant logistical challenges Uranium 3% associated with remote location and difficult access.
Lead-zinc 3% AMECoccupies a top-tier position in international Coal 3% consulting and a leading position in the North and South Copper 25% Iron ore 15% American engineering, procurement and construction management EPCM markets, where we have provided Gold 23% Potash 22% services for many of the worlds leading mining companies.
In addition to our established position in Australia, we are growing our African business.
Supply issues are at the forefront as fewer easy-to-produce Recent projects include: resources are leading to more challenging, complex and expensive developments, in more remote and riskier Rio Tinto, Oyu Tolgoi: various AMEC locations locations.
Increasingly new mining projects are underground collaborating to provide underground services rather than surface mines and more logistical onthiscoppergold project infrastructure and environmental controls are required.
K S Legacy Potash: project management services This has led to a number of major mining companies forthe full scope of facilities at Saskatchewans first announcing delays to projects and cost reduction newpotash mine in nearly 40 years programmes.
CitiResearch wrote in September 2013 that Vale Voisey Bay: front end loading study for underground it expects large miners to make significant cuts to capital nickel mine in Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada expenditure compared to current levels of spend.
In 2014 it expects approximately $40 billion, compared to $46 billion Samsung C&T Roy Hill: design and engineering in 2013. services for the iron ore handling and processing facilities in Western Australia.
As in oil & gas, mine developers are looking for suppliers, such as AMEC, with proven ability in project delivery.
m Further information on our recent projects can be found on our website, amec.
com AMECs position AMEC has long sought to mitigate the impact of economic Clean Energy volatility by positioning itself to support a diverse range Clean energy provides an increasingly significant part ofcommodities and service markets.
As well as potash, ofthe global energy mix, its growth driven by increasing iron ore, copper and gold, our customers are producing demand for power and environmental concerns.
AMECs commodities such as uranium, lead, zinc, nickel and proven expertise, depth of technology understanding diamonds.
We offer mining consultancy including ore andstrong customer relationships providefurther resource estimation, mine planning and feasibility studies, growthopportunities.
design, project and construction management services The market and believe the provision of consulting and environmental The role of nuclear power varies from country to country.
services provides a distinct competitive advantage.
Some countries, such as Germany, are looking to 2013 mining revenue by size of customer decommission their nuclear capacity, while others, suchasthe UK andChina, are committed to new build Majors 10% programmes.
Overall, the IEA forecasts nuclear will be used to generate around 12 per cent of electricity in 2035, Others 29% in line with today.
Mid-tier 52% Private state owned 9% The UK currently has 16 nuclear reactors generating 10GWe, around one-sixth of the UKs electricity requirements.
During 2013 the UK government and EDF announced they had reached an agreement in principle on Majors: market capitalisation over US$40 billion: mid-tier: US$5$40billion the key commercial terms for a new 3.2MW nuclear plant at Hinkley Point in Somerset.
Horizon and NuGen are also developing plans to build new nuclear plants in the UK.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 31 Our markets continued Our customers include major utilities, governments, Clean Energy continued national regulators, reactor suppliers and other significant The market continued stakeholders.
We have a particularly strong presence in Many of the worlds nuclear facilities will be reaching theUK and Canada, a growing business in the US and theend of their permissioned life over the next 20 years.
agood presence in Central and Eastern Europe and Life extensions and reactor support will be necessary SouthAfrica.
In 2013 we expanded our position in the tomaintain the 15 per cent of Canadas electricity which USwith the acquisition of Automated Engineering Services comes from nuclear power, with 19 reactors mostly AES, a 175-person professional design engineering inOntario.
Likewise, around 75 per cent of Frances nuclear services firm based in Naperville, Illinois.
electricity comes from nuclear power, with 58 reactors across the country.
In renewables, our focus is on wind, solar, biomass and biofuels projects.
Our customers include power utilities, The clean-up and management of the nuclear legacy is financial institutions, government agencies, technology one of the most demanding challenges facing the industry.
developers, original equipment manufacturers and The World Nuclear Association estimates that more than specialist consultants.
They appreciate the flexibility our 250 reactors will close by 2030 worldwide.
technology neutrality brings, our focus and our ability ExxonMobil forecasts renewable energy supplies toprovide a full service engineering, procurement and including traditional biomass, hydro and geothermal as construction EPC solution.
well as wind, solar and biofuels to contribute 14 per cent In power, the majority of services are performed for of the energy mix by 2040, up from 3 per cent in 2010. majorenergy providers, governments, developers and Growth in renewables will be driven by climate change independent power producers, primarily in the Americas.
andenvironmental policies, energy security concerns Our major customers in transmission and distribution andby price and cost developments.
aresystem owners with which we have had long-standing BP forecasts that energy consumption grows less rapidly relationships.
We have an existing position in the UK and than the global economy, with GDP growth averaging agrowing presence inCanada.
3.5per cent per annum between 2012 and 2035, with the Recent clean energy activities include: decline in energy intensity accelerating post 2020.
Sellafield Limited, UK: various projects including a Both BP and IEA predict that fossil fuels share of the multi-discipline site works framework agreement energy mix will fall by circa 5 percentage points by 2035 asrenewables continue to replace oil and coal in the mix.
EDF, UK: supporting EDFs architect engineer operations on its UK nuclear new build programme 2013 clean energy revenue by business unit andthe operations of the existing nuclear fleet Growth Regions 2% NDA, UK: recently renewed five-year contract for decommissioning of the Sellafield site as a part of NMP Europe 35% Horizon Nuclear Power, UK: a three-year framework Americas 63% contract to provide environmental and technical services for the proposed new nuclear reactors BC Hydro, Canada: EPCM framework for all transmission assets AMECs position Sempra Gas & Power, US: engineering, procurement Our nuclear capability has been developed over 60 years, and construction for its 250MW solar project at Copper positioning us to support the full life cycle of nuclear Mountain 3, Nevada energy, from new build and reactor support including lifetime extension, to nuclear decommissioning and Dominion Energy, US: engineering, procurement and wastemanagement.
We have experience of all types construction for three solar projects in Indiana, one in ofnuclear technology.
We work with our customers in Georgia and a coal to natural gas conversion in Virginia.
long-term relationships based on partnering and have m Further information on our recent projects can be significant experience in effectively managing complex found on our website, amec.
32 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials A broad range of government services is provided, Environment & Infrastructure E&I including to the US Federal Government, which is the The overall environmental consulting and engineering largest procurer of environmental services in the world.
market includes services provided to all four of AMECs Customers also include the various branches of the markets, with the skills highly transferable across military and state provincial agencies.
Our E&I market alone consists of four sectors: fromremediation programmes to design and delivery water, transportation infrastructure, government services, ofinfrastructure facilities, including airfield facilities, and industrial commercial.
housing and site improvements at installations globally.
The market In industrial commercial, compliance and due diligence The global environmental consultancy market is estimated services are provided, ranging from geotechnical and at 34 billion Engineering News Record, with design and environmental to materials and water resources consulting.
 revenue on top of this.
The market has historically been both large and diverse though there AMECs knowledge of regulatory environments is used has been recent consolidation as large private sector toapply a risk-based approach to environmental liability clients are increasingly looking for seamless global assessment and management.
Recent projects include: A compound annual growth rate of 3.5 per cent is expected Northumbrian Water, UK: framework agreement over the next five years, with services related toclimate fortheprovision of technical, commercial and change, energy and contaminated land remediation expected environmental services to grow particularly strongly Environmental Analyst.
US Army Corps of Engineers, Qatar: design and Many believe that water scarcity and environmental construction of facilities and warehousing, including concerns provide additional opportunities for growth.
demolition and site improvements at Al Udeid Air Base Growing water constraints are set to impose additional costs on the energy sector and in some cases threaten McCain Foods, Canada: wastewater effluent reclaim theviability of projects.
The IEA suggests that the volume recycle design project ofwater consumed to produce energy will increase by Kahramaa, Qatar: supporting the local utility to use 85per cent from 2010 to 2035.
This is more than twice aquifer storage and recovery technology to improve therate of growth of energy demand, driven by more water supply security.
water-intensive power generation and expanding output ofwater-thirsty biofuels.
AMECs position We work predominately in the US, Canada and the UK, What didnt go to plan in 2013 withan emerging presence in the Middle East, Africa AMECs markets are each cyclical to varying degrees.
Weakness continued in the mining market in particular, with revenues 28 per cent lower.
Activity levels also AMEC provides a multi-disciplinary approach to water dropped in the Canadian oil sands though AMEC projects at all stages of planning, study, design and continues to work on the largest single project in recent construction, seeking to provide sustainable and years, the Kearl project for Imperial Oil environmentally sound solutions for our public and private sector customers.
Our primary areas of focus are water Although there has been some important progress resource management, water policy, coastal management, onUK nuclear new build, with significant government asset planning and management, and wastewater endorsement, the speed of implementation is yet to pick collection and treatment.
Water services are also commonly provided to customers in AMECs other markets, including mining and oil & gas.
In transportation infrastructure, AMEC has provided programme management, planning and design, project and construction management, asset development and long-term asset support to government transportation agencies, national and local customers and private developers in Canada and the US for over 50 years.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 33 Our markets continued Managing the challenges The principal risks and uncertainties related to our markets are: Changes in commodity prices A sustained and significant reduction in oil and gas or This risk is mitigated by maintaining a balanced commodity prices could have an adverse impact on the businessportfolio of geographies, markets, clients level of customer spending in AMECs markets and andservice offering.
consequently represents a risk to organic growth.
The outlook for economic growth in China continues to have an impact on minerals and metals commodity prices, limiting project opportunities.
m See also risks for: geopolitical and economic conditions page 19, expansion of global footprint page 38, mergers and acquisitions page 26 and staff recruitment and retention page 16 Measuring success Priorities for2014 We work across four markets.
Each has been chosen Our order book and our order intake are significant because of its long-term growth potential and the need indicators of our continued success across our markets.
forhigh-quality engineering and project management Inaddition, we also assess our overall exposure to each services.
We believe that this combination provides AMEC market, including the mix of services we offer such as with attractive opportunities, andprotects us from the maintaining a mix of capex and opex, new build and volatility such as in mining over the past 12 months decommissioning.
Order book [Title] In addition, we are focused on developing a more flexible At year end, in billion way of working, for instance through workshare between 4.1 9.2% 3.7 offices, so that our employees can use their skills across 3.6 8.0% 0.0% each of our end markets.
This will continue to be a focus for 2014.
Operating cash flow as defined Combining Foster Wheeler and AMEC is expected on page [], note [1] toenhance our capability in the oil & gas market, by increasing our exposure to the mid and downstream 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 valuechain.
It will also help us to address our current under-representation in gas projects.
34 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013
