Our business model AMEC is an asset-light and cash-generative business with a strongbalancesheet.
We deliver excellence to our customers.
What this means Managing the challenges How we measure success Our employees are clever people: their skills are a scarce resource Our future success relies on us attracting, developing We look at the growth in employee numbers, gender Our employees are andretaining the best people diversityand employee-instigated turnover.
We measure Our highly skilled engineers, project managers, consultants and scientists deliver cleverpeople theengagement of our people and the development activity forour customers, creating long-term customer relationships and a strong We need to be flexible, using our skills on those projects which that has taken place.
We also have a number of leading and m Read more on page 14 reputation for excellence bring greatest advantage lagging safety measures.
We have a particularly strong reputation for delivering engineering solutions We maintain the highest standards of safety and ethics m Read more on page 17 forcomplex projects in remote and harsh locations We have a wide range of customers around the world We win business because of our reputation and the strength Here we look at the concentration of our customer base We are customer focused ofour long-term customer relationships andseek not to be overly dependent on any one customer.
They include some of the largest international oil companies such as ExxonMobil m Read more on page 18 Wetrack levels of customer satisfaction and look to improve andBP, miners such as PotashCorp, utility companies suchasEDFand government Our diversified customer base limits our dependence onany our win-to-bid ratio.
We also look at the number of new and bodies such as UK NDA, US DoD one customer repeatcustomers.
m Read more on page 19 We provide high-value services consulting, engineering, project and construction We have a diversified model.
We work across the asset Amongst other KPIs, we track our revenue growth We sell our expertise management, and supply chain management across the life cycle of our lifecycle, on both our customers capital and operating andourmargin progression.
We also look at the mix of andsolutions customersassets expenditure projects.
We also work across a range of serviceswe provide and where they sit in the life cycle m Read more on page 20 energyand commoditiesprojects ofourcustomers assets.
m Read more on page 23 We sell our peoples time and may get additional payments if pre-agreed measures Our reputation for delivery is very important to our The financial KPI we track here is our cash conversion.
We have a low-risk are achieved KPIs continuedsuccess Wealso have a range of non-financial measures, including contractingmodel greenhouse gas emissions and completion of project and We have common systems, tools and processes so we can deliver consistently and Our exposure to project cost increases is limited m Read more on page 24 peerreviews.
share work across offices We have greater predictability of earnings from eachproject m Read more on page 27 We are deliberately  and asset-light We only take lump sum work when we know the customer We help our customers achieve sustainable solutions and the project well We use common tools and processes, so we can share work between offices We work in 40 countries and across four end markets in energy and power.
All of our markets are cyclical, with long-term growthpotential We track how our total revenue is split across the four markets We operate around the and are looking for a strong order intake and a growth in our oil & gas We are not dependent on any one part of the energy mix world in four end markets order book.
mining Many of our skills are transferable across markets m Read more on page 28 m Read more on page 34 clean energy Targeted acquisitions can accelerate our growth: careful duediligence and integration planning is required, and environment & infrastructure alltransactions must exceed tough financial criteria Each has good growth fundamentals over the long term We have three business units: Americas, Europe, Growth Regions, which provide our Our geographic structure is designed to promote collaboration The key financial metric which shows how well we are We manage the business global reach across services and markets implementing our Vision 2015 strategy is growth in earnings inthree geographic per share.
We also track other non-financial KPIs that support This structure incentivises collaboration, selling One AMEC toour customers Growth Regions is currently sub-scale.
We are looking businessunits our global reach, suchas completion of ethics training and atacquisitions to enhance our scale there Some of our customers are looking for a wider range of services and capabilities level of communityinvolvement.
m Read more on page 35 tobe packaged together, for instance integrating power and water services into m Read more on page 38 amining project We aspire to be more global we are seeking to create a more sustainable position in our Growth Regions business unit 12 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials The business section of this strategic report hasbeen divided into six segmentsbased on ourbusiness model.
Understand how each helps usachieve our strategy onthefollowing pages What this means Managing the challenges How we measure success Our employees are clever people: their skills are a scarce resource Our future success relies on us attracting, developing We look at the growth in employee numbers, gender Our employees are andretaining the best people diversityand employee-instigated turnover.
m Read more on page 35 tobe packaged together, for instance integrating power and water services into m Read more on page 38 amining project We aspire to be more global we are seeking to create a more sustainable position in our Growth Regions business unit AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 13
