Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Management committees The board has also created a number of management committees that deal generally with more operational matters.
These are chaired by executive directors and members are drawn from senior management within AMEC.
Theminutes of each of these meetings are circulated to each board meeting.
Corporate transactions Pensions and retirement benefits Members Members Chief Executive chairman : Chief Financial Officer: Chief Financial Officer chairman : Group HR Director: GeneralCounsel and Company Secretary Corporate Pensions Manager Responsibilities Responsibilities The corporate transactions committee considers The pensions and retirement benefits committee mergers, acquisitions and disposals and approves reviews and recommends the establishment of any new transactions where the consideration or assumption of or replacement pension arrangements, any significant liabilities, as appropriate, is 5 million or less, and above amendments to existing pension schemes, and the this level it submits recommendations to the board for discontinuance, winding up or merger of any existing approval.
In addition it determines transaction guidelines arrangement.
It also agrees with the trustees of those that are in line with group policies and procedures.
pension arrangements appropriate funding plans to secure the benefits promised.
Risk Members Share allotment Chief Executive chairman : Chief Financial Officer: Members General Counsel and Company Secretary: Head of Risk All directors: General Counsel and Company Secretary: Management and Insurance Deputy Company Secretary the chairman to be Responsibilities appointed from those directors present The risk committee performs an integral role in the Responsibilities governance of risk within AMEC by helping the board The share allotment committee approves the allotment fulfil its responsibilities in determining the risk appetite of new shares or the issue of existing shares held in of the group and ensures the soundness of the risk treasury following the exercise of options under the management and internal control systems that support Savings-related Share Option Scheme.
It also reviews the AMEC plc risk register and the potential impact of any issues on the risk appetite and the risk profile of the group.
It reports on key risk issues such as new business and geographical locations and Health, safety, security and also makes recommendations on the insurance environmental HSSE review programme for the group.
Members Chief Executive chairman : Group HR Director: Tender review GeneralCounsel and Company Secretary Members Responsibilities Chief Executive chairman : Chief Financial Officer: The HSSE review committees key responsibility is to General Counsel and Company Secretary: Head of Risk provide effective oversight of the companys performance Management and Insurance: Group Commercial and management of HSSE issues across the group.
Director: Head of Finance Operations This includes the evaluation of the effectiveness of the Responsibilities groups policies and management systems in respect The tender review committee primarily reviews and ofmanaging health, safety, security and environmental approves proposed tender submissions for contracts risk in both current and future operations associated tobe undertaken by the business units that are outside with the companys growth strategy.
the delegated authority of the business unit leaders.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 79 Leadership continued Directors tenure as at 31 December 2013 Board composition As at 31 December 2013, the board comprised the John Connolly 2 yrs 7m non-executive Chairman: two executive directors the Samir Brikho 7 yrs 3m ChiefExecutive and the ChiefFinancial Officer : and five Ian McHoul 5 yrs 3m non-executive directors.
Details of the directors, including Neil Carson 3 yrs 4m their biographies, other significant commitments and Tim Faithfull 8 yrs 10m committee memberships can be found on pages 48 and49.
Simon Thompson 4 yrs 11m Membership of the board Colin Day 3 yrs 2m Linda Adamany 1 yr 3m 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Non-executive Chairman Attendance at meetings Executive director The board holds six regular meetings throughout the year, Non-executive director scheduled in accordance with an annual timetable.
Additional board meetings and telephone conferences are The balance of executive and non-executive directors, held as required to deal with specific issues.
reinforced by adherence to sound governance procedures, ensures no one individual, or group of individuals, Directors are expected to attend all scheduled board and relevant committee meetings, unless they are prevented dominates the boards decision-making process.
The varied backgrounds and commercial experience of the from doing so by unavoidable prior business commitments or other valid reasons.
All directors are provided with full non-executive directors, and their independence from management, ensures rigorous debate at meetings papers in advance of each meeting.
In 2013 these were provided electronically for the first time.
Where a director is andthe constructive challenge and oversight of the executive directors in relation to the strategic direction unable to attend a meeting, they are encouraged to discuss any issues arising with the Chairman or Chief Executive as andperformance of the group.
All board directors attended all scheduled Experience of the board board meetings in 2013, as can be seen below.
Financial management and corporate 4 Board 8 finance 5 Corporate governance Number of meetings 6 International experience John Connolly 6 6 Experience in business sectors relevant 8 4 Samir Brikho 6 toAMEC HSSE Ian McHoul 6 Number of board Strategy Linda Adamany 6 directors with experience in each topic Neil Carson 6 Colin Day 6 The board receives a presentation on succession planning by the Group HRDirector each year.
In 2013, this took place Tim Faithfull 6 in April.
The board is increasingly mindful of the need to Simon Thompson 6 maintain an appropriately diverse balance of skills and In addition there were seven unscheduled board meetings experience both at, and directly below, board level to ensure the delivery of the groups strategy and performance.
called at short notice to consider matters such as the proposed Foster Wheeler acquisition.
At least one The companys articles of association require all directors scheduled meeting each year takes place away from to seek re-election by shareholders at the AGM following AMECs headoffice in London.
This provides the board their initial appointment and every three years thereafter.
withan opportunity to understand more about AMECs However, in line with the recommendations of the Code, business and to meet employees based locally.
In June 2013 our practice is that all directors submit themselves for the board meeting took place in Calgary, AB, Canada and re-election on an annual basis.
All of the directors wishing involved a visit to AMECs activities in the oil sands.
to continue serving, and considered eligible by the board, In addition to the matters reserved for the board, certain will offer themselves for re-election at the 2014 AGM.
items are considered at every scheduled board meeting.
m Details of the directors service contracts, emoluments and share interests are set out in the remuneration report on page 62 to77 80 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials These include financial results, progress against the shareholder value.
Consistent with this objective, the ChiefExecutive has ultimate responsibility for the proposal, short-range plan, health and safety reports and strategy performance reviews.
The Chief Executive updates the development and implementation of the groups strategy.
The building and maintenance of an effective executive board on market trends, developments and opportunities, the competitive positioning of the company and its management team, and the allocation of responsibility currentpriorities.
therein, are key components of, and essential to, the performance of the Chief Executives role.
Business unit management is regularly invited to present at board meetings.
In 2013, the board received presentations The Chief Executive takes the lead role in the promotion from the Group Presidents of Europe and the Americas ofAMEC, gives personal leadership to the preservation and also presentations from the market leaders in oil & gas, ofAMECs culture and values and encourages the clean energy, environment & infrastructure and mining.
higheststandards of safety, security, health and environmental performance.
The board holds a separate additional meeting each year to perform a full strategic review of the group.
In October Senior Independent Director 2013, the board spent a day focused on the groups Tim Faithfull has acted as the boards Senior Independent strategic priorities and those of its four markets and the Director since 13 May 2009.
He was selected for the role growth opportunities in the longer term, beyond 2015. onaccount of his extensive experience of serving as both an executive and non-executive director.
Following Tims The Chairman and Chief Executive retirement after the forthcoming AGM, SimonThompson The company does not combine the roles of Chairman will take on this role.
Simon was considered by the andChief Executive.
There is a clear and well established nominations committee and the board tobe the most division of accountability and responsibility between the appropriate candidate on account of his significant roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive and these are knowledge of AMEC and its operations and his experience set out in writing and have been agreed by the board.
as a director of international companies in sectors that are Theconsequence of this clear division of responsibility relevant to AMEC.
Inanticipation of taking on the role, atthe head of the company is such that no individual has Simon has confirmed that he is committed to regular unfettered powers of decision.
Since the change in interaction with shareholders to ensure their views are organisational structure announced in 2012, the Chief sought and taken into account.
The Senior Independent Executive has had more direct involvement in the business.
Director is responsible for: TheChairman has continued to ensurethat the level of challenge at board meetings isappropriately matched to providing additional support to, and acting as a sounding this widening in the Chief Executives role.
The Chairman board for, the Chairman and Chief Executive are committed to ensuring the acting as an additional channel of communication development and maintenance of an effective and trusting between the Chairman and the other directors relationship with the appropriate balance between challenge and support.
being available to shareholders for concerns they may have that have not been resolved through the normal The Chairman is principally responsible for the leadership channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive or other and effectiveness of the board.
At a high level, he is executive directors, or which are not appropriate to accountable for facilitating constructive relations between, raisethrough these channels and the participation of, all board members, so as to encourage a culture of openness and debate and enable acquiring an objective understanding of the issues and the board to fulfil all aspects of its role.
The Chairman has concerns of AMECs shareholders through attendance undertaken to ensure that the board discharges its duties at a sufficient number of meetings with the companys to promote the success of the company, and to guide major shareholders and financial analysts AMECs business and conduct in accordance with the at least annually establishing the views of the highest ethical standards.
In setting the agenda for board non-executive directors as to the performance meetings, the Chairman ensures sufficient time is oftheChairman available for discussion and meaningful challenge of all matters, particularly strategy, performance, value creation following completion of the above evaluation exercise, and accountability.
providing feedback to the Chairman on his performance The Chief Executives principal responsibility is running overseeing the recruitment of the Chairman.
AMECs businesses with the primary objective of creating AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 81 Leadership continued AMECs non-executive directors are not employed by the Nonexecutive directors company in any capacity, nor have they been in the past.
The non-executive directors are crucial in bringing an The letters of appointment of the non-executive directors external view and wide range of skills, experience, are available for inspection at the companys registered expertise and diversity of views to the boards deliberations office by request to the Company Secretary and will be and the development of strategy.
They constructively available for inspection at the companys forthcoming AGM.
challenge and scrutinise the performance of management against agreed objectives and provide an invaluable Conflicts of interest contribution to the work of the boards committees.
The The board has procedures in place for the disclosure board benefits greatly from the contribution and balance andreview of conflicts of interest.
Prior to appointment, they bring.
To ensure this continues, the Chairman holds director-elects provide information on any conflicts of meetings with the non-executive directors, without the interest, and thereafter any potential conflicts of interest executive directors present, immediately following most are considered at the start of each board meeting.
Accordingly, each director is aware of their responsibility The boards policy is that non-executive director toavoid a situation where they have an actual or potential appointments are normally for three consecutive threeconflict of interest, the requirement to keep the same yearterms, subject to assessment by the nominations under review and inform the Chairman and Company committee after the end of each term.
The committee Secretary of any change in their situation.
An effective makes recommendations on reappointment to the board.
procedure is in place for the board to authorise conflict situations, should they arise, in accordance with the Prior to appointment and on any material changes, the Companies Act 2006 and the companys articles external commitments of each non-executive director, ofassociation.
including those of the Chairman, are reviewed.
During the year, Linda Adamany was appointed as a non-executive The Company Secretary is responsible for keeping director of Coeur Mining, Inc and Tim Faithfull became a appropriate records, including the scope, of any non-executive director of ICE Futures Europe and LIFFE authorisations granted by the board, and ensures Administration and Management.
In accordance with the theboard undertakes regular reviews of conflict boards policy to ensure that non-executive directors are authorisations.
not conflicted and are able to commit sufficient time Executive directors are not permitted to accept external tomeet their duties and responsibilities to AMEC, the appointments without the prior approval of the board.
prospective appointments were disclosed to theboard InMarch 2013, Samir Brikho was appointed asan forapproval.
In neither case was it considered that independent non-executive director of Skandinaviska theexternal appointment would have a detrimental Enskilda Banken AB.
Prior to accepting the appointment, effect.
Each directors undertaking as to their ongoing the board reviewed the nature of the position and time commitment to the role, together with an assessment commitment required and concluded that itwould not oftheir continued independence, is reviewed as part adversely impact on his ability to fulfil his role as Chief oftheir annual .
No conflicts of interest arose in 2013.
82 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013
