Our board of directors Our board members were selected to ensure a good mix of skills and experience.
They have particular experience in the areas in which AMEC operates and of the duties and responsibilities associated with being a director of a listed company.
In accordance with the recommendations of the Code, all directors are subject to re-election at each annual general meeting of the company.
of the advisory board of Stena AB.
He is a UK Business John Connolly Ambassador and co-chair of the UK-UAE CEO Forum, Chairman of the board, Chairman of the aswell as the UK-Korea CEO Forum and a director nominations committee and a member of the oftheUnited Kingdom Japan 21st Century Group.
remuneration committee HeisChairman of the Step Change Charity.
A chartered accountant, John spent his career until Ian McHoul May2011 with global professional services firm Deloitte.
Hewas Global Chairman between 2007 and 2011, and Chief Financial Officer prior to that, Global Managing Director from 2003 to 2007.
Ian qualified as a Chartered Accountant with KPMG in He was Senior Partner and CEO of the UK Partnership from 1985.
His early career was spent in the brewing industry 1999 until his retirement from the Partnership.
where he spent ten years with Fosters Brewing Group in John is the chairman of G4S plc and also of a number avariety of roles.
He was Finance and Strategy Director ofprivate companies.
ofthe Inntrepreneur Pub Group Ltd from 1995 to 1998 andthen served at Scottish & Newcastle plc from 1998 Beyond commercial business roles, John is on the Board to2008, holding the position of Finance Director from 2001. of Governors of the London Business School and a member of the CBI Presidents Advisory Council.
He is also Term of office chairman of the appeal board for The Centre for Childrens Ian was appointed Chief Financial Officer on 8 September Rare Disease Research at Great Ormond Street Hospital.
2008 and has no fixed term of office.
His service contract isterminable on six and twelve months notice by him Term of office andthe company respectively.
John was appointed as Non-executive Chairman on 1 June 2011 for an initial term of three years, which will end at the External appointments 2015 annual general meeting.
He was considered to be Ian was a non-executive director of Premier Foods plc independent on appointment in accordance with the fromJuly 2004 to April 2013. requirements of the Code.
Linda Adamany Samir Brikho Non-executive Director and a member of the audit, Chief Executive remuneration, ethics and nominations committees Prior to joining AMEC, Samir was a member of the group Between 1980 and 2007 Linda held a number of senior executive committee of ABB Ltd. Switzerland, Head of the executive positions at BP plc and from 2006 to 2012, prior Power Systems Division and Chairman of ABB Lummus to joining AMEC, was a non-executive director of National Global, ABBs international projects and services business.
Grid plc and a member of their audit, nominations and Samir holds an engineering degree, a Master of Science in safety, environment and health committees.
Linda is a Thermal Technology from the Royal Institute of Technology non-executive director of Coeur Mining, Inc. a US based in Stockholm, Sweden, and completed the YMP Program publicly quoted primary silver producer, where she serves at INSEAD in France in 1991.
In 2000 he also completed as chair of the audit committee and is a member of the asenior executive programme in Stanford, US.
environmental, health, safety and social responsibility committee.
She isaqualified accountant CPA with a BSc Term of office in Business Administration from John Carroll University, Samir was appointed Chief Executive on 1 October 2006 Ohio, and hasalso undertaken post-graduate study at and has no fixed term of office.
His service contract is Harvard, Cambridge and Tsinghua universities.
terminable on six and twelve months notice by him andthecompany respectively.
Term of office Linda was appointed a non-executive director on 1October External appointments 2012 for an initial term of three years, which will end at the Samir is an independent non-executive director of 2016 annual general meeting.
Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB SEB and a member 48 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Through future appointments to the board we will seek to build upon and complement the boards existing skills set with a focus on increasing diversity whether this is through gender, race, nationality or general background.
Neil Carson Tim Faithfull Non-executive Director and a member of the audit, Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the remuneration, nominations and ethics committees remuneration committee and a member of the audit, nominations and ethics committees Neil has been Chief Executive of Johnson Matthey Plc, theFTSE100 speciality chemical company, since 2004.
Tim is a non-executive director of TransAlta Corporation, Hejoined the company in 1980 after completing an ICE Futures Europe, LIFFE Administration and Management, engineering degree and has held a number of senior Canadian Natural Resources Limited and a director of management positions inboth the United Kingdom Shell Pensions Trust Limited.
He was President and Chief andtheUnited States.
Executive of Shell Canada Limited from 1999 to 2003.
It was announced on 30 January 2014 that Neil will Term of office stepdown as Chief Executive of Johnson Matthey Plc Tim was appointed a non-executive director on10 February on5June 2014 and will remain on the board until the 2005 and became the Senior Independent Director in endof September 2014.
He will be retiring from the board at the close ofthe2014 annual general meeting, having served Neil is joint Chairman, alongside the Minister of State nineyears as adirector.
forBusiness and Enterprise, Mr Michael Fallon, of the Chemistry Growth Partnership, which is working with Simon Thompson government to stimulate growth in the industry in the Non-executive Director, Chairman of the UK.
He was previously a founder member of the Prince ethicscommittee and a member of the audit, ofWales Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change.
remuneration and  Term of office Simon was previously an executive director of Anglo Neil was appointed a non-executive director on 31August American plc, chairman of the Tarmac Group, and held 2010.
His term of office was extended in February 2014 for positions with S G Warburg and N M Rothschild.
He is a second three-year term to the date of the 2017 annual currently non-executive chairman of Tullow Oil plc and a general meeting.
non-executive director of Newmont Mining Corporation Colin Day US and Sandvik Sweden.
Non-executive Director, Chairman of the audit Term of office committee and a member of the remuneration, Simon was appointed a non-executive director on nominations and ethics committees 21January 2009.
His term of office was extended inJanuary 2012 to the date of the 2015 annual Colin was appointed Chief Executive Officer of Essentra plc generalmeeting.
formerly Filtrona plc on 1 April 2011, prior to which he was Chief Financial Officer of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
A Fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants, Colin holds an MBA from Cranfield School ofManagement, UK.
He is also a non-executive director ofWPP Group plc.
Independence of nonexecutive directors Term of office Colin was appointed a non-executive director on 14 October The board has determined that the non-executive 2010.
His term of office was extended in February 2014 directors remain independent and free from any fora second three-year term to the date of the 2017 annual relationships or circumstances that could affect general meeting.
AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 49
