Our group management team The team is comprised of senior operational and functional management, eachof whom brings a depth of knowledge and experience to their role.
In addition to the executive directors shown on page 48 Sue Scholes and49, AMECs group management team GMT Director of Communications consistsof the following individuals: Sue joined AMEC in 2007.
She was previously Head of Simon Naylor Investor Relations at Brambles Industries plc.
Sue is a Group President, Americas Chartered Management Accountant and Deputy Chair ofthe Investor Relations Society.
Simon was appointed to this role in October 2012, having previously been President of the Natural Resources Will Serle Americas business since 2007.
Since joining AMEC in 1993 Group Human Resources Director he has worked across the project life cycle: from consulting toengineering and project management.
His experience Hejoinedthe company in 2000 as Human Resources includes project development, asset support, strategy, Director for the oil and gas business, moving to the customer relationship management and operations NaturalResources role in 2006.
Will is also responsible for sustainability at AMEC.
John Pearson Mark Watson Group President, Europe Commercial Director Appointed to this position in October 2012, John had previously held the role of Managing Director, Natural Marks background is in the oil & gas industry and he Resources Europe and West Africa, since 2007.
He joined hasspent most of his AMEC career working in this sector AMEC from Chevron in 1990 and has worked in a variety since joining the Company in 1989.
He is a Chartered ofengineering and project management roles in Aberdeen, Quantity Surveyor, holds an LLM in Construction Law and San Francisco, Baku and London.
He is on the board of Arbitration and is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute Oil& Gas UK and has previously been Chairman of the ofArbitrators.
Alison Yapp Nina Schofield General Counsel and Company Secretary Group Health, Safety, Security Alison joined AMEC in 2012.
She was previously Company Nina was first appointed to this role in 2007.
She is a Secretary and General Legal Counsel of Hays plc and Chartered Health and Safety Practitioner and holds a Company Secretary and Group Legal Adviser of Charter Master of Arts Degree and a Bachelors in Law.
She is a solicitor and has more than 20 years started out in the Offshore Drilling sector before joining experience as a lawyer in industry.
She began her career AMEC in 2003 as the Oil and Gas HSE Manager.
In 2004, inprivate practice at Turner Kenneth Brown, advising she became the HSE Director for the Natural Resources corporate and commercial clients in M&A before moving Division.
She has worked in the UK, Azerbaijan, Canada in-house to Johnson Matthey plc where she held various and the US.
She has wide-ranging experience within a number of international groups in the engineering, industrial, support services and oil services sectors.
78 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013
