Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Directors report Our directors present their annual report and the audited accounts ofAMEC plc the company and its subsidiaries together referred to as the group for the year ended 31 December 2013. fully set out in the articles of association of the company.
Dividends Insummary, each share carries the right to one vote at The directors are recommending a final ordinary dividend general meetings of the company and no right to a fixed in respect of the year ended 31 December 2013 of income.
There are no restrictions on voting rights.
This final dividend will be payable on2 July 2014 to shareholders on the register at the close The 400 million on-market share buyback programme of business on30 May 2014.
An interim dividend for the commenced by the board on 21 February 2012 completed year ended 31December 2013 of 13.5 pence per share on 8 February 2013.
During the year ended 31 December waspaid on 3January 2014.
2013, 4,174,716 shares of 50 pence each representing 1.37per cent of the total called up share capital of the Dividends paid during 2013 comprised an interim dividend company were purchased at a total cost of 45,260,627, of11.7 pence per share and a final dividend of 24.8 pence per including commission and stamp duty, all of which share, both in respect of the year ended 31 December 2012. werecancelled.
The average purchase price, excluding Changes to the board of directors commission and stamp duty, was 1078.82 pence, the Details of the directors of the company as at the date of highest price being 1106.72 pence and the lowest thisreport, together with brief biographical details and 1032.02pence.
The maximum number of shares held board committee memberships, are set out on page 48 intreasury by the company at any time during the year to49.
There have been no changes to the board since was7,291,522 shares.
As at 31 December 2013, 6,186,965 1January 2013. shares representing 2.04 per cent of the total called up share capital of the company remained in treasury, all of Directors indemnity arrangements which have been allocated to the groups Save As You Earn The company maintains directors and officers liability SAYE scheme awards to date.
During the year 1,104,557 insurance cover.
In addition, throughout the financial shares representing 0.36 per cent of the total called up yearand at the date of this report, qualifying third party share capital of the company were utilised in satisfying indemnity provisions within the meaning of Sections awards made under the UK and International SAYE share 232234 of the Companies Act 2006 were in place for option schemes.
Since the completion of the 400 million allofthe directors.
share buyback programme, the company has not made any further purchases of its shares in the market.
Directors interests None of the directors is or was materially interested A resolution will be proposed at the 2014 AGM to extend inanycontract of significance to AMECs businesses the authority of the directors to make market purchases during or at the end of the financial year.
ofup to 10 per cent of the companys shares within prescribed limits.
m Details of directors share interests and of their rights to subscribe for shares are shown in the remuneration report Authority to allot shares onpage 62 to 77 Authority was granted to the directors at the 2013 AGM to allot shares or grant rights to subscribe for or to convert Corporate governance statement any security to shares up to a nominal amount of The companys statement on corporate governance is set 49,018,515 Section 551 amount of which up to 7,427,048 out on pages 50 to 86 and is incorporated into this report could be allotted for cash other than in connection with byreference.
Resolutions willbeproposed at the forthcoming AGM to extend this Share capital authority to the end of the AGM in 2015 or on 1 June 2015, The issued share capital of the company as at 31 December whichever is the earlier.
The revised Section 551 amount 2013, movements during the year and the rights attaching will be 49,181,027 and the revised Section 561 amount to the shares are set out in note 22 on page 132 to 135. willbe 7,451,671.
Therights and obligations attaching to the shares are more AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 87 Directors report continued Following such notice the lenders will negotiate with the Authority to allot shares continued company for a period of 30 days with a view to agreeing If the proposed acquisition of Foster Wheeler is terms and conditions acceptable to the company and all implemented, it is expected that AMEC securities will the lenders for continuing the facilities.
beissued to Foster Wheeler shareholders as partial consideration for the acquisition of their Foster Wheeler If agreement is not reached by the end of the 30-day shares, details of which will be set out in the prospectus period, if a lender so requires, the facility agent must, by circular relating to the transaction.
Otherwise than in notice of not less than 30 days to the company, cancel the connection with the proposed acquisition of Foster Wheeler, commitments of that lender and declare the participations the directors have no present intention of issuing any of that lender in all outstanding loans together with accrued shares other thanin respect of the exercise of share interest and all other amounts accrued under the facilities options.
No issue will be made which will effectively alter to be immediately due and payable.
the control of the company without the prior approval of A change of control occurs if any person or group of shareholders in general meeting.
persons acting in concert gains control of the company.
Major interests in shares Employees On the basis of notifications received under the Disclosure Our employees embody our knowledge, brand and and Transparency Rules DTR 5 and other notifications reputation and it is through their activities, day by day, that received by AMEC from shareholders, shareholdings of we deliver on our business objectives and commitments 3per cent or more of the voting rights of the company toshareholders, clients and the wider community.
asat31 December 2013 were as follows: Information on employee development and training: how Number % we engage with our employees to ensure they understand Artisan Partners Limited the direction in which the company is going and are Partnership 15,566,638 5.2 committed to AMECs values: the actions taken to share knowledge with our employees and keep them informed Mondrian Investment ofdevelopments: how we assess and act on employee PartnersLimited 15,309,947 5.15 opinion and encourage involvement in the companys The shareholding percentages reflect the issued share performance: and our commitment to cultural diversity capital at the time of the notifications.
There were no andequal opportunities can be found on pages 14 to 17 other notifications received under DTR 5 between and is incorporated in this report by reference.
As can 31December 2013 and 13 February 2014. beseen in AMECs Code of Business Conduct, AMEC is committed to providing a workplace which offers equal There are no shareholdings that carry special rights opportunity for promotion and advancement.
The Code relating to control of the company.
ofBusiness Conduct is supported by global policies and Financial instruments mandatory procedures which in turn are supported by Disclosures relating to the groups use of financial localand operating unit policies and procedures.
instruments can be found in note 19 on page 127 to 131 As part of AMECs equal opportunities policy, procedures andare incorporated into this report by reference.
are in place that are designed to provide for full and fair consideration and selection of disabled applicants, to Significant arrangements change of control ensure they are properly trained to perform safely and The following significant agreements contain provisions effectively and to provide career opportunities that allow entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or them to fulfil their potential.
Where an employee becomes other rights in the event of a change of control of disabled in the course of their employment, AMEC will thecompany: actively seek to retain them wherever possible by making Under a 377,000,000 five year multi-currency revolving adjustments to their work content and environment or by credit facility agreement dated 18 July 2012 and a retraining them to undertake new roles.
100,000,000 one year sterling term loan facility dated 9April 2013 between, amongst others, the company Sustainability andThe Royal Bank of Scotland plc as facility agent for Summary details about our commitment to sustainability both facilities, the company must promptly notify the and its importance to our day-to-day activities are set out facility agent if it becomes aware of any change of control.
specifically on page 25 and in general throughout our strategic report.
Further detail is available in our sustainability report and on our website.
88 AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 Overview Strategic report Governance Financials Greenhouse gas emissions Annual general meeting Disclosures relating to the groups greenhouse gas This years AGM will be held at The Lincoln Centre, emissions, as required to be disclosed under the 18Lincolns Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED on 3 April 2014 at Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors 10.30am.
The notice of meeting, which includes explanatory Report Regulations 2013, can be found in the Strategic notes on the business to be transacted at the meeting, report on page 26. accompanies this report and is also available on our website.
Separate resolutions will be proposed at the AGM to Political donations receive the annual report and accounts: to declare a During 2013, AMEC made no political donations in the finaldividend: to approve the remuneration report and UKor European Union, including donations as defined remuneration policy: with the exception of Tim Faithfull, forthe purposes ofthe Political Parties, Elections and tore-elect all of the current directors who will retire in Referendums Act 2000. accordance with the provisions of the Code: to re-elect AMEC Americas Limited, a subsidiary of the company in Ernst & Young LLP as auditor: and to authorise the Canada, made contributionsto non-EU political parties in directors to fix the auditors remuneration.
Shareholders will also be asked to renew both the general authority of the directors to allot shares in the company Going concern and to allot such shares without the application of statutory The directors, having made enquiries, consider that pre-emption rights.
In addition, shareholders will be thegroup has adequate resources to operate for the requested to authorise the company to make market foreseeable future and, therefore, it is appropriate to purchases of its own shares within prescribed limits and continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing approve the resolution, to be repeated at each AGM going theaccounts.
Further details of this review can be found forward, to authorise the calling of general meetings, other onpage 102. than annual general meetings, on 14 clear days notice.
Auditor The board views the AGM as an opportunity to directly A resolution will be proposed at the AGM for the communicate the groups progress and engage with re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as auditor shareholders.
Where possible, the entire board will attend ofthecompany.
the AGM and will be available to answer questions from those shareholders present.
The board encourages all Disclosure of information to auditor shareholders to attend and participate where possible.
The directors who held office at the date of approval of thisdirectors report confirm that, so far as they are each On behalf of the board aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditor is unaware: and the directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as directors to make themselves aware of any relevant auditinformation and to establish that the companys Alison Yapp auditor is aware of that information.
General Counsel and Company Secretary The above statement is made in accordance with Section 13 February 2014 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Responsibility statements The statement of directors responsibilities, including the fair, balanced and understandable statement, in respect of the annual report and accounts can be found on page 90.
The statement by the companys auditor relating to their reporting responsibilities can be found on page 91.
Find out more online Visit our website at amec.
com investors forfurther information regarding this years AGM AMEC plc annual report and accounts 2013 89
