Strategic report Governance Financial statements ASIA Three acquisitions in South East Asia completed in the year The Groups operations in this region are in India, South East Asia and China.
These represent new markets for ITE in whichto grow our existing products and develop new sectors.
These markets are characterised by fast growing economies, underpinned by a rapidly expanding aspirational middle class population which is expected to drive consumer demand.
In addition, they have relatively immature exhibition industries and these two factors combine to offer excellent growth opportunities for ITE over the medium term.
ITE has focused its initial expansion of activities in this region during 2013 with acquisitions in India and Malaysia.
The Indian exhibition industry offers great potential due to the current lack of international quality venue space within the country which is severely limiting the industry at present and has slowed ITEs progress in India since entering the ITE offices Revenue by sector market in 2009.
In December 2012, the Group continued toexpand its presence in this market with the purchase of Beijing a28.3% stake in ABEC, Indias largest private exhibition 1 4 Shanghai organiser.
The portfolio of 19 exhibitions across 11 sectors 3 Hong Kong includes Acetech Indias leading construction event.
With Kuala Lumpur the larger biennial events absent it was a quieter year within 2 Singapore our existing Indian business, with the focus on integration Jakarta ofthe previous years acquisitions, repositioning our existing Dubai business to run alongside and complement ABEC and New Delhi improving the efficiencies of the existing operations.
Chennai Mumbai The Group entered the South East Asian market for the first 2013 time in 2013, with three acquisitions.
In January, we purchased a 75% stake in Tradelink.
Based in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia the 1.
Construction company runs the Metaltech event serving the machine tool & Interiors 77% technology and metal fabrication industries.
Oil & Gas 11% 2 sells over 12,000m takes place each May in Kuala Lumpur and 3.
Travel & Leisure 5% performed ahead of our initial expectations.
Other 7% Group made a small acquisition in Hong Kong, acquiring the biennial Asia Work Boat and China Maritime events.
In April the Group purchased a 50% stake in Kuala Lumpur based ECMI which operates the panAsia professional beauty event series Cosmobeaute and the laboratory equipment Lab exhibitions.
These acquisitions, and ECMI in particular, offer the Group a base of operations from which to replicate its events across the region, and the Group has already announced the launch of an Oil& Gas event and Cosmobeaute in Myanmar, Paperex in Indonesia, Cosmobeaute in Thailand and TransAsiain Singapore.
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 31
