Strategic report OUR STRATEGy ITEs objective is to create sustainable growth inheadline earnings per share through a strategy of creating and maintaining sustainable positions of market leadership in the exhibition business indeveloping markets.
Strategic priorities Achievements ITE has continued to invest in its international sales presence in the year.
In 2013 the total net metres sold by the Groups build and strengthen on existing 2 international offices increased by 15% to 133,000m, representing circa 25% of the Groups revenues.
market leadership 01 In its core markets ITE has supported the development of venue facilities which in turn has helped the Groups exhibitions ITEs existing positions of market leadership are founded to prosper.
Many of ITEs major events have agreements which provide for venue facilities for at least three years ahead.
onits ability to generate international sales, its recognised This year ITE has agreed to support the development of a new venue in Krasnodar, where ITE will have exclusive rights brands, its local office infrastructure and its longstanding torun exhibitions.
ITE targets new sectors and regions within its existing markets where there is potential toincrease the participation of international exhibitors.
This year ITE has expanded its presence into India, South East Asia and China.
This has allowed the Group to run its Leverage our business model into existingbrands in new markets.
The launch of Paperex Indonesia, Transasia in Singapore and Oil & Gas and Beauty new markets and geographies inMyanmar are good examples of the opportunities created by access to new marketplaces.
02 In existing markets this strategy means targeting new 2 New acquisitions in the year have added 25,000m of space and over 2 million of profit.
The Groups acquisitions sectors or regions in which to acquire or develop businesses ofChinacoat and Beauty Eurasia after the year end will further enhance earnings in 2014. where there is potential for the participation of international exhibitors.
In new markets, ITE is targeting the development Expand of exhibition businesses where there is clear opportunity for strong future growth.
ITE has been working to improve the strength of its existing international brands and to improve international recognition Grow and develop our portfolio of of its local brands.
As part of this, some industry vertical groupings have been established to ensure consistency of international brands presentation and message across the Group.
03 ITE has established strong brand identity in certain ITE is also working to ensure that the new construction business in the Group, notably in Turkey and India, are aligned exhibition sectors.
ITE aims to ensure that new launches withITEs historic construction brand and that all the benefits available from sharing best practice are realised.
andacquisitions are aligned with existing brands in these brand sectors.
ITE is also working to enhance and extend its existing brand identities, as well as developing brand identities in other sectors.
We have made good progress in developing the strength and depth of the management team in the year as well as Invest in the development of our improving the communication between the different offices.
We have continued to develop the Group intranet as well management asopening up communication by functional management i. e. connecting staff lines across the different offices such as 04 construction marketing IT.
Our rolling programme of internal senior management and functional conferences has been ITE is aware that its success is dependent on its people.
ahuge success as has the leadership development programme.
Assuch, ITE is committed to investing in staff development throughout the Group and in particular, the management People team that supports growing events and the continued expansion of the business.
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 06 Strategic report Governance Financial statements Headline diluted earnings per share p 2 746,000m 2013 19.3 2012 16.9 Annually recurring 2011 16.6 volume base 2010 11.6 2009 14.2 2 25,000m 14% Metreage from newly acquired events Strategic priorities Achievements ITE has continued to invest in its international sales presence in the year.
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 07
