Strategic report OUR bUSINESS Local knowledge, international sales Focus on emerging markets What we do Why we do it How we do it ITE is an organiser of business The exhibition media is the best ITEs strength derives from its focus tobusiness B2B exhibitions and media for suppliers to display and on organising B2B exhibitions and conferences specialising in emerging demonstrate their products to conferences, the development of and developing markets.
This is particularly strong brands in key industry sectors organises highquality events of an powerful in emerging and developing and the regional expertise in the international standard throughout markets where face to face meetings markets in which it operates.
ITE has the17 countries in which it operates.
are the cultural norm and where been operating in these markets for As an exhibition organiser, ITE hires alternative media, B2B publishing over 20 years and its experience venues at which it stages its events andonline marketing opportunities andlocal knowledge are unique.
and markets the events to both are less developed.
Exhibitions ITEs sector brands are a key asset.
and conferences provide an The brands have been established opportunity for participants through a sustained record of fromnational and international delivering high quality events which companies to meet, network meet customer expectations.
events serve key industries including construction & interiors, oil & gas, ITEs principal business of organising food & drink, travel & leisure, motor B2B trade exhibitions accounts for &transport, fashion, medical & 97% of the Groups revenues.
Conferences account for circa 2% ofthe Groups revenues and other ITE has an extensive office network, activities relating to the core covering both the territories where exhibition business mostly our events are held and international publishing account for 1% of revenue.
sales offices in other countries.
ITE isable to operate at a national level where local staff are close to local industry trends and at an international level where our sales teams are in regular communication with key industry suppliers in our sectors.
The Group has 30 offices across the world, each of them b2b employing almost exclusively localstaff.
The offices of the Group cooperate in a unique way.
Each office sells its own exhibitions, but participates with equal levels of commitment in the Multiexhibitions organised by other offices.
This holistic approach has been sector carefully cultivated through the years and enables ITEs business to follow longestablished trading patterns.
Extensive network ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 04
