Strategic report bUILD AND STRENGTHEN OUR ExISTING MARKET LEADERSHIP ITEs existing positions of market leadership are founded on its ability to generate international sales, its recognised brands, its local office infrastructure and its 25% longstanding relationships with venues.
Group revenue from international sales offices Through its international sales ITE has established a loyal customer base and a geographic reach which is hard to replicate for competitors.
In 2013 the total net metres sold by the Groups international sales offices increased by 15% 2 to 133,000m, representing circa 25% of the Groups 2013revenues.
ITEs local offices continue to provide a competitive advantage over other international exhibition organisers and a barrier to entry for new organisers wishing to run events.
ITEs local offices now employ over 900 staff and during the year further steps have been taken to integrate recently acquired offices into the ITE network.
In its core markets ITE has continued to support the development of venue facilities which in turn has helped the Groups exhibitions to prosper.
The Group has always sought to establish rights to run its main exhibition themesin its partner venues at the time of its choice.
Manyof ITEs major events have agreements which providefor venue facilities for at least three years ahead.
New opportunities are expected to rise from the expansion in regional venue capacity over the next few years.
New regional exhibition centres in Ekaterinburg and Novosibirsk have demonstrated the positive effect that additional venue capacity can have on ITEs exhibition portfolio, sothe planned developments of new venues in both StPetersburg and Krasnodar offer considerable opportunities for future growth.
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 16 Strategic report Governance Financial statements ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 17 Strategic report ExPAND INTO NEW SECTORS AND GEOGRAPHIES WITH POTENTIAL FOR STRONG MARKET POSITIONS In existing markets, ITE targets new sectors or regions inwhich to acquire and develop acquisitions where there is potential for the participation of international 5 exhibitors.
In new markets, ITE is targeting the development of exhibition businesses where there business acquisitions isclear opportunity for strong future growth.
inthe year This year ITE has expanded its presence into India, South East Asia and China.
In December 2012 the Group acquired a 28% stake in Asian Business Exhibition & Conferences Ltd ABEC.
ABEC is one of Indias leading exhibition businesses, running 19 exhibitions across 11 vertical markets including construction, architecture, design, education, lifestyle, real estate, and oil & gas.
Characterised by strong local management, ABECs 8% market share makes it Indias largest private exhibition organiser.
The portfolio of events is complementary to ITEs existing exhibition interests in India and the two businesses will be run concurrently.
In January ITE acquired a 75% stake in Tradelink.
Tradelink runs the successful Metaltech, Automex and Weldtech events that take place together annually in May at Kuala Lumpurs Putra World Trade Centre.
Focused on the area of machine tool technology and metal fabrication, they are Malaysias leading events in this growing sector occupying over 2 10,000m of exhibition space annually.
In February, the Group acquired the successful Work Boat Asia and China Maritime exhibitions that are focused on the area of marine equipment and services.
The acquisition in April of a 50% stake in ECMI, which organises beauty events across South East Asia, further established ITEs presence in the region.
Malaysia Cosmobeaute In November 2013 ITE announced the acquisition of a 50%stake in the ChinaCoat exhibition.
ChinaCoat serves the decorative, industrial coatings and surface finishing industries in China and the surrounding region and is theleading industry exhibition in the region.
These acquisitions, whilst being earningsenhancing in their own right, also create significant opportunities for theGroup by providing access to new marketplaces.
ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 18 Strategic report Governance Financial statements ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 19 Strategic report ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 20 Strategic report Governance Financial statements ENHANCE AND IMPROvE OUR ExHIbITION bRANDS Key beauty brands have been acquired In the last two decades, ITE has developed a number of successful brands that are renowned for providing effective marketplaces for businesses.
ITE has established leading brands in a number of key sectors, in particular the build brand in construction, but the Group also leads in Oil & Gas, Travel and Food.
During the year ITE ran a number of initiatives designed toimprove the strength of its existing international brands.
The Group has brought together expertise in key industries through a vertical management structure to complement the existing geographical structure.
The Group has also engaged in a series of brand development projects which have covered all aspects of product quality, naming, character, toneofvoice and graphic designs associated with events in the Groups largest portfolios.
ITE is working to ensure that the new construction businesses in the Group, notably in Turkey and India, are aligned with ITEs historic construction brand and that all thebenefits available from sharing best practice are realised.
ITE is also working to establish a strong brand for someofits newly acquired shows.
In October the Group acquired Beauty Eurasia, the principal event serving the beauty industry in Turkey.
Aligned with the beauty events we acquired in Ukraine last year and the ECMI beauty exhibitions run in Malaysia, Indonesia and Vietnam, ITEnow has an opportunity to build a strong presence inthe beauty sector in more markets.
Azerbaijan World food ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 21 Strategic report INvEST IN DEvELOPING OUR PEOPLE ITE is aware that its success is dependent on its people.
Assuch, ITE is committed to investing in staff development throughout the Group and in particular, 60% the management team that supports growing events andthe continued expansion of the business.
Employees in equityschemes Job satisfaction and staff retention have always been strengths associated with ITE.
The Group encourages staffto seize career development opportunities.
Staff can switch job functions if they possess the necessary skills and drive to succeed in another role.
Others move offices, relocating to a new city or country in order to progress.
There are no fewer rewards for those who choose to stick to their profession of choice, because working for ITE provides the variety of products, markets and projects forpeople to constantly develop and test their talents.
ITE has high rates of employee retention in its offices, with almost half of the Group employees having served in the business for five years or more.
Key to this commitment is widespread equity ownership currently more than 60% of staff participate in some form of equity scheme.
ITE continues to invest in staff training and recruitment.
TheGroup has made good progress in developing the strength and depth of the leadership and management teams in the year, improving the communication between the different offices, and improving the talent management process.
The Group has also continued with its rolling programme of internal senior management and  as well as the leadership development programme.
Warwickshire Leadership development ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 22 Strategic report Governance Financial statements ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 23
