Governance Board of directors 1 2 3 4 1 russell taylor 55 there.
More recently, he was Group Chairman of privately owned chief executive officer Commercial Director on the main recruitment business Hartley Russell Taylor was appointed Chief board of Gallaher Group Plc.
He holds an MBA Executive in May 2008 having joined currently Nonexecutive Chairman of from Manchester Business School.
ITE in March 2003 as Finance Director.
four companies including BlackRock He has extensive experience of all Emerging Europe Plc, an emerging 4 Linda Jensen age 49 sectors of the exhibition industry.
He market trust investing in Eastern Nonexecutive director isa qualified Chartered Accountant, Europe.
Neil is a Fellow of the Linda Jensen was appointed a having trained at Touche Ross & Co, Chartered Institute of Marketing.
Nonexecutive Director of the Company where he became a Manager in their on 7 July 2011.
She is CEO of HBO Corporate Finance Department.
He 3 Michael Hartley age 64 Europe, a position she has held since holds a BA in Economics.
Nonexecutive director February 2005, and is responsible for all Michael Hartley was appointed business operations of the HBO channels 2 Neil england age 59 aNonexecutive Director of the in the European region, currently Nonexecutive director Company in October 2003 and covering 14 markets.
From 2000 to early Neil England was appointed a iscurrently Chairman of the Audit 2005, she was the President of MTV Nonexecutive Director of the Committee and Senior Independent Russia, based in Moscow.
Prior to MTV Company in March 2008 and Director.
He brings extensive Russia, she gained valuable experience iscurrently Chairman of the international management experience in the central European region as the Remuneration Committee.
He has to the Board, having spent 16 years Director of Development at Central abreadth of sales and marketing with Coats Viyella plc, for the last three European Media Enterprises CME.
experience and an extensive years as Chief Executive of the Viyella Fluent in Russian, she holds a Masters knowledge of ITEs key geographic division.
He has worked extensively in degree in Political Science from markets.
He was formerly Vice Asia, Australasia and Africa.
President for Mars Incorporated with was until 2009 Chairman of Dawson responsibility for all the CIS countries International plc and is currently and he built a marketleading business ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 42 Strategic report Governance Financial statements 5 6 7 8 5 Neil Jones age 47 Page International plc after more 8 Marco sodi age 55 finance director thaneleven years as Group Finance Nonexecutive chairman Neil Jones was appointed as Finance Director, during which time he oversaw Marco Sodi was appointed a Director in November 2008.
He has a period of significant overseas Nonexecutive Director on 1 February held senior financial positions within expansion and growth.
Stephen is also 2012 and took over as Chairman of theexhibitions industry for over 15 currently a Nonexecutive Director of ITEon 23March 2012.
He was formerly Finance Director Hydrogen Group plc and chairs its Nonexecutive Director of ITE from at Tarsus Group plc, which specialises in Audit Committee.
2003 to 2006 and has extensive the organisation of trade exhibitions in experience of the media sector, and Europe, America, UAE and Asia.
Prior to 7 edward strachan age 49 the exhibitions sector in particular.
that, he was European Finance Director executive director Heleft the Private Equity firm Veronis for Advanstar Communications, one of Edward Strachan joined ITE Group in Suhler Stevenson in March2010 after the largest US media groups.
Neil is a 1993 when he launched the ITE Groups 23 successful yearsasboth a General member of the Institute of Chartered local business in Kazakhstan.
Since Partner andInvestment Committee Accountants of England & Wales, then he has opened and managed ITE member.
Heiscurrently aNon qualifying with Price Waterhouse Groups operations in St Petersburg, executive Director of EuroTaxGlasss in1990.
Turkey, Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan and Intl A. G, European Directories S. A. Azerbaijan, as well as the agency andData Centrum Communications 6 stephen Puckett age 52 operations in China and the Gulf and Advisory BoardMember of the Nonexecutive director region.
Previously he has Stephen Puckett was appointed Hebecame a main Board Director in served on the Boardsof Hemscott plc, aNonexecutive Director of the July 2003 and brings to the Board his Centaur Communications plc, Pepcom Company on 1 July 2013.
He is a extensive experience of the exhibition GmbH, Berliner Verlag A. G. CSC Media Chartered Accountant with over industry in Russia and the CIS regions.
Group plc, Granada Learning plc and 20years experience as Finance Clarionplc.
In 2012 he retired from the Board of Michael ITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 43
