06 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 Overview Market Review The media environment in which ITV operates, both as ITV VOD viewing by platform broadcaster and producer, continues to be dynamic.
We 4% must ensure that we adapt as the market changes as 6% it presents great opportunities for ITV as an integrated producer broadcaster.
18% Broadcast & Online 53% Via the television set Over recent years the number of ways to watch TV has Tablet greatly increased.
Viewers are now able to choose between PC 19% a variety of traditional platforms, both free and pay.
On Mobile demand viewing allows people to watch content away from Other traditional television with programmes delivered over the top to devices including mobiles, tablets and connected Source: ComScore, Sky, Virgin, BT Vision TVs.
Linear viewing via the TV set is still dominant with on Video on demand and catch up demand a relatively small part of overall viewing, but it is Video on demand VOD viewing of lawful long form content growing fast: we cannot be complacent and must ensure is growing rapidly but remained around 3% of all viewing in that our online offering is strong to compete in this market.
Growth is being driven by viewing on mobiles, tablets Traditional television viewing and the television set, while PC viewing is declining Source: ITV competes for viewers with the BBC and other commercial Internal estimates, 3Reasons.
broadcasters, including the Channel 4, Channel 5 and Sky The number of homes with Personal Video Recorders PVRs families of channels.
The process of digital switchover in the UK has increased to around 63%, with PVR catch up viewing of completed in 2012, increasing the number of channels available around 12% 2012: 10%.
The line between catch up and VOD to all viewers from the traditional five terrestrial channels to a is becoming more blurred with the growth of connected choice of hundreds.
The erosion of audience share experienced devices as viewers no longer need to record programmes.
by the terrestrial broadcasters during this transition has now ITV continues to improve the quality and distribution of ITV levelled.
Relatively little has changed in terms of viewing Player to take advantage of this growing demand.
In the last five years the public service broadcaster PSB families have only lost 1.2 share points.
BBC One and ITV Advertising revenues continue to be the only channels consistently able to deliver ITV generates revenues from advertising through traditional peak audiences of more than five million, and the PSB families broadcast and also increasingly online.
ITV competes with receive around 72% share of viewing SOV.
ITV Family SOV in the commercial broadcasters and other advertising mediums, 2013 was 23.1%, second only to the BBCs family of channels at such as the internet and print, for its advertising revenues.
SOV for the Channel 4, Channel 5 and Sky families was Over the last five years TV has broadly maintained its share significantly smaller at 11.0%, 6.0% and 8.0% respectively.
of total advertising spend at around 28% whilst the internet, which is growing rapidly, continues to take share from press.
Total television viewing has been largely stable over the ITVs share of the television advertising net revenues SOB past decade with average viewing of 232 minutes in 2013 was 45.4% in 2013, slightly behind 2012 45.8%.
However, it compared to 224 minutes in 2003.
Total viewing saw a is getting increasingly difficult to measure the market as all decline of 4% in 2013 due to the lack of a large one-off broadcasters have differing definitions and therefore include sporting event and the good weather over the summer.
sources of revenue other than pure spot advertising.
Viewing of commercial channels was only down 1% to 153 minutes per day.
Televisions share of the advertising market Platforms The platforms on which viewers watch television is important to ITV as for linear viewing our SOV is higher in 28.1% free to air homes.
The current platform mix is around 48% Television 40.6% free to air Freeview and Freesat and 52% Pay including Sky, Press Virgin and BT.
We continue to support free platforms with Radio 21.0% developments such as YouView, which is estimated to have Cinema Outdoor distributed over 900,000 boxes by the end of 2013.
com Stock code: ITV and the Nordics.
Global Entertainment, ITVs distribution ITV Family Share of Broadcast SOB business, sells finished programmes and formats around the % world and is one of the top three European distributors of 46 television content.
The global content market 44 The global content market is estimated to be worth around $50 billion.
Approximately 29% of this $15 billion is accounted for by the US, 8% by the UK $4 billion, and the 42 remaining 63% by the rest of the world.
Entertainment and factual entertainment formats such as Come Dine With Me, Hells Kitchen and Im A Celebrity Get 40 Me Out Of Here!
are a significant part of global content sales.
09 10 11 12 13 We are also seeing a resurgence of drama and comedy, and Source: ITV actuals, ITV estimate for Total TV a rise in reality programming, for example Duck Dynasty and Real Housewives.
Subscription and Pay revenue The UK and US drive global creativity in TV formats and ITV also earns revenues from pay TV, both directly from finished tape sales.
The UK is the world leader for the the viewer and through licensing its channels and content.
volume of exported formats, ahead of other top exporters The total UK pay TV market has been growing moderately the US, Holland and the Nordics, and second only to the US in and was estimated to be 6.1 billion in 2012 Source: catalogue sales.
Much of this goes to platform owners such In the UK and internationally ITV competes with a large as Sky and Virgin as subscriptions from the viewer, with number of independent producers, including super-indies the remainder being paid by platform owners to content such as Fremantle and Endemol.
The independent producers owners, such as ITV, and rights holders.
are largely privately owned, and do not have the advantage A big growth area in pay TV is now subscription VOD, where of being an integrated producer broadcaster.
viewers have unlimited access to content for a period of The US is the largest creative market in the world and while time.
2012 was the first year that VOD subscription took off dominated by vertically integrated conglomerates, there is in the UK, and the two main services, Netflix and Lovefilm a thriving independent market valued at about $3.5 billion which offer ITV content, are growing fast.
ITV Studios is now one of the five ITV Studios and the Global content market largest independent producers in the US.
Over the last few years the proliferation of entertainment platforms and the increasingly competitive nature of the Global Content Market $50 billion broadcasting industry has created strong demand for quality proven content and formats that travel internationally.
8% This is because broadcasters and platform owners want to increase the certainty of their audiences, either mass or 29% targeted, around which to sell their advertising.
This provides 63% great opportunities for ITV as a leading content creator and producer.
UK US ITV Studios production regions Rest of the World ITV Studios is the largest commercial production company in the UK, and the third largest European producer after Source: Internal estimates Fremantle and Endemol, producing over 3,500 hours of content per year for ITV and other broadcasters in the UK.
ITV Studios also produces programming for local broadcasters in five international locations: the US the largest international base, Australia, Germany, France 23043-04 10-12-2013 Proof 1 06-07 Markets.
indd 7 28 02 2014 12:02:00 44.7 45.2 45.3 45.8 45.4 Financial Statements Governance Performance and Financials Strategy and Operations Overview
