60 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 Governance Management Board Mary Fagan Peter Fincham Andrew Garard Fru Hazlitt Group Communications and Director of Television, Channels and Group Legal Director and Company Managing Director, Commercial, Corporate Affairs Director Online Secretary Online and Interactive Appointed Appointed Appointed Appointed January 2011 May 2008 November 2007 August 2010 Age 56 Age 57 Age 47 Age 50 Previous experience Previous experience Previous experience Previous experience Mary joined ITV from the Royal Mail Peter joined ITV from the BBC where Andrew joined ITV as Group Legal Prior to joining ITV, Fru was Chief Group, where she was Corporate and he was Controller of BBC One.
He Director in 2007 and took on the Executive of GCap Media Plc until Government Affairs Director from began his career in broadcasting at additional role of Company Secretary it was sold to Global Radio in 2008.
A senior City and independent production company, in 2009.
Previously Andrew was a Her previous positions include Chief Business journalist with more than Talkback Productions, where he Partner in the corporate department Executive of Virgin Radio, Managing 20 years experience, Marys previous became Managing Director in 1986. of LeBoeuf Lambs London office.
Director of Yahoo UK and European roles included Deputy City Editor In 2001 Talkback Productions was Prior to joining LeBoeuf Lamb, Commercial Director of Yahoo of the Sunday Telegraph, Industrial sold to Fremantle Media and in Andrew was Group General Counsel Europe.
Correspondent for the Independent 2003 Peter became Chief Executive and Company Secretary at Cable and City Reporter at the Evening of the newly merged company & Wireless PLC where he was a Standard.
member of the Group Executive responsible for Global Legal.
Prior to that he was Global Head of Legal and Deputy General Counsel of Reuters Group Plc in the UK, and before that, General Counsel Asia.
Kevin Lygo Simon Pitts Managing Director, ITV Studios Director of Strategy and Technology Appointed Appointed August 2010 January 2011 Age 56 Age 38 Previous experience Previous experience Before joining ITV Kevin spent much Simon joined ITV in 2000 and has of his career at Channel 4, most held roles in ITVs Public Affairs, recently as Director of Television and Regulatory and New Media Content which included responsibility departments before joining the for Channel 4 Groups portfolio of Strategy Team in 2007.
Kevins previous roles promoted to the ITV Management include Director of Programmes at Board in the role of Director of Channel 5 as well as a number of Strategy and Transformation in positions at the BBC, including Head January 2011, and more recently to of Independent Commissioning for Director of Strategy and Technology Entertainment.
to combine the leadership of ITVs Technology Group with the implementation of the Companys overall strategic plan.
Prior to ITV, Simon worked in the European Parliament in Brussels where he specialised in media issues.
com Stock code: ITV Picture: DCI Banks returned in 2014 for its 3rd series with an average audience of 7.6m for the first episode.
indd 61 28 02 2014 12:34:22 Financial statements Governance Performance and Financials Strategy and Operations Overview
