16 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 Strategy and Operations Performance Dashboard 2 1 Create a lean, creatively Maximise audience and revenue Create a lean, creatively Maximise audience and revenue dynamic and fit-for-purpose share from our existing free-to-air dynamic and share from our existing free-to-air organisation broadcast business organisation broadcast business Milestones achieved Milestones achieved Record employee engagement at 91% Best ITV Family SOV year-on-year performance for ten years Rolled out ITV rebrand across all of ITV Increased variety and quality of schedule 28 million of cost savings 118 million since 2009 ITV2 and 3 largest digital channels Fourth year of double digit profit growth ITV NAR grew 2% as TV ad market returned to growth Improved group margin by 3% points to 26% Innovative sponsorship and brand extension Net cash of 164 million after increase in shareholder partnerships with advertisers returns Sales team were awarded Sales Team of the Year in Cash conversion again over the 90% three year 2013 at the Media Week Awards rolling target Won six National Television Awards Focus for 2014 Focus for 2014 Maintain high levels of employee engagement in ITV Maintain strong on-screen viewing performance Further simplify our operating structures as we grow Launch new free to air channel ITVBe in scale and geography Expect to outperform our estimate of the TV ad 10 million cost savings target market Relentless focus on cash Drive further value from 30 second spot and related revenues Maintain a robust, efficient and flexible balance sheet Implement new ten year licence KPIs KPIs Employee Engagement ITV Family Share of Viewing SOV ITV Family Share of Commercial Impacts SOCI ITV Family Share of Broadcast SOB KPIs across all EBITA before exceptional items four priorities Adjusted earnings per share 23043-04 10-12-2013 Proof 1 16-17 Performance Dashboard.
com Stock code: ITV 3 4 Drive new revenue streams by Build a strong international Drive new revenue streams by Build a strong international exploiting our content across content business exploiting our content across content business multiple platforms, free and pay multiple platforms, free and pay Milestones achieved Milestones achieved Further improved quality of ITV Player 20% growth in total revenue driven particularly by international ITV content available on 19 platforms 24% growth in EBITA Long form video requests up 16% ITV Studios share of ITV output increased to 59% 11.7 million downloads of ITV Player app Investing in creative pipeline 121 new commissions Renegotiated deals with BT and Virgin and extended Virgin deal to include ITV2, 3, 4 HD channels Creating programmes that return and travel Trialling direct to consumer pay opportunities Eight programmes that are produced in three or more countries 3.5 million registered users of ITV Player Completed four acquisitions in UK and US Focus for 2014 Focus for 2014 Continue to improve quality of ITV Player Invest in creative talent and pilots to maintain a healthy pipeline Increase distribution of ITV Player Focus on long running returnable series Launch new pay channel, ITV Encore Exploit programmes that travel Implement new deal with Sky which was renegotiated at the start of 2014 Further strengthen global production capabilities as we become an increasingly international business Develop further innovative and targeted advertising opportunities Continue to look at potential acquisitions Launch advertising on catch up on Sky and Virgin Scale international distribution business KPIs KPIs Total long form video requests Number of new commissions for ITV Studios Percentage of ITV output from ITV Studios Profit to cash conversion Non-NAR revenues Read more on our Financial KPIs within the KPI section on page 36 23043-04 10-12-2013 Proof 1 16-17 Performance Dashboard.
indd 17 28 02 2014 12:09:42 Financials Statements Governance Performance and Financials Strategy and Operations Overview 18 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 Strategy and Operations 1 Create a lean, creatively dynamic and fit-for-purpose organisation 23043-04 10-12-2013 Proof 1 18-21 Strategic Priority One.
com Stock code: ITV Strategic Priority 1 Create a lean, creatively dynamic and fit-for-purpose organisation In 2013 we have again made significant progress in making Record employee engagement ITV lean, creatively dynamic and fit-for-purpose.
% 100 We continue to make ITV a better business both creatively 3% and commercially, through driving out complexity, YoY developing our people, driving cultural change throughout 90 the organisation, investing in our core systems and technologies, and in our brand.
80 As well as operating efficiently it is vital that we also operate responsibly.
Our behaviour impacts our employees, our 70 shareholders, our viewers, the wider community and the environment.
Our Corporate Responsibility strategy, which 60 is aligned to our four key priorities, aims to help grow our 09 10 11 12 13 business by strengthening stakeholder pride and loyalty in ITV, as well as mitigating the risks to the business.
Ensuring the welfare and human rights of our employees is a key ITV at the heart of popular culture consideration in our day-to-day activity, both in the UK and At the start of 2013 we successfully rolled out the ITV internationally, and we use United Nations human rights rebrand with the emphasis on putting ITV at the heart of frameworks as guiding principles.
This was one of the most extensive media This report highlights issues which are material to our rebrands ever undertaken and was developed in-house business strategy.
However, our commitment goes beyond by ITV Creative.
We rolled out a new identity for our five the business plan and regulatory requirements.
As a channels, our entire online estate, and our production and responsible industry leader we undertake a number of distribution businesses in the UK and internationally, all on initiatives that demonstrate our commitment to behaving the same day.
The rebrand has significantly improved ITVs responsibly and to a sustainable future for our industry, brand health as measured by YouGov and has helped make which can be found on our website.
ITV the most loved commercial network in 2013. www.
com responsibility Relentless focus on cash and costs In 2013 we delivered 28 million of cost savings, 8 million ahead of the original target.
These savings are largely not Our people employee related.
Since 2009 we have taken 118 million Our people are key to the success of ITV.
It is essential of costs out of the business.
These savings have funded that we develop and support them so that we can attract our investment in our creative and commercial capabilities, and retain the best talent.
We measure our employee specifically in our creative pipeline, in technology and online.
engagement annually and we are pleased to see it has again improved to 91% 2012: 88%, which compares to a benchmark for comparable company surveys of 77%.
As well as operating Employee participation has also increased to 88% 2012: 80%, which compares to a benchmark of 69%.
efficiently it is vital that we We have continued to simplify the way we operate and to also operate responsibly increasingly work as One ITV.
This makes it easier for people to do their jobs and to help deliver value from our integrated producer broadcaster model and to drive future growth.
However, there is still more we can do.
indd 19 28 02 2014 12:10:12 65 75 85 88 91 Financial Statements Governance Performance and Financials Strategy and Operations Overview 20 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 Strategy and Operations Str Stra at te egic Priority gic Priority 1 23043-04 10-12-2013 Proof 1 18-21 Strategic Priority One.
com Stock code: ITV Strategic Priority 1 Our focus on costs and cash has enabled us to significantly Cumulative cost efficiency savings strengthen and improve the efficiency of our balance m Cumulative sheet.
Our cash generation remains strong with free cash 120 Total flow up over 100 million year-on-year.
Profit to cash 118m 100 conversion was 97% and we have ended the year with net cash of 164 million even after significant investment in 80 acquisitions, property and returns to shareholders.
We have also continued to improve the efficiency of the balance 60 sheet with 211 million of debt buybacks nominal and the 40 redemption of the convertible bond, both of which deliver significant interest cost savings for 2014 and beyond.
20 The steps we have taken on the balance sheet along with 0 10 11 12 13 another period of double digit profit growth has led the Board to propose a final dividend of 2.4p 2012: 1.8p giving a full year dividend of 3.5p 2012: 2.6p an increase of 35%.
2014 and beyond The Board is committed to a progressive dividend, taking We have made great strides in creating a better business and into account the outlook for the business, while balancing we will continue to make further improvements across the the need to invest for growth and to maintain a robust organisation in 2014. financial position.
We will maintain our focus on costs but, given the savings In addition to the final dividend, the Board is proposing a we have made to date, further significant savings are getting special dividend of 4.0p per share 161 million.
The cash harder to achieve.
For 2014 we have identified a further 10 distribution reflects the Boards confidence in the ongoing million of non-network programme budget cost savings.
growth and cash generation of the business.
Going forward It is essential that while we remain operationally and financially we will continue to show capital discipline and balance the fit-for-purpose, we must balance cost and cash discipline with need to invest for future growth with increasing returns to the need to invest in the business.
The balance sheet we now shareholders.
have gives us the flexibility to invest where appropriate to drive future growth and improve shareholder returns.
Corporate Responsibility Gender split People and diversity Directors 87.5% 12.5% Ensuring our culture, environment and 7 males processes are inclusive is essential to 1 female helping us attract diversity amongst the skills, experience and make-up of our Senior Managers 72.2% 27.8% workforce.
As an example of our leadership 13 males and commitment ITV currently chairs the 5 females Creative Diversity Network, whose remit is to take joint industry responsibility for action on Employees 48.7% 51.3% diversity.
2,264 males Environmental matters and social, community 2,388 females and human rights issues: More details can be found on our Corporate Responsibility website, Male Female while the greenhouse gas disclosures are included in the Directors Report.
Of the five female senior managers, four were directors of consolidated Group companies Read more on page 62.
Employee gender split based on total headcount at the end of 2013 More information on our responsibility agenda can be located at www.
com responsibility 23043-04 10-12-2013 Proof 1 18-21 Strategic Priority One.
indd 21 28 02 2014 12:10:15 40 20 30 28 Financial Statements Governance Performance and Financials Strategy and Operations Overview 22 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 Strategy and Operations 2 Maximise audience and revenue share from our existing free-to-air broadcast business Picture: The final series of Poirot aired in 2013 with the final episode of the ITV Studios drama watched by an average of 6.4 million viewers.
Poirot has now been sold to over 150 countries.
com Stock code: ITV Strategic Priority 2 Maximise audience and revenue share from our existing free-to-air broadcast business A strong broadcast business is central to our strategy.
As Strong on-screen performance a business it generates significant profits and cash and its The improved quality and variety of the schedule has driven a content can be repackaged to drive new revenues.
As an consistently strong on-screen performance throughout 2013. integrated producer broadcaster, our family of broadcast ITV Family SOV was up 4% over the full year the best yearchannels provides a platform on which to make ITV Studios on-year performance for over ten years.
ITV main channel content famous before exploiting it internationally.
SOV was up 3%, ITV main channel SOCI was up 1% and ITV Family SOCI was flat.
ITV digital channels performed broadly ITV Family NAR grown by 2% in line with last year.
In 2013, ITV Family NAR grew by 2% based on pure spot advertising.
This is slightly behind our estimate of the ITV had many on-screen successes in the year with both new television advertising market, up 3%.
However, it is and returning programmes.
Based on the series average, ITV getting increasingly difficult to measure the market as all broadcast the highest rating drama with Downton Abbey, broadcasters have differing definitions and therefore include the highest rating new drama launch with Broadchurch and sources of revenue other than pure spot advertising.
highest rating entertainment programme with Im A Celebrity Get Me Out of Here!
Other notable successes include Lewis, Since 2009 we have grown our Share of Broadcast SOB Poirot, Mr Selfridge, Doc Martin, Ant & Decs Saturday Night from 44.7% to 45.4% in 2013.
We have achieved this through Takeaway, The Chase, Tipping Point, Paul OGrady: For the the quality of our schedule and the unrivalled reach that Love of Dogs, and Her Majestys Prison: Aylesbury.
ITV is the UKs strongest marketing platform, programming again delivered good audiences, in particular delivering the mass audiences which are so much in the Champions League and England international friendlies.
In 2013 ITV delivered 99.9% of all commercial audiences over five million viewers and 100% of The strong on-screen performance is not just due to the audiences over six million.
success of these new and returning series.
Much of our core schedule, in particular Coronation Street, Emmerdale Our digital channels, ITV2, 3 and 4, provide more targeted and our News programmes, have all performed strongly in demographics, which together with ITV main channel, 2013.
Coronation Street was the highest rating soap, and ensures that we deliver both mass and targeted reach.
for the first time Emmerdale had a higher average share of Our broadcast performance has helped to drive 3% growth viewers than Eastenders over the year.
Both our national and in Broadcast & Online revenues to 1,896 million.
indd 23 28 02 2014 12:10:42 23.1 22.9 23.1 22.3 23.1 40.0 39.8 39.5 38.3 38.3 Financial Statements Governance Performance and Financials Strategy and Operations Overview 24 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 Strategy and Operations Strategic Priority 2 regional news programmes have grown their audience share Our viewing performance is clearly healthy but there remain as we remain committed to providing high quality, impartial areas we would like to improve.
While overall the digital news.
channels performed well, ITV4s performance was slightly disappointing and the early daytime schedule on ITV has The improved quality of ITV channels has again been not performed as well as we had hoped.
We will continue recognised publicly in 2013 with ITV winning Channel of the to rejuvenate some of our programmes and trial new ideas Year at the Edinburgh Television Festival and ITV2 winning across our channels.
We aim to increase our success rate in digital channel of the year at the Broadcast Digital Awards.
launching new programmes through research, viewer panels ITV also won six National Television Awards including most and pilots.
popular serial drama for Coronation Street and most popular entertainment programme for Im a Celebrity Get Me Out Of Our advertising is sold based upon the on-screen Here!
performance in the previous year and therefore our strong viewing performance in 2013 puts us in good stead for 2014.
ITV2 and ITV3 remain the two largest digital channels in the UK and our digital channels again aired successful new and returning programmes, including Tricked, The Big Reunion, Duck Dynasty, Plebs, Celebrity Juice, The Only Way is Essex, The Tour fide France and The French Open.
Picture: Birds of a Feather returned in 2014 and became the most watched comedy on ITV since records began with 9.5 million viewers.
com Stock code: ITV During 2013 we experienced a number of transmission Renewal of licence outages on our channels.
High quality transmission is an In February 2014, ITVs Public Service Broadcasting licences absolute priority for ITV and we have a number of projects were renewed for a full ten years which gives us the certainty ongoing to ensure our transmission and distribution we require to continue to invest for the long term in our technologies are fit-for-purpose.
broadcast business and high quality content.
Maximising the value of our airtime 2014 and ahead We compete with broadcasters and other media for our As we look into 2014 and beyond we must continue to share of television advertising and advertising revenues in focus on delivering a strong on-screen performance by general.
We aim to maximise the value of our 30 second offering a rich and varied schedule, including our new free spot and drive related revenue streams through sponsorship, to air lifestyle and reality channel ITVBe.
There will be both interactivity and brand extensions.
For example, the challenges and opportunities.
From the second half of 2015 successful sponsorship campaigns and off-air endorsements we will no longer hold the live rights for the Champions including Morrisons with Ant & Decs Saturday Night League but this will potentially open up parts of the schedule Takeaway, Tesco Finest with Downton Abbey, and Boots and which will give us an opportunity to invest more in ITV This Morning.
Following the successful broadcast of The Studios content.
Big Reunion on ITV2 in 2013 we also launched the live Big The television advertising market continues to show signs Reunion Tour and recommissioned the programme.
of improvement with ITV Family NAR expected to be up 5% Traditional broadcast model remains robust to 6% in the four months to the end of April.
Over the full While the media environment is developing rapidly, the year we expect to outperform our estimate of the television traditional television broadcast model remains structurally advertising market.
Our on-screen performance in 2013 and robust.
On demand viewing is growing fast, but it remains our strong schedule for 2014, including the FIFA World Cup around 3% of total viewing and people continue to watch and the advertising deals we have done, puts us in a good around four hours of television a day.
We must ensure that even though our Broadcast business is strong we continue to make our digital offerings more widely available and competitive.
Corporate Responsibility Using the power of our reach to inspire, engage and empower people to make a positive difference in our society.
ITV together with its much loved channels, popular programmes, celebrities and viewers have helped raise millions for charitable causes in 2013.
Social action has also been at the heart of many of our Corporate Responsibility campaigns in the form of volunteering and community action often in collaboration with charities and other UK-wide social action organisations.
Responsible programming and complying with Ofcoms Broadcasting Code is absolutely key for ITV.
Read more on Heading on page More information on our responsibility agenda can be located at www.
com responsibility 23043-04 10-12-2013 Proof 1 22-25 Strategic Priority Two.
indd 25 28 02 2014 12:10:44 Financial Statements Governance Performance and Financials Strategy and Operations Overview 26 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 Strategy and Operations 3 Drive new revenue streams by exploiting our content across multiple platforms, free and pay Picture: Reality show The Only Way Is Essex was one of the top five most watched programmes on ITV Player in 2013.
The shows new home will be on ITVBe.
com Stock code: ITV Strategic Priority 3 Drive new revenue streams by exploiting our content across multiple platforms, free and pay Online, Pay & Interactive are fast growing new revenue Online, Pay & Interactive Revenues streams which we are driving from distributing our content m across a range of platforms, both free and pay.
This is 120 either by selling advertising around our content online or 16% YoY pay revenues through licensing our content to third party 100 platform owners or, to a lesser extent, through transactions directly with the consumer through ITV Player.
80 In 2013 we have continued to increase the quality and the availability of ITV Player and further developed our 60 pay services.
This, combined with the continued growing demand for watching our content via non-traditional channels as well as linear channels, has seen us again deliver 40 09 10 11 12 13 strong growth, with revenues up 16% to 118 million.
Online advertising Over the last few years we have invested to improve the quality of our online offering and ITV Player is now Pay services fit to compete with the best in the digital market.
In As consumer viewing behaviour evolves, we continue to 2013 we continued to enhance our online offering with explore, experiment and develop our pay services both improvements to the ITV Sports and ITV News sites.
direct-to-consumer and to broadcasters and platform owners.
We have trialled pay opportunities on the ITV Player We have also been working to increase the distribution of with episode premieres of programmes such as Scott & ITV content digitally so that it is available when and how Bailey for ITV and Plebs for ITV2, and have offered box sets people want to watch it.
Our content is now available on 19 to download to rent.
We have also launched an ad free platforms.
subscription model on iOS the first broadcaster to do so.
The rapid increase in video on demand VOD is adding to During the year we renegotiated a number of our current a huge demand for quality content, both free and pay, and deals with platform owners and also agreed a number of as an integrated producer broadcaster we are in a unique new deals to make our content available on more platforms.
position to create value from this.
Mobile and tablet viewing is driving VOD and there have now been over 11.7 million downloads of the ITV Player app since it was launched.
The increased quality and distribution of the ITV Player has led to continued good growth in long form video requests, which were up 16% in 2013.
Advertiser demand continues to be strong for ITVs VOD and we must manage our advertising load to meet that demand while maintaining a good user experience.
indd 27 28 02 2014 12:15:38 136% Increase on 2009 50 58 81 102 118 Financial Statements Governance Performance and Financials Strategy and Operations Overview 28 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 Picture: Britains Got Talent achieved an average audience of 10.9 million viewers and was one of the top ten most watched programmes on ITV Player in 2013.
com Stock code: ITV Strategic Priority 3 We renewed our deals with BT and Lovefilm and we have Long Form Video Requests renegotiated our Virgin deal to include HD versions of ITV2, m 3 and 4 and to enable us to deliver adverts in our catch up 600 content in the future.
We have agreed deals with Amazon 16% 500 YoY for transactional VOD, simulcast channels with Everything Everywhere and a catch up service on Virgin Atlantic.
We 400 have also launched ITV Essentials, an international catch up 300 service for our Soaps.
200 In January 2014 we announced that we will be launching our first pay channel, ITV Encore, on Sky.
As part of the 100 wider deal with Sky, ITV content will also be made available through Skys range of connected platforms including Sky 0 09 10 11 12 13 Go, Now TV and Sky Store.
Interactivity We are further deepening our relationship with our viewers 2014 and beyond and ITV Player now has 3.5 million registered users.
We We expect to again deliver double digit revenue growth in are increasing our interaction and consumer engagement Online, Pay & Interactive in 2014.
Our online revenues will through competitions, voting, second screens and through grow through the increased distribution of ITV Player and social media to drive more value from our brands for ITV and through increased consumer demand.
In 2014 we will start for our advertisers.
to deliver stitched advertising in our catch up services on Sky and Virgin.
We continue to develop our pay services and during 2014 we will launch ITV Encore.
Corporate Responsibility Building trust online We strive to continue to build trust and confidence in our digital platforms, applying the same standards online as we do on air.
We listen to the issues that matter to our viewers, in particular safeguarding children, protection of personal data and accessibility to our programmes.
More information on our responsibility agenda can be located at www.
com responsibility 23043-04 10-12-2013 Proof 1 26-29 Strategic Priority Three.
indd 29 28 02 2014 12:15:42 285% Increase on 2009 150 273 406 496 577 Financial Statements Governance Performance and Financials Strategy and Operations Overview 30 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 Strategy and Operations 4 Build a strong international content business Picture: Mr Selfridge has now been sold to over 150 countries.
The programme returned for a second series in early 2014.
com Stock code: ITV Strategic Priority 4 Build a strong international content business A strong international content business lies at the heart of Total ITV Studios Revenue our strategy to create and own more of our own content, m make it famous in the UK on our channels and distribute it 1000 across multiple platforms in the UK and internationally.
As an 20% YoY integrated producer broadcaster we are in a unique position 800 to do this.
600 The high demand globally for quality content from broadcasters and platform owners provides a significant 400 opportunity for us.
We are building real momentum as we continue to invest in a strong and healthy creative pipeline 200 in the key creative markets and specifically in genres that return and travel drama, entertainment and factual 0 09 10 11 12 13 entertainment, good examples of which are Mr Selfridge, Come Dine With Me and The Chase.
In 2013 we delivered a 20% increase in total ITV Studios On ITV we have delivered new commissions including revenue with good performances across the business Lucan, Big Stars Little Star and Tricked.
As we focus on particularly driven by international production and 24% programmes that return and travel, our recommissions are growth in EBITA.
We delivered good organic growth and are very important.
We are building a track record for producing building on this with the acquisitions we have made both programmes that return, including Mr Selfridge, Ant & Decs in the UK and internationally.
Our portfolio of acquisitions Saturday Night Takeaway and Surprise Surprise, which all are performing in line with our expectations and we will have international appeal.
continue to look at further acquisitions which fit with our strict strategic and financial criteria.
Off ITV our new commissions include Pressure Pad for the BBC and Kingfishers for Discovery while our recommissions The strong performance in 2013 builds upon the significant include Graham Norton, Shetland and University Challenge progress we have made over the last few years.
While there for the BBC, and 24 Hours in A&E, Friday Night Dinner and is still a great deal to do, ITV is now an international studios Come Dine with Me for Channel 4. business we are the number one commercial producer in the UK, a top five independent producer in the US and the third largest European distributor of television content.
UK Production In the UK we have increased our production revenues by 12%.
Growth has come in particular from drama, entertainment and factual, with original hours commissioned in these genres up 55%, 16% and 49% respectively, including the benefit of our acquisitions.
Growth also came both on and off ITV.
We have again increased ITV Studios share of ITV output, which increased to 59%, up from 50% in 2009.
indd 31 28 02 2014 12:18:39 44% Increase on 2009 597 544 612 712 857 Financial Statements Governance Performance and Financials Strategy and Operations Overview 32 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 Strategy and Operations Strategic Priority 4 International Production Global Entertainment Our international production business continues to grow The growth in the UK and international production very strongly, with revenues up 56%, driven by the US.
businesses is starting to feed our international distribution arm, whose revenues were up 2% to 135 million.
Our US businesses have secured a number of new commissions such as The Chase, which was originally Global Entertainments successes in the year include Mr commissioned in the UK, and many recommissions of Selfridge, Poirot, Marple, Lewis and Hells Kitchen US, which programmes which demonstrate their longevity and their have all now been sold to over 150 countries.
These included Hells Kitchen which continue to sell formats successfully, for example Come broadcast its 11th series in 2013, Kitchen Nightmares which Dine with Me, Four Weddings and The Chase, and we now broadcast its 5th series, Cake Boss which broadcast its 6th have eight programmes sold in three or more countries.
As series and is developing spin-off shows, and Duck Dynasty well as distributing ITVs own content we are adding to our which has broken cable viewing records in the US and is catalogue through the distribution of third party content, now also on ITV4.
A number of these shows have already such as Rectify for AMC and River Monsters for Icon Films.
been recommissioned which will be reflected in the 2014 5 We are seeing strong growth in sales to digital platforms results.
which is more than offsetting the decline in DVD sales.
Our other international production bases in Australia, We have delivered revenue growth in the period, but it Germany, France and the Nordics also produce their own takes time for the creative pipeline to flow through and the original formats and versions of UK formats.
Their original market for third party rights remains very competitive.
formats include Der Letzte Bulle in Germany, Mad As Hell in Australia and Night Patrol in Norway.
UK formats produced locally include Im a Celebrity Get Me Out Of Here!
and The Audience in Germany, Four Weddings in France and Hells Kitchen in the Nordics.
They have also secured a number of new commissions for 2014 including UK formats, such as Hells Kitchen in Germany.
Pictures: Left: Duck Dynasty was the most watched non-fiction series in US cable TV history.
Right: The Chase has now been sold in six countries including the UK and the US.
com Stock code: ITV Acquisitions 2014 and beyond Our acquisitions focus to date is on the two key markets In 2014 we again anticipate good growth, primarily driven by which have a track record for creating and owning the acquisitions we have made in the UK and internationally.
intellectual property, namely the UK and US.
We are looking As ever ITVs revenue growth will not be a straight line for companies that have a good creative pipeline and because of the phasing of the delivery schedule required by produce in genres that have the potential to travel.
our network and cable customers.
A challenge for the UK business is that ITV main channel will be spending less on In the UK we are seeking to enhance our skills in key genres.
original commissions given the World Cup cost in the first In 2013 we acquired UK producers The Garden and Big Talk to half of 2014. increase our capability in creating factual entertainment and comedy formats that travel and in delivering commissions We will continue to invest in our creative pipeline to develop for other broadcasters.
programmes that return and travel and we will also look at potential acquisitions in the key creative markets.
Our In the US we continued to build strength and scale with the international production business will remain a key focus most recent acquisitions of High Noon and Thinkfactory who as the demand for quality content globally continues to produce reality, entertainment and drama programmes, grow and will increasingly be the main driver for ITV Studios such as Cake Boss and R&B Divas.
existing business, including Gurney Productions which we acquired at the end of 2012.
On 19 February 2014 we acquired a 51% controlling interest in DiGa Vision, a US independent producer of reality and scripted programming.
There is a put and call option to buy the remainder of the company over three to six years.
Corporate Responsibility Responsible programming Through our programming we aim to tackle and portray social and community issues that are relevant to our audience, in an appropriate manner.
As an international content producer we understand the influence and impact our content can have on society.
Beyond our regulatory requirements we strive to produce content that is relevant for a global market and authentically portrays its audience.
More information on our responsibility agenda can be located at Read more on Heading on page www.
com responsibility 23043-04 10-12-2013 Proof 1 30-33 Strategic Priority Four.
indd 33 28 02 2014 12:18:41 Financial Statements Governance Performance and Financials Strategy and Operations Overview 34 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 Performance and Financials A review of Operational and Financial performance in 2013 Key Performance Indicators 36 Financial and Performance Review 41 Risks and Uncertainties 52 Downton Abbey Series four of Downton Abbey launched with 12 million viewers, the dramas biggest ever launch episode.
The series averaged 11.9 million viewers with a 40% share, making it the most watched drama series on any channel in 2013.
