62 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 Governance Directors Report The Directors present their report together with the audited Share capital consolidated and parent company financial statements for Issued: At the date of this report there were 4,025,409,194 the year ended 31 December 2013.
The comparative period ordinary shares of 10 pence each in issue, all of which are is for the year ended 31 December 2012. fully paid up and quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
Directors Rights: The rights attaching to the Companys ordinary A table showing Directors who served in the year can be shares, as well as the powers of the Companys Directors, found on page 70.
Biographies for Directors currently in are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
Unless office can be found on pages 58 and 59.
In accordance with expressly specified to the contrary, the Articles may only be the UK Governance Code the Code, each Director will retire amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
A copy of and submit himself or herself for election or re-election at the Articles can be obtained from the Companys website or the AGM on 14 May 2014. by writing to the Company Secretary.
On 1 June 2013 Sir Peter Bazalgette was appointed as a Nonwww.
com about governance executive Director, and will seek election as a Director of the Company at the AGM on 14 May 2014.
On 31 December 2013 Mike Clasper stepped down from the Board.
Andy Haste was Restrictions: There are no restrictions on the transfer of appointed Senior Independent Director in his place.
ordinary shares in the capital of the Company other than those which may be imposed by law from time to time.
In Post balance sheet events accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, Details of post balance sheet events can be found on certain employees are required to seek approval to deal in page 173.
The Company is not aware of any agreements Dividends between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the The Board has proposed a final dividend for the year ended transfers of securities and or voting rights.
Details of this and other dividends paid Purchase of own shares: The Directors have the authority for the year are as follows: 2013 2012 to purchase up to 391.2 million of the Companys ordinary Interim dividend 1.1p 0.8p shares.
The authority remains valid until the AGM in 2014 or FInal dividend 2.4p 1.8p 15 August 2014, if earlier.
Total Ordinary 3.5p 2.6p Trusts: The Company has a discretionary trust funded by loans to acquire shares for the potential benefit of Special dividend 4.0p 4.0p employees of the Group.
Details of shares held by the trust Total Payments 7.5p 6.0p at 31 December 2013 are set out on page 166.
During the The final dividend and special dividend for 2013 will be paid on 30 May 2014 to year shares have been released from the trust in respect of shareholders on the register on 2 May 2014.
The ex dividend date is 30 April 2014. share schemes for employees.
com Stock code: ITV Substantial shareholdings Employees As at 31 December 2013 the Company had received Employment of disabled persons notifications from the following companies and institutions The Company continues to meet its legal obligations as of the voting interests of themselves and their clients in 3% outlined in the Equality Act 2010 by actively encouraging or more of the issued ordinary share capital carrying rights applicants with disabilities whilst ensuring we retain the best to vote in all circumstances of the Company.
At 31 December 2013 This is reflected in an award of the annual Department for 1 Shares % Work and Pensions Two Ticks Disability Symbol status.
2 Sky Holdings Ltd 291,684,730 7.50% Majedie Asset Management Limited 195,687,610 5.01% Our policies and procedures fully support our disabled Blackrock, Inc. 195,504,921 5.00% colleagues.
With a robust reasonable adjustment policy, an Brandes Investment Partners, L. P. 194,304,930 4.99% HR Disability manager, disability specific online resources AXA S. A.
196,862,678 4.93% and on-site diversity experts, we have taken active measures to ensure employees are fully supported.
The number of shares is based on announcements made by each relevant shareholder using the Companys issued share capital at that date.
The Company is committed to the development and growth 2.
Subsidiary of British Sky Broadcasting Group plc.
Our learning and development portfolio 3.
Following the year end there have been no further notifications received.
is inclusive and accessible to employees.
Alternative formats A profile of shareholdings is set out on page 175. are available to all employees, which include large print, use Change of control of British sign language interpreters and Braille.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special The Companys commitment around the disability agenda rights with regard to control of the Company.
extends beyond our legal obligations.
For a comprehensive All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions outline of our activity visit our Corporate Responsibility relating to a change of control.
options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any www.
Certain of the Groups bonds borrowing facilities have change of control clauses whereby the issuer can require ITV to repay redeem bonds in the Employee involvement event of a change of control.
The Company is not aware of Attracting and retaining talent is critical to ITVs success.
any other significant agreements to which it is party that It is therefore in our interest to ensure that we provide the take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of appropriate rewards and opportunities for development so the Company.
that people feel engaged with the Company.
Financial instruments In 2013 ITV carried out an engagement campaign consisting Note 4.5 to the accounts gives details of the Groups financial of a series of roadshows during which the Management risk management policies and related exposures.
This gave employees an opportunity to feed back their thoughts and concerns Political donations about the business.
Engagement was reinforced through It is the Companys policy not to make cash contributions to forums such as the intranet, regular hard copy newsletters any political party.
However, within the normal activities of and briefings between management and its teams.
These the Groups national and regional news-gathering operations channels enabled employees to understand the financial there may be occasions when an activity might fall within and economic factors affecting the Companys performance, the broader definition of political expenditure contained how their role contributed towards the execution of the within the Companies Act 2006.
Shareholder authority strategy and how they could benefit from company success for such expenditure was given at the 2013 AGM.
However, through involvement in employee share schemes and during 2013 the Group made no payments falling within this information on their rights and benefits.
We have continued to measure and listen to employees through employee surveys and employee engagement has increased again in 2013 to 91% 2012: 88% with 93% of respondents proud to work for ITV.
indd 63 28 02 2014 12:23:42 Financial Statements Governance Performance and Financials Strategy and Operations Overview 64 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 Governance Directors Report continued reappointed and the DC Investment Platform provider was Pensions replaced.
The Group operates a pension scheme which provides retirement and death benefits for employees of ITV.
The ITV To encourage greater pension savings, the Government has Pension Scheme the Scheme comprises three sections: introduced auto-enrolment.
This requires employers to enrol A, B and C. Section A includes the defined contribution eligible employees into a pension scheme automatically.
The DC section of the Scheme.
The DC section is open to new requirement to comply with the auto-enrolment regulations members.
The defined benefit DB sections are closed to is being phased in with larger employers required to new members but are still open to future accrual.
comply first and with medium-sized and smaller employers following at a later period.
The size of an employers largest ITV Pension Scheme Limited is a corporate trustee and PAYE scheme determines the point at which the new duties manages the DB and DC assets of the Scheme, which affect their organisation the staging date.
ITV had a are held under trust separately from those of the Group.
staging date of 1 March 2013 however, in line with permitted Members of the trustee board are formally appointed as legislation ITV postponed auto-enrolment until 29 May 2013 directors of ITV Pension Scheme Limited.
There are nine when eligible employees were enrolled into the ITV Autodirectors including the chairman five appointed by the enrolment Pension Plan.
Company and four nominated by the members.
Pension Scheme indemnities: Qualifying pension scheme A member nomination selection process took place during indemnity provisions, as defined in section 235 of the June 2013 and on 1 July 2013, one trustee was reappointed Companies Act 2006, were in force for the financial year and two new trustees were appointed.
There is currently a ended 31 December 2013 and remain in force for the benefit vacancy for a company appointed director.
of each of the directors of ITV Pension Scheme Limited, a The trustee has four committees: Investment, Audit and subsidiary of ITV plc.
These indemnity provisions cover, to the Operations, DC and Corporate Affairs.
The Corporate Affairs extent permitted by law, certain losses or liabilities incurred Committee is convened as and when appropriate for as a director or officer of ITV Pension Scheme Limited.
dealing with any corporate activities that may arise.
It is the For further information please see page 50 and note 3.7. responsibility of the trustee to have in place appropriate training for its directors and effective committee structures.
The trustee board and each committee have a business plan which is reviewed and updated on an annual basis, together with the associated budget.
The trustee board also has a risk register, a conflicts of interest policy and a register of interests policy, all of which are reviewed at least annually.
The trustee directors receive regular training throughout the year and also have the support of the various professional advisers.
The chairman and the pensions executive identify training opportunities.
Training is delivered both by attendance at external courses and with targeted training to support specific agenda items at the start of each trustee board meeting.
Where appropriate, longer training sessions are organised.
Comprehensive records are kept of all training completed by each trustee director and training is discussed as part of the trustee evaluations conducted on an annual basis.
The trustee board completes regular assessments of its advisers and has prepared a Service Charter that outlines the terms of the appointment and clarity on the services provided.
The aim of the document is to support the ongoing monitoring of the adviser or services provider and will be introduced as they are reviewed and appointed.
During 2013 The Scheme Actuary and Investment Consultant were 23043-04 10-12-2013 Proof 1 62-66 Directors Report.
com Stock code: ITV Our total Greenhouse Gas emissions Health and safety Indicator 2013 The Health and Safety H&S of our employees, contractors and visitors is always a high priority.
The significant loss of Total gross CO e emissions 43,485 tCO e 2 2 Scope 1: Direct emissions 17,117 tCO e human life as the result of a major H&S incident has been 2 Scope 2: Indirect emissions 26,368 tCO e identified as a specific risk to the organisation.
The H&S 2 Total Revenue 2,753m team continue to use a management system that meets Emissions per unit m turnover 15.8 tCO e the specific risk profile of the business which is supported by 2 a comprehensive training programme and communicated Source: Utilyx analysis of ITV data.
The latest conversion factors specified in Defra and DECCs 2013 guidance were used as methodology.
44% of our data consumption is based on estimate.
This is where we are Health and safety performance indicators the occupier of a property but do not pay the energy bills directly.
Estimates are calculated from observed ITV consumption intensity and published benchmarks where relevant.
2013 2012 Risk management Lost time accidents reported under RIDDOR 2 5 Details of our High Impact Low Likelihood HILL and Major accidents as defined by RIDDOR 0 3 Strategic risks and our approach to risk management are set Fatal accidents 0 0 out on pages 52 to 55.
As of 6 April 2012, RIDDORs over-three-day injury reporting requirement changed to overseven-day reporting.
Our figures reflect this change.
Going concern The statistics are for UK permanent and fixed-term employees.
The going concern statement is set out on page 115.
For more detail on the Companys health and safety Auditor management system and implementation visit our KPMG has instigated an orderly wind-down of KPMG Audit Corporate Responsibility website.
Plc as a result of an internal reorganisation and requested that going forward the audit is instead undertaken by KPMG www.
com responsibility LLP an intermediate parent of KPMG Audit Plc.
KPMG Audit Plc will not therefore be seeking reappointment as auditor of the Company and in accordance with the Companies Act Greenhouse Gas emissions 2006, a resolution proposing the appointment of KPMG LLP The Company is required to report annually on the quantity as our auditor will be put to the 2014 AGM.
of carbon dioxide emissions in tonnes emitted as a result of activities for which it is responsible, our Greenhouse Gas Annual General Meeting emissions.
The AGM will be held on Wednesday, 14 May 2014 at 11.00 am at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad All new regulatory data for the financial year ended Sanctuary, Westminster, London, SW1P 3EE.
The Notice of 31 December 2013 is disclosed below for direct and indirect the AGM contains an explanation of special business to be emissions.
Data on other emissions where available and considered at the meeting.
more information on our energy use, environmental impacts, and how we aim to make a positive difference can be found A copy of the Notice will be available on our website.
on our Corporate Responsibility website.
com responsibility 23043-04 10-12-2013 Proof 1 62-66 Directors Report.
indd 65 28 02 2014 12:23:43 Financial Statements Governance Performance and Financials Strategy and Operations Overview 66 ITV plc Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2013 Governance Directors Report continued The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Directors Responsibilities the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance The Directors consider that the Annual Report and accounts, with applicable law and regulations.
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for shareholders Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent to assess the Companys and the Groups performance, company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that business model and strategy.
law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial listed on pages 58 and 59, confirm that, to the best of their statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
knowledge: Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial the Group accounts, which have been prepared in statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the and profit of the Group: and Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are the Directors Report includes a fair review of the required to: development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the select suitable accounting policies and then apply them principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act prudent: 2006, the Directors confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the for the Group financial statements, state whether they have Companys auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: all steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order for the parent company financial statements, state whether to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in information.
the parent company financial statements: and The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis the Groups systems of internal controls for the year ended unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the 31 December 2013.
In the opinion of the Board, the Company parent company will continue in business.
has complied with the internal control requirements of The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting the UK Corporate Governance Code throughout the year, records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent maintaining an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating, companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy and minimising risk.
Further information is set out in the at any time the financial position of the parent company and Audit Committee Report on page 79. enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard By order of the Board the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other Andrew Garard irregularities.
Company Secretary Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also 26 February 2014 responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, ITV plc Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that Registered number 4967001 comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
