Business review Fresh food is at the heart of Our strategy continued what we do.
The quality and value of our food, combined with our strong ethical standards and supplier relationships, differentiate us from other supermarkets and help our customers to Live Well For Less.
G Gr re ea at t fo foo od d by Sainsburys Re-launch now complete with over 6,500 lines, many new or improved Ownbrand Sales are growing faster than brands, accounting for half of our food sales 1 12 2 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 Family favourite SERVES 4 Chipotle 3 PER PERSON roast chicken C2723 RC13 AMENDS V2.
indd 1 10 09 2012 16:24 40m Invested in Farmer Development Groups since 2006 We know people want to eat more local Our customers trust us to provide high food, and support British farmers.
We quality food that is safe to eat, and 20,000 source food from the UK whenever it whose provenance is clear.
We found no Colleagues with is available and the quality is of the horsemeat in any of our products.
This standard our customers expect.
We are is testimony to our exacting standards City & Guilds committed to doubling the amount of and to the DNA and other testing we have accredited training British food we sell by 2020. been carrying out regularly for many from our seven years to ensure the integrity and safety food colleges We are proud of our close and longof our food.
standing relationships with our suppliers.
We operate 10 Development Groups Sainsburys is committed to fishing for farmers and growers across dairy, responsibly and helping to change beef, pork, lamb, veal, eggs, chicken, UK fish-eating habits.
In January, cheese, wheat and produce and we we launched our second Switch the have invested over 40 million in these Fish campaign.
This was designed to groups since 2006.
In May 2012, following encourage people to try lesser-known an overwhelming majority vote from sustainable fish, with over five tonnes of Sainsburys Dairy Development Group lemon sole, mussels, Cornish sardines, farmers, we adopted a unique Cost of coley fillets and loch trout fillets Production payment model for milk.
distributed over the three day campaign.
This increased the price we paid to dairy Sales of these alternative species farmers and continues to reward them for increased by 59 per cent following the good animal welfare and environmental campaign.
We also paid a premium to our Pork Development Group farmers One pound in every five spent on fresh when they faced rising feed prices.
fruit and vegetables in UK supermarkets is spent at Sainsburys, because our Customers increasingly buy into our customers trust the quality, integrity and own-brand food offer, which has grown provenance of our offer.
We were the by nearly five per cent in the year and biggest volume retailer of British apples 1 in 5 now accounts for half of our food sales.
and pears for the fourth year running.
The successful re-launch of our core by Spent on fresh fruit Sainsburys range is now complete with We offer a fresh counter service in over and vegetables over 6,500 lines, many of which are new 500 of our stores and sales from these in UK supermarkets or improved.
Sales grew ahead of our counters are continuing to grow and major competitors comparable ranges outperform the market.
Much of this is spent at Sainsburys and by Sainsburys won the prestigious success is driven by the enthusiasm, Grocer Gold Own Label Brand of the Year skill and expertise of over 20,000 award.
Our Taste the Difference range colleagues who have benefited from is also growing strongly at nearly 10 per City & Guilds accredited training in our cent and is gaining market share.
continues to be the second biggest selling supermarket value brand in the UK, Ethical trading is a cornerstone of purchased regularly by customers who our food offer and with sales this year buy across our own-brand ranges.
of 319 million we are once again the largest Fairtrade retailer in the world.
All our bananas and own-brand tea, coffee and sugar are Fairtrade.
Since 2007 we have given over 20 million to projects in developing countries from sales of bananas alone.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 13 13
