Business review Our values set us apart from Our strategy continued other retailers.
They underpin our strategy and the way we operate our business, and they govern the way we relate to customers, colleagues and stakeholders.
We see this as a competitive strength as well as a responsibility.
Our values make us different 123m Worth of equipment and experiences donated to nearly 50,000 organisations through Active Kids 22 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 We continue to make progress in reducing salt, fat and sugar in our own-brand food We are rolling out new ABV alcohol research and development grants to 20x20 Sustainability Plan by volume labelling on our own-brand support the future of British farming In October 2011, we published our products to help customers identify through initiatives driven by our farmers, 20x20 Sustainability Plan comprising quickly and easily the alcoholic strength growers and suppliers.
20 ambitious goals, each linked to one of the products they buy.
Since 2011 of our five values, which we aim to we have seen a 17.5 per cent increase The weather was particularly bad for our achieve by the year 2020.
It is our in the number of bottles of lighter growers this winter, and by selling ugly roadmap towards a more sustainable alcohol wine sold.
This year we have fruit and vegetables of different shapes future and part of our promise to help trained pharmacists in over 270 stores and sizes, that are just as nutritious and customers Live Well For Less.
as Healthy Eating Advisors to help our tasty as our regular produce, we were customers eat more healthily, lose weight able to support British farmers and Best for food and health and get active.
We play a key role in helping our customers to achieve a healthier lifestyle, The sustainability of the fishing industry Sourcing with integrity as well as encouraging co-operation is high on our agenda and we are the Our entire supply chain, from farm between the food industry, Government, largest retailer of Marine Stewardship to store, is built around long-term health and nutrition groups, suppliers and Council certified sustainable fish in the sustainable relationships to ensure the colleagues.
We have been at the forefront UK, with around 130 products from best quality products at fair prices.
We of this type of positive action for many basics fish fingers to Taste the Difference have one of the most extensive quality years: our innovative front-of-pack Wild Alaskan Salmon and from fish control programmes in the industry, traffic light labelling now on over 9,000 counters through to ready meals.
employing over 100 people to ensure products has changed customer buying the integrity of our products.
We apply patterns in favour of amber and greenRespect for our environment the same checks and exacting standards rated products over red-rated ones.
across all our own-brand products from Using green energy and introducing basics to Taste the Difference.
proven and next-generation renewable We continue to make progress in reducing technologies is fundamental to the salt, fat and sugar in our own-brand We work with over 2,200 British farmers long-term sustainability of our business.
About 30 per cent of our fruit and and growers and we are proud of the These technologies are helping to reduce vegetable sales are through promotions strong relationships we have built with our overall energy use, lower our energy and we are active supporters of the them over time.
We have invested over bills and reduce our operational carbon Governments Responsibility Deal 40 million in our 10 British Farmer emissions, even as we continue to grow Five-A-Day pledge.
Development Groups since 2006 to floor space.
promote and support good animal welfare, and improve environmental Investment in this area not only and ethical standards.
In December, improves the long-term sustainability Farm we awarded 1.2 million of agricultural of our business, but also delivers a strong financial return.
It makes good business sense for Sainsburys, helps to store the environment and also supports job Our entire supply creation in the renewable energy sector.
chain is built We are the UKs leading retail user of around longenergy from anaerobic digestion AD.
term sustainable Tamar Ltd, the strategic partnership we relationships set up with Tamar Energy to produce energy from organic waste matter, is developing a UK network of over 40 AD plants that will generate 100MW of green electricity over the next five years.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 23 Business review Our strategy continued Our well-established zero food waste to We were awarded a number of 148 landfill policy means that any surplus environmental accolades this year, food from our stores that has not been including the top award of Sustainable Colleagues seconded given to charity or used for animal feed Business of the Year at the Energy to LOCOG or acted is sent for AD to generate green energy.
This was We are also working closely with our in recognition of our industry-leading as Games Makers suppliers to ensure they have access work on carbon and energy reduction, to these AD plants to help them reduce constant technological innovation, the environmental impact of their focus on recycling and water innovation.
operations, a key strand of our 20x20 Sustainability Plan.
Making a positive difference to our community In February, we became the first retailer As the first-ever Paralympic-only sponsor, to achieve the Carbon Trust Water we played a full part in the London 2012 Standard, showing that we are taking Games and experienced the power of action to measure, manage and reduce sport to bring people and communities water use year-on-year.
Over 18,000 Sainsburys 15,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide customers and colleagues were given by switching to natural refrigerants 2m the opportunity to attend the Games in 150 stores.
with our support, and 148 colleagues were seconded to LOCOG or acted as meals We host the largest multi-roof solar Games Makers.
One hundred and fifty panel array in Europe, having installed Donated to customers and colleagues took part in over 82,000 solar panels at 189 stores the Paralympic Torch Relay, generating disadvantaged people producing renewable energy for high levels of customer and colleague in the UKs biggest electricity.
engagement as it toured the UK and ever single-charity our supermarkets.
food drive 82,000 Solar panels on the roofs of our stores 24 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 5,000 Jobs created this year Building on the success of Active Kids and Over 80,000 colleagues are now saving A great place to work the Million Kids Challenge, we launched for their retirement in a company We have created 5,000 jobs this year, our Active Kids for All Paralympic legacy Defined Contribution scheme.
Last year, as part of our commitment to create plan.
Our 1 million commitment will fund we were one of the first companies 50,000 new job opportunities by 2020. teacher training to ensure that 500,000 in the UK to introduce pension autoSince 2011, we have recruited over 370 children with a disability in mainstream enrolment.
In light of changes to people on to our popular, fast-track education are included in school sports pensions over the last few years, and Trainee Manager Scheme.
We are also extending our in line with other businesses, we have by a long-term rewarding career and sponsorship of the British Paralympic started a consultation about changes benefits including a contributory Association to ensure that the next to our Defined Benefit pension scheme.
pension, discount card and eligibility generation of Paralympic athletes get the The proposed changes will ensure for the Sainsburys profit sharing and support and coaching they need through that pension arrangements for all our bonus schemes, as well as first class to the Sochi Winter Paralympic Games colleagues are fair and sustainable for on and off-the-job training, they are in 2014 and Rio in 2016.
now making their mark on our business to this summer, we are proud to sponsor across the country.
We also created the Sainsburys Summer Series three Our colleagues shared in a bonus of over 400 apprenticeship places designed to world-class athletics events being held in 90 million this year, meaning that over train and develop team leaders of the Birmingham and at the Queen Elizabeth the last five years we will have awarded future for our stores.
Apprentices will be Olympic Park in London.
over 350 million to colleagues in this equipped with new skills and offered City way.
In addition, 11,000 colleagues shared & Guilds vocational training, including Working together with our customers, we a 23 million payout in savings and nationally recognised qualifications that donated a record-breaking 41.5 million profit via two of our Sharesave schemes are the equivalent of two A-levels.
to good causes in the year including our which matured in March 2013, and nearly sponsorship of Comic Relief, support 19,000 colleagues participated in our To date over 20,000 colleagues who work for the Royal British Legion Poppy most recent Save-As-You-Earn offer.
on fresh counters and bakeries and in our Appeal and our nationwide Local Charity in-store cafes have received job-related, Partnership programme.
Our second Our focus on the value of our values City & Guilds accredited training at our Million Meals Appeal saw a recordis an integral part of our business seven food colleges.
breaking two million meals donated to strategy and has again been recognised disadvantaged people across the country, by key external benchmarks.
We were with Sainsburys matching our customers recognised as Employer of the Year at donations, making it the UKs biggest the Retail Week Awards, highlighting ever single-charity food drive.
how we engaged our colleagues in every aspect of the London 2012 Paralympic Games.
We maintained our position in the FTSE4Good Index and we were recognised as global sector leader, for the sixth consecutive year, in the 2012 Dow Jones Sustainability Index review.
350m Awarded in colleague bonuses over the last five years J S J Sa aiin ns sb bu ur ry p y pllc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd F d Fiin na an nc ciia al S l St ta at te em me en nt ts 2 s 20 01 13 3 25 25
