Governance Other disclosures Principal activities and Business review Annual General Meeting The Companys and its subsidiaries principal activities are grocery and The AGM will be held on Wednesday, 10 July 2013 at The Queen related retailing.
Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE at 11.00am.
The Chairmans letter and the Notice of Meeting Pages 1 to 70 inclusive together with the sections of the Annual Report accompany this report, together with notes explaining the business to and Financial Statements incorporated by reference comprise the be transacted at the meeting.
Directors report, that has been drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon applicable English company law and the At the meeting, resolutions will be proposed to declare a final dividend, liabilities of the directors in connection with that report shall be subject to receive the Annual Report and Financial Statements and approve the to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
Remuneration Report, to re-elect all of the Directors, and to re-appoint  LLP as auditors.
In addition, shareholders The Business review sets out a comprehensive review of the will be asked to renew both the general authority of the Directors to development and performance of the business for the 52 weeks ended issue shares and to authorise the Directors to issue shares without 16 March 2013 and future developments.
The Business review is set applying the statutory pre-emption rights.
In this regard, the Company out on pages 1 to 33 of this report.
All the information detailed in these will continue to adhere to the provisions in the Pre-emption Groups pages forms part of the Directors report.
The corporate governance statement as required by the Disclosure and Shareholders will be asked to authorise the Company to make market Transparency Rules 7.2.
1 is set out on pages 38 to 53 and forms part of purchases of its own shares.
Shareholders will also be asked to the Directors report.
authorise the Directors to hold general meetings at 14 clear days notice where this flexibility is merited by the business of the meeting and is thought to be in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
A resolution Dividends to renew the authority to make political donations as defined by Part 14 The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 11.9 pence of 2006 Companies Act, will also be proposed.
per share 2012: 11.6 pence, making a total dividend for the year of 16.7 pence per share 2012: 16.1 pence, an increase of 3.7 per cent over the Share capital and control previous year.
Subject to shareholders approving this recommendation at the Annual General Meeting AGM, the dividend will be paid on The following information is given pursuant to Section 992 of the 2006 12 July 2013 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on Companies Act.
Except as described below in relation to the Companys employee share schemes, there are no restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the Changes to the Board Companys ordinary shares or the transfer of securities in the Company: On 11 July 2012, Bob Stack stood down from his position as a Nonno person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights Executive Director.
Mary Harris, who has been a Non-Executive with regard to control of the Company: and the Company is not aware Director of Sainsburys since 2007, succeeded Bob as Chairman of the of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in Remuneration Committee.
John McAdam joined the Remuneration restrictions in the transfer of securities or voting rights.
Further details Committee as the third independent Non-Executive Director on the of the rights, restrictions and obligations attaching to the share capital Committee.
of the Company, including voting rights, are contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
The Articles of Association may only be changed Anna Ford stood down from her position as a Non-Executive Director on with the agreement of shareholders.
Shares acquired through the Companys employee share plans rank On 1 January 2013, Jean Tomlin, the former HR Director for The London pari passu with shares in issue and have no special rights.
Where, Organising Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic Games, joined under the Companys All Employee Share Ownership Plan, participants are the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
Jean became Chairman of beneficial owners of the shares but the Trustee is the registered owner, the Corporate Responsibility Committee and a member of both the the voting rights are normally exercised by the registered owner at the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The J Sainsbury Employee Benefit Trusts waive their right to vote and to dividends on the shares they hold which On 8 May 2013, we announced the appointment of Susan Rice as a are unallocated.
Some of the Companys employee share plans include Non-Executive Director from 1 June 2013.
Susan is currently Managing restrictions on transfer of shares while the shares are held within the plan.
Director, Lloyds Banking Group Scotland and has extensive retail banking experience, both in the UK and internationally.
Susan will join At the AGM held in July 2012, the Company was authorised by the Audit and Nomination Committees.
shareholders to purchase its own shares, within certain limits and as permitted by the Articles of Association.
The Company made Re-election of Directors no purchases of its own shares during the year and no shares were In accordance with the Articles of Association, Jean Tomlin, who was acquired by forfeiture or surrender or made subject to a lien or charge.
appointed to the Board since the last AGM, will seek election at the AGM.
All of the Companys employee share plans contain provisions relating Susan Rice will join the Board on 1 June 2013 and will also stand for to a change of control.
On a change of control, options and awards election at the AGM.
Her biographical details are set out in the Notice granted to employees under the Companys share plans may vest of Meeting accompanying this report.
and become exercisable, subject to the satisfaction of any applicable performance conditions at that time.
The UK Corporate Governance Code provides for all directors of FTSE companies to stand for election or re-election by shareholders every Certain of the Companys credit facilities and banking arrangements year.
Accordingly, all other members of the Board will retire and seek contain change of control clauses under which lenders may cancel their re-election at this years AGM.
Full biographical details of all of the commitments and declare all outstanding amounts immediately due and current Directors are set out on page 35. payable.
There are no other significant agreements that would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 69 Governance Other disclosures continued Ordinary shares Essential contracts Details of the changes to the ordinary issued share capital during the Sainsburys has contractual and other arrangements with numerous year are shown on page 100.
At the date of this report, 1,894,206,390 third parties in support of its business activities.
None of the 4 ordinary shares of 28 7 pence have been issued, are fully paid up and arrangements is individually considered to be essential to the business are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Major interests in shares Policy on payment of creditors As at 8 May 2013, the Company had been notified by the following The policy of the Company and its principal operating companies is investors of their interests in 3 per cent or more of the Companys to agree terms of payment prior to commencing trade with a supplier shares.
These interests were notified to the Company pursuant to and to abide by those terms on the timely submission of satisfactory Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5: invoices.
The Company is a holding company and therefore has no trade creditors.
Statements on the operating companies payment of suppliers % of voting rights are contained in their financial statements.
Judith Portrait a trustee of various settlements, 3.92 including charitable trusts Post balance sheet events Lord Sainsbury of Turville 4.99 Events after the balance sheet are disclosed in note 37 on page 123 of the financial statements.
M1 Capital Limited 4.00 Qatar Holdings LLC 25.99 Financial risk management The financial risk management and policies of the Group are disclosed Directors interests in note 28 on pages 104 to 110 to the financial statements.
The beneficial interests of the Directors and their families in the shares of the Company are shown in the Remuneration Report on page 68.
Going concern The Companys Register of Directors Interests contains full details The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to of Directors interests, shareholdings and options over ordinary shares affect its future development, performance and position are set out of the Company.
in the Business review on pages 1 to 33.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity are highlighted in the Financial review During the year, no Director had any material interest in any contract on pages 26 to 33.
The Group manages its financing by diversifying of significance to the Groups business.
funding sources, maintaining core borrowings with long-term maturities and sufficient standby liquidity.
Full details of the Groups financing Directors indemnities arrangements can be found in note 20 on pages 97 and 98 to the The Directors are entitled to be indemnified by the Company to the financial statements.
In addition, notes 28 and 29 on pages 104 to 113 extent permitted by law and the Companys Articles of Association in to the financial statements include the Groups objectives, policies respect of all losses arising out of or in connection with the execution and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management of their powers, duties and responsibilities.
The Company has executed objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: deeds of indemnity for the benefit of each Director in respect of and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
liabilities which may attach to them in their capacity as Directors of the Company.
The Company purchased and maintained Directors The debt refinancing in March 2006 removed the Groups reliance on and Officers liability insurance throughout 2012 13, which has been unsecured credit markets for medium and long-term finance and the renewed for 2013 14.
Neither the indemnities nor the insurance provide Groups first significant re-financing exposure is not until July 2014. cover in the event that the Director is proved to have acted fraudulently.
Management are satisfied that stress tests on the future liquidity of the Market value of properties Group do not indicate a going concern risk.
The Directors believe that the aggregate open market value of Group As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to properties exceeds the net book value as set out in note 11 on pages 91 manage its business risks successfully despite the current challenging to 92 to the financial statements.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has sufficient resources to continue in operation for Employment policies the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going Our diversity policies and priorities are set out on page 40. concern basis in preparing the financial statements which are shown on pages 73 to 123.
The Companys quarterly trading statements, interim and annual results are presented to all senior management and are communicated Disclosure of information to auditors to all colleagues.
Colleagues have always been encouraged to hold Each of the Directors has confirmed that, so far as he she is aware, shares in the Company.
One of our 20x20 commitments is to increase there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware.
the number of colleagues with shares in our business by 25 per cent Each Director has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken by 2020. as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that Donations information.
Sainsburys is committed to making a positive difference to the communities in which we operate.
We support many charitable Independent auditors organisations and community projects through either donating cash,  LLP have expressed their willingness to be making in-kind donations or through colleague volunteering.
reappointed as auditors of the Company.
Upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee, resolutions to reappoint them as auditors During the year, Sainsburys colleagues, customers and suppliers and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will raised 41.5 million 2012: 25.4 million for charities through events be proposed at the AGM.
supported by the Company, including Comic Relief and Active Kids.
Cash and in-kind donations totalled 5.1 million 2012: 4.2 million.
By order of the Board The Company made no political donations in 2013 2012: nil.
Tim Fallowfield Company Secretary 8 May 2013 70 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013
