O u r e c v n a l e u l l e e s c x m e a Business review Our business strategy for growth: our five areas of focus are underpinned by our values and operational excellence We have achieved over 100 million of operational Our strategy cost savings over the year, totalling over 500 million over five years Growing space Great & creating food property value Developing Compelling new general business merchandise & clothing Complementary channels & services Our values set us apart from other retailers.
They underpin our strategy and the way we operate our business, and they govern the way we relate to customers, colleagues and stakeholders.
Read more about our values on pages 22 to 25 10 10 J S J Sa aiin ns sb bu ur ry p y pllc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd F d Fiin na an nc ciia al S l St ta at te em me en nt ts 2 s 20 01 13 3 l k a e n o u i s t a d r i e f f p e O r e n t Great food Fresh food is at the heart of what we do.
The quality and value of our food, combined with our strong ethical standards and supplier relationships, Compelling differentiate us from other supermarkets and help our general merchandise customers to Live Well For Less.
& clothing Our strategy of offering customers high street quality and style at supermarket prices is proving to be highly successful, with sales of general merchandise and clothing growing at over twice the rate of food.
Complementary channels & services We have a clear, long-term People have more choice than ever strategy to deliver our vision before of where, how and when to do their shopping.
We offer a winning mix of being the most trusted of supermarkets, convenience stores and a full online grocery and general retailer where people love merchandise offer.
to work and shop Developing new business Developing new business and investing beyond our core is an important part of our long-term strategy for the future.
We are moving into areas that are a natural extension of our brand such as pharmacy, energy and digital entertainment.
Growing space & creating property value We have a clearly defined strategy for growing space and increasing property value.
This falls into three main areas new supermarkets, adding space to existing stores through extensions and new convenience stores.
J S J Sa aiin ns sb bu ur ry p y pllc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd F d Fiin na an nc ciia al S l St ta at te em me en nt ts 2 s 20 01 13 3 1 11 1
