Business review Developing new business and Our strategy continued investing beyond our core is an important part of our long-term strategy for the future Developing new business 270 Pharmacies in our stores and three hospital outpatient pharmacies 18 18 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 83% Customers signing up to Sainsburys Energy increased by 83% year-on-year 150,000 Books available on eBooks by Sainsburys One of our 20x20 sustainability Customers in 35 of our stores can benefit We have formed a joint venture with commitments is to be a leading provider from the NHS GP or nurse-led surgeries Aimia, owner of the Nectar programme.
Private dental surgeries The new company, I C Insight 2 that people are more likely to discuss also operate in 12 of our stores.
Our Communication, will benefit customers minor ailments with a pharmacist convenient locations and good parking through timely, relevant and accessible than go to their GP and this is borne facilities lend themselves perfectly to offers, based on their likes and dislikes, out by the experience of our 270 plus these services, which are appreciated while brands benefit from insight-based in-store pharmacies.
Our highly trained, by our customers and the communities marketing solutions and a greater return professional pharmacists conducted we serve.
95,000 cholesterol checks, an increase of 25 per cent year-on-year, gave 56,000 Sainsburys Energy provides customers We continue our drive into the online flu vaccinations and worked with the with great value gas and electricity, and digital entertainment market with Department of Health for the third year together with the reward of Nectar the purchase of a majority stake in to help people stop smoking by giving points.
We also offer advice on energyAnobii, now operating as eBooks by out more than 30,000 Quit Kits.
We saving products such as solar panels and Sainsburys, and our partnership with have also taken over the management insulation and home energy assessments.
Rovi Corporation, an on-demand of the outpatient pharmacies at Guys The number of customers signing up video streaming service.
These new and St Thomas Hospitals in London to Sainsburys Energy increased by 83 and exciting business relationships and James Cook University Hospital per cent in the last year, as people shop underline our commitment to in Middlesbrough.
around for the best deals in the market.
become a key player in the digital Our online sales channel accounts entertainment market.
for 36 per cent of the total number of customers acquired.
J S J Sa aiin ns sb bu ur ry p y pllc c A An nn nu ua al R l Re ep po or rt a t an nd F d Fiin na an nc ciia al S l St ta at te em me en nt ts 2 s 20 01 13 3 19 19
