Business review In the last five years, we have Our strategy continued added 4 billion to the value of our property portfolio, the market value of which is now 11.5 billion.
Activity during the year delivered profits of 66 million and, over five years, we have raised 1.3 billion through disposals realising property profits of 341 million.
Growing space & creating property value New space This year we opened: 14 supermarkets 8 extensions 87 convenience stores 20 20 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 We have a clearly defined strategy for Our store on Bellevue Road, Wandsworth, growing space and increasing our store is a good example of this effect.
This falls into three main areas: traders were very supportive of us opening as they anticipated the benefits 1.
New supermarkets a Sainsburys store could bring to their 2.
Adding space to existing stores own businesses.
This has been borne through extensions out by research, which shows that since 3.
New convenience stores our store opened footfall in the area has increased by almost 40 per cent.
This year we have added 14 supermarkets, 87 convenience stores and eight We have a pipeline of space ready extensions to our property portfolio for development, including planning a total of just over one million sq ft, in line consents for a number of supermarket with our target of around five per cent extensions, as well as a number of gross space growth.
opportunities for new supermarkets and convenience stores.
We ensure that all Some of this additional space has enabled our investments, individually and overall, us to bring our increasingly popular deliver good returns.
clothing and general merchandise ranges to more customers.
It has also enabled We work with joint venture partners to us to expand our coverage of the UK to add property value and trading space areas where our presence was previously to our estate.
In April, as part of our limited around 22 per cent of the UK British Land joint venture, we opened population does not live within a 15 minute our newly extended store at Purley Way, drive of a Sainsburys store and we have Croydon, giving us an additional 10,200 less than five per cent market share in sq ft of selling space.
We also extended 35 per cent of UK postcodes.
our store in Weedon Road, Northampton, by 23,600 sq ft, in November.
Over the 22% A new Sainsburys store brings a number last few years, we have been successful of benefits to local communities.
In in both securing mixed use planning Of the UK population October, we opened a new 60,000 sq permissions and ensuring we can get the does not live within ft supermarket in the Caldewgate area maximum value for our land holdings via a 15 minute drive of Carlisle.
The store has given a major tactical sale and leaseback agreements.
of a Sainsburys regeneration boost to this area of the Work on a site in Fulham Wharf started city, which had been badly affected by in the summer and will deliver a flooding and was becoming increasingly replacement 76,000 sq ft supermarket run-down.
Our store created around and 267 residential apartments by 300 new local jobs, increased parking mid 2015.
Our partnership with Land provision and brought a petrol filling Securities has seen work move forward station to the area.
at our Wandsworth Garratt Lane store where we are building an extension of We opened our 500th convenience store 34,700 sq ft, a hotel and additional retail in Southsea, Hampshire in November and space due to open this autumn.
in the coming year will see the number 11.5bn of convenience stores we operate exceed the number of supermarkets.
property Convenience stores deliver particularly market value good returns and make a positive contribution to the regeneration of local in 2012 13 high streets in terms of footfall, increased trade and employment opportunities.
