Business review Our strategy of offering Our strategy continued customers high street quality and style at supermarket prices is proving to be highly successful, with sales of general merchandise and clothing growing at more than twice the rate of food Compelling general merchandise & clothing Tu 7th largest clothing retailer in the UK 2nd In the UK for childrens fancy dress 14 14 J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 We sell more bakeware than our major competitors 1bn Annual general merchandise sales Our non-food offer builds customer Parents appreciate the great value and We continue to increase direct sourcing loyalty customers who buy clothing and quality of our childrenswear ranges and and to forge better relationships and general merchandise, as well as food, our biggest ever schoolwear event last terms with our suppliers overseas shop with us more frequently and spend summer delivered a sales increase of through our offices in Shanghai, Hong more than those who only buy food.
We sold over one million polo Kong and most recently Bangladesh.
In February, we achieved the significant shirts, 630,000 pairs of boys trousers We have rigorous technical and ethical milestone of 1 billion in annual general and 272,000 girls skirts, consolidating processes to ensure we source with merchandise sales, a reflection of the our position of number four in the integrity and help our customers to investment we have made in space and schoolwear market by volume.
Another Live Well For Less.
huge success has been our investment in childrens fancy dress, where we are Two thirds of the UK population are still second in the UK market by value.
not within a 15 minute drive of our full non-food offer and only one in five of our General merchandise sales outperformed supermarkets has a full non-food range.
the market, driven in part by strong sales Future store extensions therefore present on occasions such as Mothers Day, Back opportunities for growth in this area.
to School and our bi-annual sales, as well as by the events unique to the year the Our successful Tu clothing ranges are Queens Diamond Jubilee, Olympics and increasingly popular with our customers Paralympics.
We sell more bakeware than 25% and have enjoyed strong double-digit our major competitors and as a result growth during the year.
Tu is the seventh of our compelling offer and improved Last summer was biggest clothing line in the UK by volume in-store experience, we are now the UKs our biggest ever and has risen to twelfth place by value.
seventh largest retailer for homeware The sales of womens jeans increased by value.
schoolwear event, by over 80 per cent after the successful with sales up 25% roll-out of our new Denim Shop format, We have grown market share across all and our exclusive Gok for Tu collections, four categories of entertainment film, designed to be versatile, fashionable and music, games and books in what is a flattering, continue to be hugely popular challenging market.
We secured exclusive with our customers.
versions of some of the biggest DVD releases of the year including Avengers Assemble, The Hunger Games, War Horse and Ice Age 4.
In the first week of its release, we achieved over 25 per cent market share on Skyfall the biggestselling DVD in the market since Mamma Mia in 2008.
J Sainsbury plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2013 15 15
