Strategic report Governance Financial statements James Fisher and Sons plc Business model and strategy Business model Our business model comprises a number of high quality niche businesses offering a range of marine services predominantly to large multinational customers and governments on an international basis.
often designed and assembled by our people, who then Marine services operate the equipment and provide through-life support Businesses linked together by common marine to our customers.
Whilst our expertise originates in the UK, the Group provides these solutions and support on an international Entrepreneurial culture basis and focuses on servicing less mature markets.
The Group has a decentralised management structure which encourages managers to be responsible for Addressing customer demands for quality and running their own businesses with the back-up and improvement entails the continuous development of resources of a larger group.
innovative products to maintain market leadership in our areas of service.
Our businesses have strong, experienced management teams that are rewarded according to the success of their businesses.
An entrepreneurial culture means Buy and build we are responsive to changes in the market and the The Group has acquired a series of privately owned competitive environment.
companies with specifi c niche expertise which has enabled the Group to widen the range of services provided to our large multinational customers.
High quality services provided to The global reach of the Group has facilitated the internationalisation of operations of these companies.
demanding environments The Group provides solutions to customers through the Strong organic growth has been achieved through provision of specialist equipment which is coupled with investment in people, working capital and equipment.
the detailed knowledge of our people, who are industry experts in their specifi c operations.
The equipment is Strategy A consistent strategy has been applied to leverage UK marine skills in areas of niche expertise to a global market.
The Group has a range of entrepreneurially led businesses which are at the forefront of the market in their specifi c operational niches.
Our businesses operate in demanding environments where strong marine service and specialist engineering skills are valued and rewarded.
The focus is on providing solutions to our customers who are moving into the less mature and fast growing markets where they value trusted and quality suppliers.
Such high value services are expected to be cash generative and to produce net margins in excess of 10% and returns on capital employed of 15% or more.
Bolt-on acquisitions have broadened the range of services provided.
As a result the Group provides an integrated range of services to our international customers and leverages these relationships.
