DIRECTORS REPORT for the 52 weeks ended 28 July 2013 Principal activities, business review and The Company is not aware of any agreements among future developments holders of securities known to the Company which may The principal activities of the Company are the result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or development and management of public houses.
Details of progress and future developments are given in the chairmans statement, operating and finance The Company has the power to issue and buy back shares review, which includes various key performance as a result of resolutions passed at the annual general indicators.
While of utmost importance to the Company, meeting in 2012.
It is the Companys intention to renew the business review does not contain information about these powers: the resolutions approving them are found environmental, employee or community issues: these in the notice of the annual general meeting for 2013. are covered in the corporate social responsibility report, available on the Companys website.
In the event of a change of control, the Company is obliged to notify its main bank lenders.
The lenders shall Dividends not be obliged to fund any new borrowing requests: The board proposes, subject to shareholders consent, facilities will lapse 10 days after the change of control, to pay a final dividend of 8.0p 2012: 8.0p per share, if the terms on which they can continue have not been on 28 November 2013, to those shareholders on the agreed on.
Any borrowings, including accrued interest, register on 25 October 2013, giving a total dividend will become immediately repayable on such lapse.
for the year of 12.0p per share.
There are no other significant agreements to which Principal risks and uncertainties the Company is party which may be subject to A discussion of the risks and uncertainties facing the change-of-control provisions.
Company is included in section 2 on pages 40 and 41 and incorporated by reference.
There are no agreements with the Companys directors or employees which provide for compensation for loss Directors of office or employment which occurs because of a The directors who served during the year are listed on takeover bid.
Statement of directors responsibilities Directors interest in contracts The directors are responsible for preparing the annual No director has any material interest in any contractual report, the directors remuneration report and the agreement, other than an employment contract, financial statements, in accordance with applicable law subsisting during or at the end of the year, which is or and regulations.
may be significant to the Company.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial Takeover directive disclosures statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the The Company has an authorised share capital comprising directors have prepared the Company financial statements 500 million ordinary shares of 2p each.
As at 28 July in accordance with International Financial Reporting 2013, the total issued share capital comprised Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
126,036,296 fully paid-up shares of 2p each.
The rights Under company law, the directors must not approve the to these shares are set out in the Companys articles of financial statements, unless they are satisfied that they association.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the these shares or their attached voting rights.
Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Details of significant shareholdings are given on page 56. directors are required to: No person holds shares with specific rights regarding select suitable accounting policies and then apply control of the Company.
make judgements and accounting estimates which are The Company operates an employee share incentive plan.
However, no specific rights with respect to the control of state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the the Company are attached to these shares.
In addition, European Union have been followed, subject to any the Company operates a deferred bonus scheme, material departures disclosed and explained in the whereby, should a takeover occur, all shares held in trust financial statements.
would be transferred to the employee immediately.
prepare the financial statements on the going-concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
44 J D WETHERSPOON PLC DIRECTORS REPORT The directors are responsible for keeping adequate Employment policies accounting records which are sufficient to show and Staff are encouraged to make a commitment to the explain the Companys transactions and which disclose, Companys success and to progress to more senior roles with reasonable accuracy, the financial position of the as they develop.
The accounting records enable the directors to ensure that the financial statements and the In selecting, training and promoting staff, the Company directors remuneration report comply with the Companies has to take account of the physically demanding nature of Act 2006 and that the Companys financial statements much of its work.
The Company is committed to equality comply with Article 4 of the IAS regulation.
The directors of opportunity and to the elimination of discrimination in are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the employment.
The Company aims to create and maintain a Company and for taking reasonable steps for the working environment, terms and conditions of employment prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
and personnel and management practices which ensure that no individual receives less favourable treatment on the The directors are responsible for the maintenance and grounds of his or her race, religion, nationality, ethnic integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the origin, age, disability, gender, sexual orientation or marital United Kingdom governing the preparation and status.
Employees who become disabled will be retained, dissemination of financial statements may differ from where possible, and retrained, where necessary.
The Company has established a range of policies, Each of the directors, whose names and functions are listed covering issues such as diversity, employees well-being in the section headed directors, officers and advisers, and equal opportunities, aimed at ensuring that all confirms, to the best of his or her knowledge, that: employees are treated fairly and consistently.
the Companys financial statements, which have been Internal communications seek to ensure that staff are well prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, informed about the Companys progress, through the use of give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial regular newsletters and briefings at staff meetings, at which position and profit of the Company.
employees views are discussed and taken into account.
the directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the All pub staff participate in incentive bonus schemes position of the Company, together with a description of related to sales, profits and or service standards.
the principal risks and uncertainties which it faces.
so far as each of the directors is aware, there is no Policy on payment of suppliers relevant audit information of which the Companys The Company agrees on terms and conditions with all auditors are unaware.
suppliers before business takes place and has a policy of he or she has taken all steps which he or she ought paying agreed invoices in accordance with the terms of to have taken as a director, in order to make himself or payment.
Trade creditors at the year end represented 55 herself aware of any relevant audit information and to 2012: 58 days purchases.
establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Political and charitable contributions The Company supports CLIC Sargent caring for children Directors indemnities with cancer and their families and has helped to raise The Company-maintained directors and officers liability 1.6 million in the current year.
It also provides advice insurance throughout the year and at the date of approval and marketing support to the charity, at no cost.
The of the financial statements which gave appropriate cover Company also made a contribution of 96,000 to for any legal action brought against its directors.
Drinkaware, a charitable trust which promotes responsible drinks retailing.
The Company has not made Going concern any political donations in the year.
The directors have made enquiries into the adequacy of the Companys financial resources, through a review of Events after the reporting period the Companys budget and medium-term financial plan, The details of events after the reporting period can be including capital expenditure plans and cash flow found in note 27 on page 33. forecasts: they have satisfied themselves that the Company will continue in operational existence for the By order of the board foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going-concern basis, in preparing the Kirk Davis Companys financial statements.
Company Secretary 13 September 2013 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 45
