LESSONS IN THE PROPERTY MARKET, BY TIM MARTIN J D Wetherspoon has always been a buyer of freeholds.
In my opinion, the Lyons case is the most interesting for the Our second, third and fourth pubs were freehold and, property market and for prospective tenants and purchasers.
by the time of our 1992 flotation, 20 of our 44 pubs Lyons stated, in his defence, that he was acting in his were freehold.
capacity as an employee and in accordance with his duties to Davis and Coffer now Davis Coffer Lyons.
I negotiated our first 20 or so pubs myself, dealing directly with the owners agents, before employing The Lyons case concerned properties in Portsmouth, Christian Braun, of Van fide Berg & Co VDB, in about Leytonstone and Newbury, two of which became JDW 1990.
Little did I realise that Braun was a double agent pubs, with the third becoming a Caf Rouge.
The or mole, who was to burrow deep into our organisation, Portsmouth property belonged to British Gas and undermining the very property foundations which Mr Justice Smith found that VDB had bid for the underpin any retailer.
freehold, unbeknown to JDW, and, once the bid was accepted, agreed with Lyons for JDW to take a lease and Following a tip-off, in 2005, we terminated VDBs for the freehold to be acquired by Moorstown Properties, contract and undertook a review of all of our 600 or so owned by a friend, and subsequently a colleague, of property transactions, using a team of up to a dozen Lyons Simon Conway.
No findings were made against legal and paralegal staff.
We discovered about 50 Lyons, or indeed Conway, in the VDB case, and neither back-to-back transactions, in which freeholds, which were person was a party to the case.
available to buy, had been diverted by VDB to third parties, which had acquired them at the same time as JDW had Portsmouth was subsequently sold by Moorstown to taken a lease the rent being set at a level which created Scottish American Investment Company, a few months an immediate uplift in the value of the reversion.
later, with the benefit of a lease to JDW for a substantial profit.
Illustrating the Byzantine complexity of the Proceedings were issued against VDB and its directors, transactions, Lyons defence stated that shares in Braun, George Aldridge and Richard Harvey, in respect Moorstown were transferred, before the sale was of about a dozen of these transactions.
In a 136-page completed, to Northcreek which, Companies House judgment, Mr Justice Peter Smith found that VDB had shows, was owned by Roger Myers, then chairman of fraudulently diverted properties to several third parties, but Caf Rouge owner Pelican, and his family.
he made no findings against the third parties themselves.
The Newbury property was acquired by Riverside Stores, Following Mr Justice Smiths judgment, JDW issued a company connected to Conway, and was leased at proceedings against several third parties: Paul Ferrari around the same time to Caf Rouge.
of Brauns former employer Ferrari Dewe & Co: Anthony Lyons, formerly of Davis Coffer Lyons: Newbury was sold shortly after completion for a Jason Harris, formerly of First London.
Liability was denied by all.
The cases were contested and JDW did not allege, and is not alleging, that the settled out of court.
JDW received substantial payments Portsmouth and Newbury transactions are connected and in all three cases.
is not alleging that Davis Coffer Lyons, Myers or Conway are dishonest, but it is a matter of public importance, as Some of the pleaded properties in the VDB case, well as of importance to JDW and its shareholders, for referred to by the judge as the Ferrari Five, involved there to be an explanation about the circumstances in Jersey companies with nominee owners who were which Moorstown, a company which clearly benefited connected to Ferrari.
Each of the Jersey companies had from the Portsmouth fraud by VDB, ended up belonging a different name and care was taken to use different to the family of Myers.
Profits from the purchasing companies were usually channelled to a Jersey holding company called Gecko, with money then transferred as loans or fees to companies controlled by VDBs directors.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2013 7 LESSONS IN THE PROPERTY MARKET, BY TIM MARTIN A key legal and ethical question for the property market which emerges from these cases concerns the obligations of estate agents and investors, in circumstances in which a freehold property is first offered to a friend or colleague of an agent, who agrees to acquire it, and the property is then offered by the agent to a company like Wetherspoon on a back-to-back basis.
What are the obligations of the introducing agent?
In broad terms, the third parties in the Wetherspoon litigation argued that they owed no duties or obligations to Wetherspoon and were not, therefore, liable to us.
The great risk which all agents and investors run, in these circumstances, is that the retained agent, VDB in this instance, may itself be dishonest.
If so, this may open up the possibility of a claim by an aggrieved end user, such as Wetherspoon, that the introducing agent participated in the dishonesty of the retained agent.
JDW has lost many tens of millions of pounds as a result of the VDB frauds.
Rent reviews and yield compression have exacerbated the damage over the years.
Our experience teaches several lessons.
First, buyers and tenants should ask their agents to confirm in writing that they have no direct or indirect interest in any property which they are acquiring and should ask their lawyers to take particular interest, if a freehold is changing hands at the same time as they are acquiring a lease or, indeed, the freehold.
Professionals and investors should also obtain confirmation in writing from the end user in back-toback deals that they have consented to the transaction.
Take the retained agents word for it at your peril.
