10 Divisional review continued In Wood Group PSN, strong EBITA growth In international markets, performance was Wood Group PSN of 28% includes a full year contribution from held back by losses on the PDO contract the Duval and Mitchells acquisitions in the US in Oman, despite an improvement in the 2013 2012 % completed during 2012, although performance underlying position.
We are in the process of $m $m Change overall was impacted by continuing losses in agreeing a transition plan to exit, after which Oman.
EBITA margin increased from 5.6% to PDO plans to pursue a different contracting Revenue 3,996.0 3,690.7 8.3% 6.6% in part due to the change in geographical model.
We have made an exceptional provision EBITA 262.1 205.0 27.9% mix of our business towards shale, overhead of $28.0m to reflect this.
In other international reductions and lower losses in Oman.
markets, we recently signed a new engineering EBITA margin 6.6% 5.6% 1.0pts Headcount increased by 7% from 29,200, and construction contract with NCPOC in People 31,100 29,200 7% principally due to the impact of the acquisitions Kazakhstan and secured significant renewals of Pyeroy in July and Elkhorn in December.
In Asia Pacific, the recently awarded contract with ExxonMobil in Papua New Guinea In the Americas, which accounted for around will help replace successful project work in 30% of revenue, we saw strong growth led Australia which is anticipated to complete in the by our US onshore shale related business.
December, we enhanced our US shale market exposure with the acquisition of Elkhorn, a Outlook Wyoming based construction services provider, Wood Group PSN is well positioned to deliver serving the Niobrara, Permian, Marcellus and good growth in 2014, led by our US onshore Utica shales.
Wood Group PSN now has shale related business which will benefit from around 4,500 onshore personnel providing the full year contribution of Elkhorn.
Our North construction, maintenance and fabrication Sea business has good revenue visibility activities across the most significant US shale following a number of awards.
markets, we have provided for the impact of We saw growth in the North Sea, which potential future losses on the PDO contract and accounted for around 40% of revenue.
The see good prospects in Africa, Asia Pacific and market remains strong and we secured nine in the Middle East.
contract renewals in 2013 with customers including CNR, ConocoPhillips, Dana, Nexen, Talisman Sinopec and Total.
In December, we also won a support services contract for BGs A Wood Group Duval instrumentation central North Sea assets.
These awards help & electrical technician programmes an maintain our leading position and provide good electronic flow meter in the Eagle Ford shale revenue visibility.
The acquisition of Pyeroy in region in south Texas.
Wood Group PSN July further expanded our range of services and employs around 4,500 people across the US we are starting to see the benefit from Pyeroys shale market.
expansion with oil & gas customers.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
