Our business Our business Strategic r Strategic report eport Risks and uncertainties Risks and uncertainties Gover Governance finance Financial statements Financial statements Our Core Values 15 15 Our Core Values are at the heart of our business.
They define who we are, how we work, what we believe in and what we stand for.
These Values guide how we act and how we expect to be treated as part of Wood Group, and provide a sound basis on which to make decisions.
Our annual Living our Values Awards recognise our people around the world who are role models in bringing our Core Values to life.
John W John Wood Gr ood Group PLC oup PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 OUR CORE VALUES DEFINE HOW WE BEHAVE E P O R U E A S M O E U R I T C H A M I D D L E E A 16 Our Core Values continued Overall, whilst we have seen improvement in our Safety & Assurance Relationships total recordable case frequency TRCF, our lost work case frequency LWCF remains relatively Safety & Assurance is our top priority Our business depends on healthy flat.
because lives depend on it.
We passionately relationships with customers, business care about the safety of our people and partners and suppliers.
We build and nurture We tragically had a fatality at an onshore site behave as safety leaders.
We are committed strong relationships that are mutually beneficial, in our UK business.
We have captured and are to preventing injuries and ill health to our making sure that we deeply understand the acting on the lessons learned to avoid such a people and everyone we work with.
We people we deal with, so that we can anticipate tragedy ever happening again.
provide our people with the training, knowledge their needs and always aim to exceed their During 2012 we successfully began raising the and tools to work safely and prevent accidents.
Everyone in our organisation profile of how we apply and verify our HSSE We are focused on assuring the safety of contributes to the quality of the relationships we systems.
We continued to reinforce this process everything we design, construct, operate and build and we actively seek feedback.
in 2013 with increased formality, engagement and maintain.
We have a broad range of customers including rigour.
It has now been embedded across the Our Safety & Assurance Core Value leaves no international oil companies, national oil Group and is a key part of our HSSE strategy.
It is our major business companies and independents, and power and We invested in our security organisation to mirror driver, against which we set ourselves the highest industrial companies.
Our relationships with our global footprint, and reflect and mitigate standards.
During 2013 we implemented a range our customers grow through delivering service political fragility on some of our operations around of proactive and reactive measures with a view to excellence, open and honest communication, the world.
We are focused on developing strong relationships with our customers by In 2013 we also looked closely at our HSSE The process safety gains made in 2012 were listening to, understanding and satisfying their strategic direction for the next three years.
We sustained and strengthened in 2013.
We requirements, and providing cost-effective and refreshed our HSSE strategy which will shape our analysed more actual and potential integrity reliable project delivery.
incidents, and conducted more extensive trend analysis to uncover weaknesses.
We continue Our success in this area is demonstrated by the We established a Board-level Safety & Assurance to apply the lessons learned from the Black Elk long-term relationships we have fostered with committee to ensure our approach and platform explosion in the Gulf of Mexico in 2012, customers around the world.
During 2013, we performance is open to scrutiny and challenge where we were a main contractor.
This has negotiated more than 30 contract renewals with at the highest level.
This committee also ensures helped focus our attention on assuring clarity of clients globally, including 15 long-term contract our strategy is validated, communicated and roles and responsibility, plus the integrity of all of extensions with key oil & gas industry operators deployed.
We have a diverse customer base, both in terms of industry sector Despite our good efforts, some elements of Through our Safety Leadership Programme we and geography, ensuring we avoid dependency our safety performance have not improved as deliver safety leadership training to our senior on any one customer.
In the UK and Americas, where we business leaders.
During 2013 we extended typically generate less than 40% of total Group saw a decline in safety performance, we invested the programmes reach to a wider employee revenues.
considerable time and resources to reverse this audience, in more locations and delivered in more downward trend and began to see improvements innovative ways.
Collaboration across business units and divisions towards the end of the year.
Sharing ideas and opportunities across the Group allows us to offer a unified, seamless service to our customers.
There are numerous examples of how we have collaborated to meet customer demand 0.93 0.93 2.7 2.7 for comprehensive, cost-effective solutions, 2.4 2.4 2.1 2.1 0.67 0.670.68 0.68 adding value to their business.
0.62 0.62 1.9 1.9 In the Gulf of Mexico, three of our businesses 20102010 20112011 20122012 20132013 20102010 20112011 20122012 20132013 have jointly supported the Jack St. Malo floating semi-submersible production platform: Wood TRCF: total recordable case frequency LWCF: lost work case frequency per million man hours per million man hours Group Mustang performed topsides FEED and detailed design: Wood Group Kenny performed detailed design for the 136 mile oil export pipeline Customers Government and industry bodies Joint Ventures Educational Suppliers institutes Outstanding performance We maintain good relationships with our Energeticos in Colombia, part of Wood Group customers, suppliers and business partners that Mustang, was highly commended for Safety & Assurance in our 2013 Living our Values Awards are built on trust for outstanding Health, Safety and Environment performance, which was recognised by the Colombian Safety Council.
Building trust John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 45,600 PEOPLE 33% 36% 8% 7% 16% integrity is our cornerstone and character is as important as ability build trust and doing the act with honesty BOARD right thing BUSINESS ETHICS COMMITTEE comply with our investigate all RESPONSIBLE OFFICERS Business Ethics Policy, alleged breaches and complaints and COUNTRY OFFICERS management system and all take appropriate action local rules and regulations BUSINESS ETHICS PERSONNEL AND OUR PEOPLE foster a culture of transparency and responsibility S T A N D A F R I C A A C I R E A M S I A A H T R O N E P O R U E A S M O E U R I T C H A M I D D L E E A Our business Strategic report Risks and uncertainties Governance Financial statements 17 connecting the Jack St. Malo facility to the Boxer consumption.
Several of our businesses also A fixed platform: and Wood Group PSN planned, received ISO 14001 environmental management Carbon Disclosure Project CDP managed and performed field execution of system certification.
We identify and monitor Emissions have reduced in CO footprint commissioning for the facility.
the environmental impact of our main areas of absolute terms and more so 2 environmental risk, including platforms where we per employee CO footprint in relation to business growth.
2 Wood Group PSN introduced Wood Group are dutyholder, power plants and facilities that we The CO2 footprint per per employee since 2010 GTS team to a customer experiencing issues employee is reducing.
operate, and the facilities we design.
since 2010 with its fleet of rotating equipment on offshore assets.
Wood Group GTS provided a solution to Secondly, we seek to reduce the environmental the customers problems and was subsequently impact of our internal operations.
Our main awarded a long-term maintenance contract with CO emissions come from energy use in our 2 them.
buildings and business travel by employees.
DOWN 16,526 16,299 15,659 We are committed to improving performance 1.03 DOWN We continue to maintain good relationships with 0.0 0.85 16,526 16,299 0.81 15,659 in both of these areas.
We have carried out 33% 10,248 1.03 our business partners, including our joint venture 0.0 0.85 energy efficiency improvements, particularly 0.81 33% 10,248 partners and suppliers.
We work closely with in the UK, that are helping us create a better 2010 2011 2012 2013 2010 2011 2012 2013 Government and industry bodies, including Oil working environment for our employees and Metric tonnes CO 2010 2011 2012 e 2013 Metric tonnes CO e per FTE employee 2010 2011 2012 2013 & Gas UK, Step Change in Safety and the North 2 2 improve our environmental performance.
Metric tonnes CO e Metric tonnes CO e per FTE employee UK Emissions 2013 estimate.
Covers all Scope 1, 2 & 3 2 2 continue to participate in the Carbon Disclosure emissions.
Project CDP for carbon emission reporting, and the CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme CRC, Social Responsibility a UK Government scheme encouraging carbon CRC Energy Efficiency Scheme CRC emission reduction.
The increase in emissions is due to acquisition of 1.03 Being socially responsible is integral to what new sites as a result of business growth and also 0.0 0.85 0.81 Thirdly, we use our engineering and production 1.03 we do.
We aim to make a positive difference reflect changes in the CRC rules.
Applies to UK 0.0 3.36 0.85 0.81 support capabilities, and our developing 3.26 to the communities where we operate and businesses only.
6,694 2.93 0.0 renewable energy expertise, to provide our 5,641 3.36 seek ways to assist them.
We prioritise the 3.26 4,538 6,694 2.93 customers with solutions to help them reduce 0.0 5,641 hiring and development of local people and 4,538 2010 2011 their envir 2012 onmental impact.
Wher 2013 e appropriate, work with local supply chains where we can.
2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 2010 2011 2012 2013 we aim to improve our customers environmental Metric tonnes CO e We are committed to minimising the impact of 2010 2011 2012 22013 T2010 11 onnes CO2011 12 e 2012 13 Metric tonnes CO 2010 2011 2012 e per FTE employee 2013 per FTE employee 2 2 performance by designing processes and facilities our activities on the environment by conserving Metric tonnes CO e 2 Tonnes CO e Metric tonnes CO e per FTE employee 5.27 which monitor and limit emissions, use fewer 2 2 per FTE employee resources, reducing waste and emissions, and 4.42 materials in fabrication, and contribute to more 5.27 preventing environmental pollution and we 3.79 4.42 efficient operation.
work with our customers to provide the best 3.79 environmental solutions.
Our commitment to Social Responsibility is demonstrated across our organisation.
Through Our charitable support spans health, education, our renewable engineering consultancy, 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 the arts, medical research and the prevention SgurrEnergy, part of Wood Group Kenny, we Tonnes CO e per m turnover 1.03 2010 11 2011 12 2012 13 and reduction of poverty, and our employee 2 0.0 0.85 0.81 have supported renewable energy projects 1.03 giving funds support causes that our people are Tonnes CO e per m turnover 2 0.0 0.85 globally.
In Ethiopia, our wind monitoring and 0.81 involved with and care about.
In Bangladesh analysis services are being provided for a 400MW 2010 2011 2012 2013 we actively supported initiatives to provide Disclosures concerning wind farm which is significant for the expansion 2.4 education to children without access to local Metric tonnes CO 2010 2011 2012 e per FTE employee 2013 2 greenhouse gas emissions 0.0 0.0 of renewable energy development in Ethiopia 0.0 primary schools, and in Africa we partnered 2.4 Metric tonnes CO e per FTE employee 2 Global GHG emissions data is shown for the 0.0 and across East Africa.
Our cutting edge wind 0.0 with the Vine Trust to bring medical and housing 0.0 0.0 period 1st January to 31st December 2013 scanning technology, using Galion Lidar devices, support in Tanzania.
was deployed in the Gulf of Mexico and used 2 Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, the ALS Association for research by a university in China.
In the US, Title to come 2010 2011 2012 2013 and the MS150 bike ride for multiple sclerosis.
Emissions from 2013 Wood Group GTS installed two steam turbines in Title to come In the UK we supported the Young Engineers & the 250MW Mojave Solar Project, one of several Combustion of fuel and 118,439 Science Club, the Princess Royal Trust for Carers, operation of facilities tonnes of CO e large-scale renewable energy initiatives that 2 Transition Extreme, the ARCHIE Foundation and will enable the state of California to secure one the Maggies Centres Appeal.
Electricity, heat, steam and 9,109 third of its energy requirements from renewable cooling purchased for own use tonnes of CO e 2 Our environmental strategy has three key sources by 2020.
Wood Group Mustangs Companys chosen intensity elements.
Firstly, we develop and implement biofuel team has applied its process engineering measurement: Emissions Customers sound management systems.
Wood Group expertise on several projects, including the reported above normalised to Government and per tonne of $100,000 revenue Kenny was the first company in Australia to design of two major biofuel plants using the latest 1.8 $7,064,200,000 industry bodies achieve ISO 50001 certification, a technical technology concepts.
Joint standard specific to energy usage and Ventures Methodology We have reported on all of the emission sources required under the Companies Act 2006 Strategic Educational Suppliers Report and Directors Report Regulations 2013. institutes These sources fall within our consolidated financial statements.
We do not have responsibility for any emission sources that are not included in our consolidated financial statements.
Vine Trust Tanzania We have used the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard revised edition, In partnership with the Vine Trust, we are helping data gathered to fulfil our requirements, and emission make a difference to peoples lives in Tanzania by factors from the UK Governments GHG Conversion supporting the design and construction of a floating Factors for Company Reporting 2014.
Where data medical facility, and our employees are volunteering was not available due to timeframes, estimation of to help build homes in the region.
data has occurred to best reflect an accurate view Building trust of those sources included in the reporting.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 45,600 PEOPLE 33% 36% 8% 7% 16% integrity is our cornerstone and character is as important as ability build trust and doing the act with honesty BOARD right thing BUSINESS ETHICS COMMITTEE comply with our investigate all RESPONSIBLE OFFICERS Business Ethics Policy, alleged breaches and complaints and COUNTRY OFFICERS management system and all take appropriate action local rules and regulations BUSINESS ETHICS PERSONNEL AND OUR PEOPLE foster a culture of transparency and responsibility S T A N D A F R I C A A C I R E A M S I A A H T R O N E P O R U E A S M O E U R I T C H A M I D D L E E A 18 Our Core Values continued the aspirations of our people as well as providing People Innovation our leaders with the opportunity to achieve their potential.
Innovation gives us competitive advantage.
People are the heart of our business.
We are We promote collaboration and sharing of ideas professional, high-performing team players To operate at the highest levels we know that across our business.
We have a structured focused on delivering and drawing on our we need to develop our talent and invest in approach to recognising innovations, rapidly global expertise.
We aim to attract, develop and our people regardless of career stage, location testing ideas and sharing learnings.
We retain the best people, treating each other with and role.
Our extensive development portfolio encourage our people to challenge established honesty, compassion and respect.
We create provides blended development opportunities practices and achieve continuous improvement.
a stimulating, fun and open work culture that designed to equip the organisation with new skills We are committed to delivering thorough and promotes personal development and work life as well as refine and update existing ones.
Our sound solutions to every challenge.
balance, rewards competitively and celebrates bespoke leadership development programmes success.
were updated during 2013 to place more Our culture is to encourage innovation in emphasis on our Core Values and organisational everything we do.
Innovation helps us respond When we state in our Core Values that people collaboration.
This reflects our determination and successfully to the developing and changing are the heart of our business its not just a belief that excellent leaders both understand and needs of our customers around the world, hollow corporate strapline.
With around 46,000 display the behaviours we expect to truly support and we invest in operational and engineering employees working in over 50 countries our strategic direction.
excellence initiatives to deliver continuous worldwide, our competitive edge is delivered improvement.
We have been actively involved in through the quality of our people.
We pride We are committed to bringing the next generation many such initiatives during 2013. ourselves on the character, energy and diversity of talent into the business and achieve this of our employees.
This means that everyone is through industry leading apprenticeships and We renewed our sponsorship of the Wood treated fairly, honestly and individual differences graduate development programmes.
During Group Chair of Arctic and Harsh Environment at are respected.
the past five years we have brought more than Memorial University in Newfoundland, Canada Customers 830 graduates and apprentices into our global for a second five-year term.
The Arctic and cold To attract the best people to work for Wood Government and business, which includes over 200 in 2013. regions are a strategically important area of future Group we understand that we must offer a industry bodies We recognise that in order to retain the best industry development.
Through our R&D chair Joint combination of interesting and rewarding work talent, we need to offer career progression and Ventures we aim to develop enabling technology and in a safe, friendly and supportive working a variety of opportunities within our business environmentally robust solutions for offshore oil & environment.
The best people are also attracted and this is achieved through our approach to gas developments in these regions.
by working in an organisation that is led by the career management at the end of our structured Educational Suppliers best.
During 2013, the Wood Group Leadership development programmes.
Wood Group Kenny won the Industry Innovation institutes Framework was created to help us further and Technology award at the Subsea Energy develop our leaders and provide a guide to the Ours is an exciting business that offers our people Australia 2013 Business Awards for its lightweight intrinsic behaviours that Wood Group requires of a diverse mix of career development opportunities riser vacuum testing equipment.
This innovative its leaders to achieve our strategic ambitions.
We encourage innovation and tool weighs just one percent of traditional vacuum fresh thinking that embraces our cultural diversity testing systems, meaning it can be quickly Retaining our senior talent is critical to our and encourages the kind of effective teamwork mobilised to remote locations by helicopter.
business, reflecting not only their direct that results in tailored solutions to client problems MSi Kennys Virtuoso pipeline hydraulic and contribution but also the influence they have on across different environments.
We recognise process simulation tools were installed on the others.
During 2013, we improved our approach the significant advantage in working together Nord Stream pipeline system, linking Russia to resourcing at leadership level in what is a very across divisions and geographies to harness our to Germany via the Baltic Sea, to monitor the competitive global labour market.
Also, in a key collective strengths.
operations of two pipelines feeding gas to part of our business we aligned the approach consumers in Europe.
with our People Core Value and created our Gold Box of senior leaders in the business.
Using Wood Group Mustang took an off-the-shelf the Wood Group Leadership Framework as the process and instrumentation diagram P&ID benchmark, we are now delivering Leadership system and customised it to create its own Development Centres which have the dual system to meet customers P&ID expectations.
benefit of helping our organisation understand 45,600 PEOPLE 33% 36% Global opportunities Subsea Awards 2013 With around 46,000 employees Wood Group Kenny won the Industry Innovation and 8% Technology award at the Subsea Energy Australia working in 50 countries, our 2013 Business Awards for its lightweight riser competitive edge is delivered 7% vacuum testing equipment, which weighs just one through the quality of our people 16% percent of traditional vacuum testing systems and can be quickly mobilised to remote locations.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 integrity is our cornerstone and character is as important as ability build trust and doing the act with honesty BOARD right thing BUSINESS ETHICS COMMITTEE comply with our investigate all RESPONSIBLE OFFICERS Business Ethics Policy, alleged breaches and complaints and COUNTRY OFFICERS management system and all take appropriate action local rules and regulations BUSINESS ETHICS PERSONNEL AND OUR PEOPLE foster a culture of transparency and responsibility S T A N D A F R I C A A C I R E A M S I A A H T R O N E P O R U E A S M O E U R I T C H A M I D D L E E A Our business Strategic report Risks and uncertainties Governance Financial statements 19 The system reduces time and errors by using deteriorating outlook for parts of the business in Financial Responsibility original data.
The business has also been 2014 as conditions changed, and we provided involved in a project that is leading the industry We expect to receive fair reward for our clear guidance to the market about our updated in sustainability and ecological design.
We are cost aware and expectations of financial performance in this area.
response to Canadas requirement to ship oil carefully manage our own and our customers We understand the importance of maintaining sands bitumen to refineries in the US, the NWR costs.
We manage financial risk systematically relationships with the financial community that Sturgeon Refinery in northeast Canada is an and communicate our financial performance in a are built on trust, including investors, analysts exciting and innovative new project that will have clear, concise manner.
It is crucial that our the capacity to produce 150,000 barrels per stakeholders understand the impact of the risks Securing fair reward for our services allows us day of refined product.
The project is the first in and opportunities facing our business and our to invest in the future of the Group, reward our the world to incorporate gasification and carbon ability to achieve our long-term strategy.
investors, and satisfy our suppliers and lenders capture, reducing its environmental impact.
Having the relevant financial We seek investor feedback throughout the year, Wood Group Mustangs scope of work involved expertise across our business is key to this and both informally through our investor relations earthworks, deep undergrounds and firewater is not limited to the finance function.
More than team, as well as through investor roadshows and water treating facilities for the first phase of 400 people have attended our internal Finance and one-to-one sessions with our CEO and the facility.
for Managers programme which enables CFO.
Recognising the insight that operational A creative Wood Group PSN solution was operational management to better understand management can bring to investors, additional deployed during expansion of a North Sea financial reporting and the importance of working members of our senior leadership team took part platform which could not cope with the extra capital and improved cash management, which in our results presentations and investor meetings weight of a new module.
The team designed ultimately frees up capital for further investment.
We also participated in a number the largest structural strengthening scope in the We track average Days Sales Outstanding DSO of investment bank conferences and held further clients history, allowing a further 1,900 tonnes as a key indicator of working capital performance, meetings in response to ad hoc requests.
Wood Group PSN breathed new and this moved from 51 in 2012 to 54 in 2013, Customers In February 2013, the Group renewed and life into the infrastructure, extending its life while principally due to an increase in Wood Group Government and extended its bilateral borrowing facilities from assuring the designs technical integrity.
The finance function supports industry bodies $800m to $950m with the maturity date extended Joint business decision making, provides stewardship Wood Group GTS conducted its first Critical to February 2018.
This helped facilitate working Ventures to protect the Groups assets, ensures Infrastructure Protection CIP conversion at a capital requirements and nearly $300m of compliance with financial reporting requirements, 500MW power plant in the US.
The conversion spending on acquisitions during 2013, which we and understands and responds to risks facing our provided a continuous audit-ready compliance believe will improve our financial performance.
programme, enabling the customer to manage its institutes Our next Annual General Meeting, to be held complex compliance requirements, and helping The management of our own and our customers on 14 May 2014, will provide an opportunity for to safeguard North Americas power system from costs remains crucially important, particularly in shareholders to raise questions with the Board.
a market environment where project returns and 2012 We will continue to communicate regular formal full year capital discipline are high on the agenda.
Our results 2013 updates during the course of the year, including half year current capital expenditure programme includes results final and interim results, interim management investment in integrated business management statements, and trading updates.
In addition, systems across the Group.
In 2013, Wood Group following the success of the Wood Group Mustangs US operations went live and we Engineering capital markets day in 2012, and believe this will increase our cost effectiveness 2013 May Interim recognising the changes to the Group structure half year Management and our ability to better service customers.
trading Statement Oct Interim as our gas turbine activities transfer to the update IMS Management Statement As a public company we must proactively stewardship of Wood Group PSN, we intend to IMS communicate our financial performance and hold a Wood Group PSN capital markets day future expectations in a clear and concise during 2014.
Managing this flow of information helps full year trading ensure that we are fairly valued in the market.
2013 full year update trading update During the year we communicated our view of a October Interim Management Statement IMS 2013 half year results 600 2013 half year John Wood Group PLC 2012 full year results 5 March trading update May Interim Management Statement IMS 15 May UK FTSE 100 Index 2012 full year results 2013 half year trading update 27 June 500 UK FTSE 250 Index 2013 half year results 20 August October Interim Management Statement IMS 4 October 2013 full year trading update 12 December 400 300 200 45,600 100 PEOPLE 33% 36% Total 0 shareholder 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec 31 Dec return 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Wood Group has outperformed the UK FTSE 100 8% and UK FTSE 250 indexes over a five year period 7% 16% John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 integrity is our cornerstone and character is as important as ability build trust and doing the act with honesty BOARD right thing BUSINESS ETHICS COMMITTEE comply with our investigate all RESPONSIBLE OFFICERS Business Ethics Policy, alleged breaches and complaints and COUNTRY OFFICERS management system and all take appropriate action local rules and regulations BUSINESS ETHICS PERSONNEL AND OUR PEOPLE foster a culture of transparency and responsibility S T A N D A F R I C A A C I R E A M S I A A H T R O N E P O R U E A S M O E U R I T C H A M I D D L E E A Customers Government and industry bodies Joint Ventures 20 Our Core Values continued Educational Suppliers institutes More on page Using our confidential Business Ethics helpline, Integrity people can raise their concerns, report suspected 24 Governance breaches of the Business Ethics Policy, and 26 Our Board of directors We are proud of our reputation, built over ask questions.
Since October 2013 the helpline many years, which depends on us doing has been externally hosted to improve multithe right thing.
Integrity is our cornerstone and lingual access and emphasise the confidentiality character is as important as ability.
In addition, matters may also trust and act with honesty.
We comply with our be reported directly to management, Group Business Ethics Policy, management system and Compliance, Legal or Human Resources.
all local rules and regulations.
We foster a culture of transparency and responsibility.
We investigate We conduct timely investigations whenever we all alleged breaches and complaints and take receive information alleging potential breaches appropriate action.
of our Business Ethics Policy.
A register of business ethics matters is maintained by the Our Business Ethics committee oversees our Group Chief Compliance Officer and the Business business ethics compliance programme and the Ethics committee, and the Board receive implementation of our Business Ethics Policy.
During 2013 we The committee comprises senior managers conducted a number of internal investigations into from across the Group and is chaired by Robbie allegations of unethical behaviour.
Our Group Chief disciplinary action was taken based on the facts Compliance Officer serves as the focal point for and circumstances.
This included one formal business ethics and compliance matters across dismissal for behaviour that violated the Business the Groups global activities.
The Business Ethics Ethics Policy and four other cases where the committee also appoints the Groups Responsible employee left during or immediately upon Officers who, liaising with a number of designated completion of an investigation.
We take prompt Country Officers, are responsible for promoting action to deal with any confirmed breaches.
ethical conduct across all businesses and Equally, through our Living our Values awards, locations in their area of responsibility.
We also we continue to recognise individuals or teams use various forms of communication to embed who demonstrate integrity in an exemplary 45,600 the Integrity message across the Group, including manner.
video and email messages, posters and our PEOPLE Business Ethics intranet site.
33% At Wood Group, employees are consistently 36% reminded that they play a crucial role in ensuring Our Business Ethics Policy sets the high ethical that we conduct business ethically, and apply standards that we expect of our business moral and principled behaviour in all our operations, our people and every company transactions.
In spite of this, we know that errors that we work with.
It highlights the importance of judgement can occur, and therefore we are of conducting business ethically and legally never complacent and are relentlessly focused on 8% throughout our global organisation.
The adhering to our Integrity Core Value.
7% policy is updated regularly, is available in nine 16% languages and is widely communicated to our people.
In 2013 more than 5,300 2012: around 5,000 business ethics personnel completed on-line training and confirmed their continued compliance.
Business ethics personnel are identified based on a range of roles and responsibilities, including those that liaise with customers and third parties.
integrity is our cornerstone and character is as important as ability build trust and doing the act with honesty BOARD right thing BUSINESS ETHICS COMMITTEE comply with our investigate all RESPONSIBLE OFFICERS Business Ethics Policy, alleged breaches and complaints and COUNTRY OFFICERS management system and all take appropriate action local rules and regulations Doing the right thing Our reputation depends on us doing the right thing BUSINESS ETHICS PERSONNEL AND OUR PEOPLE foster a culture of transparency and responsibility John Wood Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 S T A N D A F R I C A A C I R E A M S I A A H T R O N
