Governance Report Governance Report Other Statutory Information Directors Share capital The Directors of the Company who served during the year were At 31 December 2013, the Companys issued share capital was as shown on pages 24 and 25, together with Philip Aiken AM and 458,379,033 ordinary shares of 20 pence, each credited as fully Daulet Yergozhin who retired from the Board on 31 August 2013 paid.
As at the date of this Directors Report, the Company holds and 5 December 2013, respectively.
Details of Directors interests 11,701,830 ordinary shares in treasury and the issued share capital in shares can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report of the Company which carries voting rights of one vote per share on page 88. comprises 446,677,203 ordinary shares excluding treasury shares.
Further details of the Companys issued share capital are shown All Directors are required by the Companys Articles of Association in note 29 commencing on page 138. to be elected by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment, if appointed by the Board.
Lynda Armstrong The Companys shares are listed on the London, Hong Kong OBE, having been appointed by the Board on 21 October 2013, and Kazakhstan stock exchanges.
will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and will A list of main subsidiary undertakings and their principal activity, be proposed for election.
In accordance with the UK Corporate is given in note 40 on page 160.
Governance Code, all other Directors will retire and submit themselves for re-election at the Companys forthcoming Annual Major shareholdings General Meeting.
Details of Directors contracts or letters of As at 26 February 2014, the Company had been notied under appointment are included in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial The performance of each Director was reviewed and it was found Conduct Authority of the following interests in its total voting that each of them continues to make an effective and valuable rights of 3% or more: contribution to the deliberations of the Board and demonstrate Number of ordinary Percentage of total commitment to the role.
The performance of the Chairman was shares of 20 pence voting rights held as at Name of holder each held 26 February 2014 reviewed by the Senior Independent Director.
1 Cuprum Holding Limited 135,944,325 30.43 During the year, no Director had any interest in any shares or 2 Harper Finance Limited 29,706,901 6.65 debentures of the Companys subsidiaries, or any material interests Credit Suisse Group AG 23,814,025 5.33 in any contract with the Company or a subsidiary being a contract 1 of signicance in relation to the Companys business.
Vladimir Kim holds a 100% interest in Cuprum Holding Limited.
2 Oleg Novachuk holds a 100% interest in Harper Finance Limited.
Directors indemnity and insurance Kazakhmys maintains liability insurance for its Directors and Officers.
Relationship agreement The Company has also granted indemnities to each of the Directors, To regulate the ongoing relationship between the Company the Chief Financial Officer and the Company Secretary to the extent and Vladimir Kim, a relationship agreement was entered into permitted by law.
These indemnities are uncapped in amount, in in September 2005.
The principal purpose of the relationship relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may incur to agreement is to ensure that the Group is capable of carrying on third parties in the course of acting as a Director or Officer or its business for the benefit of the shareholders of the Company Company Secretary as the case may be of the Company or any as a whole.
Neither the indemnity nor insurance cover provides cover in the event that a Director or Officer or Political donations Company Secretary as the case may be is proved to have acted The Group did not give any money for political purposes in the fraudulently or dishonestly.
United Kingdom nor did it make any donations to EU political The indemnity is categorised as a qualifying third-party indemnity organisations or incur any EU political expenditure during the year.
for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006 and will continue in force for the benefit of Directors or Officers or Company Policy on derivatives and financial instruments Secretary as the case may be on an ongoing basis.
The Groups objectives and policies on financial risk management, and information on the Groups exposures to foreign exchange, Annual General Meeting counterparty credit, commodity price, liquidity and interest rate The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at 12.15pm on risks can be found in note 36 commencing on page 144.
Thursday 8 May 2014 at The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, London WC2A 3ED, United Kingdom.
Details of the meeting venue Legal proceedings and the resolutions to be proposed, together with explanatory Neither the Company nor any of its subsidiaries is a defendant in notes, are set out in a separate Notice of Annual General Meeting any proceedings which the Directors believe will have a material which accompanies this Annual Report and Accounts.
affect on either the Companys financial position or profitability.
A summary of the business carried out at the Annual General Commitments and contingencies are disclosed in note 37 Meeting will be published on the Companys website commencing on page 150. www.
com 89 Governance Report Other Statutory Information continued significant agreements change of control Going concern The following significant agreements contain certain termination The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, have satisfied and other rights for the counterparties upon a change of control themselves that no material uncertainties that cast significant doubt of the Company.
about the ability of the Group to continue as a going concern have been identied, and they have a reasonable expectation that the Each of a $2 billion facility agreement dated 30 December 2009, Group has adequate financial resources to continue in operational a $100 million facility agreement dated 30 December 2009, existence for the foreseeable future.
Therefore, they continue to a $200 million facility agreement dated 12 January 2010, and two adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the $200 million facility agreements dated 11 June 2012, in each case consolidated financial statements.
entered into between Kazakhmys Finance PLC as borrower and Joint Stock Company Sovereign Wealth Fund Samruk-Kazyna as Articles of Association lender, contain terms which give the lender the right to cancel all The following description summarises certain provisions of the or any of the commitments provided to Kazakhmys Finance PLC, Companys Articles of Association and applicable English law declare all or part of the loans, together with accrued interest, concerning companies the Companies Act 2006.
This summary and all other amounts accrued or outstanding immediately due is qualied in its entirety by reference to the Companys Articles of and payable and or declare that all or part of the loans be payable Association and the Companies Act 2006.
The Companys Articles on demand if the Company ceases to hold 100 per cent.
less one of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a share of the issued share capital of Kazakhmys Finance PLC.
The terms of each of a $1.34 billion facility agreement and RMB1.0 billion facility agreement each dated 16 December 2011 Rights attaching to shares between Kazakhmys Aktogay Finance Limited as borrower and The rights attaching to the ordinary shares of the Company China Development Bank Corporation as lender, contain terms are dened in the Companys Articles of Association.
which give the lender the right to cancel any of the commitments provided to Kazakhmys Aktogay Finance Limited and declare all Voting rights outstanding loans together with accrued interest, and all other Members may attend any general meeting of the Company.
amounts accrued and outstanding immediately due and payable On a show of hands every member or his representative who on 30 business days notice if the Company ceases to hold is present in person or by proxy has one vote on each resolution directly or indirectly more than 50 per cent of the issued and on a poll every member or his representative who is present share capital of Kazakhmys Aktogay Finance Limited in person or by proxy shall have one vote on each resolution for and or certain other named subsidiaries.
each share of which he she is the holder.
The terms of a $1 billion pre-export finance debt facility As a result of changes introduced by the Companies Act 2006 dated 20 December 2012 between Kazakhmys Finance PLC to allow multiple proxies appointed by a single member to vote and a syndicate of banks, provide that if any person excluding on a show of hands, all substantive resolutions at general meetings Vladimir Kim and Oleg Novachuk or group of people acting in will normally be put to a poll vote.
Employees who participate in concert secures control of the Company: i a lender under the the Companys Share Incentive Plans SIP and hold shares in the facility shall not be obliged to fund a loan: and ii if a body of SIP trusts provide directions to the trustee to vote on their behalf lenders representing more than two-thirds of the amount of the by way of a form of direction.
facility so require, the parties shall enter into negotiations for a period of not more than 30 days with a view to agreeing alternative The Company is not aware of any agreements between terms for continuing the facility.
If no alternative basis has been shareholders that may result in restrictions on voting rights.
agreed during such period then the lenders may cancel the commitments of the lenders to lend the facility and declare all Dividend rights outstanding amounts due and payable.
Shareholders may by ordinary resolution declare dividends but the amount of the dividend may not exceed the amount The terms of a $100 million revolving credit facility dated 8 March recommended by the Board.
2013 between Kazakhmys Finance PLC and Bank of China Limited, provide that if any person excluding Vladimir Kim and Oleg Transfer of shares Novachuk or group of people acting in concert secures control of There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares other than the Company: i a lender under the facility shall not be obliged to certain restrictions as set out in Companys Articles of Association.
fund a loan: and ii if a body of lenders representing more than twothirds of the amount of the facility so require, the parties shall enter Transfers of uncerticated shares must be carried out using CREST into negotiations for a period of not more than 30 days with a view and the Board can refuse a transfer of an uncerticated share in to agreeing alternative terms for continuing the facility.
If no accordance with the regulations governing the operation of CREST.
alternative basis has been agreed during such period then the lenders may cancel the commitments of the lenders to lend the The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders facility and declare all outstanding amounts due and payable.
that may result in restrictions on the transfer of shares.
90 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Report The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Powers of the Directors records that are sufficient to show and explain the Groups and The Directors are responsible for the management of the business parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy of the Company and may exercise all powers of the Company at any time the financial position of the Group and of the parent subject to applicable legislation and regulation and the Companys company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements Articles of Association.
comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to Audit information them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this detect fraud and other irregularities, and have adopted a control Directors Report confirm that so far as they each are aware, there framework for application across the Group.
is no relevant audit information being information needed by the auditors in connection with preparing their audit report, of which Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also the Companys auditors are unaware, and each Director has taken responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors all steps that he ought to have reasonably taken as a Director to Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to that complies with that law and those regulations.
establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys Auditors website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and The Audit Committee has reviewed the independence, dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation objectivity and performance of the auditors, KPMG.
KPMG Audit Plc has informed the Company that it wishes to formally change the entity which conducts the Companys audit from Responsibility statement KPMG Audit Plc to KPMG LLP.
Therefore, KPMG Audit Plc will not Each Director confirms to the best of his knowledge that: stand for re-appointment at the Companys forthcoming Annual the Group and parent company accounts, prepared in accordance General Meeting and instead KPMG LLP will seek appointment as with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, give a true and fair the Companys auditors at this meeting.
The Audit Committee has view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of recommended, and the Board has approved, resolutions to be the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to appoint taken as a whole: KPMG LLP as the Companys auditors and to authorise the Directors to set their remuneration.
the Strategic Report, Directors Report and Governance Report include a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, of the annual report and the financial statements together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report that they face: and and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
the Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that performance, business model and strategy.
law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS The Strategic Report comprising pages 2 to 27, the Directors as adopted by the European Union EU and applicable law and have Report comprising pages 30 to 57 and 89 to 91, and the elected to prepare the parent company financial statements on Governance Report comprising pages 60 to 88, and including the the same basis.
sections of the Annual Report and Accounts referred to in these pages, have been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair Robert Welch view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and Company Secretary of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the 26 February 2014 Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: Registered Office 6th Floor, Cardinal Place select suitable accounting policies and then apply 100 Victoria Street them consistently: London make judgements and estimates that are reasonable SW1E 5JL and prudent: Registered in England and Wales No.
05180783 state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
com 91 Aktogay Offloading equipment at Aktogay station.
Financial Statements Independent Auditors Report 94 Consolidated Income Statement 98 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 99 Consolidated Balance Sheet 100 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 101 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 102 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 103 Supplementary Information Consolidated Five Year Summary 161 Production and Sales Figures 162 Mining Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources 168 Shareholder Information 173 Glossary 175
