Strategic Report Our Business Model Our mining and processing operations are backed by our own coal mines and power stations along with auxiliary and transportation Our operations departments.
Being integrated ensures security of supply for several key inputs and allows us to exercise control over every stage of the and markets production process.
In addition to copper, our ore contains other valuable metals, such as zinc, silver and gold.. D]DNKP V LV WKH ODUJHVW FRSSHU SURGXFHU LQ.
D]DNKVWDQ DQG RQH RI WKH OHDGLQJ JOREDO FRSSHU SURGXFHUV 2013 global rened copper consumption Europe 16% We listed in London in October 2005 and our shares can be China traded in London, Hong Kong and Kazakhstan.
We have delivered United States of America 44% significant change over the past 12 months, disposing of assets Rest of the World and focusing on our core mining business.
31% Source: Wood Mackenzie Long Term Outlook December 2013 Kazakhmys is one of the few integrated copper producers 9% in the world, able to process from ore to nished metal.
Our business model 1 2 3 Captive power Mining Processing We own and operate two coal mines At the heart of our business are Kazakhmys owns two smelting and which supply our three captive power 16 mines, from which we produce our rening complexes, one of which is stations with coal.
In 2013, 7% of our coal copper and by-products.
At the copper output was sold to external customers mines are predominantly underground, smelters, the concentrate is heated to and the rest used internally.
The captive and use a variety of mining methods.
release molten metal which is poured power stations generated 5,723 GWh We have several programmes to improve and cast into sheets known as anodes.
of which 59% was used internally.
the efficiency of our mines and to offset The anodes are then rened to make the trend of rising costs which occurs nished copper cathodes, sheets of throughout the industry.
These copper weighing up to 60 kg each.
MT programmes are accompanied by In 2014, around 60% of our output coal mined spending and training on health and will be sold as cathode, with the balance safety, to reduce the risk to our sold as concentrate.
Substantial funds workforce in a hazardous working are continually invested to reduce the environment.
In 2013, our mines environmental impact of the smelting produced 39 MT of ore with an average and rening plants.
The delivery of our major growth projects from 2015 kt will help transform our business, and production of own copper production will increasingly come from cathode equivalent new, low cost, open pit mines.
MT ore mined 4 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report For more information see pages 10 Our Strategy 30 Operating Review Our location gives us several advantages access to the excellent Copper is the principal metal used to conduct electricity and, natural resources of Kazakhstan, reliable logistics and utilities, an along with electrical grids and circuits, copper is intensively experienced workforce and close connections to key end markets.
used in a wide range of applications from cars to domestic appliances.
Demand continues to increase with economic Our mining operations are divided into three regions.
We growth and global supply of copper is constrained by employ around 56,000 people and our revenue represents declining grades at existing mines.
Kazakhstan is the ninth largest country in the world and has enjoyed significant development over the past 20 years, attracting substantial investment towards its oil and resource industries.
Global copper usage Construction Kazakhstan is ideally located to serve the major copper markets.
30% 8% Electrical and electronic products Our production is increasingly sold to China, the largest copper Industrial machinery market in the world.
Material is sold as either cathode or 14% Transport concentrate.
Kazakhstan has direct rail links to China with Consumer products typical rail journeys of just days.
13% 35% Source: Wood Mackenzie Long Term Outlook December 2013 Changing the face of our business In 2014, we will be reviewing the possibility of separating the East Region and the Groups assets and retaining East Region and the major growth major growth projects projects.
This could result in a smaller, highly cash generative Copper and other metals business with significant growth potential.
Growth projects Bo B zshakol Artemyevsky YubileynoMolodezhny Nurkazgan Snegirikhinsky Orlovsky Abyz Irtyshsky Kusheki Akbastau Kazakhstan Ak kto tog ga ay North East West Konyrat Sayak Stepnoy South Koksay Zhomart Shatyrkul Bozymchak Zhezkazgan Region and Central Region Copper and other metals Coal mines Power www.
