Strategic Report Our Strategy Optimisation Our vision To develop ourselves as a leading DQG JURZWK natural resources company in Central Asia, combining international 2XU VWUDWHJ LV UHYLHZHG E WKH %RDUG standards with the exceptional mineral each year to ensure that it remains opportunities available in the region.
UHOHYDQW WR WKH URXSV UHTXLUHPHQWV 7KH ULVN PDQDJHPHQW IUDPHZRUN DQG Our objective key performance indicators are intended To deliver value for our shareholders WR DVVLVW DQG FRPSOHPHQW WKH VWUDWHJ with a strong commitment to the safety DQG DUH DOVR NHSW XQGHU UHJXODU UHYLHZ of our employees, the environment and 2XU DLP LV WR GHYHORS.
D]DNKP V LQWR the communities around us.
D OHDGLQJ QDWXUDO UHVRXUFHV FRPSDQ LQ &HQWUDO $VLD IRU WKH EHQHW RI Relevant KPIs DOO VWDNHKROGHUV Free Cash Flow Earnings per share based on Underlying profit Fatalities and LTIFR Supporting our strategy Corporate Responsibility Behind our strategy is a balanced recognition of all key stakeholders.
Our business should benefit our shareholders and enhance the social and economic development of the communities where we operate.
Kazakhmys employs around 56,000 workers with substantial social investment, reecting the close and historic links with the communities serving our operations.
For more information see pages 20 Corporate Responsibility Overview 53 Corporate Responsibility Risk Management The Group has a structured approach to managing risk.
Those significant risks that could materially affect the Groups financial condition, performance, strategy and prospects are set out within this report along with a discussion of our approach to risk.
For more information see pages 18 Risk Management Overview 48 Principal Risks Key Performance Indicators The Board has established eight Key Performance Indicators which have been chosen for their relevance to our Group strategy and key risks.
A further six Key Performance Indicators have been chosen for corporate responsibility.
For more information see pages 12 Key Performance Indicators 20 Corporate Responsibility Overview 10 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Our strategic priorities 1 Deliver growth projects Optimise existing assets Take advantage of natural We will aim to replace existing Rising costs create significant challenges resource opportunities reserves and deliver growth in output for our business.
We are developing We may seek out and acquire attractive, by investing in projects that add value management tools to improve the undeveloped natural resource assets to our portfolio.
performance of our existing assets and principally in the Central Asian region.
create opportunities to raise efficiency in Relevant KPIs Relevant risks our operations.
We are also considering Project status Acquisitions and divestments more significant changes to our operating structure.
Liquidity Relevant risks Health and safety Relevant KPIs Progress New projects Ore output Disposal of non-core assets in 2013 Labour, mining equipment to focus on copper operations Cash costs of copper after and supplies by-product credits Approved potential purchase of Liquidity Copper cathode equivalent third growth project production from own material Progress 2014 Priorities Maintenance spend per tonne Major milling equipment was Existing assets and growth projects of copper cathode delivered to Bozshakol and will take precedence installation commenced Consider partnership at major Relevant risks Major processing building at growth projects Health and safety Bozshakol enclosed ahead of Labour, mining equipment the winter season and supplies Commenced recruitment of Commodity prices operational workforce for Bozshakol Reserves and resources Appointed second contractor Change management at Bozshakol.
Secures timeline but Labour and community relations increases capital cost Approved potential purchase of Progress third major project site, for Optimisation programme and future development asset review Suspended mid-sized project significant improvement in cost development as part of optimisation management, ahead of annual target programme and asset review Reduced sustaining capital expenditure in copper business s 2014 Priorities by $181 million Continue development at Bozshakol and Aktogay 2014 Priorities Commissioning of Bozymchak Continue to focus on improved d cash generation with tight control rol of operating costs and sustaining capital expenditure Further review of potential restructuring For the latest news, video case studies and progress of reports on our major growth projects visit: www.
com en operations growth projects www.
