Strategic Report Business Update Bozshakol project.
D]DNKP V LQ Delivered mills and drive systems to site transformation Remains on schedule for first production in 2015 2YHU WKH SDVW HDU.
D]DNKP V KDV JRQH WKURXJK FRQVLGHUDEOH WUDQVIRUPDWLRQ VHOOLQJ QRQ FRUH DVVHWV DQG IRFXVLQJ RQ RXU FRSSHU EXVLQHVV Bozshakol, in northern Kazakhstan, is one of the worlds largest undeveloped copper deposits.
The transactions include disposals of MKM, a German copper In 2013, the structural steel frames of the main buildings fabricator, our 26% holding in ENRC PLC and our 50% at the site were complete and enclosed for the winter holding in Ekibastuz GRES-1, the largest power station in season enabling work to continue.
Completing these transactions will realise over delivered to the site and we commenced preparing $2 billion and bring significant benefit to our balance sheet.
We are focusing on the construction of the main Optimisation of core copper business processing facilities: constructing workshops and the Rising industry costs and declining metals prices have put facilities of the concentrator.
We are also completing pressure on profit margins in the mining industry.
target for Kazakhmys is to achieve sustainable positive cash ow from our existing operations.
In 2013, we appointed a second contractor which increased the cost but will provide additional resource In 2013, the Mining Division achieved annualised cost savings to ensure a timely start-up.
We remain on track for of $120 million and reduced sustaining capital expenditure first production in 2015. by $181 million.
Continued improvements will be sought in 2014 to improve cash profitability.
The project has a capital cost of around $2.2 billion, and is being largely funded from a $2.7 billion nancing facility provided by the China Development Bank and Restructuring Samruk-Kazyna.
We are considering a major restructuring which should signicantly enhance the prole of our business.
Bozshakol will have a production life of over 40 years, with an average output of 100 kt copper in concentrate Major growth projects per annum for the first 10 years.
The ore also contains In 2012, we commenced development on-site at our valuable gold by-product which will result in a highly Bozshakol project and in 2013 at Aktogay.
These are competitive operating cost.
both substantial, long-life, open pit mines, with a highly competitive operating cost, backed by long-term finance.
In 2014, we approved the potential acquisition of a third MT major project, which will provide additional future growth.
of 0.35% copper grade NR] contained gold Targeted ore output from open pits 80% 25 % 2013 2018 2 Kazakhmys Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report For more information see pages 08 Chief Executives Review 10 Our Strategy Aktogay project Koksay project Restructuring Initial construction works Potential third major Potential restructuring commenced growth project of the Group Scheduled for first production Attractive future return Kazakhmys PLC to retain from oxide in 2015 and East Region, Bozymchak and sulphide in 2017 major growth projects Aktogay is a large open-cast mine in In early 2014, we approved the potential Following introduction of the southeastern Kazakhstan, approximately purchase of a third major growth project, optimisation programme and asset 250 km from the Kazakhstan-China which will provide expansion beyond review, the Board is considering a border.
The ore body has significant Bozshakol and Aktogay.
The project is restructuring, disposing of mature assets, similarities to Bozshakol.
consistent with our strategy of future primarily in the Zhezkazgan and Central production from a small group of large Regions.
These assets may have a greater The Aktogay ore body consists of an scale, low cost, open pit mines, focused prospect of successful optimisation and oxide deposit on top of a larger sulphide on copper and within Central Asia, further investment outside the deposit, the latter containing some particularly Kazakhstan.
valuable molybdenum which will be extracted as a by-product.
Koksay is in southeastern Kazakhstan A restructuring of this nature would and close to the Chinese border and, as allow the Group to focus on the mines We started construction in early 2013 with the other projects, is well located in the East Region, Bozymchak and the with site preparation and foundation for existing infrastructure.
It has a total major growth projects.
This is consistent works in process.
We are preparing resource of around 3,440 kt of copper, with the Groups stated intention of the territory for the main processing at an average grade of 0.48%.
The achieving sustainable positive cash ow facilities: removing top soil, delivering deposit also contains silver and gold.
from existing operations and for future equipment and machines.
We have set production to come from a smaller up the temporary camp and offices and The project will be purchased for group of predominantly large scale, are preparing the ground for the an initial payment of $195 million, with low cost, open pit mines.
In 2014, we will spend around $10 million, Further updates will be provided The project is primarily being funded principally on additional drilling.
The during 2014. from a $1.5 billion nancing facility from acquisition should complete by June 2014. the China Development Bank.
MT of 0.33% copper grade sulphide deposit MT of 0.37% copper grade oxide deposit www.
