KCOM Group PLC Market overview Annual report and accounts 2012 13 We offer our customers an insight into whatthe future might look like and support them at every stage of the journey Kcom proactively approached us with the best solution for us as abusiness and advised us through its implementation, which is whywecontinue to work with Kcom and value our account team asan extension of our team internally.
Simon Odell, IT Director, Vendor and Service Management at Molson Coors 04 2 KCOM ar13 front RB.
indd 4 6 20 2013 11:14:50 AM Overview KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2012 13 Focusing on the future We offer our customers a unique combination of the expertise ofour people, the capability of our partners and access to a range of services and technologies that we can apply appropriately to their particular requirements.
As a Group we are focused on the delivery they use.
Closeness tothe customer will be As the future evolves, we are helping customers ofvalue-added services to our customers, key and building arobust contact strategy, understand how they can adapt to those trends.
whether they are consumers in our regional supported bytheright technology solution, Connectivity is increasingly the key to enabling market, or organisations across the UK.
helps customers start that journey.
Our all of the interaction and collaboration.
Our retailcustomers areleading the way connectivity relationships give us access to the We dont think just about what customers inembracing those multi-channel largest network across the UK.
Building on that might need right now, we help shape their interactions with their customers: solid foundation, we work with our customers thinking to help them keep pace with their tounderstand where they want to take their communications needs in the future.
already we see the world of business business.
We bring together experts across our evolving at a faster pace.
To keep ahead, Group to create the right balance of technology Technology plays an increasingly important role organisations need to be agile and flexible, and service delivery that our customers need to in our daily lives, both at home and at work.
with processes and systems they can adapt start their journey to the future.
Ourrole is to help our customers to harness and shape depending on how their markets thepower of evolving technology to become develop.
The ability to scale requirements better connected.
We do this by staying at the accordingly will become animportant way forefront of future thinking and then helping of maintaining a competitive edge.
Many our customers to build their own roadmap, of our clients are looking to the cloud as a based on the technology available today and cost-effective way of increasing flexibility inthe future.
We offer our customers an insight while managing the level of investment to what the future might look like and how they needed to move to a new architecture: and might adapt and innovate the way their organisation will work in the future.
as customers become ever more service-driven, the contribution of There are some key trends in the market and employees becomes one of the biggest we advise our customers on how to make the differentiators.
Giving employees access most of technology to become more successful: tothe right collaboration, mobility, systems and technology tools enables them to create customers want increasingly to connect with high performing teams wherever they businesses in a multitude of ways, whenever arelocated.
We help customers with a they want phones, mobiles, websites, distributed network of employees to get social media, smartphones and tablets.
better connected, bringing in collaboration Successful organisations of the future will tools and robust connections to give them beable to interact across all those platforms flexible working practices with access to all and track every interaction with the their business applications.
customer irrespective of which channels Real world thinking for new world challenges, enabling...
The future of... customer services business processes connected life partnerships IT services work 05 2 KCOM ar13 front RB.
