KCOM Group PLC Brand review: Annual report and accounts 2012 13 KC segment KC: Our flagship KC Lightstream service isgiving customers in Hull and East Yorkshire the best-connected homes and businesses inthe UK During the year our KC brand achieved market-leading growth amongfixed-line operators.
This was driven chiefly by the continued shift of customers to bundled phone and broadband services, and by increasing take-up of broadband among our customer base.
Following previous investment in our core Next Generation Network todeliver a better online experience and improved reliability, we have now Our KC brand has provided migrated to it all of our business and residential broadband customers.
communications services Customer satisfaction has been a key area of focus during the year.
Wehave used insight and feedback from regular face-to-face customer inHull and East Yorkshire forums and from online and telephone surveys to inform an ongoing since1904.
programme of improvements to our products and our business processes.
The result has been increased customer satisfaction, as measured byour Net Services for residential customers Promoter Score, across both our business and residential customer base.
Meanwhile, customer service across our business broadband products was include a range of talk plans, recognised with a 2012 Internet Service Provider Association ISPA award.
including the UKs cheapest Thisyearour KC brand has been shortlisted for five ISPA awards.
plan, plus broadband packages, We have expanded our product offering to include the YouView-based service KC TV and have begun the deployment of KC Wi-Fi to selected phone and broadband bundles areas of the region.
Our KC brands business operation secured some important contracts with local organisations during the year, including Humberside Fire For businesses, we provide andRescue Service.
phone, broadband and ethernet connectivity, internet What were doing: security and web hosting, In November 2012 the KC brand completed the first phase of allwith business-standard ourinstallation ofour superfast fibre broadband service KC Lightstream to 15,000 homes and businesses in Hull and East service levels.
Yorkshire, and announced plans to continue to invest in expanding itto a further 30,000 premises in the region by March 2015.
co. uk KCs Lightstream packages use Fibre to the Premise technology todeliver a range of superfast packages with guaranteed download speeds including 100Mbps and 350Mbps the UKs fastest fibre broadband service.
Take-up has been significantly higher than for other UK fibre deployments, with more than one in five of the customers passed bythe initial roll-out signing up for the service.
Our future focus The continued take-up of our KC Lightstream fibre broadband services by residential areas and business parks.
Continued take-up of bundled broadband.
Increase market share among the small and medium-sized businessmarket.
indd 12 6 20 2013 11:15:00 AM Directors report Business review KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2012 13 Humberside Fire and Rescue Service KC has been chosen by Humberside Fire and up with systems that are secure, reliable KC demonstrated an Rescue Service HFRS to install and manage andenable the fastest possible response a new communications network that will toemergencies.
understanding ofour connect its 32 sites securely to each other and to its key computer applications.
We rely heavily on the technical solutions specific needs.
that are put in place to carry out our work, The five-year contract includes also the ensuring the safety of the community, Richard Hannigan, provision of a private broadband back-up frommobilising fire engines to allowing our service and a Virtual Private Network so that non-operational staff to access the systems Chief Fire Officer, Humberside employees can work remotely, creating tocarry out their jobs.
KC demonstrated Fire and Rescue Service amore flexible working environment.
anunderstanding of our specific needs andwe are confident they can deliver HFRS Chief Fire Officer Richard Hannigan aservice that meets them.
said: The skills, expertise and dedication of our firefighters and staff need to be backed 13 2 KCOM ar13 front RB.
indd 13 6 20 2013 11:15:03 AM KCOM Group PLC Brand review: Annual report and accounts 2012 13 Kcom segment Kcom: Our Kcom brand uses its expertise and innovation to help organisations exploit the power of communications Despite the market conditions remaining challenging, Kcom has made progress in its strategic focus areas.
During the year our Kcom brand secured a number of key contract wins and renewals, underlining its position and reputation in its chosen markets.
Our Kcom brand works with New contracts secured in the period include an important five-year managed service with National Farmers Union Mutual.
We have some of the UKs biggest provided also additional services to Morrisons in support of their names in retail, finance, expansion into the convenience store market capabilities.
IT, legal services and the Kcoms growing presence in the Public Services Network PSN market was publicsector, delivering reinforced with its selection by East Sussex County Council to provide a hosted managed communications service for the Link Consortium.
The communications solutions consortium is acollaborative IT programme that connects public sector thathelp organisations organisations in the region, including local authorities, education and health providers and the police.
The five-year contract will see Kcom providing cloud-based voice services over Links existing connectivity infrastructure.
The solution will save It gives customers access money for the organisations within the consortium and give them tothe UKs largest, most access to better communications services.
advanced network, managed Kcom has completed also the successful migration of 1,000 schools and more than 400 local government sites onto the new East Midlands PSN emPSN.
ITservices supported by a The network has delivered significant savings already through world-class operational cheapertechnology costs and by enabling shared working across support system, and the publicsector organisations.
benefits of Kcoms ongoing investment in the development What were doing: Kcom brands new suite of hosted, managed communication of market-leading services.
services, called Workplaces, delivers a range of cloud-based services including telephony, unified communications and contact centre Visit: www.
com tools that enable enterprises to transform their customer contact orbusiness collaboration capabilities.
Powered by Cisco technologies, Workplaces services can be boughton a per-seat basis.
This gives customers, including the LinkConsortium mentioned above, a flexible costing model without thebarriers associated with investing in capital intensive on-site solutions, but with the tailoring and security of an in-house enterprise platform and the world-class operational support services in Kcoms Service Management Centre.
Our future focus Grow our share of the UK multi-site enterprise market in the provision of over the top solutions as well as connectivity services.
Build reputation for hosted, collaboration services through Workplaces.
Build upon and demonstrate our expertise in the PSN market, securing new contracts and implementing networks for existingcustomers.
indd 14 6 20 2013 11:15:04 AM Directors report Business review KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2012 13 Dominos Kcom has a three-year contract Colin Rees, IT Director at Dominos, said: It was very much toprovidemanaged communications What we were looking for was a partner to services to Dominos.
help us deal with those areas ourinternal about designing team didnt have the time tofocus on.
Dominos is one of the worlds most asolution that successful franchise businesses, and as it It was very much about designing a solution continued to grow its number of outlets, that was flexible enough to scale with our wasflexible technology became a key challenge.
growth, and weve really had none of the enoughto scale normal challenges of moving from one It chose Kcom to monitor and manage supplier to another.
itsnetwork and provide proactive service andsupport on a 24 7 basis.
We expect the deal with Kcom to provide us all of our networking services into the future.
Colin Rees, IT Director, Dominos 15 2 KCOM ar13 front RB.
indd 15 6 20 2013 11:15:07 AM KCOM Group PLC Brand review: Annual report and accounts 2012 13 Kcom segment Smart421: Our Smart421 brand continues to grow market share and build its reputation within its chosen customer segments During the year our Smart421 brand became the first Advanced Consulting Partner in the UK as part of the Amazon Partner Network APN.
The status was awarded by Amazon Web Services AWS, a global leader incloud computing.
It is the highest certification possible under the APN programme and means that Smart421s customers have the highest level of Our Smart421 brand delivers access to Amazons design, architecture, integration and managed services.
high-end consultancy, As more UK enterprises turn to the cloud to replace up-front capital integration and management infrastructure expenses with lower, variable costs that scale with their services to large enterprises, business, Smart421s partnership with Amazon gives it a valuable opportunity to combine its specialist consultancy and integration services helping customers optimise incloud architecture with AWSs enterprise-grade cloudinfrastructure.
their enterprise architecture for Smart421 is using the AWS cloud computing platform to deliver greater flexibility and better afive-year contract to develop and support a sales management return on investment.
It helps system to handle ticket on departure services for Rail Settlement PlanLtd, a division of the Association of Train Operating Companies.
also organisations looking to improve the performance and National Rail Enquiries has also chosen Smart421 to deliver an AWS-based solution as part of a three-year service integration and reliability of their IT systems management contract to support the migration of its online services and gives support in delivering and the majority of its technology infrastructure to the cloud.
complex and bespoke IT projects.
What were doing: Visit: www.
com Following a successful year that saw some significant new contract wins, the Smart421 brand will continue to develop its reputation in the fields of enterprise architecture and integration consultancy and the management of mission critical enterprise services.
Its status as the UKs first Advanced Consulting Partner within the APN, and its growing expertise in delivering services using the AWS platform, mean it is well-positioned to exploit growth in the enterprise-grade cloud services market.
This is reinforced further by its shortlisting in the 2012 UK IT Industry Awards in the Best Use of Cloud Services category for anAWS-based business continuity and disaster recovery solution itimplemented for energy firm Haven Power.
Our future focus Continue to seek and exploit opportunities in high value, high growth markets, including identity and access management.
Develop further our strategic partnership with AWS for cloud-basedsolutions.
Maintain our position as thought leaders in our field by anticipating customer needs and matching these with relevant, intelligent technology solutions.
indd 16 6 20 2013 11:15:10 AM Directors report Business review KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2012 13 National Rail Enquiries National Rail Enquiries NRE has chosen This contract with Smart421 and AWS Smart421 to deliver a three-year service acknowledges the very significant consumer Getting the most integration and management contract to uptake we have experienced, said Chris fromthe cloud means support the migration of NREs online services Scoggins, Chief Executive of National to the cloud, achieving significant productivity RailEnquiries.
having a partner that efficiencies and associated cost savings.
By working with Smart421 to move to AWS we understands how to NRE is the UKs leading train information will be able to support this growth well into the service.
Growing use by consumers of its future.
exploit the flexibility comprehensive real-time travel information prompted NRE to move the majority of its Getting the most from the cloud means and elasticity technology infrastructure to AWS.
having a partner that understands how to itoffers.
exploit the flexibility and elasticity it offers.
The contract with Smart421 includes service design and readiness, service migration of three Chris Scoggins, business critical applications from current data Chief Executive, centres to the AWS cloud, and provision of 24 7 service management.
National Rail Enquiries 17 2 KCOM ar13 front RB.
indd 17 6 20 2013 11:15:14 AM KCOM Group PLC Brand review: Annual report and accounts 2012 13 Kcom segment Eclipse: Our Eclipse brand is increasing its range of connectivity, cloud and communications services for small and medium businesses SMBs acrosstheUK Our Eclipse brand continued to win new SMB customers during theyear, while at the same time itsfocus on developing a broader product portfolio led to a growing proportion of new revenue coming from existing customers.
The increased range of connectivity options the Eclipse brand now offers has attracted a number of larger businesses to the brand.
Furniture Village, the RSPB and Foot Anstey are among the new customers the brand has secured contracts with, for the provision of connectivity Our Eclipse brand including managed network services.
providesconnectivity and Eclipse has continued to see growth in the reseller market, supported communications services to bothby connectivity services it offers and the ongoing development SMBs across the UK to connect ofitsPartner Portal, an easy-to-use interface through which resellers can manage their Eclipse accounts and their own customers connections.
them to customers, partners and suppliers, improve their A growing number of customers with multiple connections, including resellers, are using the Eclipse Sentinel broadband monitoring tool.
productivity and flexibility, Viathis portal, customers including Wessex Water arebenefiting from andhelp them grow.
improved visibility of potential andactual problems affecting broadband network performance.
It continues also to provide The continued focus of the Eclipse brand on delivering an exceptional high-quality broadband customer experience was reflected during the year in the industry-leading satisfaction levels reported by its customers.
services to consumers who value its ethos of exceptional What were doing: customer service.
Following the successful launch of new connectivity services in 2012, the Eclipse brand will continue to expand its product offering with the Visit: www.
uk development and launch of further new services in 2013 and beyond.
These will include cloud-based, hosted business productivity andcollaboration tools, as well as unified communications and mobility services.
The development of these and other services will allow our Eclipse brand tomeetthe growing demand among SMBs for flexible and scalable communications services.
This will support the continued evolution of the Eclipse brand from a traditional ISP focused on broadband connectivity to a provider of a broader range of subscription-based IT and communications services.
Our future focus Develop the range of cloud-based business productivity and collaboration tools we offer SMBs.
Bring to market unified communications tools and mobility services to meet the needs of SMB customers.
Continue to increase sales of our expanded product offering to existing customers.
indd 18 6 20 2013 11:15:16 AM Directors report Business review KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2012 13 FurnitureVillage Furniture Village has chosen Eclipse to provide The new network means Furniture Village Eclipse offered and manage a wide area network to connect canroll-out new communications services and its 40-plus retail and office sites across the UK.
business applications cost-effectively to sites usnot just an that previously didnt have the connectivity The three-year contract includes the provision tosupport them.
impressive technical of access services including ethernet leased lines, private fibre, bonded DSL and traditional Ian McBeth, Group IT Controller at Furniture solution but also a broadband.
These have been integrated Village, said: Eclipse has brought a level of flexible approach.
within a single network to give Furniture dynamism to our data communications which Village the right mix of connectivity to meet is sorely needed in todays retail environment.
the demands of its busiest trading times.
Eclipse has been extremely helpful, professional Ian McBeth, and has become an integral part of our team.
Group IT Controller, Furniture Village 19 2 KCOM ar13 front RB.
