KCOM Group PLC Strategy and business model Annual report and accounts 2012 13 We have an established strategic vision topassionately pursue betterways to connect people and to deliverinspiring customer experiences 1 2 Our strategy: Customers People Partners Processes and systems our long-term plan Across our brands we understand Our business is built upon We harness the skills and Our pursuit of customer service The Groups vision is and anticipate the needs of theexcellence of our people, capabilities ofour partners to excellence is underpinned by underpinned by four strategic ourcustomers and align our thecore asset of our Group.
pillars that support our products, services and solutions ambition and focus our to meet those needs and create investment.
Those pillars aunique brand experience.
support us in ourpursuit ofoperational excellence, Description asweseek to achieve a Our focus on exceptional service delivery has We continue to invest increating an environment We have strong relationships inplace with To achieve our long-term aims, we are focused marketleading position in our resulted in increasing customer advocacy, delivery that enables people todevelop and fulfil their organisations including BT, Phoenix IT Group, onensuring we have market-leading processes ofthe fastest broadband in the UK forconsumers, potential.
During the pastyear, that investment Microsoft, IBM, Cisco, Avaya and Amazon Web andsystems that are both efficient and scalable, selectedmarkets and deliver new contracts with large corporate customers and has focused on cultivating the leadership, talent, Services.
With access to their skills, experience and to enable usboth to grow our business and increasing shareholder value.
values and culture that willput excellent business technologies, overlaid with our managed service continue to drive operational efficiency.
performance andworld-class customer capability, we are able to fulfil our long-term vision.
We target and align our capabilities to experience at thecentre of everything we do.
As a result of those relationships, leading Our strategic IT investment will therequirements of our brands customers organisations increasingly are recognising the underpin our growth plans and andmarkets.
capabilities of the Group andits exceptional service delivery.
strengthen those exceptional customer experiences for which Progress we aimto be recognised.
In each of our markets, we have focused on During the year we have focused on how small Our market-leading partnerships support our Our 3.0 million investment in tools for our developing additional service offerings, including individual change can effect large-scale abilityto achieve a level of innovation and industry-leading service management centre significantly faster broadband speeds and anew improvement.
Our teams have taken part in deliver solutions and experiences that cannot will help us to build onourreputation for suite of hosted managed communication services.
the second phase of our It Starts with Me be gained elsewhere, as customers experience service excellence.
programme designed to help them see how improved ways toconnect, collaborate and Increasingly, we see customers wanting to their role, and in particular innovative thinking, interact, using the power oftechnology.
benefit from the specialist consultancy provided plays a significant partin the achievement of by Smart421 alongside communication services our long-term ambitions.
This programme will from our Kcom brand.
continue torun over the coming year.
Priorities to deliver growth in managed services to reward and recognise employees who to invest in partnerships that support initially to implement efficient scalable : demonstrate excellence in their performance: : back-office processes and systems: to continue the phased deployment and to invest in a communications programme to continue to exploit those strategic to extend and improve our customer take-up of superfast fibre-based that explains clearly our Group values, relationships:and : and broadband services to customers in Hull ambitions and culture: and and EastYorkshire: and to leverage our hosted and cloud to deliver best-in-class levels of to continue developing the skills and collaboration services and unified customerservice.
to continue to grow market share through capabilities of our leadership team that communication services offerings.
our ongoing focus on inspiring customer drivesthe achievement of strategic objectives experiences across all brands.
indd 6 6 20 2013 11:14:50 AM Overview KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2012 13 How we measure 4 1 ourperformance We track a series of financial  that 2 3  we KPIs on page 8 aremakingagainst our four strategic pillars.
3 4 Our business model: Customers People Partners Processes and systems how we operate daily Across our brands we understand Our business is built upon We harness the skills and Our pursuit of customer service and anticipate the needs of theexcellence of our people, capabilities ofour partners to excellence is underpinned by ourcustomers and align our thecore asset of our Group.
products, services and solutions Work with our partners to meet those needs and create to createinnovative aunique brand experience.
service solutions for people andbusinesses Description Our focus on exceptional service delivery has We continue to invest increating an environment We have strong relationships inplace with To achieve our long-term aims, we are focused resulted in increasing customer advocacy, delivery that enables people todevelop and fulfil their organisations including BT, Phoenix IT Group, onensuring we have market-leading processes ofthe fastest broadband in the UK forconsumers, potential.
During the pastyear, that investment Microsoft, IBM, Cisco, Avaya and Amazon Web andsystems that are both efficient and scalable, new contracts with large corporate customers and has focused on cultivating the leadership, talent, Services.
With access to their skills, experience and to enable usboth to grow our business and further business fromexisting customers.
As a result of those relationships, leading therequirements of our brands customers organisations increasingly are recognising the Apply extensive andmarkets.
capabilities of the Group andits exceptional expertise to deliver service delivery.
highquality services Progress across the UK In each of our markets, we have focused on During the year we have focused on how small Our market-leading partnerships support our Our 3.0 million investment in tools for our developing additional service offerings, including individual change can effect large-scale abilityto achieve a level of innovation and industry-leading service management centre significantly faster broadband speeds and anew improvement.
Successfully win new Priorities contracts with new and existing customers to deliver growth in managed services to reward and recognise employees who to invest in partnerships that support initially to implement efficient scalable : demonstrate excellence in their performance: : back-office processes and systems: to continue the phased deployment and to invest in a communications programme to continue to exploit those strategic to extend and improve our customer take-up of superfast fibre-based that explains clearly our Group values, relationships:and : and broadband services to customers in Hull ambitions and culture: and and EastYorkshire: and to leverage our hosted and cloud to deliver best-in-class levels of to continue developing the skills and collaboration services and unified customerservice.
