KCOM Group PLC Other disclosures Annual report and accounts 2012 13 from Kathy Smith, Company Secretary We take every opportunity to involve and consult with ouremployees and we believe thatemployee involvement isanessential contributor to the development of our business.
Principal activities both linked to our business needs and are also Share capital The principal activities of the Group and its designed to develop our people to their full The Company has a single class of share subsidiary companies are described on pages potential.
Our employment policies are capital which is divided into ordinary shares 2 and 3 and in the Brand review on pages 12to designed to provide equal opportunities of10 pence.
The principal activity of the Company is irrespective of age, disability, ethnicity, that of a holding company.
gender, gender reassignment, marital status Rights and obligations attaching to shares and civil partnership, nationality, pregnancy In a general meeting of the Company voting is Disclosure of all relevant information to and maternity, race, religion and belief and as follows: auditors sexual orientation.
The Directors who approved this report are on a show of hands, every member present satisfied that, as far as they are aware, there is All employees, whether part-time or full-time, in person shall have one vote: no relevant audit information as defined in the temporary or permanent, are treated fairly Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys and equally.
We select employees for on a show of hands, every proxy present auditors are unaware.
Each of the Directors has employment, promotion, training or other who has been duly appointed by one or taken all the steps that they ought to have matters affecting their employment on the more members shall have one vote: and taken as a Director in order to make themselves basis of aptitude and ability.
aware of any relevant audit information and to on a poll, every member who is present in establish that the Companys auditors are We take every opportunity to involve and consult person or by proxy shall have one vote for aware of that information.
with our employees and we believe that every share of which he or she is the holder.
employee involvement is an essential contributor Directors to the development of our business.
Our A member is not entitled to vote in respect of The names and biographical details of our Executive Directors regularly visit our different any share in the capital of the Company held Directors as at 31 March 2013 are on pages office locations to meet with our employees, by him or her, if there are sums payable to the 34and 35.
Further information regarding the provide updates on the performance of the Company in respect of such share which Directors who served during the year can Group and to receive suggestions and feedback, remain unpaid.
befound on pages 36 to 39 and on pages through both roadshow presentations and 44to 56 in the Remuneration report.
Full details of the deadline for exercising votingrights in respect of the resolutions Creditor payment policies Regular video and news updates are provided tobeconsidered at the AGM to be held on The Group seeks to agree payment terms to all employees through our intranet, to keep 26July 2013 are set out in the Notice of Meeting.
witheach supplier when we start doing them informed of activities and Group businesswith them.
We always aim to pay performance.
There is also a monthly briefing All dividends are paid proportionately to the oursuppliers within a reasonable period of the document for managers to share with their amounts paid up on the shares and are paid invoicebeing received and in accordance with teams and a weekly round-up bulletin which to those members whose names are on the the Prompt Payment Code, which can be isdistributed to all employees by email.
share register at the date at which the found at www.
dividend is declared, or at such other date as At31 March 2013, the Company had no trade In March 2013 we undertook our second determined by the Directors or by an ordinary creditors 2012: Nil.
Group creditor days Group-wide employee survey in two years, resolution of the Company.
toobtain feedback on a range of topics.
Theresults of this are currently being fed If the Company is wound up, the liquidator, Charitable and political donations backto employees and action plans are being with the sanction of a special resolution of the The Group made a number of charitable developed to address the key matters raised.
Company or any other sanction required by donations throughout the year to support law, may divide the whole or any part of the community organisations and initiatives, totalling We encourage our employees to become assets of the Company among the 7,025 2012: 11,640.
No political donations shareholders by offering a Share Incentive shareholders and may determine how the were made.
Further information relating to our Plan as we believe this is one opportunity division of the assets will be carried out.
community activities can be found on page 29. toencourage greater employee engagement.
More information about this can be found Transfer of shares Employees onpage 47.
All transfers of uncertificated shares must be Our people are our most valuable asset made in accordance with, and be subject to, andtherefore we take great care to the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 designemployment strategies that are and in accordance with any arrangements made by the Board.
indd 9 6 20 2013 11:14:36 AM Directors report Overview Business review Governance Financials KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2012 13 We encourage our employees to become shareholders by offering a Share Incentive Plan as we believe this is one opportunity to encourage greater employee engagement.
All transfers of certificated shares must be in reduce the share capital in issue.
The total number person or group of persons acting in concert writing in a form which has been approved by of shares held in trust to meet obligations gains control of the Company: and the Directors: this is known as the Instrument under the Companys share schemes is: of Transfer.
The Instrument of Transfer must the Companys share schemes, details of 000s be signed by, or on behalf of, the transferor which are contained in the Remuneration of and the transferor will remain as the holder of report on pages 44 to 56, contain shares the share until the name of the transferee is provisions which take effect in the event of entered into the share register.
As at 1 April 2012 7,811 a change of control, as a result of which options and awards may vest and become As at 31 March 2013 9,524 The Directors may refuse to register the transfer exercisable.
The provisions do not entitle of any share which is not fully paid or which is in participants to a greater interest in the favour of more than four persons jointly.
The shares of the Company than that created Further details around the purchase of shares Directors may also refuse to recognise an by the initial grant or award under the in the year are set out in note 26 to the Instrument of Transfer if it is not lodged at the relevant scheme.
Companys registered office or at any other place which the Directors have determined.
The Company does not have any agreements Shares held by ESTs with any Director or employee that would The trustees of the Kingston Communications If the Directors refuse to register a transfer provide compensation for loss of office or 2000 EST and the Kingston Communications they will send to the transferee a notice of the employment resulting from a takeover.
All Employee Share Plan vote any shares held refusal and the Instrument of Transfer within in the ESTs as they wish, having due regard to two months of the date on which the transfer Annual General Meeting the interests ofthe employees as potential was lodged with the Company.
Our AGM will be held at the KC Stadium, Hull beneficiaries.
The Noticeof Allotment of shares Meeting accompanies this annual report and There are two other ESTs, the Kingston At the AGM in 2012, the Company was isalso available on our Group website at Communications Qualifying Employee Share authorised by the members to allot shares up www.
Four resolutions will Ownership Trust and the KCOM Group PLC to an aggregate nominal amount of beproposed as special business.
Explanatory Employee Benefit Trust, that are currently 17,220,130.
Authority was also given at the notes on these resolutions are set out in the dormant and hold no shares.
same time for the partial disapplication of Notice ofMeeting.
pre-emption rights, up to a maximum Significant agreements change of control aggregate value of 2,583,019.
As at the date The Directors consider that all the resolutions The following significant agreements contain of this report no shares had been allotted proposed are in the best interests of the provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise under this authority.
Company and it is their recommendation that termination or other rights in the event of a shareholders support these proposals as they change of control of the Company: Repurchase of shares intend to do so in respect of their own holdings.
At the AGM in 2012, the Company was under our 200 million multi-currency authorised by members to purchase its own This report has been reviewed and approved revolving facility agreement dated shares, up to a maximum of 51,660,391. by the Board of KCOM Group PLC.
19November 2010, the Company must During the year, the Company did not notify Lloyds TSB Bank PLC, the Agent purchase any of its own shares.
Signed on behalf of the Board oftheagreement, within seven days of becoming aware of a change of control The Company funds Employee Share Trusts ESTs ofthe Company.
Any bank or financial to meet its obligations under the Companys institution named within the facility share schemes.
During the year the ESTs Kathy Smith agreement may then notify the Agent purchased 15,130,000 2012: 600,000 shares Company Secretary within seven days that they wish to cancel on the London Stock Exchange at a cost of 18 June 2013 their commitments.
These of this and all outstanding amounts due to shares represent 2.9 per cent of the called-up that bank or financial institution will become share capital and are held in trust until they vest: immediately due and payable.
For these therefore the purchase of these shares does not purposes, a change of control occurs if any 43 1 KCOM ar13 middle RB.
