KCOM Group PLC Board of Directors Annual report and accounts 2012 13 Bill Halbert Graham Holden Tony Illsley Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Term of office Term of office Term of office Bill was appointed Executive Chairman of the Graham joined the Board in November2007.
Tony joined the Board in June 2009.
KCOM Group in July 2009 having joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director in Previous experience Previous experience September 2006.
Graham is a Chartered Accountant and Tony has held a variety of senior business graduate of the Harvard Advanced positions including Chief Executive Officer of Previous experience Management Programme.
He is Chief Telewest Communications PLC, President of Bill has worked in the information technology Executive of Marshalls PLC, having been with Pepsi Cola Asia Pacific and Senior Independent industry for over 40 years and brings a wealth the Company for 26 years, serving as Group Non-Executive Director of easyJet plc.
of experience and strategic insight to the Financial Director from 1992 until 2001.
During his time in the External appointments industry he founded and was the CEO for External appointments Tony is currently Chairman of Plastic Logic Ltd 13years for Syntegra, BTs global consultancy As well as being the Chief Executive of Marshalls and is a Non-Executive Director of Sepura PLC, and systems integration subsidiary.
PLC, Graham also serves on the Boards of the Camelot Global Services Limited and Camelot Construction Products Association and the Mineral UK Lotteries Limited.
He is also the Chairman of Bills other directorships include Excelsys Ltd, the Yorkshire and Humber Regional Advisory Board Board Committees Jade Communications Ltd and Tacit of Business in the Community and served as Nomination Chairman, Audit and Remuneration.
Connexions Ltd. thePrinces Ambassador to the region until 21June 2012.
Graham is also a Visiting Fellow in Tony is aged 56.
Responsibilities the School of Management at Cranfield University.
As Chairman, Bill is responsible for leading the Board.
He has overall executive responsibility for Board Committees the day-to-day management of the Group and Remuneration Chairman, Audit and Nomination.
Board and management structure Group Investment Committee Approves funding of Group business cases greater than 25,000 anduptoa maximum of 100,000.
Escalates any cases that may needExecutive Management Board approval or have impact ontheGroups growth-enabling programme.
Brand and Group Services management teams Executive Management Board Responsible for the definition and delivery of strategies and Oversees performance of the Group and its brands operationalplans.
and refers matters to the PLC Board as required.
Programme review Ensures that projects and programmes are progressing well in terms ofdelivery, benefit realisation and overall business case.
indd 1 6 20 2013 11:14:30 AM Directors report Overview Business review Governance Financials KCOM Group PLC Annual report and accounts 2012 13 Paul Simpson Martin Towers Kevin Walsh Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Executive Director Term of office Term of office Term of office Paul was appointed Chief Financial Officer in Martin joined the Board in June 2009.
Kevin joined the KCOM Group Board in May May 2004, having joined the Group in 2000.
2004, having joined the Group in 2000.
Previous experience Previous experience Martin is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Previous experience Paul is a graduate in Economics and qualified Accountants in England and Wales and has Kevin was Managing Director of a new media as a Chartered Accountant with Price Waterhouse.
held a number of senior finance roles including start-up and held a number of senior director Prior to joining the Group, Paul worked in Group Finance Director at Kelda Group PLC, roles within the Electrolux Group.
He brings to transaction services at Ernst and Young, Allied Textile Group PLC and the Spring Ram the KCOM Group Board a wealth of business which included working on the flotation Corporation PLC.
knowledge including a significant amount of oftheKCOM Group.
External appointments External appointments Martin is currently Non-Executive Director of External appointments None.
RPC Group PLC and Tyman PLC and Chairman Kevin is a member of Business in the Communitys of Norcros plc.
In January 2013, Martin was Yorkshire and Humber Advisory Board.
He is also Responsibilities awarded the Non-Executive Director of the amember of the City Leadership Board of Paul has responsibility for all finance matters Year award at the Grant Thornton Quoted HullCity Council.
In addition, he has responsibility Company Awards for his work with Tyman PLC.
for the management of the IT, project Responsibilities management and risk teams.
Board Committees Kevin has responsibility for the management Audit Chairman, Nomination andRemuneration.
com forthelatest news, reports, presentations and share price information.
Weare committed KCOM Group PLC Board to providing ourinvestors with Ensures delivery of shareholder value and sets overall strategic the latest information about direction and governance.
Executive Non-Executive Bill Halbert Chairman Graham Holden Paul Simpson Tony Illsley Kevin Walsh Martin Towers Kathy Smith Company Secretary 35 1 KCOM ar13 middle RB.
