Strategic report Governance Financial statements Directors report The Directors present their report together with the audited Transactions with related parties consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December During the year, the Group acquired the remaining 49% minority 2013. shareholding of Keller-Terra S. L. for a cash consideration of 5.6m 6.7m.
The acquisition, as announced on 3 April 2013 and in This report is required to be produced by law.
The UKLAs our interim report for the half year ended 30 June 2013, was from Disclosure and Transparency Rules and Listing Rules also require GTCEISU Construccin S. A. a connected person of Mr Lpez us to make certain disclosures.
Jimnez, who retired as a Director in 2012.
Further information is contained in note 26.
The Strategic report and Corporate Governance statement, including the Audit Committee report, form part of this Directors Directors and their interests report.
Disclosures elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts The names of all persons who, at any time during the year, were are cross-referenced where appropriate.
Taken together, they fulfil Directors of the Company can be found on page 31.
The interests the combined requirements of company law, the Disclosure and of the Directors holding office at the end of the year in the issued Transparency Rules and Listing Rules.
ordinary share of the Company and any interests in its performance share plan are given in the Directors remuneration report on Results and dividends pages 54 and 55.
The results for the year, showing a profit before taxation of 74.1m 2012: 43.5m, are set out on pages 64-99.
The Directors No Director had a material interest in any significant contract, other recommend a final dividend of 16.0p per share to be paid on than a service contract or a contract for services, with the Company 13 June 2014, to members on the register at the close of business or any of its operating companies during the year.
An interim dividend of 8.0p per share was paid on 1 November 2013.
The total dividend for the year of 24.0p 2012: The Companys articles of association indemnify the Directors out 22.8p will amount to 15.4m 2012: 14.7m.
of the assets of the Company in the event that they suffer any loss or liability in the execution of their duties as Directors, subject to the Going concern provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The Company maintains The Directors consider that the Group has adequate financial insurance for Directors and Officers in respect of liabilities which resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future and that could arise on the discharge of their duties.
it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Appointment and replacement of Directors Directors shall be no less than two and no more than 12 in number.
The Directors have satisfied themselves that the Group is in a sound Subject to applicable law, a Director may be appointed by an financial position and that it has access to sufficient borrowing ordinary resolution of shareholders in general meeting following facilities and can reasonably expect sufficient facilities to be nomination by the Board or a member or members entitled to vote available to meet the Groups foreseeable cash requirements.
at such a meeting, or following retirement by rotation if the Director Further information is provided in note 24 to the accounts and the chooses to seek re-election at a general meeting.
In addition, the Financial review.
Directors may appoint a Director to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director, provided that the individual retires at the next Annual Financial instruments General Meeting AGM.
A Director may be removed by the Company Full details can be found in note 24 to the financial statements and as provided for by applicable law, in certain circumstances set out in the Financial review.
in the Companys articles of association for example bankruptcy, or resignation, or by a special resolution of the Company.
All Directors Post-balance sheet events and future developments stand for re-election on an annual basis, in line with the There have been no material events from 31 December 2013 to the recommendations of the Code.
Employees Change of control The Group employed approximately 9,000 people at the end of the The Groups main banking facilities contain provisions that, upon year.
Information on the Groups approach to employee involvement, 15 days notice being given to the Group, lenders may exercise their equal opportunities and health, safety and the environment can be discretion to require immediate repayment of the loans on a change found in the Corporate Responsibility report on pages 21 to 27. of control and cancel all commitments under the agreement.
Powers of the Directors Certain other commercial agreements, entered into in the normal The business of the Company is managed by the Board who may course of business, include change of control provisions.
There are exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the provisions of no agreements providing for compensation for the Directors or the Companys articles of association, the Companies Act 2006 and employees on a change of control.
any ordinary resolution of the Company.
Political donations No contributions were made to any political party during the year.
Keller has an established policy of not making donations to any before exceptional items.
political party, representative or candidate in any part of the world.
Annual Report & Accounts 2013 57 Governance Directors report continued Greenhouse gas emissions Allotment of shares and pre-emption disapplication The disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions required Shareholder authority was also given at the last AGM for the Directors by law are included in the Corporate Responsibility report.
to allot new shares up to a nominal amount of 2,144,574, equivalent to approximately one-third of the Companys issued Research and development share capital excluding treasury shares as at 4 March 2013 and The Group continues to have in-house design, development and to disapply pre-emption rights up to an aggregate nominal amount manufacturing facilities, where staff work closely with site engineers of 321,686, representing approximately 5% of the Companys to develop new and more effective methods of solving problems of issued share capital as at 4 March 2013. ground conditions and behaviour.
Most of the specialised ground improvement equipment used in the business is designed and built The Directors have not used, and have no current plans to use, in-house and, where applicable, the development costs are these authorities.
included in the cost of the equipment.
Placing of shares Share capital On 28 June 2013, shareholders in General Meeting approved the Details of the share capital, together with details of the movements proposed acquisition of Keller Canada, which completed on 12 July in the Companys issued share capital during the year, are shown in 2013.
The acquisition was partly funded by a placing of 6,600,000 note 25: Share capital and reserves.
The Company has one class new Ordinary Shares of 10 pence each in the share capital of the of ordinary shares which is listed on the London Stock Exchange Company, placed at a price of 890 pence per share raising gross Ordinary Shares.
Ordinary Shares carry no right to a fixed proceeds of 58.7 million.
The shares issued represented income: and each Ordinary Share carries the right to one vote approximately 9.9 per cent of the Companys existing issued at general meetings of the Company.
ordinary share capital as at that date.
There are no specific restrictions on the size of a shareholding, nor Substantial shareholdings on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the articles of At 3 March 2014, the Company had been notified in accordance association and the prevailing law.
The Directors are not aware of with chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions Financial Conduct Authority of the following voting rights of on voting rights and the transfer of securities.
No person has any shareholders in the Company: special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all Number of Percentage of the issued shares are fully paid.
Ordinary Shares Companys total voting rights Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 29: ShareFranklin Templeton Institutional LLC 7,101,632 10.01% based payments.
Shares held by the Keller Group plc Employee BlackRock Inc 6,139,283 9.54% Benefit Trust are not voted.
Old Mutual Global Investors UK Limited 4,011,578 5.49% Franklin Resources Inc 3,408,196 5.30% Repurchase of shares Schroders plc 3,148,747 4.89% The Company obtained shareholder authority at the last AGM BlackRock Special - - Situations Fund 2,365,848 3.68% 23 May 2013 to buy back up to 6,649,974 Ordinary Shares.
The Legal & General Group plc 3,551,961 5.00% authority remains outstanding until the conclusion of the 2014 AGM Including Financial Instruments with similar economic effect to Qualifying Financial or 23 August 2014, whichever is the earlier.
which must be paid for each Ordinary Share is its nominal value and the maximum price is the higher of an amount equal to but more Amendment of the Companys articles of association than 5% above the average of the middle market quotations for an Any amendments to the Companys articles of association may be Ordinary Share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 Official List for the five business days immediately before the by way of special resolution.
purchase is made and an amount equal to the higher of the price of the last independent trade of an Ordinary Share and the highest Auditors current independent bid for an Ordinary Share on the trading venue As a result of a change to KPMGs legal structure, KPMG Audit Plc where the purchase is carried out.
has notified the Company that it is not seeking re-appointment: KPMG LLP is seeking appointment in its place.
KPMG Audit Plc The Directors have not used, and have no current plans to use, has provided the Company with a statement of circumstances.
The resolution to appoint KPMG LLP will be put to shareholders at the 2014 AGM.
58 Keller Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements Annual General Meeting The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this The 2014 AGM of the Company will take place at the offices of Directors report confirm that, in accordance with the provisions Investec, 2 Gresham Street, London, EC2V 7QP at 11.00am on of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, so far as they are Thursday, 22 May 2014.
The full wording of the resolutions to be each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the tabled at the meeting is set out in the Notice of AGM.
Companys Auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to Disclaimer make him or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to The purpose of this Annual Report and Accounts is to provide establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
information to the members of the Company.
The Annual Report and Accounts have been prepared for, and only for, the members In addition, the Directors as at the date of this report, consider the of the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
Annual Report and Accounts, taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and provides the information necessary for The Company, its Directors and employees, agents or advisers do shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business not accept or assume responsibility to any other person to whom model and strategy.
this document is shown or into whose hands it may come and any such responsibility or liability is expressly disclaimed.
On behalf of the Board The Annual Report and Accounts contain certain forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can Kerry Porritt cause results and developments to differ materially from those Secretary anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual 3 March 2014 Report and Accounts and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Registered Office: Report and Accounts should be construed as a profit forecast.
Capital House 25 Chapel Street Information provided by the Company pursuant to the Disclosure London NW1 5DH and Transparency Rules is publicly available via the regulatory Registered in England No: 2442580 information services and on our website www.
