Strategic report Our markets Market drivers Throughout the world, we expect the In our developing markets, additional increasing land shortage, driving a growth in specialist ground engineering to drivers, such as population growth, need to use more brownfield and exceed the growth in general construction, urbanisation, rapid industrialisation and marginal land: driven over the medium-to-long term by increased overseas trade, are expected to such trends as: sustain high levels of investment across the climate change, triggering more river whole construction sector over the and dam flood protection projects: medium-to-long term and we continue to strengthen our position in these regions.
the prevalence of very large-scale development projects: the need for investment in energy capacity: and the renewal of outdated road and rail infrastructure.
Our markets and competition Local National or regional, in larger countries International Competition Competition Competition Local competition is highly fragmented In Europe, competition is often owned by Only very few competitors can claim to comprising many small businesses, often general contractors.
In the US and have a truly global capability, strong financial family-owned, with limited equipment Australia, these services are usually credentials and the ability to offer a full capacity and few or single product lines.
competitors tend to be privately owned.
Types of project Types of project Types of project Standard foundations for small to medium As local markets, together with foundations Large-scale projects, requiring capacity structures, where ground conditions are for larger structures and more complex or expertise which may not be available relatively straightforward.
solutions for challenging ground conditions.
Often direct foreign investment, where funders or clients prefer to contract with international partners.
Kellers advantage in this segment Kellers advantage in this segment Kellers advantage in this segment As the largest independent operator Our structure enables us to compete We have a wide network of subsidiary with a global presence, we can: with local players for  and branch offices employing follow known customers into new sized contracts.
local people with knowledge of: geographic markets: national building codes: pool our global resources and expertise: local language and business culture: and and local ground conditions.
meet the stringent quality, safety and ethical standards of our blue chip customers.
