Strategic report Our strategy Our strategy is to extend our global leadership Expansion in specialist ground engineering through both into new, higherorganic growth, particularly in developing growth regions markets, and targeted acquisitions.
In 2013, we made significant progress in delivering against our strategy.
There are five elements to our strategy: New technologies and methods Expansion developed or acquired New Continuous technologies improvement and methods Keller Group plc Design Transfer of and build technologies Transfer of technologies and methods within our current regions Design and build capability and offering alternative solutions Continuous improvement to maintain our competitive edge 06 Keller Group plc Strategic report Governance Financial statements to find out more please visit our website www.
co. uk 2013 Achievements During the year, we acquired businesses growing longer-term demand from growth opportunities in Africa, the Middle in two higher-growth regions: this sector.
Canada Geo-Foundations and Keller The Franki Africa acquisition will accelerate We also continued to strengthen our major Canada : and Kellers entry into selected Sub-Saharan project capability to improve access to construction markets, where significant large-scale development projects, many of Sub-Saharan Africa Franki Africa growth is expected over the medium to which are in our new, higher-growth markets.
The acquisition of Keller Canada has long term, fuelled by major infrastructure increased the Groups exposure to the and resources-related projects.
North American energy and resources We changed the structure of our EMEA sector, including the Alberta oil sands division to enable us to focus fully on the segment, positioning it to benefit from We acquired expertise in helical piles and Our equipment facility, which designs and pipeline anchor systems through our Keller manufactures our specialist plant, continued Canada acquisition.
its programme of enabling new, more efficient methods through the adaptation and We continued to fund research into future optimisation of our plant.
technologies, including: selection of best drilling methods and tools: new materials for use in geotechnical solutions: and electronic data acquisition and workflow control.
We identified further opportunities for Through our recent acquisitions we created We also continued our programme of technology transfer, including: new routes to market for the Groups Group-wide engineering seminars to geotechnical solutions in Canada and Subshare knowledge within Keller of some taking our GETEC monitoring system Saharan Africa, where some of our specialty of our less widely used technologies.
to the US and Asia: and geotechnical techniques are not widely introducing wick drains and controlled available.
We expect that an increasing stiffness columns in Australia.
market acceptance of these techniques over time will offer significant long-term organic growth potential.
Around 45% of our 2013 revenue was from Heather Marina Refurbishment Project at Karimun Island Petroleum Storage Terminal, design and build work, such as the following Vancouver Harbour, where Keller Canada Indonesia, where we designed and installed projects: designed, fabricated and installed concrete stone columns to stabilise the ground floats for 28 new boat slips: beneath oil storage tanks.
Australia Pacific LNG, where we completed the design and build of a materials offloading Slave Memorial Centre at Guadeloupe, facility: French West Indies, where we designed and executed ground improvement works, using Gdansk Railway Station, Poland, where rigid inclusions: and our winning alternative design drew on a range of piling and ground improvement techniques: Through global collaboration, we further These improvements have been reflected in: improved our processes and performance in: a further improvement in our operating risk management: margin: participation in large and complex projects: a further increase in revenue and profit earned from large projects, building on the equipment management: and record levels in 2012: safety management.
the optimisation of equipment utilisation, improving efficiency and helping to limit our capital expenditure: and the quality of reporting of safety incidents.
