Kentz Corporation LimitedAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 84 DIRECTORS REPORT PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The Directors have pleasure in presenting the In accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended Rules of the United Kingdoms Financial Services 31 December 2013.
Authority, the Directors are required to give a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES These are addressed in the Principal Risks and The principal activities of the Group consist of the provision Uncertainties outlined on pages 38 to 41. of mechanical, electrical, controls and instrumentation, engineering, construction and management services to GOING CONCERN theoil and gas, petrochemical, power, process, water and environmental, communications and commercial and The Directors confirm that it is appropriate to apply infrastructure services.
thegoing concern concept in preparing the Financial Statements of the Group.
In forming this view, the BOARD OF DIRECTORS Directors have reviewed the Groups budgets and projections, and have satisfied themselves that the The Directors who served the Company during the year Groupis in a sound financial position.
ended 31 December 2013 were: Tan Sri Mohd Razali Abdul Rahman, Christian Brown, David MacFarlane, GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS David Beldotti, Ed Power, Hans Kraus, Brendan Lyons.
During the year, the UK Government introduced a RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS requirement that UK listed companies should report their global levels of Greenhouse Gas GHG emissions in their The Consolidated Income Statement and Consolidated annual report and accounts.
Statement of Financial Position for the year ended 31December 2013 are set out on pages 90 and 92.
The mandatory requirement is for disclosure of Scope Profitbefore taxation, after exceptional items, for the One and Two only direct emissions, e. g. heating, cooling, year amounted to US$109.7m, an increase of 4.7% on the transport fuel and indirect emissions, e. g. from purchased previous year.
After providing for tax and non-controlling electricity and only to the extent that such emissions are interests, the net profit attributable to shareholders was the responsibility of the Company.
Basic earnings per share amounted to 62.57 US$ cents compared with 60.03 US$ Kentz has not in the past collected the data necessary to cents in the previous year, an increase of 4.2%.
Dividends meet these GHG emissions reporting requirements and proposed and paid during the year amounted to therefore is not able to comply with these new reporting US$18.3m.
requirements at 31 December 2013. BUSINESS REVIEW AND FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS We aim to satisfy the requirements of all local legislation A review of the Group performance for the year is and during 2013 engaged with a number of external included in the Strategic Report on pages 1 to 51. advisors in order to establish a global reporting GHG framework.
We have been successful in this and have SUBSTANTIAL INTERESTS finalised our Scope One and Two reporting boundaries, In accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency as well as an intensity ratio as per the new UK legislation.
Rules DTR5, the Group as at 28 February 2014, has been Data collection commenced in September of 2013 during notified of the following disclosable interests of 3% or which we set a baseline measurement.
We shall make a more of its issued share capital.
full disclosure of our GHG data in our 2014 Annual Report and Accounts.
SHARES 28 FEBRUARY 2014 % Kerbet Limited 15,875,000 13.27 Standard Life Investments 7,228,193 6.04 Artemis Investment Mgt 6,720,979 5.62 Majedie Asset Mgt 4,840,463 4.05 NFU Mutual Investment Mgrs 3,974,668 3.32 Royal London Asset Mgt 3,645,060 3.05 Note: all interests disclosed to the Group in accordance with DTR5 that have occurred since 28 February 2014 can be found on the website.
Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Kentz Corporation LimitedAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 85 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES DIRECTORS STATEMENT PURSUANT TO THE TRANSPARENCY REGULATIONS The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Financial Statements in accordance with Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are applicable law and regulations.
listed on pages 52 and 53, confirms that, to the best of each persons knowledge and belief: Jersey company law requires the Directors to prepare the Financial Statements for each financial year which give a the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and IFRS, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, of the profit or loss of the Group for that year.
In financial position and profit of the Group: and preparing those financial statements, the Directors are the Directors Report includes a fair review of the required to: development and performance of the Groups Select suitable accounting policies and then apply business and the position of the Group, together with them on a consistent basis.
a description of the principal risks and uncertainties Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable facing the Group.
State whether applicable accounting standards have In addition, the Directors as at the date of this report been followed, subject to any material differences consider that the Annual Report and Financial Statements, disclosed and explained in the Financial Statements.
taken as a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and Prepare the Financial Statements on the going provides the information necessary for shareholders to concern basis unless it is not appropriate to presume assess the Companys performance, business model that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the On behalf of the Board of Directors above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors have prepared the Group Financial Statements in accordance with International Christian Brown Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
Director 21 March 2014 The Directors are also required by the Listing Rules issued by the London Stock Exchange, to prepare a Report of the Directors and reports relating to Directors Ed Power remuneration and corporate governance.
In accordance Director with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the United 21 March 2014 Kingdoms Financial Services Authority the Transparency Regulations, the Directors are required to include a management report containing a fair review of the business and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper books of accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and to ensure that the financial statements comply with relevant legislation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance andintegrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Groups website.
Legislation in Jersey governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
For more information, please visit: www.
