Kentz Corporation LimitedAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 10 OUR MARKETS INTRODUCTION Kentz is in a strong position Kentzs geographical spread, value given our geographical chain and service line flexibility ensure spread, value chain and that we are not dependent on any particular sector, investment cycle or service line flexibility not to be location.
Kentz works in 36 countries, dependent on any particular providing a broad range of services to sector, investment cycle or numerous sectors of the energy and resource industry.
The flexibility of our location of the world.
business model provides the Group with significant opportunities in different markets and at various stages of the investment cycles.
Given the committed and impressive client base that Kentz has developed over the past three decades and the high level of repeat business that we earn, the outlook for the business continues to be very strong.
GEOGRAPHICAL OPPORTUNITIES Kentz has earned the reputation as thecan-do team for the construction of the new Australian LNG facilities.
Australia represents 46% of the Groups backlog at the end of 2013.
However, the outlook for further LNG developments in Australia appears uncertain due to the globally uncompetitive cost structure locally.
Kentzs focus will be on completing the Gorgon LNG project which is due to produce its first LNG in mid-2015.
The client is considering expansion ofthis development from the current three LNG trains to possibly four or five.
Should this expansion proceed, Kentz is well placed to assist in this development project.
Recently, Kentzwas awarded a significant piece of work for both the electrical and instrumentation and mechanical packages for the two LNG trains at the Ichthys development in the Northern Territory of Australia.
Final Investment Ichthys LNG, Australia Decision FID for this development was granted in January 2012 with Kentz already being awarded two contracts there to date.
This GIVEN THE LARGE AND IMPRESSIVE CLIENT development will provide revenues toKentz for the next few years.
In BASE THAT HAS BEEN DEVELOPED OVER THE addition to this construction work, PAST THREE DECADES THROUGHOUT THE significant opportunities exist for Kentz to provide services during the WORLD AND THE HIGH LEVEL OF REPEAT opex phases at all LNG developments by our TSS business.
BUSINESS THAT KENTZ EARNS EACH YEAR, THE OUTLOOK FOR THE BUSINESS IN GENERAL The discovery of large amounts of gas in East Africa in recent years provides CONTINUES TO LOOK VERY STRONG.
considerable opportunities for Kentz, particularly in Mozambique.
Kentz has successfully operated in Mozambique for 16 years and our successful delivery of projects provides a strong foundation for future expansion.
We Strategic Corporate Financial Report Governance Statements Kentz Corporation LimitedAnnual Report and Accounts 2013 11 also have strong relationships with The Middle East has been a core capital investment returns.
Certainly thelocal government and local market for Kentz and we believe that for the short to medium term, we do communities, developed in part this region will continue to be a source not foresee mining becoming a larger through our Corporate Responsibility of continued growth for Kentz through part of our business.
Having gained experience in our clients and their projects.
The 2013 the LNG sector in the Middle East results for Saudi Arabia were at record OUTLOOK andAustralasia, Kentz brings that levels and the outlook for 2014 is also Reflecting on the significant Kentz experience and track record to very positive.
Bidding activity in the project load in the oil and gas sector, Mozambique.
That expertise, coupled region increased in 2013 and won a our corporate outlook is influenced with our knowledge of operating in number of new awards.
Momentum is by underlying petrochemical pricing Mozambique, uniquely positions Kentz also building on the oil projects in Iraq markets.
The Brent crude oil price to significantly influence the future that we have been following for some was broadly unchanged in 2013 and development of LNG facilities there.
We have entered into a joint averaged US$109, ranging between venture agreement with Foster US$97US$119.
The Energy Since entering the Canadian market Wheeler to provide services to the Information Administration expects in2008, efficiently supporting the oil much anticipated Shell Majnoon Brent crude to average US$105 in sands sector has been at the forefront project, which is a super-giant oil field 2013 and US$102 in 2014.
Decisions of our Canadian strategy.
We have and one of the richest oil fields in the made by our clients as to project generated sizable revenues and profits world.
We have made progress in viability are made with a longer term in the past three years from this sector winning new business in Iraq which view on pricing and demand, a large but we are seeing some slowdown suggests that this country will provide decrease could create some which will change the dynamic of our a larger part of our revenue stream in uncertainty and delays.
However, the LNG market the near to medium term.
in Canada is looking more positive.
The key indicators suggest that According to BPs Statistical Review of SECTOR ANALYSIS theoutlook for Kentz continues to World Energy 2012, global LNG supply At the end of 2013, the oil and gas be positive.
We ended 2013 with a is expected to grow at twice the rate sector represented 85% of our record backlog of US$3.1bn which 4.5% per annum of total global gas backlog with the remainder largely increased to US$3.5bn when we production 2.1% per annum by 2030. comprising petrochemicals and completed the acquisition of Valerus The International Energy Agency mining.
In all parts of the world we on 3 January 2014.
This is an increase estimates the scale of new LNG continue to see investment from our of 35% on 31 December 2012 and projects will require a US$250bn clients in the oil and gas sector and accounts for approximately 75% investment over the next 30 years.
this is evidenced by the increase in our ofexpected 2014 revenues of the Currently a total of seven planned LNG pipeline of prospects which grew 18% combined Group.
projects in Canada have been granted in 2013 to US$15.6bn.
export licences with three others under In addition to the sizeable backlog, review.
As in Mozambique, Kentz has a Mining has represented a smaller part the18% growth in our pipeline of strong presence in Canada and LNG of our business in the past two years prospects highlights the considerable experience with the oil majors in other and is now 5% of our Group backlog, opportunities for our business and the parts of the world that puts us in a broadly in line with the previous year.
continued investment by our clients.
good position to benefit from the We see some opportunities in Africa in These key indicators coupled with our investment in LNG in Canada.
the mining sector and we will continue successful track record and exemplary to maintain our presence in the mining performance provide confidence for sector to be in a strong position when another successful year in 2014.
REVENUE BY SECTOR BACKLOG BY GBU PIPELINE BY REGION % % % US$ US$ US$ 15.6bn 1.6bn 3.1bn 68% Oil and gas 15% EPC 13% Americas 15% Petrochemicals 49% Construction 11% Africa 14% Mining and metals 36% Technical Support Services 34% Middle East and Caspian 2% Power 34% Australasia 1% Other 8% Far East and Russia For more information, please visit: www.
