A 30m deep access shaft at Hanover Square for Operational review the Bond Street Eastern Ticket Hall, part of one of our joint venture contracts for Crossrail in London.
Construction The Construction division comprises comprising contracts on which we are Revenue m our UK building, civil engineering and in one-to-one negotiations, totalled overseas businesses, which are highly 1.3bn, and have maintained the skilled in the construction of the full secured and probable order book at 1,308m -5% range of building projects, together 2.2bn 2012: 2.2bn.
This secures 2013 1,308 with power, waste and infrastructure all of our targeted revenue for the 2014 2012 1,384 facilities, transport, water and mining financial year.
2011 1,445 Approximately 49% of our awards Construction business review were for public sector projects 2012: Revenue in Construction was 5% lower 50% and we continue to predict that than last year, at 1,308m 2012: the balance of public sector to private Operating profit m 1,384m, as a result of poor weather sector work will remain at these levels.
in the first quarter of this calendar year Of the public sector awards, the 30.4m -14% causing delays and pushing revenues education sector continues to be the into the 2014 financial year.
We have 2013 30.4 largest source of work, representing also experienced a change in the mix 28% of awards 2012: 31%.
Despite 2012 35.2 of activities within the division.
UK the decline in education spending, the 2011 39.3 building revenue has decreased to Contractors Framework continues to approximately 1bn, as we maintain provide opportunities and during the our focus on the quality of work we year has resulted in more than 100m Order book pursue.
However, this reduction has of contract awards.
A replacement been partially mitigated by growth in UK framework is currently being tendered infrastructure and overseas revenues.
2.2bn with award notification expected in As a result of the increasing proportion October 2013, which could be worth 2012: 2.2bn of UK infrastructure and overseas up to 4bn over four years.
operations, a selective approach to new Kier has secured a place on all five lots work and our prudent profit recognition of the replacement LHC Frameworks Operating margin policy, the operating margin, at 2.3% representing a consortia of local 2012: 2.5% represented a strong authorities and London boroughs performance in todays markets, 2.3% covering all of England, Scotland delivering 30.4m 2012: 35.2m 2012: 2.5% and Wales, and is actively pursuing of operating profit.
the Private Finance Priority Schools Cash, an area of key focus in this Building Programme PSBP, having division, reduced to 320m 2012: recently secured the Southern Batch 361m after a 14m investment in conventionally funded PSBP.
our mining operations, a 6m cash effect of the restructuring programme, combined with a changing mix of activities with an increasing number Construction division strategy by revenue of infrastructure projects typically of a target cost, reimbursable nature.
As markets begin to improve, we are well placed However, the working capital trends to focus strategically on growth areas.
In all those that affected the building operations in areas, we have secured good framework positions which will deliver revenue in the coming years.
the first six months of the financial year did not significantly affect the second We continue to strengthen our UK infrastructure half of the year.
We will maintain business so that it can execute some of the strong management of working capital, largest civil engineering schemes in the country, particularly across public sector where barriers to entry are higher.
contracts and framework arrangements, Our overseas business has also expanded where more stringent supply chain and strengthened over recent years and payment terms are being introduced.
we are looking to consolidate that growth.
We are based in three regions Hong Kong, We continue to have good visibility the Middle East and the Caribbean.
of high quality opportunities, with approximately 60% of contract awards during the year arising from numerous frameworks, together with a number of negotiated opportunities with clients with which we have long-term and well-established relationships.
These For more information see pages 2 and 3.
Before exceptional items and amortisation of awards, together with probable awards intangible assets relating to contract rights.
14 Kier Group plc Overview Operational review Corporate responsibility Financial review Governance Financial statements Construction division strategy by revenue 2010 2013 Medium term UK Building UK Infrastructure Overseas Historic transition Future transition Focus on Infrastructure UK growth drivers Power Nuclear Government investment targets Waste Energy markets Transport Transport strategy Water 100m pa Kier Property developments Re-energise overseas markets Overseas Focus on frameworks Middle East economic resurgence Abu Dhabi: Saudi Arabia Hong Kong and Asia Re-design business structure to match market opportunities Annual Report and Accounts 2013 15 The Camden Civic Centre development at Operational review Kings Cross left which is set to be one of the greenest buildings in London.
Pictured is the Construction progress at the beginning of July 2013 showing the expansive open plan access centre at ground to Continued second floor level and commercial space above.
The ArtHouse, Plot J1 at Kings Cross Central below, comprises 143 high quality one, two, three and four-bed residential units including 29 Registered Social Landlord units over eight floors.
The building also includes commercial units at street level and 37 basement parking spaces.
We were also appointed to the South scheme.
This is in addition to the West Hub in Scotland, where there is 110m of work currently underway a pipeline of 600m of work over 10 on the development.
years for 17 councils and other public Our Living business continues to be bodies, and have recently become successful in bidding and delivering preferred bidder on 60m of design & medium and high-rise contract housing, build and Facilities Management FM care homes and similar residential schools work under the scheme.
establishments and secured over The healthcare sector represented 15% 150m of opportunities during the year.
of our contract awards 2012: 10% and Our core strategy of targeting longthe six-year ProCure21 Framework, term residential framework positions which commenced in 2010, generated has been successful with 70% of new over 150m of awards in the year and orders derived from such frameworks.
400m to date, with a further pipeline Our UK infrastructure business had a identified in excess of 300m.
We were appointed 2013, we were selected as one of preferred bidder in June 2013 as part five delivery partners for Frameworks of a three-way joint venture, Merseylink, Scotland 2 for healthcare projects over with FCC and Samsung, to deliver the 1m, with a forecast total of 660m capital works on the circa 450m over six years, and in the same month Mersey Gateway scheme, which we were appointed as contractor for the includes construction of a new six- 115m redevelopment of Broadmoor lane toll bridge over the River Mersey Hospital.
Financial In the private sector, the strategic close is expected later this year.
relationship we have developed with the Argent Group at the Kings Cross Central Development continues to be a success, providing nearly 90m of projects at preferred bidder stage, including a 65m residential-led mixed-use development, an 18m supermarket project and a 5m pavilion 16 Kier Group plc Overview Operational review Corporate responsibility Financial review Governance Financial statements We have also been successful in many in the region.
In Hong Kong, our major of our other core infrastructure sectors joint venture projects for the Mass nuclear, energy, and transport.
In Transit Railway Corporation MTRC are nuclear, we have completed work at progressing well and we are targeting Sellafield and Aldermaston and have a number of further opportunities in secured 80m of work at Urenco, and both the infrastructure and building we are making good progress on two sectors over the next 12 months.
Our major waste-to-energy schemes at overseas business is on target to Wakefield and Plymouth.
achieve revenues of 150m in 2014, as predicted.
In the rail sector, we continue to progress well on Crossrail projects with Construction markets and outlook over 800m of work underway in joint The Construction business has venture on the C300 410 Western maintained a strong position across Tunnels and the Farringdon and its key markets.
However, the trading Liverpool Street stations.
We have also environment is such that margins Contract awards Public sector completed work on the roof at Kings and working capital continue to Cross station in London and the station be challenging.
The restructuring regeneration at Epsom.
programme will ensure we operate as 49% efficiently as possible and maintain 2012: 50% At the Greenburn surface coal mine, we operating margins at approximately 2%.
secured planning for a further extension to the mining area, adding 750,000t of We will continue with the strategy of coal to the consented reserves.
Work focusing on the selection of high quality Contract awards Private sector has already commenced in the new opportunities which best complement area, Wellhill, which will be mined over our skill sets and technical expertise.
51% the next three years in conjunction with Our regional building coverage across 2012: 50% our existing Braehead site.
the UK remains important: we will also continue to invest in our UK Overseas, we continue to experience infrastructure activities and pursue growth in our chosen markets.
In growth in our key overseas regions.
The the Caribbean, we have enjoyed recent acquisition of May Gurney also another successful year with awards broadens our access to the rail market, in Jamaica and Haiti, including a new where our combined capabilities 22m Marriott Hotel in Port-au-Prince.
will help us deliver larger and more The pipeline of regional opportunities integrated projects in this sector.
remains strong and includes a number of opportunities in Trinidad and the This robust approach will ensure our Eastern Caribbean.
Similar success future strong performance, which has been enjoyed in the Middle East, together with our mix of activities where we have secured a number of across building and infrastructure, projects in Abu Dhabi, Dubai and Saudi positions the business well for Arabia, and we are in preferred bidder the future.
position for a negotiated 32m hotel Kier is one of three construction joint venture partners preferred by Halton Borough Council to deliver the 450m Mersey Gateway project left as part of the Merseylink Consortium.
The first phase of works at the Sidney Stringer Academy below saw Kier construct two new three-storey Academy buildings.
Pictured here is the main building.
