Overview It has been an eventful year for Kier A year and its employees across the UK and overseas.
With the acquisition of in review May Gurney in July, we expect the next year to be even more exciting.
July 2012 October 2012 Kier finished its three-year scheme Karters raise 50k for The Kier Foundation @kiergroup Great to see with Featherstone 2 prison and Barnardos Kier helping the community The major new 200m custodial facility, now Eighteen teams of Kier employees and their and providing local children named HMP Oakwood, comprises a self supply chain partners donned racing suits in the opportunity to learn contained Category B-enabled prison, the name of charity, raising money for The Kier about wildlife @CCScheme providing over 1,600 cells on a 38-acre site.
Foundation in a six-hour outdoor endurance karting challenge at Daytona Karting, Milton Keynes.
In total, over 50k has been raised on behalf of Barnardos by Kier Services, with the karting event contributing a large portion: a range of other fundraising activities Kier forms JV to enter anaerobic including rock gigs and cake sales provided digestion market the remainder.
Kier entered a 50:50 joint venture with Bedfordia, a Bedfordshire-based company, in order to target the growing anaerobic digestion AD market.
The joint venture will be known as Biogen, an existing division November 2012 within Bedfordia that runs two successful Kier signs up to green deal AD plants in Bedfordshire and Kier is the latest big name organisation to Northamptonshire.
Several new plants are receive Green Deal accreditation from now being developed across the UK.
Southend Pier Cultural Centre The Big Lift is uploaded on YouTube The film shows how the structure was Kier awarded 120m environmental transported from Londons Tilbury Docks services contract @kiergroup thank you SO and secured in place at the end of Southend Kier was awarded an environmental services Pier.
com watch?v much for sponsoring the contract valued at around 120m by four 9pgiKI9nwU.
There was a You gave hundreds of kids phased start to the four councils services, Eastbourne and Wealden began in April & grownups!
an amazing 2013 followed by Hastings in July 2013 and spectacle!
Double success at Concrete Society Awards The Oak Chapel at the Crownhill Crematorium, which was designed by Adrian Morrow Architects, received double recognition at the Concrete Society Awards: it won not only a Certificate of Excellence in the Building category, but also a August 2012 Commendation in the Sustainability category.
Kier preferred bidder to deliver 140m Watford Health Campus The scheme comprises a 375,000sq ft mixed-use development, including new Repairs app rolled out to hospital facilities for Watford and SouthSheffield and Gosport West Hertfordshire: up to 650 homes, Following the successful launch of 35% of which are affordable housing: its smartphone application in Harlow, Kier a 37,500sq ft office, pre-let to WHHT: and has rolled out the Kier Repairs app to a large multi-storey car park.
tenants and leaseholders in Sheffield and Gosport.
The free to download app enables tenants and leaseholders, who are eligible for Kiers repairs and maintenance services on their home, to report repairs directly using their smartphone.
Kier is the first, and currently only, contractor to have launched a repair app for its customers.
06 Kier Group plc Overview Operational review Corporate responsibility Financial review Governance Financial statements Stay in touch Follow us on Twitter YouTube In order to maximise our At the year-end we had over In the year we uploaded communication with stakeholders, 12,000 followers on Twitter five videos on YouTube we have updated our website and @kiergroup.
com KierGroupplc embraced social media channels.
A happy 1st birthday to June 2013 The Kier Foundation Kier preferred bidder for 115m Broadmoor @kiergroup thank you for The Kier Foundation celebrated its first hospital redevelopment your prompt responses, birthday and looks forward to a second Kier was announced preferred bidder its always nice to see sucessful year with the help of Kier by the West London Mental Health Trust companies using social employees.
The charity has managed to triple for the redevelopment scheme at Broadmoor media effectively to address its 2012 fundraising target for Kiers high secure mental health hospital in issues.
@SJWallettBeng corporate charity partner Barnardos.
It involves the people received match funding for their construction of a new hospital containing individual charitable events while another 162 mental health beds, and will transport 100, including members of the main Board, the 150-year-old hospital into the donated their time, energy and skills to 21st century, providing a modern, fit for Kier appointed for key Haiti helping community projects across the UK.
purpose environment for services and reconstruction project securing the future of high secure mental Kier was awarded a design and build healthcare locally.
contract for a hotel project in Haiti that is seen as a pivotal scheme in the islands reconstruction following the earthquake that struck in January 2010.
The 175-bedroom hotel in Port-au-Prince is being financed by mobile phone provider Digicel Group and will be operated by Marriott Hotels & Resorts.
February 2013 July 2013 Kier scheme named training There is a pot of gold at the initiative of the year Kiers outstanding record for developing its end of these rainbows new employees was recognised at the 2013 Energy Centre looking good & Construction News Awards when it was on target thanks @kiergroup awarded Training Initiative of the Year for pic.
com pWJRanZO @ April 2013 its Developing Leaders Scheme.
SDCEnergyCentre Kier leaps to Platinum Big Tick for its corporate responsibility Kier has been recognised with the highest ranking in Business in the Communitys Corporate Responsibility Index and received March 2013 the Platinum Big Tick with a score of 95%.
Saudi JV signing Kier Group chief executive Paul Sheffield signed a joint venture JV agreement between Kier and the AA Turki Group of May 2013 companies ATCO of the Kingdom of Saudi Kier launches new website Arabia.
The agreement will lead to the The new site received a complete facelift formation of a new company, ATCO Kier to coincide with the launch of Kiers new Construction, jointly owned by Kier 65% branding.
and ATCO 35%, with the remit to tender for and construct both civil and building projects Kier acquires May Gurney Integrated within Saudi Arabia.
Services plc On 8 July 2013, Kier acquired May Gurney, welcoming another 6,000 employees to the Kier family.
