Financial review Business risks The key to the continued success of the Our risk management process The Groups risk management framework Groups business strategy is its ability to requires all divisions and operating businesses within them to identify and identify and manage effectively the risks to assess the key risks facing them which could impact on their ability to deliver its businesses and operations.
The Group, the divisions and the operating businesses maintain approach is to identify the key risks and risk registers which are used to document the key risks facing the then assess the effectiveness of controls business, together with an assessment of the likelihood and impact of each risk to mitigate the impact and likelihood of occurring as well as an assessment of the effectiveness of the key controls in these risks occurring.
place to mitigate the risk.
Action plans are developed and put in place to mitigate potential exposures.
These risk How the Group manages risk Principal risks registers are regularly reviewed to identify and assurance The nature of the industries and the new risks as they arise and to monitor The Board is responsible for the Groups business environment in which the Group the action plans.
system of risk management and internal operates are inherently risky.
Although it controls and the Group risk management is recognised that it is not possible to framework, which sets out the mechanism eliminate all such risks and uncertainties, 1.
Identify and reporting structure to ensure that key the Group has well-established risk risks identified at business unit, risks are continually monitored and any management and internal control division and Group level action plans to mitigate the risks are systems to manage them, which have risks recorded in risk registers reviewed.
A Group assurance map is also helped the Group respond to the used to co-ordinate the various assurance changing business environment and the providers within the Group.
challenges presented during the year.
The Board has delegated to the Risk As a result of the comprehensive 2.
Diagnose and qualify Management and Audit Committee the operational review of the business and risks analysed as to lik elihood responsibility for reviewing the the integration of May Gurney, the Group and impact effectiveness of the Groups internal is experiencing a period of organisational controls and assessment of controls, including the systems change.
These changes impact on a effectiveness recorded established to identify, assess, manage number of the Groups principal business and monitor risk and provide assurance.
risks which are described on the following In addition to the ongoing monitoring of pages, particularly those associated with risk and controls, a report detailing the people, health and safety, reputation and key risks, together with an assessment information technology.
Develop action for mitigation of the controls in place to mitigate these been identified by the Board and the Risk risks analysed as to lik elihood and impact risks and any action plans, is prepared Management and Audit Committee as annually and reviewed by the Risk requiring particular focus and a steering controls and assessment of Management and Audit Committee.
group, led by the chief operating officer effectiveness recorded The last report was prepared in March and reporting regularly to the Board, has 2013 and reviewed at the June 2013 been established to address them and committee meeting.
The Board has ensure that appropriate controls are in concluded that the Group maintained place to mitigate them.
Reassess post-mitigation sound risk management and internal control systems throughout the year ended 30 June 2013.
Other processes of assurance are 5.
Report and monitoring by Board managed through the Groups standing risk register s and action plans orders, the Executive Management Team, subject to regular review a range of Group policies and several key issues elevated through central function committees including the reporting structure Group Corporate Responsibility Steering Committee and the Group Safety, Health and Environment Steering Committee, both being chaired by the chief executive and reporting regularly to the Board.
42 Kier Group plc Overview Operational review Corporate responsibility Financial review Governance Financial statements Financial and legal risks Risk description Mitigation Legal and regulatory The Group monitors and responds to legal and regulatory The Group is subject to a number of complex, demanding and evolving developments in the areas in which it operates.
It is the Groups policy legal and regulatory requirements.
A breach of laws or regulations to require that all of its subsidiaries, employees, suppliers and could lead to legal proceedings, investigations or disputes resulting subcontractors comply with applicable laws and regulations.
Training is in a disruption of business, ranging from additional costs incurred provided on relevant areas of law and regulation, including e-learning on a project to civil and or criminal penalties as well as reputational courses, to keep all parties fully aware of their responsibilities.
Contracts entered into by the Group are subjected to a review process to ensure that contractual risks are identified and, wherever possible, mitigated appropriately.
Investment The Group adopts a selective approach to making investments The Group recognises that there are risks associated with the for example, PFI projects and seeks to mitigate the associated risk.
investments which it may choose to make.
This is particularly the case For example, it makes investments in sectors in which it has when the Group invests in new market sectors or acquires new established construction and facilities management expertise.
investing in a new sector or business, the Group will conduct due diligence on the risks relating to the sector or business, using both internal and external resources and advice, and these risks and their mitigation will be considered as part of the Groups review and authorisation process.
Pensions Steps have been taken over time to reduce the volatility and extent of In relation to its defined benefit scheme, the Group is exposed to the Groups funding exposure, including closing the defined benefit funding risks arising from improvements in longevity, unfavourable scheme to new joiners in 2002, the introduction of an annual upper economic conditions and investment performance.
Where the actual limit on salary increases which count for defined benefits purposes in outcomes are different to the actuarys assumptions, additional 2009 and investment in a portfolio of inflation and interest swaps to funding may be required to meet the cost of promised pension mitigate the financial impact of adverse moves in prevailing rates.
The trustees of the Kier Group Pension Scheme and the Group Board regularly review the effectiveness of these measures and consider further liability management opportunities.
Finance and bonding facilities Cash forecasts and balances are prepared regularly so as to provide The Groups long-term business is dependent upon cash resources, up-to-date and accurate information on the Groups cash position.
facilities and the ability to provide performance and other bonds Borrowing facilities are in place which have been recently renegotiated as necessary.
The Group has strong, long-term relationships with its bondsmen and has an in-house team which monitors headroom and advises on bond terms and conditions.
The Group has created a structure to manage and mitigate risk with Macro-economic climate the following key components: The order books for the Groups Construction and Services divisions are dependent upon the level of expenditure in the public sector and a wide geographic regional network of offices across the UK the availability of credit for private sector expenditure.
Financial providing strong integration into local communities, its client base markets continue to be dominated by developments in the Eurozone and supply chain: area.
In the UK, credit growth remains subdued with lending conditions a strong level of framework agreements and partnerships with facing individuals and companies continuing to tighten.
In addition, the government, local authorities and the private sector: and impact of the recent extension to the asset purchase programme a strong sector diver sity allowing it to react to evolving opportunities remains uncertain, as do the effects of the introduction of the Funding in the marketplace.
for Lending Scheme and the UK Guarantees scheme for infrastructure funding.
Instability in global exchange rates could The Group also carries out monthly and quarterly reviews of its significantly escalate material and fuel prices, thereby putting pressure workload and forecasts its overhead levels as a percentage of future on some project cost forecasts.
work in order to maintain a steady ratio of overhead costs to revenue.
Fuel and other materials that are in high demand, such as steel, are hedged or forward-purchased when deemed necessary.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 43 Financial review Business risks Continued People and reputational risks Risk description Mitigation People The Group monitors staff turnover closely and pay and conditions are The Group is dependent on members of its senior management team reviewed regularly against the prevailing market and benchmarked to and on a flexible, highly skilled and well-motivated workforce and ensure that we remain competitive.
believes its future success will depend, in part, on its ability to attract, develop and retain its people.
If the Group does not succeed in Succession planning and staff development are key at all levels in the attracting, developing and retaining skilled people it may not be able Group.
The Group has a performance review process which is designed to grow the business as anticipated.
to assist in the career development of its staff and also to identify potential successors to roles within the Group including at senior management level.
Health, safety and environmental Detailed policies and procedures exist to minimise such risks and are The Groups activities require the continuous monitoring and subject to review and monitoring by the operating businesses and management of health, safety and environmental risks.
All operating businesses have a director who is responsible for to manage these risks could cause injury to its employees and coordinating health and safety activities.
subcontractors and could expose the Group to significant potential liability and reputational damage.
Reputation In order to protect and enhance its reputation, the Group has a robust The Groups ability to tender for new business and its relationship with series of business ethics, sustainability and compliance policies that its range of customers, supply chain partners, its employees and other help deliver the Groups corporate responsibility programme, which stakeholders depends in large part on the good reputation that it has addresses issues such as health and safety, environmental impact, established and how it is perceived by others.
climate change, employees, customers and supply chain and community engagement.
44 Kier Group plc Overview Operational review Corporate responsibility Financial review Governance Financial statements Operational risks Risk description Mitigation Contract and build The Groups appetite for very long-term, large, competitively tendered The Group carries out several hundred contracts annually and the risks construction contracts is limited, driven by the desire to maintain to which the Group is exposed are dependent upon the nature of the quality of workload and manage risk.
Tenders for contracts are subject work, the duration of the contract and the legal form of the contract.
to approval by the Board, the chief executive and the finance director or divisional directors, depending upon the value and nature of the contract.
Contracts in progress are controlled and managed through the Groups operating structure and procedures, including rigorous and regular review of the forecast revenue and costs to complete.
The Services division operates a contract review and tender Services adjudication process to ensure that risks are identified and, wherever The Services division enters into a large number of contracts each possible, mitigated.
The tender process is as described above under year, the risks associated with which depend, in particular, on the Contract and build.
Similarly, contracts in progress are controlled nature of the work being undertaken and the duration of the contract.
and managed as described above under Contract and build.
Typically, the length of a contract will be greater than those entered into by the Construction division and, in addition to risks relating to contract performance, may contain risks in relation to the transfer of employees and other associated issues.
Information technology Group IT centrally manages the majority of systems across the Group.
The efficient operation of the Group is increasingly dependent upon Other IT systems are managed locally by experienced IT personnel.
the proper operation, performance and development of its IT systems.
Significant investments in IT systems are subject to Board review Failure to manage or integrate IT systems or failure to successfully and approval.
In addition, the Group has an Information Security implement changes in IT systems could result in a loss of control over Committee which focuses on data security.
critical business information and or systems.
This, in turn, could impact the Groups ability to fulfill its contractual obligations.
Land and property development acquisition Site evaluation is a key process and site appraisals are carried out The cost and quality of property and land is fundamental to the in detail, including using external advice where appropriate.
Land and profitability of the Groups property development and housing development acquisitions are subject to approval by the Board, the business.
chief executive and the finance director or divisional directors depending upon the value of the land.
Developments in progress are controlled and managed through the Groups operating structure and procedures including rigorous and regular review of the forecast financials and sales activity.
The Board allocates capital on a portfolio basis ensuring diversification and the efficient use of resources within the Group.
In the case of the Property division, development risk is controlled by ensuring construction generally commences once the division has either pre-sold or pre-let key elements of the development.
Counterparty The Group assesses the financial strength of counterparties before The Group depends, for its success, on the stability of its customers, entering into contract and structures payments so as to mitigate its joint venture partners, suppliers, subcontractors, funders, bondsmen financial exposure to them for the duration of our relationship.
Failure in these counterparties could result in the Group is particularly dependent upon the continued financial non-collection of amounts owed or disruption and delays to contract strength of the providers of key financial services to the Group, it takes progress.
steps to spread this exposure across a range of counterparties so as to diversify risk.
Business continuity The Group has in place a number of business continuity plans at site The Group faces a number of risks which are, in large part, beyond and business unit level which are regularly reviewed and monitored to its control.
Its business and operations may be interrupted by natural ensure their continued effectiveness.
The purpose of these plans is to disasters or any other disasters which may have the potential to affect ensure that, wherever possible, the relevant project or business can adversely the Groups performance.
continue to operate effectively after the occurrence of a disaster or an adverse event.
