Governance Directors report Introduction In addition, and in common with many Financial instruments The directors present their annual report other companies, the Company has Details of the financial risk and audited financial statements as at, insurance in favour of its directors and management objectives and policies of and for the year ended, 30 June 2013. officers in respect of certain losses or the Group, together with its exposure liabilities to which they may be exposed to material financial risks, are set out This directors report should be read due to their office.
in notes 1 and 27 to the consolidated in conjunction with the chairmans financial statements.
statement, the chief executives review, The UK Corporate Governance Code the corporate governance statement and A statement on the Groups corporate Research and development the directors remuneration report, each governance is set out on pages 52 to 57.
The Group undertakes research of which is incorporated by reference and development activity in creating Going concern in and shall be deemed to form part innovative construction techniques The Group has considerable financial of this directors report to the extent and design integral to the delivery of resources, together with long-term required by applicable law or regulation.
The direct expenditure contracts with a number of customers and incurred is not separately identifiable, Principal activities suppliers across its business activities.
as the investment is usually contained The Groups principal activities As a consequence, the directors believe within the relevant project.
during the course of the year were that the Group is well-placed to manage construction, services and property.
Employees The companies in the Group are equal A review of the Groups business and After making appropriate enquiries, opportunities employers.
The Group progress during the year is included the directors of the Company have a gives consideration to applications within the chairmans statement on reasonable expectation that the Company for employment made by disabled pages 4 and 5, the chief executives and the Group have adequate resources persons having regard to their particular review on pages 8 to 11 and the to continue in operational existence for aptitudes and abilities and encourages operational review on pages 12 to 25. the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the and assists, whenever practicable, the directors continue to adopt the going Results and dividends recruitment, training, career development concern basis in preparing the Groups The Groups profit for the year after and promotion of disabled people and financial statements.
taxation and exceptional items was the retention of, and appropriate training 38.6m 2012: 55.3m.
An interim Further information relating to the for, those who become disabled during dividend of 21.5p per share 2012: financial position of the Group, its cash the course of their employment and 21.5p, amounting to 8.5m 2012: flows, liquidity position and borrowing who can be employed in a safe working 8.2m, was paid on 17 May 2013. facilities is given in the financial review environment.
The Groups approach The directors propose a final dividend on pages 34 to 41. to employee involvement, equal of 46.5p per share 2012: 44.5p per opportunities, health and safety and the Charitable and political donations share, amounting to 25.4m 2012: environment is set out in the corporate During the year, the Groups donations 17.4m, payable on 27 November responsibility report on pages 26 to 33. to charity in the United Kingdom 2013 to shareholders on the register were 58,000 2012: 122,000, The Group provides relevant information of members on 20 September 2013. principally to local charities serving the on matters of concern to employees Directors communities in which it operates.
The through newsletters, video addresses, Biographical details of the directors of Group has considerable involvement the Groups intranet, social media and the Company are shown on pages 46 in such communities, as described formal and informal meetings with various and 47.
Details of directors interests in the corporate responsibility report groups of employees and management.
in the Companys shares are disclosed on pages 26 to 33.
In addition, the These arrangements aim to achieve in the directors remuneration report on Group has entered into a partnership a common awareness on the part of pages 58 to 67. with Barnardos, further details of employees on matters affecting the which are referred to in the corporate performance of the Group.
The Group Qualifying third party indemnities responsibility statement.
also consults with employees to ascertain The articles of association of the their views in relation to decisions which Company the Articles entitle the No political donations were made are likely to affect their interests.
directors of the Company, to the during the year 2012: nil.
extent permitted by the Companies Act The Group operates the Kier Group 2006 and other applicable legislation plc 2006 Sharesave Scheme the together, the Companies Acts, to be Sharesave Scheme for eligible indemnified out of the assets of the employees and makes available a Company in the event that they suffer dealing service to enable employees to any expenses in connection with certain buy and sell its shares with a minimum proceedings relating to the execution of of formality.
The Group also operates their duties as directors of the Company.
an all employee share ownership plan the AESOP for all employees, which includes a share-matching element.
48 Kier Group plc Overview Operational review Corporate responsibility Financial review Governance Financial statements In addition, as a result of the acquisition Subject to the provisions of the Articles Rights under employees share schemes of May Gurney, the Group operates The and the Companies Acts, shares As at 30 June 2013, RBC Trustees May Gurney Savings Related Share may be issued with such rights or Guernsey Limited RBC, as trustee Option Scheme, which is similar to restrictions as the Company may by of the Kier Group 1999 Employee the Sharesave Scheme.
Participants ordinary resolution determine or, if the Benefit Trust the Trust, held 485,081 in this scheme have been offered the Company has not so determined, as the shares approximately 1.1% of the opportunity to exchange their existing directors may decide.
issued share capital of the Company May Gurney shares for new options over as at that date on trust for the benefit Restrictions on transfer of securities in shares in the capital of the Company.
of the employees of the Group.
The the Company Trust was established for the purposes Policy and practice on payment There are no restrictions on the transfer of satisfying awards of shares made of creditors of securities in the Company, except: to individuals under the Groups The Group agrees payments with that certain restrictions may from remuneration and long-term incentive its suppliers and subcontractors on time to time be imposed by law arrangements.
During the year, RBC an individual contract basis rather or regulation for example, insider waived the dividends payable in respect than following a code or standard trading laws : and of these 455,686 shares, but received on payment practice.
The Groups the dividends in respect of further pursuant to the Listing Rules of policy is to abide by these agreed 29,395 shares being the shares to the Financial Services Authority terms whenever the relevant Group which certain directors and senior the Listing Rules, whereby certain company is satisfied that the suppliers managers are beneficially entitled as employees require approval to deal or subcontractors have provided the a result of their annual bonus being in the Companys shares.
goods or services in accordance with satisfied in part by an allocation of the contract terms and conditions.
The Company is not aware of any shares.
RBC, in turn, transferred the The aggregate amount owed to trade agreements between holders of securities dividends to the relevant directors and creditors by the Company at 30 June that may result in restrictions on the senior managers.
transfer of securities in the Company.
As at 30 June 2013, Computershare Subsidiary trading companies within Substantial voting rights Investor Services PLC held 972,884 the Group, acting in accordance with As at 11 September 2013, the Company shares approximately 2.4% of the the above policy, exhibit creditor days had been notified of the following interests issued share capital of the Company as averaging 36 days 2012: 26 in in the ordinary share capital of the at that date on trust for the benefit of respect of suppliers of invoiced goods Company being voting rights over such staff and former staff who are members and services and 33 days 2012: 19 share capital, pursuant to Rule 5.1 of of the AESOP.
in respect of certified amounts due to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: subcontractors.
These figures exclude Voting amounts not currently due for payment but Subject to any terms upon which the Standard Life Investments which are included within trade creditors.
relevant shares may have been issued Limited 6.9% or are subject and to the Articles, every Schroders plc 5.4% Share capital member present in person or by proxy As at 30 June 2013, the issued share Norges Bank 4.3% at a general meeting and entitled to capital of the Company comprised vote has, upon a show of hands, one a single class of ordinary shares of Securities carrying special rights vote and, upon a poll, one vote for every 1 pence each.
As at 30 June 2013, No person holds securities in the share held.
In the case of joint holders 39,848,072 shares in the capital of Company carrying special rights with of a share, the vote of the senior who the Company were in issue.
During the regard to control of the Company.
tenders a vote, whether in person or by year, 102,669 shares were issued in proxy, will be accepted to the exclusion relation to the scrip dividend alternative of the votes of the other joint holders and 922,219 shares were issued in and, for this purpose, seniority will be connection with the Sharesave Scheme.
determined by the order in which the No other shares were issued during names stand in the register in respect the year.
As at 11 September 2013, of the joint holding.
54,711,711 shares in the capital of the Company were in issue, the increase since 30 June 2013 arising principally as a result of 14,714,445 shares having been issued on 8 July 2013 in connection with the acquisition of May Gurney.
Details of the Companys share capital are set out in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
Annual Report and Accounts 2013 49 Governance Directors report Continued Restrictions on voting rights The Company may by ordinary resolution, up to an aggregate nominal amount of No member shall, unless the Board of which special notice has been given, 132,147 and ii up to an aggregate otherwise determines, be entitled to remove any director before the expiry of nominal amount of 264,295 in vote at any general meeting in respect the directors period of office.
The office connection with a rights issue.
The of any share held by it unless all calls of a director will be vacated if: directors were also granted authority or other sums then payable by it in to allot shares non-pre-emptively and i t he director becomes bankrupt or respect of that share have been paid wholly for cash up to an aggregate the subject of an interim receiving or if that member has been served nominal amount of 19,822.
These order or makes any arrangement with a disenfranchisement notice as authorities will expire on the date of or composition with his creditors defined in the Articles after failure to this years annual general meeting generally or applies to the court for provide the Company with information and resolutions to renew them will be an interim order in connection with concerning interests in that share proposed at the forthcoming annual a voluntary arrangement under the required to be provided under the general meeting.
In addition, an Insolvency Act 1986: Companies Acts.
ordinary resolution will be proposed ii the director is certified as having to grant the directors the authority to The Company is not aware of any become physically or mentally continue to offer the scrip dividend agreements between holders of incapable of acting as a director and alternative.
In accordance with the securities that may result in restrictions may remain so for more than three requirements of investor protection on voting rights.
months: committees, this authority is renewed Appointment and replacement every five years.
iii the director ceases to be a director of directors by virtue of the Companies Acts or Powers in relation to the Company The directors shall be not less than becomes prohibited by law from buying back its shares three and not more than 12 in number.
being a director: The Company may only buy back The Company may by ordinary resolution shares if the Articles do not prohibit iv the director receives written notice vary the minimum and or maximum it from doing so and it has received the from not less than three-quarters number of directors.
requisite authority from shareholders of the other directors removing the Directors may be appointed by the in general meeting.
Although the director from office: or Company by ordinary resolution or by Articles do not contain any such v i n the case of a director who holds the Board.
A director appointed by the prohibition, the Company did not executive office, the director ceases Board holds office only until the next request any such authority at its to hold such office and the majority annual general meeting of the Company last annual general meeting and does of the other directors resolve that the after his her appointment and is then not propose to do so at the forthcoming relevant directors office be vacated.
eligible to stand for election.
Amendment of Articles Pursuant to the Articles, at every annual Change of control The Articles may be amended by a general meeting of the Company, The Company has entered into certain special resolution of the Companys one-third of the directors who are agreements that may take effect, alter shareholders.
subject to the requirement to retire or terminate upon a change of control by rotation not including any director of the Company following a takeover Powers of the directors who was appointed by the Board and bid.
The significant agreements in this Subject to the Articles, the Companies is standing for election will retire respect are: Acts and any directions given by the from office and may offer themselves Company by special resolution, the the Companys 120m revolving for re-election by the members.
The business of the Company will be credit facility agreement dated directors to retire by rotation will be managed by the Board, which may 31 May 2012 entered into with those who have been longest in office exercise all the powers of the Company.
HSBC Bank plc, Lloyds TSB Bank since their last election.
However, at plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Powers in relation to the Company the forthcoming annual general meeting and Santander UK plc: issuing its shares of the Company, notwithstanding The directors were granted authority the provisions of the Articles, all the the Companys 30m term facility at the annual general meeting on 15 directors will offer themselves for agreement dated 11 January 2013 November 2012 to allot shares in the re-election in accordance with the UK entered into with Lloyds TSB Bank Company in accordance with section Corporate Governance Code.
plc: and 551 of the Companies Act 2006 i 50 Kier Group plc Overview Operational review Corporate responsibility Financial review Governance Financial statements the Companys 50m term loan Auditor facility and 70m revolving credit The Groups auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, facility agreement dated 22 April has instigated an orderly wind-down 2013 entered into with HSBC Bank of its business.
The Board has therefore plc, Lloyds TSB Bank plc, The Royal decided that KPMG LLP will be proposed Bank of Scotland plc and Santander as the Groups auditor for the financial UK plc year ending 30 June 2014 and a resolution relating to this appointment together, the Facility Agreements: will be tabled at the forthcoming annual the Companys 45m and $28m general meeting.
note purchase agreement dated 20 Each director who holds office at the December 2012 the Note Purchase date of approval of this directors report Agreement : and confirms that, so far as each such certain of the Groups employee director is aware, there is no relevant share schemes.
audit information of which the auditor is unaware: and the directors have taken Each of the Facility Agreements includes all the steps that they ought to have a provision under which, in the event of taken as directors to make themselves a change of control of the Company, the aware of any relevant audit information lenders may cancel all or any part of the and to establish that the auditor is relevant facility and or declare that all aware of that information.
amounts outstanding under the relevant facility are immediately due and payable Annual general meeting by the Company.
The annual general meeting of the Company will be held at 11.00 a. m. The Note Purchase Agreement includes at The Honourable Artillery Company, a provision under which, in the event of Armoury House, City Road, London a change of control of the Company, the EC1Y 2BQ on 14 November 2013.
Company is obliged to offer to prepay the notes issued pursuant to the agreement.
This report was approved by the Board on 11 September 2013 and signed on Outstanding options granted under the its behalf by: Sharesave Scheme and the May Gurney Savings Related Share Option Scheme may be exercised within a period of six Hugh Raven months from a change of control of the Company Secretary Company following a takeover bid taking place or will lapse upon the expiry of Tempsford Hall such a period.
Sandy Bedfordshire Awards granted under the Groups longSG19 2BD term incentive plan which is described in the directors remuneration report may vest on a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid and the maximum number of shares in the Company to be awarded upon such vesting may become immediately due.
There are no agreements between the Company and its directors providing for compensation for loss of office that occurs as a result of a takeover bid.
