In our reporting in this year, we cover Operational review the three Services businesses that contributed to the 2013 results Services housing maintenance, which provides reactive and planned maintenance largely to local authorities and housing associations: environmental, offering services for waste collection, the operation of a major recycling facility and grounds maintenance: and facilities management FM.
The enlarged Services division, since the acquisition of May Gurney, now comprises seven businesses: housing maintenance, environmental, FM, Revenue m highways maintenance, utilities services mainly water and telecommunications, fleet and passenger services and 437m -2% waterways services.
2013 437 Services business review 2012 445 Revenue in all three businesses, 2011 484 housing maintenance, environmental and FM, was at similar levels to last year, at 437m 2012: 445m.
This result reflects our success in renewing Operating profit m existing contracts and securing new business, despite the continued budget 19.3 -4% constraints faced by many of our public sector customers.
The margin is in line with our expectations and includes a higher Order book level of bidding and mobilisation costs following our success in securing major 2.0bn schemes, such as Circle Housing Group and East Sussex.
2012: 2.1bn Cash balances increased to 30m 2012: 19m after investment in environmental vehicles, the cash effect of the exceptional items and included the 15m proceeds from the disposal of the majority of the plant business in August 2012.
In August 2013, the sale of our tower cranes business for 5m also completed.
Both transactions are in line with our strategy of withdrawing from non-core operations.
The order book at 30 June 2013 of 2.0bn 2012: 2.1bn provided a good forward visibility of work, having Services division strategy by revenue secured over 400m of new contracts.
This secured 95% of our targeted The significant expansion of our Services revenue for the 2014 financial year.
The business has been another key element order book does not include contract of our strategy.
The acquisition of May Gurney extensions, which if our customers on 8 July 2013 has not only doubled the size exercised in total, would add a further of our Services offering, but also adds additional, 800m.
significant businesses to the Group, allowing us to offer more services to more customers.
Housing maintenance business The scale of the business will also create revenues remained stable at 280m opportunities for greater efficiency.
This was a good result given the ongoing budget A key factor in the acquisition of May Gurney constraints, particularly in the area of was the ability to provide cost effective solutions discretionary spend by existing clients and additional services across a wider customer and the slower release of new work base.
Since acquiring the business, we have also identified opportunities to create revenue during the year.
We continue to manage synergies for the Group.
over 300,000 homes across the UK, representing 5% of the UK social housing market.
During the year, we were awarded planned housing improvement contracts For more information see pages 2 and 3.
Before exceptional items and amortisation of as well as repair and maintenance intangible assets relating to contract rights.
18 Kier Group plc Overview Operational review Corporate responsibility Financial review Governance Financial statements Annual A22, Hailsham By-Pass Joint Working Exercise.
The contract involves Kier formerly May Gurney, as part of East Sussex Highways, coordinating grass cutting, litter picking, gully emptying, street light maintenance and road repairs within a single road closure.
This includes liaison with East Sussex County Council, Wealden District Council and Colas along with our own supply chain partners, saving thousands of pounds in traffic management costs and minimising disruption to road users.
Services division strategy by revenue 2010 2013 2014 indicative Public sector Housing Housing housing maintenance maintenance maintenance Highways Environmental Private sector Environmental FM housing Fleet maintenance FM FM Utilities other Waste regulated LA work Transition created by Expand FM capability Organic growth Broad capabilities across all service Blue chip customers segments Geography Excellent access to local authorities Immediate access to new workstreams Enhance waste capability Improved scale and efficiency Larger contracts Pure and Biogen Maintenance Target private sector Re-align public sector offering capability Annual Report and Accounts 2013 19 Gary Wright, project support graduate, and Operational review Monalisa Rani Swati, project team analyst top left, part of the Kier Services asset management team Services in Sheffield.
Continued Mark Smith bottom left, gas fitter working on the Sheffield LLP contract.
Mark works on gas repairs and servicing for the Sheffield Housing client, approx.
William Oliver, Kier site manager, and Kim White, of J Whites Co TDE contractors below, located at Hunters Bar Infant Primary School, Sheffield.
The project was to demolish two existing buildings and replace them with two new modular buildings providing four 54 sq m classrooms.
contracts by City of Lincoln Council, Kiers environmental North West Leicestershire District Council, Harlow District Council and business has Northampton Borough Council with a total value exceeding 100m over five become a market years with a possible 88m extension and two smaller contracts for leader in operating Aberdeenshire Council.
A new contract for Red Kite, a tenant-led, not-forlarge crossprofit charitable housing organisation, involves managing around 6,700 boundary contracts properties around High Wycombe with a value of up to 15m over three years, with a possible two-year extension.
The contract for Circle, covering planned and cyclical maintenance with a value of 200m over an initial five-year period, commenced in April 2013, with a possible five-year extension to 2023.
We gained further entry to the UKs private rented housing sector when selected as Grainger plcs the UKs largest listed residential property owner and manager sole provider of tenants repairs and maintenance services across its UK property portfolio, with a contract value of 50m over a ten-year period.
Kiers environmental business has become a market leader in operating large cross-boundary contracts.
20 Kier Group plc Overview Operational review Corporate responsibility Financial review Governance Financial statements Following the commencement of extensions of 800m and a steady services across North Norfolk District pipeline of further opportunities.
Council and the Borough Council of We entered the 2014 financial year Kings Lynn and West Norfolk, work with 95% of our expected revenues started in April 2013 with East Sussex secure and probable, which will Joint Waste Partnership.
This will maintain operating margins at around deliver 30m of savings to the four current levels.
waste collection authorities of Wealden, In our housing maintenance business, Eastbourne, Hastings and Rother over we have good forward visibility of the the next ten years, increase recycling bidding pipeline through to 2018, which and compost rates to 50% and improve is in excess of 3bn on responsive, street cleansing standards.
planned and refurbishment activity The FM business had a successful year across the social housing sector, renewing contracts and securing new with both local authority and Housing business, and achieved revenues of Association Registered Providers.
Key successes social housing repair, maintenance being reappointed to provide services and refurbishment sector remains to the Legal & General estate, our competitive, as both local authority 30m growing presence in the Welsh market, and Housing Association Registered 2012: 19m including a four-year contract with Providers seek ongoing efficiencies in Cardiff Council 10m and a fiveresponse to further central government plus two-year contract for the Welsh budget reductions announced in the Operating margin Assembly worth in excess of 20m.
The business also closed two private In the private sector, our diverse set finance deals, providing an integrated 4.4% of capabilities, covering soft FM, PFI solution for London Fire Brigade 2012: 4.5% hard FM and building management, and Staffordshire Fire and Rescue with will provide further opportunities as a combined FM value of 34m, over customers examine their cost base and 25 years.
In addition, contract wins seek savings by outsourcing non-core with Hampshire and Surrey County activities.
Councils and the growth in the Scape In Services, our strategy remains to Framework generated revenues of achieve scale and diversification and to 40m.
Elsewhere the business has drive operating efficiencies and greater further grown its portfolio of private penetration in our core markets.
The sector customers including contracts May Gurney acquisition has delivered a with the RAC and DTZ estates.
significant element of the strategy and Services markets and outlook provides a broader platform for growth.
The Services divisions performance Over the medium term, we will continue remains robust, with a stable 2.0bn to refine our strategy to ensure we order book giving good forward visibility are well placed to enter new markets, of workload, coupled with potential capitalise on emerging markets and drive for growth in our existing markets, particularly through building stronger relationships with customers, delivering excellent service and innovation.
John Pack, refuse operative left and Colin Bassett, cleansing operative above.
The East Sussex Joint Waste Partnership is formed of four waste collection authorities: Wealden District Council, Eastbourne Borough Council, Hastings Borough Council and Rother District Council.
The disposal authority, East Sussex County Council, also forms part of the Partnership.
The ten-year contract covers nearly 200,000 households over a 550 square mile area.
