Overview A key element of our strategy is Our strategic to be both diverse and market-leading focus in our chosen businesses: Construction, Services and Property.
Group strategy We continue to strengthen our UK Services division strategy A key element of Kiers strategy is infrastructure business so that it can The significant expansion of our to be diverse and market-leading in execute some of the largest civil Services business has been another key its chosen businesses: Construction, engineering schemes in the country, element of our strategy.
The acquisition Services and Property.
where barriers to entry are higher.
We of May Gurney on 8 July 2013 has not have been successful in winning and only doubled the size of our Services Our aim is to have strong, stand-alone executing a significant part of the offering, but also adds additional, businesses, able both to excel in strong Crossrail project and, more recently, significant businesses to the Group, markets and to be resilient when markets we were awarded the 450m Mersey allowing us to offer more services are weak.
The cash flows generated by Gateway Bridge, further demonstrating to more customers.
The scale of the our Construction and Services businesses the progress made in our infrastructure business will also create opportunities are invested in our Property business, business, in which annual revenues are for greater efficiency.
where we aim to achieve in excess of now approaching 300m.
a 15% return on that capital and, at the A key factor in the acquisition of same time, generate construction and We have had a significant presence in May Gurney was the ability to provide services revenues.
the power station construction market cost-effective solutions and additional for a number of years and maintained services across a wider customer base.
Construction division strategy a nuclear capability through our work at Since acquiring the business, we have Kiers UK building business is one of Sellafield, Aldermaston and Devonport also identified opportunities to create the most diverse operations in the UK.
As a result, we are one of a revenue synergies for the Group.
It operates throughout the country and small number of contractors capable of has access to a significant number of operating in this sector and have recently public and private sector frameworks.
Services division revenue 2013 secured work for Urenco and EDF.
We However, we still secure much of our are working closely with the new nuclear work through tender processes, where Housing generation companies for whom work is customers often seek best value rather maintenance likely to start in the near term.
As a result, we are Environmental able to secure good quality work.
Our overseas business has also FM expanded and strengthened over recent Our broad skills allow us to adapt our years and we are looking to consolidate offering across the UK to respond to that growth.
We are based in three different opportunities, which has been regions Hong Kong, the Middle East particularly important in the current and the Caribbean - and expect each economic climate.
region to deliver approximately 50m As markets begin to improve, we are of annual revenue.
We focus on regions well placed to focus strategically on where we see a long-term, stable Combined Kier May Gurney Services division growth areas for example, Living, workload, recognising the risks involved revenue 2014 indicative health and education.
In all those areas, in overseas operations.
Risk we have secured good framework Housing management is a primary consideration Maintenance LA work positions which will deliver revenue in assessing overseas projects.
As private Highways developers become more confident, Environmental we are experiencing more commercial Fleet opportunities and our strong balance FM sheet positions us well as a partner Utilities other of choice for many of them.
regulated Broad capabilities across all service segments Excellent access to local authorities Immediate access to new workstreams Improved scale and efficiency The Kier Living business pro vides care homes, high-rise affordable housing and student accommodation.
02 Kier Group plc Overview Operational review Corporate responsibility Financial review Governance Financial statements Deeper and broader local authority markets General business improvement Services division We are focusing on expanding our capabilities in a controlled Housing maintenance Fleet services Property estate and sustainable way.
We have begun Affordable housing Street maintenance Facilities management a process of making the business more Grounds maintenance Energy management efficient and better equipped for future growth.
This has involved a significant Refuse collection Street lighting restructuring of the management Utilities structures throughout the Group.
Highways maintenance As part of this process, we have made significant investment in IT and management systems across all of our back-office functions and businesses.
This programme, together with the integration of May Gurney into our Kier Kier Services division, is already achieving significant cost savings, while allowing May Gurney us to deliver services to our customers in an increasingly efficient manner.
Property division strategy Our PFI activities will continue to be Our Property business benefits from a feature of the business and enable being part of the Group in two principal the Group to demonstrate the full breadth ways.
Firstly, the cash generated by our of its capability - from financing to Construction and Services businesses construction and long-term maintenance.
can be reinvested in Property.
Secondly, Our strategy is to sell mature assets the Groups ability to finance, build, whilst securing, building and maintaining operate and maintain assets has been new assets.
In the past year, we have a key differentiator in winning a number sold four assets and won three new of development projects.
larger schemes, having increased the valuation of the portfolio.
New PFI The Property divisions strategy has schemes are being made available been to gain access to long-term through the Governments PF2 development portfolios, particularly programme and schemes such as the through joint ventures with the public Aberdeen Western Peripheral route.
By utilising the Groups strong balance sheet and broad With the residential housing market skill sets, sites are secured and asset becoming more positive, assisted by values are improved through planning greater mortgage availability, increasing and development expertise.
Having Government incentives to private buyers identified end-users, long-term leases and investment in affordable housing are typically negotiated before we grants, both our private and affordable provide capital and build an asset.
We homes businesses are well placed for set a target return on capital of 15% per growth in the next few years.
annum which is significantly more than Our strategy is to focus on a region our average cost of capital.
The division around our Tempsford Hall often acts as the catalyst for headquarters, encompassing opportunities in other parts of Bedfordshire and Cambridgeshire, and the Group and approximately 10% an area in the Central Belt in Scotland, of the Construction divisions annual whilst reducing our land holdings revenues are derived from our property elsewhere.
business is expected to expand its area of operation from the Midlands, having recently secured a position on the HCAs Development Partner Panel throughout the UK.
