Corporate responsibility Taking responsibility Foreword by Kier Group chief executive average, our carbon emissions have Our corporate Paul Sheffield reduced, weve achieved our half waste to landfill target and our training and responsibility Last years CR report referred to Kiers development programme has been 10,000 employees.
Our acquisition of awarded Training Initiative of the Year mission is to May Gurney in July 2013 has seen this for its Developing Leaders scheme.
We are currently Our positive community impact has deliver a brighter undergoing an integration process to been stepped up yet again with over ensure our new employees are attuned 44 Considerate Constructors Scheme future for our to the Kier way of life and of course National awards significantly more corporate responsibility, along with all than any other company in our sector.
communities its strands, has a large and important part to play in this exercise.
During the year Kier employees have been busy raising funds for The Kier With our newly reinforced Kier team, Foundation, an independent, registered we have greater potential than ever charity established by Kier in 2011.
To before to make a really positive date, the total funds raised on behalf of difference for the benefit of thousands Kier Groups corporate charity partner, of people within our areas of operation Barnardos, stands at over 190,000. and beyond.
Kier people are the very Alongside this, our people have been essence of our business and we are supporting many other charities of very much aware that it is their attitude their choice supported by Kier match and behaviours that determine our funding.
Once again, they have shown success.
Testament to the attitude of real enthusiasm by taking part in all Kier people is our newly acquired status manner of activities to raise funds for as a Platinum Big Tick business, having good causes and many have become achieved a 95% score in the 2013 involved in community projects in their BITC CR Index, up from 90% in 2012 spare time.
Barnardos are delighted Gold status.
with our fundraising performance, We have again opted to have KPMG and so am I. I am very proud of the Audit Plc provide an ISAE 3000 commitment shown by Kier employees independent assurance report that can in making a difference to other peoples be found on page 33.
Our measuring, lives and long may it continue.
reporting and monitoring is based Kier remains in good shape better on the Business in the Community than many in our sector and it is Corporate Responsibility Index BITC CR important that we remain poised to Index and, in addition our full report, benefit from emerging opportunities meets the Global Reporting Initiatives and market changes.
Some things guidelines at C level.
we have little control over and while Never before have companies been we have no option but to await signs scrutinised so rigorously in terms of of an economic recovery, we can their CR performance.
We are only take positive action in terms of our too aware of the role that CR now Paul Sheffield contribution to society.
This helps to plays in our ability to win new work, Chairman make a real difference to the way we and the economic benefits of a sound Corporate Responsibility are perceived as a business, our status investment in CR are clear.
We are Steering Committee as an employer and as a partner in the pleased therefore that our all-important local community.
health & safety performance has remained well above the industry 28 Kier Group plc Overview Operational review Corporate responsibility Financial review Governance Financial statements O t h e s r e s e t y a o l k p e m h o E l d e r s s t s y l a T n h a e t m s n e e m m d i a t a s e r e t v n s I s s A fully integrated approach CR Steering Committee We recognise that a robust approach Stakeholder relationships During the year ended 30 June 2013 to all aspects of CR plays an important We are proactive in engaging with directors were eligible to receive a role in building a good reputation.
our shareholders to promote an bonus, a proportion of which was Everything we say, everything we do and understanding of how we operate.
payable if corporate responsibility and what others say about us influences See relations with shareholders health & safety performance targets, our stakeholder groups.
We engage with our which are considered to be key nonrecognised as a corporately responsible employees through roadshows and financial measures for the Group, were business must be maintained as part biennial surveys to encourage achieved.
See Directors remuneration of our vision to be the most highly feedback: our customers through report on page 59. respected company in the industry.
satisfaction surveys and our The CR Steering Committee reports communities through the Considerate Managing responsibility quarterly to the main Board, bringing Constructors Scheme, The Kier Senior management with clearly defined to their attention issues that require Foundation, BITC and numerous roles are responsible and accountable addressing at the highest level.
The above is covered in to the Kier Board for ensuring that all issues are listed below.
more detail within our full Corporate aspects of our corporate responsibility, Chaired by Kier Group chief executive Responsibility Report which is our brand, business risks, governance, Paul Sheffield, the CR Steering downloadable from www.
co. uk ethics and finances are managed Committee comprises senior ar2013 crr.
We do not make any responsibly.
representatives from all parts of the political donations see directors Delivering quality Group and convenes at least once report on page 48.
As part of our bid to continuously a quarter.
improve we canvass our clients The committee is responsible for regularly and take action whenever establishing policies, measuring and May Gurney has also undertaken regular appropriate to improve what we do maintaining the Groups CR impact employee engagement surveys and Kier will be and how we do it.
Our aim is to exceed working on combining the two sets of data as part and ensuring that all aspects of our client expectations across our full range of the integration process in readiness for next responsibility to society are addressed, of services.
communicated and acted upon throughout all parts of the business.
Subjects tabled for discussion during the year include: CR Report KPMG assurance work Apprenticeships Feedback from major investors KPMG CR audit Business BITC CR Index survey results risks Equality & diversity The Kier Foundation Business Brand Carbon disclosure project ethics management Smartwaste Considerate Constructors Scheme Integrated Research into impact of CR on Kier winning new work Corporate Corporate Employee engagement governance responsibility Integrated financial management Annual Report and Accounts 2013 29 e n s i r s e C u n o t b r m t a r h p m e e u i n i n p K u a i t h i b c e li s c y l a p n p d u S S s h r a e r m e h o t o s l d u e C r s
