Paul Sheffield 52 Chief operating officer Non-executive chairman Chief executive Re-joined Kier in January 2007 as Appointed non-executive chairman of Joined the Group as a graduate a director within the Construction the Group in November 2007, having engineer in 1983 with a degree in civil division.
He was appointed to the Board joined as non-executive director in July engineering.
His early career saw him in July 2010 and was appointed as the 2006.
He served as chief executive work on a wide range of construction chief operating officer in July 2013. of National Express Group plc from projects around the world, including He has operational responsibility for January 1997 to September 2006. power and desalination plants, the Groups construction and services He is a chartered accountant and has transport schemes, commercial operations.
He has over 35 years extensive experience of both listed building projects and a dam.
As a experience in building, civil engineering and private companies.
He is currently project manager through the 1990s, and utilities with experience in both the chairman of Lookers plc and The Unite he ran major infrastructure projects UK and overseas and he is a member Group plc and a non-executive director in London, Saudi Arabia and Hong of the CBI Northern Committee.
of Stagecoach Group plc and Vp plc.
Kong before joining the board of the He is also a member of the Nomination Groups Construction division in 1998.
Richard Bailey 62 Committee and the Remuneration In October 2005, he was appointed to Committee.
the Board with responsibility for all of Non-executive the Groups construction activities and Appointed to the Board in October was appointed chief executive in April 2010.
He holds overall responsibility and a partner in Rothschild, the global for safety, health and environmental financial advisory business, where matters.
he has spent most of his career.
He is currently chairman of Rothschilds 3.
He has been Finance director involved in a range of private and public Joined Kier in August 2010 as Group company work with a focus on mergers, finance director designate and took acquisitions, private equity and capital over the role of Group finance director raising.
He is the chairman of the Risk in November 2010.
He also assumed Management and Audit Committee operational responsibility for the and a member of the Nomination and Property division in June 2013.
previously deputy group finance director at Balfour Beatty plc and prior to that UK finance director at Bovis Lend Lease.
He is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants, having trained and qualified at KPMG.
46 Kier Group plc Overview Operational review Corporate responsibility Financial review Governance Financial statements Risk Management and Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Safety, Health and Environment Committee 2 5 6 8 6.
Nick Winser 53 Non-executive Non-executive Appointed to the Board in July 2007.
Appointed to the Kier Board in March He joined the Board of BAE Systems plc 2009.
He joined the board of directors in July 2002 as chief operating officer of National Grid in April 2003 and is with responsibility for all European joint responsible for the companys business ventures and UK defence electronics in the UK.
He was previously chief assets.
He is non-executive chairman operating officer of US transmission of Volex plc and SIG plc, a Fellow of for National Grid Transco plc.
He joined the Royal Aeronautical Society and a National Grid Company plc in 1993, past President of the Society of British becoming director of engineering in Aerospace Companies.
He is Chairman of the IETs independent non-executive director, Power Academy, Chairman of CIGRE the chairman of the Remuneration UK and President of the European Committee and a member of the Risk Network of Transmission System Management and Audit and Nomination Operators for Electricity.
chairman of the SHE Committee and a member of the Risk Management and 7.
Amanda Mellor 49 Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Non-executive Committees.
Appointed to the Board in December 2011.
She is currently the Group Secretary 9.
Hugh Raven 41 and Head of Corporate Governance of General counsel and Marks and Spencer Group plc, having Group company secretary previously been Head of Investor Joined the Group in April 2010, Relations at Marks and Spencer and having previously worked for top City law firms, latterly as a Partner in Director of Corporate Relations at Eversheds corporate department.
Amanda was recently He has significant experience of a appointed to the Council of Leeds wide variety of legal and regulatory University and is also a visiting professor.
issues, having advised a number of She spent her early career in clients in the construction sector.
investment banking at James Capel and He has responsibility for the Groups Robert Fleming.
She was accredited legal affairs, together with the as a Legal Mediator in 2002.
She is Groups HR function.
a member of the Remuneration, Risk Management and Audit and Safety Committees and chairs the Nomination Committee.
