Overview Operational review Corporate responsibility Financial review Governance Financial statements Corporate responsibility Assurance statement KPMG Audit Plc was engaged by Kier Group plc Kier to provide independence requirements, and plan and perform the engagement limited assurance over selected aspects of the Kier Group plc to obtain limited assurance about whether the data is free from Corporate Responsibility section in its Annual Report and Accounts material misstatement.
for the year ended 30 June 2013 the Report.
ISAE 3000 requires the practitioner complies with the requirements This independent assurance report is made solely to Kier in of Parts A and B of the Code of Ethics for Professional accordance with the terms of our engagement.
Our work has been Accountants.
This is issued by the International Ethics Standards undertaken so that we might state to Kier those matters we have Board for Accountants the IESBA Code which requires, among been engaged to state within this report and for no other purpose.
other requirements, that the members of the assurance team To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume practitioners as well as the assurance firm assurance provider responsibility to anyone other than Kier for our work, this report, or be independent of the assurance client, including not being involved for the conclusions we have reached.
in writing the Report and plan and perform the engagements to obtain limited assurance about whether data is free from material Responsibilities misstatement.
The Code also includes detailed requirements for The Directors of Kier Group plc are responsible for preparing the practitioners regarding integrity, objectivity, professional competence Report and the information and statements within it.
They are and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour.
KPMG responsible for identification of stakeholders and material issues, Audit Plc has systems and processes in place to monitor compliance for defining objectives with respect to corporate responsibility with the Code and to prevent conflicts regarding independence.
performance, and for establishing and maintaining appropriate Our independence with the client is reviewed on an annual basis.
performance management and internal control systems from which reported information is derived.
What did we do to reach our conclusions?
We planned and performed our work to obtain all the evidence, Our responsibility is to express our conclusions in relation to the information and explanations that we considered necessary in scope set out below.
relation to the above scope.
Our work was limited to the following What was included in the scope of our assurance engagement?
procedures using a range of evidence-gathering activities which are Assurance scope further explained below: Reliability of performance data for year ended 30 June 2013 Conducting interviews with management and other personnel at marked with the symbol on pages 26 to 32 of the Report.
Kier, to understand the systems and controls in place during the Level of assurance year ended 30 June 2013: Limited assurance.
An evaluation of the design, existence and operation of the Reporting criteria systems and methods used to collect, process and aggregate Relevant internal reporting guidelines for the selected performance the selected performance data as well as testing the reliability data as set out in Kiers reporting guidelines available at of underlying data at a risk based selection of businesses sites, www.
being those at: The extent of evidence-gathering procedures for a limited assurance Kier Services Maintenance engagement is less than for a reasonable assurance engagement, Kier Construction Kier Infrastructure and therefore a lower level of assurance is provided for Kier Minerals Greenburn Surface Mine the data.
Kier Group Tempsford Head Office Inherent limitations From a Group perspective these businesses sites represent: Non-financial performance information is subject to more inherent 61% of the selected Environment and climate change data: limitations than financial information, given the characteristics of 39% of the selected Workplace data: the subject matter and the methods used for determining such 100% of the selected Marketplace data: information.
The absence of a significant body of established 51% of the selected Community engagement data: and practice on which to draw allows for the selection of different 100% of the selected Considerate Constructors Scheme but acceptable measurement techniques which can result in data.
materially different measurements and can impact comparability.
The precision of different measurement techniques may also vary.
Furthermore, the nature and methods used to determine such The following conclusions should be read in conjunction with the information, as well as the measurement criteria and the precision work performed and scope of our assurance engagement described thereof, may change over time.
It is important to read the selected corporate responsibility Nothing has come to our attention to suggest that the information contained within the Report in the context of Kiers performance data marked with the symbol, on pages 26 to Reporting Guidelines available on the Kier website www.
32, are not fairly stated, in all material respects in accordance with the relevant internal reporting guidelines for the selected In particular, inherent limitations affect the conversion of electricity performance data.
and fuel used to calculate carbon emissions.
Conversion of electricity and fuel used to calculate carbon emissions is based upon, inter alia, information and factors derived by independent Michael Froom third parties as explained in Kiers Reporting Guidelines.
Our for and on behalf of KPMG Audit Plc assurance work has not included examination of the derivation Chartered Accountants of those factors and other third-party information.
Our assurance London work has not included challenging the scientific work undertaken by independent third parties when calculating these emissions factors.
11 September 2013 Which assurance standard did we use?
1 We conducted our work in accordance with ISAE 3000, with a 1 team of specialists in auditing environmental information and International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000: Assurance with experience in similar engagements.
This standard requires Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, that we comply with applicable ethical requirements, including issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board.
