Business review Governance Accounts 31 GOVERNANCE Directors report indemnities nor the insurance provides cover in the event that The directors present their report and the director concerned is proved to have acted fraudulently.
audited financial statements for the Directors interests financial year ended 2 February 2013.
Details of directors remuneration, service contracts and interests in the Companys shares and share options are set out in the Principal activities Directors Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 59.
No director The Groups principal activity is selling home improvement had a material interest at any time during the year in any derivative products and services through stores, catalogues and online or financial instrument relating to the Companys shares.
Our aim is to make it easier for customers to have better and more sustainable homes.
Principal risk identification and management The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group have been Business model reviewed by the Board and are shown in the Risks section on Our unique contribution as a business to our customers is that we pages 25 to 27.
The Risks section also provides information on the can harness our home improvement experience, our heritage as a performance of the Board in actively managing those risks, to allow leader in sustainability and our international scale and sourcing assessment of how the directors have performed their statutory capability to bring new, more sustainable and more profitable duty to promote the success of the Company.
products and services to market.
Our business model aims to generate economic profit and cash by maximising our sales whilst Employees keeping costs low within our stores, our supply chain and our The commitment of the Groups employees is vital to central functions.
ensure that high standards of customer care and service are maintained throughout the business.
The Group is fully This model is used to deliver Kingfishers Creating the Leader committed to treating its employees and customers with dignity strategy, which is covered in detail on pages 6 to15.
and respect, and to valuing diversity.
It is Group policy to: Business review ensure there is no discrimination in employment on the The Business Review, which is set out on pages 2 to 27 provides a grounds of race, gender, age, disability, marital status, sexual comprehensive review of the development, performance and future orientation or religious belief: prospects of the Groups operations for the year ended 2 February 2013.
The information set out in the Business Review includes the implement measures in stores to ensure a level of customer Groups Key Performance Indicators, a statement on Corporate service for disabled people equivalent to that offered to nonResponsibility, a Financial Review including financial and capital risk, disabled people: and and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the maintain a mechanism which customers and employees can Group.
These sections are incorporated by reference and deemed to use to give feedback on the Groups performance and ensure form part of this report.
that all customer comments are analysed, responded to and Dividends acted upon.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 6.37p 2011 12: Across the Group, women accounted for 40% of total 6.37p per ordinary share amounting to 151m 2011 12: employees and 30% of managers in 2012 13.
B&Q UK 148m to be paid on 17 June 2013 to members appearing on continued its long-established policy of promoting age diversity, the Register at the close of business on 10 May 2013.
Together with around a quarter of its employees aged over 50. with the interim dividend of 3.09p 2011 12: 2.47p per ordinary share, amounting to 73m 2011 12: 57m, paid on The Groups statement on employee development is set out in the 16 November 2012, the total dividend for the financial year People section of the Companys website, and details of employee ended 2 February 2013 will be 9.46p 2011 12: 8.84p per involvement through participation in share incentive schemes are ordinary share, amounting to 224m 2011 12: 205m.
contained in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 59.
The Kingfisher Employee Benefit Trust has waived all dividends There are a number of communication channels in place to payable by the Company in respect of the ordinary shares held help employees to develop their knowledge of, and enhance by it.
The total dividends waived in the year to 2 February 2013 their involvement with, the Group.
These channels include were in aggregate 3.2m.
engagement surveys, briefing groups, internal magazines and newsletters that report on business performance and objectives, Directors community involvement and other applicable issues.
Directors Full biographical details of the current directors are set out on and senior management regularly visit stores and discuss pages 28 and 29.
Philippe Tible and Karen Witts joined the matters of current interest and concern with employees.
Board as executive directors on 1 October 2012, and will seek appointment by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting Corporate responsibility AGM on 13 June 2013.
Euan Sutherland joined the Board as an Details of the Groups corporate responsibility policy and executive director on 1 October 2012 and resigned from the Board operations are set out on page 16. on 31 January 2013 to join the Co-operative Group as CEO.
In Charitable donations accordance with the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Kingfisher and its subsidiaries made contributions to Code, all directors will retire and be submitted for appointment or charity community projects worth an estimated 2.4m re-appointment at the AGM in 2013.
2011 12: 1.8m during the financial year ended 2 February Directors indemnity arrangements 2013, equivalent to 0.3% of adjusted pre-tax profits.
This The Company has provided qualifying third-party deeds of included cash donations 1.6m and gifts-in-kind 0.5m indemnity for the benefit of each director and former director with product donations at cost price.
Support was also given who held office during the 2012 13 financial year.
The through the donation of time by employees 0.3m.
Company has also purchased and maintained Directors and Officers liability insurance throughout 2012 13.
com 32 GOVERNANCE Directors Report continued Political donations Report and Accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings of The Board annually seeks and obtains shareholders approval the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
to enable the Group to make donations or incur expenditure in There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares or on relation to EU political parties, other political organisations or the exercise of voting rights attached to them, except i where independent election candidates under section 366 of the the Company has exercised its right to suspend their voting Companies Act 2006. rights or to prohibit their transfer following the omission of their The Group made no political donations during the year holder or any person interested in them to provide the Company 2011 12: nil.
As with previous annual approvals, the Group with information requested by it in accordance with Part 22 of has no intention of changing its current policy and practice of the Companies Act 2006 or ii where their holder is precluded not making political donations.
The Board seeks the approval from exercising voting rights by the Financial Services Authority on a precautionary basis to avoid any unintentional breach of Listing Rules or the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
Shareholder approval will be sought at The Company has a Sponsored Level 1 American Depositary this years AGM to renew this authority: further details are Receipt ADR programme in the United States.
provided in the Notice of AGM.
Authority to allot shares Supplier payment policy At the AGM in 2012, shareholders approved a resolution to give the The Company does not impose standard payment terms on its directors authority to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal value of suppliers but agrees specific terms with each of them, and then 124,107,897.
In addition, shareholders approved a resolution to pays in accordance with those terms.
The Groups UK operating give the directors authority to allot up to a nominal amount of companies have all signed up to the Prompt Payment Code.
On 248,215,795 in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue in average, the Companys suppliers are paid in 45 days.
If this additional allotment authority Significant agreements change of control were used, the ABI guidance would be followed.
The directors have There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or no present intention to issue ordinary shares, other than pursuant to terminate upon a change of control of the Company following employee share incentive schemes.
These resolutions remain valid a takeover bid, such as bank loan agreements, Medium Term until the conclusion of this years AGM when resolutions will be Note MTN documentation, private placement debt and proposed to renew these authorities.
None of these are deemed to be Authority to purchase own shares significant in terms of their potential impact on the business At the AGM in 2012, shareholders approved a resolution for the of the Group as a whole except for: Company to make purchases of its own shares to a maximum the 200 million credit facility dated 8 July 2011 between the number of 236,933,259 ordinary shares, being approximately Company, HSBC Bank plc as the facility agent and the banks 10% of the issued share capital.
This resolution remains valid named therein as lenders, which contains a provision such until the conclusion of this years AGM.
As at 25 March 2013, the that in the event of a change of control any lender may, if directors have not used this authority.
In order to retain maximum they so require, notify the agent that they wish to cancel their flexibility, a resolution will be proposed at this years AGM to renew commitment whereupon the commitment of that lender will be this authority.
It is the Companys current intention that shares cancelled and all their outstanding loans, together with accrued acquired under this authority will be cancelled.
interest, will become immediately due and payable: and Financial instruments the US$297 million US Private Placement notes, issued The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies pursuant to a note purchase agreement dated 24 May 2006 are set out in note 24 to the financial statements on pages by the Company to various institutions, which contains a 87 to 89.
Note 24 also details the Groups exposure to foreign provision such that in the event of a change of control, the exchange, interest, credit and liquidity risks.
These notes are included by reference and form part of this report.
Company is required to make an offer to the holders of the US Private Placement notes to prepay the principal amount Major shareholders of the notes together with interest accrued.
As at 7 March 2013, the Company was aware of the following The Company does not have agreements with any director or interests in its shares: officer that would provide compensation for loss of office or Number of employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of ordinary % of total the Companys share incentive schemes may cause options and shares held voting rights awards granted under such schemes to vest on a takeover.
Thornberg Investments Management Inc 194,252,960 8.77% Templeton Investments Counsel, LLC 197,406,849 8.33% Essential contracts Capital Research Global Investors 115,655,941 4.88% There is no information that the Company would be required to disclose about persons with whom it has contractual or other Annual General Meeting arrangements that are essential to the business of the Company.
The 2013 Annual General Meeting of the Company will be Share capital held on 13 June 2013 at the Hilton London Paddington Hotel, Paddington at 11.00am.
A full description of the business to be Details of the Companys issued share capital are set out in note 28 to the consolidated financial statements.
All of the conducted at the meeting is set out in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Companys issued ordinary shares are fully paid up and rank equally in all respects.
By order of the Board The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary Paul Moore shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are Company Secretary set out in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which 25 March 2013 can be obtained from the Companys website.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys Annual Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Business review Governance Accounts 33 GOVERNANCE Directors statement of responsibility Going concern In preparing the Group financial statements in accordance The directors confirm that, after reviewing expenditure with IAS 1: Presentation of Financial Statements, the directors commitments, expected cash flows and borrowing facilities, are required to: they have a reasonable expectation that Kingfisher plc the select suitable accounting policies and then apply Company and the Kingfisher Group of companies the them consistently: Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the next financial year and the foreseeable future.
present information, including accounting policies, in a For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and in preparing these financial statements.
Further details of the understandable information: Groups liquidity are detailed in the financial review on page 17. provide additional disclosures when compliance with the Disclosure of information to auditors specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users Each person who is a director at the date of approval of this to understand the impact of particular transactions, other report confirms that: so far as he or she is aware, there is no events and conditions on the entitys financial position and relevant audit information as defined by section 418 of the financial performance: and Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys auditors are make an assessment of the Groups ability to continue as a unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he going concern.
or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys that information.
transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to Responsibility for preparing financial statements ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the and regulations.
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
UK company law requires the directors to prepare financial The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors of the corporate and financial information included on the are required to prepare the Group financial statements in Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards governing the preparation and dissemination of financial IFRS as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Responsibility statement The directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge: Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the company law the directors must not approve the accounts relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the Company for that period.
consolidation taken as a whole: and In preparing the parent Company financial statements, the business review, which is incorporated into the Directors the directors are required to: Report, includes a fair review of the development and select suitable accounting policies and then apply performance of the business and the position of the Company them consistently: and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and make judgements and accounting estimates that are uncertainties that they face.
reasonable and prudent: By order of the Board follow applicable UK Accounting Standards except where any departures from this requirement are explained in the Paul Moore Company Secretary notes to the parent Company financial statements : and 25 March 2013 prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
