28 GOVERNANCE Board of directors The Board is made up of a non-executive Chairman, four executive directors and six non-executive directors who have overall collective responsibility for the direction of the Company.
The role and composition of the Board is set out on page 35.
Daniel Bernard Ian Cheshire Karen Witts Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Current directorships: Joined the Board as Deputy Current directorships: Appointed to the Board in June Current directorships: Appointed to the Board in Chairman in May 2006 before being appointed 2000 and as Group Chief Executive in January 2008.
He is President of He is also a non-executive director of Whitbread plc, Expertise and experience: Karen provides additional Provestis, his own investment company, and since lead non-executive member on the Department for recent relevant finance expertise to the Board.
She January 2010 has been Chairman of MAF Retail Work and Pensions Board, member of the Prince of was previously Chief Financial Officer, Africa, Middle Group, Dubai.
He has also been Senior Advisor of Wales Corporate Leaders Group on Climate Change, East, Asia and Asia Pacific for Vodafone plc.
From Towerbrook Capital Partners since October 2010. and a Member of the Business Disability Forum 1999 to 2010 she worked at BT plc, most recently as He is a non-executive director of Alcatel Lucent and Presidents Group.
In October 2012, Ian became Chief Financial Officer, BT Retail and Managing Capgemini and Phase Eight Ltd.
He is also President the Chairman of the British Retail Consortium.
Director Enterprises and before that as Managing of the HEC Business School Foundation in Paris and a Expertise and experience: Ian was previously Director Operations, Openreach.
She is a chartered member of the Advisory Board of HEC.
Chief Executive, B&Q UK from June 2005.
He accountant and has experience in finance and Expertise and experience: Daniel provides was appointed Chief Executive International and management roles at companies such as Paribas, considerable retailing experience and expertise Development in September 2002, Chief Executive of Diageo, Mars Electronics, The Observer newspaper to the Kingfisher Board.
He was Chairman and e-Kingfisher in May 2000 and was Group Director of and Ernst & Whinney.
Chief Executive of Carrefour, the Paris-based retail Strategy & Development.
Before joining Kingfisher he group and the worlds second largest retailer, from worked for a number of retail businesses including 1992 to 2005.
Prior to Carrefour, he was Chief Sears plc where he was Group Commercial Director.
Operating Officer of METRO, Germanys leading international retailer.
Andrew Bonfield Pascal Cagni Clare Chapman Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Current directorships: Appointed to the Board Current directorships: Appointed to the Board in Current directorships: Appointed to the Board in February 2010 and is Chairman of the Audit November 2010.
He is a non-voting director of the in December 2012 and is Chairman of the Committee.
He is Finance Director of National supervisory board of Vivendi.
She is currently Group Grid plc.
He is also a Committee member of the People Director of BT plc and is on the Advisory Expertise and experience: Pascal provides the Hundred Group of Finance Directors.
Board of the Judge Institute, the Business School Board with expertise in the field of digital and online of the University of Cambridge.
Expertise and experience: Andrew brings significant retailing.
Until recently, he was Vice President and current finance experience to the Kingfisher Board.
General Manager of Apple Europe, Middle East, Expertise and experience: Clare brings significant He was previously Chief Financial Officer of Cadbury India and Africa, and was with Apple for ten years in a human resources expertise to the Kingfisher board.
plc and prior to that he was Chief Financial Officer of variety of roles.
His previous experience includes roles She was previously the Director General of Workforce Bristol-Myers Squibb from 2002 to 2007, Finance at NEC, Compaq and Booz Allen Hamilton.
He also for the NHS and Social Care, and was also a nonDirector of BG Group plc from 2001 to 2002 and held the position of non-executive director on the executive director of TUI Travel plc and Chairman of Chief Financial Officer of SmithKline Beecham Plc board of Egg Banking plc, from 2002 to 2006 and on its Remuneration Committee.
Her previous experience from 1999 to 2000 during an 11 year period with the the board of Atari, the computer games company.
also includes Group HR director of Tesco plc from pharmaceuticals group.
1999 to 2006 and HR Vice President of Pepsi-Colas West and Central European operations from 1994 to 1999.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Business review Governance Accounts 29 Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee See pages 34 to 44 for further details.
Kevin OByrne Philippe Tible CEO, B&Q and Kota s Brands CEO, Castorama and Brico Dpt Brands Current directorships: Kevin was appointed to the Current directorships: Appointed to the Board in Board as Group Finance Director in October 2008.
He ceased to be Finance Director in September Expertise and experience: Philippe was appointed 2012.
As CEO, B&Q and Kotas brands he holds Kingfisher Divisional CEO of Castorama and Brico responsibility for the Groups businesses in the UK, Dpt after nine years with the Group.
He previously Ireland, China, Turkey and the Hornbach investment spent four years as Chief Executive of Kingfisher in Germany.
He is deputy chairman of Kotas France, and prior to this he spent five years as Yapi Marketleri Ticaret A. S. and a member of the CEO of Castorama France.
He holds responsibility supervisory board of Hornbach Holding AG.
He is for the Castorama and Brico Dpt businesses in Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the France, Poland, Russia and Spain.
He previously Audit Committee of Land Securities plc.
held senior roles at DIY retailer Leroy Merlin and Expertise and experience: Kevin worked for Dixons furniture retailer Conforama.
Retail plc from 2002 to 2008 where he was Group Finance Director.
Previously he was European Finance Director at Quaker Oats Limited.
He is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Anders Dahlvig Janis Kong Mark Seligman Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Director Current directorships: Appointed to the Board in Current directorships: Appointed to the Board in Current directorships: Appointed to the Board in December 2009.
He is a director of Oriflame December 2006.
She is a non-executive director of January 2012.
He is a non-executive director of BG Cosmetics AB, H&M Hennes & Mauritz AB and Portmeirion Group PLC, NetworkRail, VisitBritain and Group plc, where he is also chairman of the Audit Axel Johnson AB: and is Chairman of The New Wave TUI Travel plc.
She is also a non-executive director of Committee.
He serves as an alternate member of Group and a member of the Advisory Board of Lund Copenhagen Airports A S. the Panel on Takeovers and Mergers, a member of University Business School.
He is also a director of the Regional Growth Fund advisory panel and nonExpertise and experience: Janis provides important Resurs Bank AB, and Pret A Manger Limited.
executive deputy chairman of G4S, where he is also operational experience to the Kingfisher Board.
She Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Expertise and experience: Anders brings extensive was previously a non-executive director of The Royal commercial retailing expertise to the Board.
He was Bank of Scotland Group Plc and, until her retirement Expertise and experience: Mark provides substantial previously Chief Executive and President of The in March 2006, was a director of BAA plc and expertise to the Kingfisher Board in the field of IKEA Group from 1999 to 2009, having spent 26 Chairman of Heathrow Airport Ltd for five years as well finance.
He was a senior adviser at Credit Suisse.
Prior to becoming Chief as being Chairman of Heathrow Express.
Prior to that He began his career at Price Waterhouse and spent Executive, he was Vice President of IKEA Europe she was Managing Director of Gatwick Airport and has over 30 years in the City, including senior roles at SG from 1997 to 1999 and Managing Director of IKEA held a number of operational roles within BAA during Warburg, BZW and Credit Suisse First Boston.
At UK from 1993 to 1997. her 33-year career with the company.
Credit Suisse he was deputy chairman Europe from 1999 to 2005 and later Chairman UK Investment Banking from 2003 to 2005. www.
