6 CREATING THE LEADER OUR PURPOSE IS TO MAKE IT EASIER FOR CUSTOMERS TO HAVE BETTER AND MORE SUSTAINABLE HOMES Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Business review Business review Governance Governance Accounts Accounts 7 7 Our markets We currently operate in eight countries, because of the relatively small advice.
They can offer a high spanning over 500 million households.
number of well-known manufacturer proportion of own brand product, Our research shows that spending on brands.
This means a specialist home achieve economies of scale and have a home improvement is a key priority for improvement retailer provides a vital more defensible position against online householders, making this an attractive role for the consumer by offering a or generalist operators when compared sector for retailers.
Its also attractive wide product choice and expert with other retail segments.
Strategy Our unique contribution as a business By also providing our customers The current phase of our development to our customers is that we can with project advice and new shopping towards this vision Creating the harness our home improvement channels to complement our stores, Leader builds on the success of experience, our heritage as a leader we will make it easier for them to Delivering Value, our previous in sustainability and our international adapt their homes to their evolving four-year growth plan, which scale and sourcing capability to bring needs.
Our shorthand for describing has repositioned Kingfisher as a new, more sustainable and more this purpose is Better Homes, stronger business in the attractive affordable products to market.
Creating the Leader: self-help initiatives Four themes Eight steps Success measures 1.
Making it easier for customers to improve their home Like-for-like sales growth LFL EASIER 2.
Giving our customers more ways to shop Unique web users For more information see page 09.
Building innovative common brands 35% of Group sales direct sourced COMMON 4.
Driving efficiency and effectiveness everywhere 50% of all product sales to be common Retail profit margin For more information see page 11.
Growing our presence in existing markets Kingfisher Economic Profit KEP 6.
Expanding in new and developing markets For more information see page 13.
For definition of KEP see page 21.
Developing leaders and connecting people Group employee engagement scores 8.
Sustainability: becoming Net Positive Net Positive dashboard For more information see page 15.
Financial benefits Predicting future potential retail profit benefits from this strategy, when we dont know the economic conditions or competitive landscape we will face in the future is very difficult.
However, whatever the conditions, we believe our efforts will drive higher LFL sales, higher gross margin and more cost efficiencies than would have been delivered without this strategy.
In 2011 12 we estimated that this would create an additional 300 million of annualised retail profit in the fifth year, net of price reinvestment and based on the size of the business and market conditions at that time.
For more information on how our strategy is linked to Risk reporting and Remuneration see pages 25 and 45 respectively.
com 8 CREATING THE LEADER EASIER AFFORDABLE A D V I C E ACCESSIBLE CONVENIENT Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Governance Accounts Business review 9 Key steps 1.
Making it easier for customers to improve their home 2.
Giving our customers more ways to shop Milestones TARGETS DURING 2013 14 PROGRESS DURING 2012 13 Completed UK roll out of DIY Emphasise our affordability credentials training classes Launch Handy Prices marketing campaign in B&Q Launched B&Q YouTube channel Roll out Brico Dpt back to basics Trialling new formats in France, marketing campaign TradePoint launches new transactional UK, Turkey, Russia & China website driven by Screwfix know-how Extend Brico Dpt France & Spain Preparing for the UKs Green Deal programme of arrivages one off Launched Screwfix mobile special buys to Turkey & Poland click, pay & collect offer Launch UK Enterprise Finance Developed a Group Guarantee scheme for tradesmen omnichannel platform, Extend our omnichannel offer: implemented first in TradePoint Launch upgraded B&Q online offer www.
com Upgrading B&Qs online offer Over 1 million hits for B&Qs You Can Do It Extend TradePoint website to main YouTube channel shop floor categories Launch upgraded websites in Poland, Turkey, China, Brico Dpt France & Spain For the case studies, go to Trial click & collect in Castorama http: annualreport.
com France & Turkey 2012-13 Measures Like-for-like sales Unique web users m Monthly Moving Annual Average 12 13 -2.9% 23% 11 12 1.3% www.
com 11 12 15 12 13 19 10 CREATING THE LEADER COMMON WORLDS BEST PRODUCTS LOCAL MARKETS L CHOICE O C A L T A S T E Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Governance Accounts Business review 11 Key steps 3.
Driving efficiency and effectiveness everywhere Milestones TARGETS DURING 2013 14 PROGRESS DURING 2012 13 19% of sales direct sourced Product: Launch energy-efficiency iQE 8% of sales common Group brand Direct sourcing in our developing Brico Dpts Energer hand & power tool Roll out Colours Group own-brand markets up 63% Poland, Russia, range launched in Screwfix paint into Russia & Spain Turkey & China Roll out new coloured emulsion Opened new direct sourcing office paint range in B&Q UK & in Turkey Castorama France Extended Trade common own Launch exclusive Valspar mixing brands in Screwfix & Brico Dpt desk paint into B&Q UK & Ireland Launched new tiling range in B&Q & China UK & Ireland Full launch of Site workwear into New tiling range launched in B&Q UK Developed a stock forecasting Brico Dpt & Ireland higher commonality with Castorama France & replenishment IT solution, First UK & France product show successfully rolled out in B&Q UK & Ireland and Poland Efficiency: Upweighted distribution centre Driven Group-wide cost efficiencies For the case studies, go to capability in Poland, Spain & Turkey through GNFR Goods not for resale http: annualreport.
com savings from European-wide supply Roll out France & Spain staff bonus 2012-13 negotiations & SAP contract programmes to Poland linked to renegotiated on a Group-wide basis individual store sales & profit growth Measures Common product sales Products direct sourced Retail profit margin % % of total sales % of total sales www.
com 11 12 2 12 13 8 11 12 15 12 13 19 11 12 8.1 12 13 7.4 12 CREATING THE LEADER EXPAND GROWTH HIGHER RETURNS FLEXIBILITY T R A D AMBITION E Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Governance Accounts Business review 13 Key steps 5.
Growing our presence in existing markets 6.
Expanding in new and developing markets Milestones TARGETS DURING 2013 14 PROGRESS DURING 2012 13 Opened 70 net new stores Open 68 net new stores UK 50 1 UK 61, France 2, Poland 3, Screwfix outlets, France 5, Poland 2, Russia 1, Turkey 1, Spain 3 & Russia 1, Turkey 4 & Spain 6, China 1 closure representing 3% space growth Revamped & extended 5 Revamp & extend four Screwfix accelerates store opening programme with 60 new stores Castorama France stores Castorama France stores Successfully integrated 28 Focus Evaluate Screwfix DIY stores in the UK international opportunities Launching a 4,000m2 standalone B&Q Design Centre trial store in China B&Q UK store rightsizing: 1 B&Q UK store reduced in size by 50% in deal completed with a supermarket group 1 60 Screwfix outlets & 1 B&Q.
New format stores opened in France.
Measures Kingsher Economic profit KEP m Kingfishers 1,000th home improvement store opened, in Lublin, Poland For the case studies, go to http: annualreport.
com 2012-13 For denition of KEP see page 21. www.
com 11 12 131 12 13 44 14 CREATING THE LEADER ONE TEAM DEVELOPING LEADERS ENGAGEMENT CONNECTING T PEOPLE A L FORCE E NET FOR GOOD POSITIVE N T Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Governance Accounts Business review 15 Key steps 7.
Developing leaders and connecting people 8.
Sustainability: becoming Net Positive Milestones TARGETS DURING 2013 14 PROGRESS DURING 2012 13 The Kingfisher One Academy launched for top 250 managers Broadened the Group Continue to extend the Kingfisher Executive Team with two internal One Academy appointments Guy Colleau as CEO, Net Positive dashboard to be Group Sourcing & Offer: Steve Willett updated annually as CEO, Group Productivity & Development Launched the Kingfisher One Academy a virtual academy for the top 250 managers Launched our new sustainability plan, Net Positive, and associated dashboard Our aim is to give back more than we take in the course of our operations Kingfisher launches new ambition to become Net Positive kids DIY classes Our four priority areas are launched in Poland Timber, Energy, Innovation and Communities see page 16 For the case studies, go to http: annualreport.
com 2012-13 Measures Engagement scores Sales of products with eco-credentials Gallup Q12 survey out of 5 % of total sales Sales of products with eco-credentials: 2.1bn 20% of total sales Total sales: 10.6bn A GrandMean score above 4 out of 5 is best in class.
For our Group performance summary go to www.
