8 How we run the business Ladbrokes plc is a leader in theglobal betting and gaming market.
The Companys origins date back to 1 886 and we employ over 1 4,400 people, 1 3,000 of whom work in the UK.
Our approach Our vision Our values To build an e enabled We have a core set of values We take our international betting and to provide a framework for us customers to the gaming business.
This means using technology heart of the action.
Buzz to distribute ourproducts, Adding energy and excitement Ourpromise is to service our customers and to the Ladbrokes experience, gain accesstonew territories deliver the most for ourselves and our anddistribution channels.
exciting and Italsomeans leveraging the tremendous power of the engaging gambling Bold Ladbrokes brand to drive us Having the confidence to go experience.
forward in a multi-channel beyond the everyday.
Team Understanding and respecting the players in our team, working towards one goal.
Winners Striving to get things right and doing things better, faster and with more imagination.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 9 Corporate and social Management team Good Governance responsibility The Board is responsible for The Board ensures that the Acting responsibly has always providing the right leadership, right strategy is set, acceptable been a priority for Ladbrokes.
strategic oversight and control risks are taken and appropriate The continued public environment to produce and financial and human resources questioning of the role of sustain delivery of value to all are in place in order to deliver business in society has of the Companys shareholders.
confirmed our view that a The Board applies integrity, successful business is a principles of good corporate responsible business.
governance and accountability Fair play is built into the way throughout its activities.
we do business at Ladbrokes.
Day-to-day running of the We uphold high social, ethical Company is through the and environmental standards Executive team, led by Chief across the organisation.
We aim to be a leader in Finance and Human Resources responsible business practice, sit on the Executive Committee this translates to protecting along with the Managing children and the vulnerable, Directors of the Retail, Digital tackling problem gambling and International businesses.
and maintaining integrity at Other senior managers are alllevels.
asked to attend as appropriate.
Key decisions Key standing committees help discharge Key initiatives theBoards duties: The partnership with Playtech and We have reviewed our approach to theestablishment of Ladbrokes responsible gambling and played a Audit Israelto significantly escalate our leadingrole in drawing up the Remuneration Digital capabilities.
Association of British Bookmakers Nomination ABB code on playerprotection.
The purchase of Global Betting Exchange Alderney Limited GBEA, Disclosure We continue to support initiatives to the operator of theBetdaq exchange research, minimise and treat problem Finance business.
This gives our Digital offer gambling through the Responsible the most comprehensive sports The Board also have a formal schedule of GamblingTrust.
betting offer in the market.
matters specifically reserved for its We launched a Voice of the Customer decision and approval which include: The expansion into Australia through programme to help understand our the acquisition of Gaming Investments customers better and provide even Approval of strategic and annual profit Pty Ltd, afast growing sports betting plans greatercustomer service.
We continue to seek to be a positive Key announcements The deal with SG Gaming to rollout influence on our communities and 2013 Dividend declarations over 9,000 new gaming machines to saw the launch of our first UK-wide Major acquisitions and disposals our British betting shops ahead of the apprenticeship scheme where, from 2014 Football World Cup.
aninitial target of employing 200, we Material contracts ended up recruiting 317.
Treasury policy and other Group Since 2008, when we initiated an policies ambitious energy efficiency programme, we have brought down the absolute greenhouse gas GHG emissions ofour UK operations by over 21%.
