38 Directors report The directors present their Annual Report and the audited financial Share capital At 24 February 2014, the Company had been notified, in accordance statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Corporate Governance reports on pages 32 to with the FCAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following holdings of voting rights attaching to the Companys shares.
None of 37 are deemed to be incorporated into this report by reference.
Details of the likely future developments of the business are these notifiable interests have changed since 31 December 2013. described in the Strategic Report on pages 4 to 27.
The Strategic Number of % of issued Report, Directors Report and other sections from the Annual Report shares share capital which are incorporated by reference, collectively comprise the Schroders plc 91,210,194 9.92 Management Report for the purposes of DTR 4.1.
The Capital Group Companies, Inc 64,915,507 7.06 FIL Limited 46,506,296 5.05 Dividends Jupiter Asset Management Limited 45,953,525 5.00 The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 4.6 Deutsche Bank AG 33,741,823 3.67 pence per ordinary share, making a total of 8.9 pence for the year.
Subject to shareholders approval at the Annual General Meeting the As at 31 December 2013 Norges Bank had a notifiable interest in final dividend is expected to be paid on 15 May 2014 to shareholders respect of 27,801,227 ordinary shares.
On 12 February 2014 the registered on 28 March 2014.
Company wasadvised that Norges Banks interest had fallen below3%.
Directors Biographical details of the directors at the date of this report are The Trustee of the Ladbrokes Share Ownership Trust, which is shown on pages 30 and 31 together.
Christopher Rodrigues served usedin connection with certain of the Companys employee share as a director until his retirement at the conclusion of last years ownership plans, waives dividends on shares in the Trust not Annual General Meeting on 1 May 2013.
David Martin was appointed allocated to plan members.
As previously announced, Further details in respect of the share capital are shown in note JohnJarvis will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the 26to the consolidated financial statements which forms part of Annual General Meeting to be held on 7 May 2014. thisreport.
Details of directors service contracts, their share interests and other Rights attributable to the Companys ordinary shares are as set details of their remuneration by the Company are contained in the outin the Articles and in applicable company law.
Holders of the Directors remuneration report.
Companys ordinary shares have a the right to attend, speak and The Chairman and the independent non-executive directors vote either in person or by proxy at a general meeting of the areappointed, subject to re-election, for a specified term of Company, and b the right to participate in any distribution of the approximately three years, renewable by one additional period Company which includes, but is not limited to, dividends.
ofthree years and further renewable thereafter at the discretion Directors authority to issue and purchase shares ofthe Company.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 1 May 2013, the directors The Board has in place an established procedure for managing, were authorised to allot ordinary shares up to a nominal value andwhere appropriate approving, any conflicts of interest.
of86,661,796 and were further authorised to make market purchases of up to 91,759,548 of the Companys ordinary shares.
Appointment and replacement of directors No purchases of Company shares were made during the year.
Directors are appointed to, or removed from, the Board according Details of shares allotted during the year are shown in note 26 to tothe provisions contained in Companys Articles of Association the consolidated financial statements.
To the extent the authorities Articles and the requirements of the Companies Act 2006. granted by shareholders remain unused they remain in effect until Acopyof the Articles is available to view on the Companys website the earlier oftheAnnual General Meeting in 2014 or 30 June 2014. www.
com investor-centre Corporate responsibility In accordance with the provisions of the Corporate Governance The 2013 Corporate Responsibility CR report is available at Code, all directors will stand for election or re-election at the 2014 www.
com and highlights, with which the following Annual General Meeting.
should be considered in conjunction, are given on pages 25 to 27.
Directors indemnities and insurance The processes described in the section Internal control and risk Each of the directors has been provided with a qualifying third-party management systems on pages 33 and 34 applied to CR including indemnity from the Company.
The Company maintains directors Human Rights issues as appropriate, as did the practices described and officers liability insurance.
on page 32 for ensuring the Board is supplied with appropriate and Auditor and disclosure of information to the auditor timely information and training and for assisting the directors to Each of the directors in office as of the date of approval of this report update their knowledge.
In addition to business presentations confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, there is no relevant audit regularly made to the Board at which CRwas considered as information being information needed by the auditor in connection appropriate, the Board conducts an annual CR review and Board with preparing its report of which the auditor is unaware and that members regularly receive CR updates.
CR performance is included he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken in business unit accountability systems and remuneration as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any arrangements.
The Remuneration Committee in determining relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor is aware executive remuneration takes into account CR matters as described of that information.
in the Directors remuneration report.
The risks and opportunities relating to CR in 2013 and going forward primarily revolve around the reputation of the Group and the quality of its brands.
Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 39 Of particular importance was the promotion of responsible bondholders to exercise a put option when a change of control occurs.
The put option allows the bondholders to require LGF to gambling and the protection of children and the vulnerable.
CR also impacted i the performance of the Groups employees on whom purchase the bonds at a price of 101 pence.
the Group relies for the provision of high quality services to Amendment of the Companys articles of association customers and ii the health and safety of these employees and the The Companys Articles may be amended by the members of the customers they serve.
Company by special resolution requiring a majority of at least 75% Performance indicators continued to be developed in accordance of the persons voting on the relevant resolution.
No breaches of CR policies and procedures Financial risk management material to the Group were identified by the Board in 2013.
A description of the Groups financial risk management objectives The identification and management of CR issues, the CR reporting and policies and its exposure to price, credit liquidity and cash flow framework and any associated data has been reviewed by the risk is contained in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements Companys CR adviser, Carnstone Partners LLP.
and forms part of this report.
Details of the Groups disclosure of its greenhouse gas emissions Going concern In assessing the going concern basis, the directors considered the are set out in the Groups strategic report on page 27.
Groups business activities, the financial position of the Group as Employee policies described in pages 14 to 21 and the Groups financial risk The Board values two-way communication between senior management objectives and policies as included in note 23 to the management and employees on all aspects of the Companys consolidated financial statements.
strategy, Company performance, management effectiveness and approach to wellbeing.
The directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and that There is a rolling three-year internal communications strategy it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in anddelivery plan which includes interventions such as regular preparing its financial statements.
management roadshows, virtual strategy briefings, visits to operating units, responses to the annual colleague opinion Annual General Meeting surveyand updates on performance against the Companys This years Annual General Meeting will be held at Deutsche Bank VisionandValues.
AG, Winchester House, 1 Great Winchester Street, London EC2N 2DB on 7 May 2014 at 11.00am.
The internal communications channels include a mobile device platform, face to face events, a corporate intranet, phone By order of the Board broadcasting, SMS alerts, a Company magazine, leadership andlinemanager briefing packs.
The UK Retail Colleague Forum, which was launched in 2012 as an evolution of our Staff Council, provides a further mechanism for employee dialogue and engagement.
Jonathan Adelman In addition, those employees who are eligible are also encouraged to General Counsel and Company Secretary become involved in the Groups performance through participation 24 February 2014 in share schemes.
Ladbrokes plc Throughout the Group, the principles of equal opportunities are Registered Number 566221 recognised in the formulation and development of employment policies.
It is the Companys policy to give full and fair consideration to applications from people with disabilities, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
If an employee becomes disabled, the Companys objective is the continued provision of suitable employment, either in the same or an alternative position, with appropriate adjustments being made if necessary.
Employees withdisabilities share equally in the opportunities for training, careerdevelopment and promotion.
Significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon achange of control following a takeover bid The agreements between Ladbrokes Group Finance plc LGF, awholly owned subsidiary of the Company, and eight separate banks for the provision by the banks of revolving credit facilities ofup to 540 million on a committed basis provide that the banks may give notice of cancellation if a change of control occurs.
Oncancellation the amounts drawn would be immediately repayable.
In the context of a takeover bid, the acquirer would normally arrange substitute facilities.
In addition, LGF issued a bondin March 2010.
The bond has a Put Event that allows
