i n n a l p n o i t c A t n e m s s e s s a k s i R n o i t a c i t 22 Risks and how we manage them Overall responsibility for risk management Formal review of risks twice yearly The as an integral part of strategic planning Annual assessment of the effectiveness Board Setting clear policies on acceptable levels of Internal Controls System of risk Responsible for assessing the scope and Internal audit function outsourced The Audit effectiveness of the systems established to to Deloitte LLP has an annual audit identify, assess, manage and monitor risks programme that addresses most of the Committee principal risks as well as other operational Reviews reports from Internal Audit and business risks fourtimes per year Executive directors and senior executives Groups internal control, planning and Executive identify key risks and make recommendations approval process on the overallapproach to risk management Committee Each key risk is assigned Executive Reviews overall assessment of likely risks Committee member ownership Responsible for enforcing risk management as an integral part of the Constitutes Group and divisional Meets four times a year Risk executives and senior managers Business units report into the Committee Responsible for maintaining the corporate Risk Committee risk register including periodic monitoring of the mitigating actions as well as the likelihood and consequence of each risk Risk management process and methodology We have adopted an integrated approach to The Risk Committee considers the following impact areas in assessing risks: our risk management and responsibilities.
Legal and regulatory Data integrity and fraud protection The effective understanding, acceptance Betting and gaming compliance Customers and management of risk is fundamental to the strategy of the Group and what could Financial management and bookmaking Employees materially affect the ability to achieve Reputation Health & Safety strategic goals.
Technology Human Rights, as appropriate For each risk identified within these impact areas the likelihood, consequence, riskowner Executive Committee Member and operational lead are identified bytheRisk Committee The risk owner and operational lead suggest the appropriate mitigating control Continuous improvement andactions which are reviewed for appropriateness and monitored regularly bytheRisk Committee Throughout the year the risk management approach is the subject of continuous review and updated to reflect new and developing issues which might impact business strategy.
A Risk Matrix and risk indicators have been established and further developed which helps to monitor progress on risks.
n e d i k s i R g n i t r o p e R Risk governance and responsibilities g n i r o t i n o M g n Overview Strategic report Governance Financial statements 23 In addition, there are more specific risks Principal risks and uncertainties which are either unique to Ladbrokes or There are general business risks faced by Ladbrokes that are comparable to those faced by apply to the industry in which we operate.
General business risks include: The risks outlined here are those principal Marketplace changes in the economic environment, weakening of the Eurozone and risks and uncertainties that are material changes in consumer leisure spend.
They do not include all those Financial availability of debt financing and costs of borrowing, taxation and pension fund liability.
associated with Group activities and are not Operational recruitment and retention of key talent, execution and management of key set out in any order of priority.
Specific risks that are material to Ladbrokes are: Relevance to Change in risk Risks Mitigation strategy to the business Marketplace Competition Digital Capability and Retail Excellence Ladbrokes faces competition primarily from other land-based Ladbrokes performance and competitive position are bookmakers, online betting exchanges and other online continuously monitored and, where appropriate, changes gambling operators.
In particular, the online gambling market are instituted, including in relation to marketing, product is characterised by intense and substantial competition and by development, yield management, cost control and investment.
relatively low barriers to entry for new participants.
In addition, Acquisition opportunities, with a view to taking advantage of Ladbrokes faces competition from market participants who market consolidation, are continuously evaluated.
benefit from greater liquidity as a result of accepting bets and wagers from jurisdictions in which Ladbrokes chooses not to operate because of legal reasons or otherwise.
Betting and gaming industry Taxes, laws, regulations and licensing Regulatory Leadership Regulatory, legislative and fiscal regimes for betting and gaming Regulatory, legislative and fiscal developments in key markets in key markets around the world can change, sometimes at are monitored closely, allowing Ladbrokes to assess and adapt short notice.
Such changes could benefit or have an adverse quickly to changes in the environment and minimise risks to effect on Ladbrokes and additional costs might be incurred in the business.
Ladbrokes engages with its regulators and the order to comply with any new laws or regulations.
relevant trade organisations with regard to the betting and gaming regulatory framework and other issues of shared concern, such as problem gambling.
Increased cost of product Digital Capability and Retail Excellence Ladbrokes is subject to certain financing arrangements Ladbrokes engages with the relevant trade associations and intended to support industries from which it profits.
Examples the principal bodies of sport and event industries with regard are the horseracing and the voluntary greyhound racing levies to sports rights payments, including the statutory horseracing which respectively support the British horseracing and levy, animal welfare and other issues greyhound industries.
In addition, Ladbrokes enters into contracts for the distribution of television pictures, audio and other data that are broadcast into Ladbrokes betting shops.
A number of these are under negotiation at any one time.
Operational and bookmaking Pricing, Trading and Trading, liability management and pricing Liability Management Ladbrokes may experience significant losses as a result Ladbrokes core expertise is risk management and it has of a failure to determine accurately the odds in relation developed the skills and systems to be able to offer a wide to any particular event and or any failure of its risk range of betting opportunities and accept large bets.
in place a highly experienced trading team and risks are spread across a wide range of events.
A bookmakers odds are determined so as to provide an average return to the bookmaker over a large number of events and therefore, over the long term, Ladbrokes gross win percentage has remained fairly constant.
High fixed cost base Retail Excellence Ladbrokes has a relatively high fixed cost base as a proportion Business re-engineering initiatives have been implemented to of its total costs, consisting primarily of employee, rental reduce the cost base.
Structural contingency plans have been and content costs associated with its betting shop estate.
put in place and where possible central facilities have been This means that falls in revenue could have a significantly co-located.
The future strategy to increase online revenues will adverse effect on Ladbrokes profitability unless the Group reduce the proportion of the Companys fixed costs.
reduces its costs substantially in the short to medium term.
Continued on following page 24 Risks and how we manage them continued Relevance to Change in risk Risks Mitigation strategy to the business Operational and bookmaking continued Loss of key locations All Ladbrokes has a number of key sites, in particular Imperial Existing business continuity plans and arrangements for offsite House at Rayners Lane in London, its head office and main data storage, alternate system availability and remote working operations centre, its premises in Europort in Gibraltar from for key operational and senior management continue to be where online betting and gaming operations are based, and developed as part of an ongoing process.
inTel Aviv, Israel from where our Digital marketing operates.
Information technology and communications Technology failure Digital Capability and Retail Excellence Ladbrokes operations are highly dependent on technology Ladbrokes has a level of resilience in place which and advanced information systems and there is a risk that seeks to eliminate single points of failure within key such technology or systems could fail.
In particular, any technology locations.
damage to, or failure of online systems and servers, electronic point of sale systems and electronic display systems could result in interruptions to financial controls and customer service systems.
Data management Digital Capability, Retail Excellence, Customer and Brand Ladbrokes processes sensitive personal customer data Security systems are deployed to protect transactional data.
including name, address, age, bank details and betting and Sophisticated hardware and security mechanisms are used to gaming history as part of its business and therefore must ensure all sensitive and confidential data is fully encrypted.
comply with strict data protection and privacy laws in all To provide fail-safe integrity of all data, a series of storage jurisdictions in which the Group operates.
Ladbrokes is systems are used to replicate all data processed by online exposed to the risk that this data could be wrongfully services.
In respect of fraud protection, an extensive appropriated, lost or disclosed, or processed in breach programme of data monitoring is in place with both of data protection regulation.
This could also result in prevention and detection audit controls.
prosecutions and the loss of the goodwill of its customers and deter new customers.
Technology changes Retail Excellence, Digital Capability, Pricing Trading, Liability Management, Customer and Brand The market for online and mobile gambling products and Ladbrokes has invested and committed considerable services is characterised by technological developments, resources into upgrading its existing technology, IT new product and service introductions and evolving industry infrastructure, communication systems and application standards.
Failure by Ladbrokes to use leading technologies systems, as well as developing and acquiring new platforms.
effectively, develop its technological expertise, enhance its Rigorous testing regimes are utilised to ensure that a products and services and improve the performance, features continued high quality of product offerings and services and reliability of its technology and advanced information are maintained.
systems, could have a material adverse effect on its competitive position.
Failure in the supply chain Retail Excellence, Digital Capability, Pricing Trading, Liability Management, Customer and Brand Ladbrokes is dependent on a number of third parties for the Infrastructure suppliers, network and telecommunication operation of its business.
The withdrawal or removal from the suppliers and application service providers are long-term market of one or more of these major third party suppliers, partners in providing an infrastructure which seeks to ensure or failure of third party suppliers to comply with contractual the delivery of sophisticated and high performance transaction obligations could adversely affect Ladbrokes operations.
There is continual communication with these suppliers and providers at an operating level and service level agreements have been established to maintain high service levels.
The ongoing review of business continuity plans include key supplier alternatives.
KEY Increased Decreased Remains unaltered
