Directors report The Directors are pleased to present their Annual Report and Significant contracts Accounts to shareholders for the year ended 31 December 2013.
Laird has arrangements with a number of major customers and suppliers whereby regional or global terms of supply are agreed.
In accordance with the new requirements introduced by The However, these arrangements do not amount to contractual Companies Act 2006 Strategic Report and Directors Report obligations to purchase and supply as these are covered by Regulations 2013, which became effective on 1 October 2013, individual purchase orders.
the directors have included certain information required for disclosure in other sections of the Annual Report.
These sections Share capital include the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review, Performance, Operating Review, Financial Review, Corporate The Company has only one class of share and the rights Social Responsibility Report, Corporate Governance Report, attached to each share are identical.
Details of the rights and Directors Remuneration Report and the Group Financial obligations attaching to the shares are set out in the Companys Statements and should be read in conjunction with this report Articles of Association which are available on the Companys and this information is, accordingly, incorporated into this report website.
The Company may refuse to register any transfer of by reference.
any share which is not a fully paid share.
At a general meeting of the Company, every member has one vote on a show of hands A review of the development and performance of Laird during and on a poll one vote for each share held.
Details of the voting the year, its position at the year end, and the outlook and procedure, including deadlines for exercising voting rights, are strategy of the Group is given in the Chairmans statement set out in the Notice of Meeting for the 2014 Annual General on page 13, the Chief Executives Review on pages 14 to 18, Meeting.
Performance on pages 2 and 3, the Financial Review on pages 46 to 51, the Operating Review on pages 41 to 45 and note 14 At 31 December 2013 the issued share capital of the Company to the financial statements.
Details of the share capital and options outstanding as at 31 December 2013 The Company has chosen, in accordance with the Companies are shown in note 29 on page 127.
Act 2006 section 414C 11 to include the disclosure of likely future developments in the Strategic Report on pages 2 to 53.
At the 2013 Annual General Meeting, shareholders agreed to the renewal of the directors power to allot shares, or grant Information on environmental matters and disclosures relating rights for or to convert any security into shares, in the Company: to diversity, gender and human rights are contained in the the disapplication of pre-emption rights and authorised the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 30 to 40.
These Company to make purchases of up to 10% of its ordinary pages, the Key Performance Indicators KPIs and the Principal shares on the London Stock Exchange.
As at 27 February 2014, Risks and Uncertainties contained therein, are incorporated into no shares have been purchased pursuant to this authority.
Definitions of the KPIs and the Groups Shareholders will be requested to renew these authorities at performance against them are given on pages 19 and 20.
The the 2014 Annual General Meeting and details are set out in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties are set out on pages 52 and 53.
Details of the Companys policy on addressing such risks, along with information on the Laird Risk Management Framework, Directors including the role of the Risk and Governance Group can be found in the Corporate Governance report on pages 56 to 63.
Election and Re-election of directors The directors as shown on pages 54 and 55 were all directors Results and dividends throughout the year to 31 December 2013, with the exception Underlying profit before tax was 60.1m 2012, 60.7m and of Jack Boyer who joined the Board on 7 May 2013 and Tony is analysed in note 14 on page 111.
Profit for the year after Reading who retired as a director on 31 August 2013.
The recommended final Company announced on 21 November 2013 that Nigel Keen dividend is 7.9p per ordinary share, to be paid on 4 July 2014 to will be retiring as Chairman to be succeeded by Dr Martin Read ordinary shareholders registered as members of the Company at at the Annual General Meeting on 2 May 2014.
Dr Martin Read the close of business on 6 June 2014, making a total dividend for has been appointed as a non-executive director with effect from the year of 12.0p per ordinary share.
28February 2014 and his appointment as Chairman will take effect from the Annual General Meeting to be held on 2 May 2014.
Annual General Meeting AGM All of the directors of the Company will offer themselves for The Companys AGM will be held on Friday 2 May 2014.
Details election or re-election at the 2014 Annual General Meeting.
The of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM are set out in the Companys Articles of Association which require shareholder Notice of Meeting which is provided to all shareholders.
approval for any amendments, set out the powers of the directors and the regulations for their appointment and removal.
Articles of Association None of the non-executive directors offering themselves for The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended election or re-election has a service contract with the Company by special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
No or any of its subsidiaries.
Biographical details and reasons for amendments to the Articles are being proposed at the AGM.
reappointment for the non-executive directors are given in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
64 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p46-66 v16.
indd 64 11 03 2014 18:06 On a change of control, the Companys bilateral revolving credit Directors Interests facilities may be cancelled by the lenders by giving not less than In the year to 31 December 2013, no director had a material 30 days notice to the Company.
Under the terms of the US interest in any third party contract of significance with the Dollar Private Placement, within 60 days of a change of control, Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Directors shareholdings the Company must notify all Noteholders and offer to repay all at 31 December 2013 are shown within the Directors outstanding amounts.
The Noteholders then have a period of Remuneration Report on page 83.
30 days to either accept the offer of repayment or continue with the Notes.
Directors Conflicts of Interest The Companies Act 2006 allows directors of public companies, Employment policy subject to the provisions of the Companys Articles of Laird conducts business in multiple geographic locations and is Association, to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts of committed to complying with the relevant legal requirements interest, where appropriate.
The authorisation shall be effective in each of those regions.
Business unit management are only if the matter is agreed to without the vote of the director responsible for implementing and communicating the Laird who is subject to such conflict having been counted.
The Equal Employment and Human Rights Policy Statement within authority for directors to act in situations of conflict and the their own business unit.
Various methods are used throughout rules governing their duties in such situations are set out in Laird as appropriate in each location for tracking morale, the Companys Articles of Association.
A register of conflicts motivation, retention rates and training, which are reported or potential conflicts of interest has been prepared and it is regularly to local management teams.
During the year Laird available at every Board Meeting.
employed an average of 8,665 employees 2012, 9,145.
Directors and Officers liability insurance Laird is committed to providing equal opportunities in terms of Directors and Officers liability insurance was purchased and recruitment, training and career development for all employees, maintained by the Company during the year.
A copy of Lairds Equal Employment and Human Rights Policy Directors Indemnities Statement is available on the Companys website.
As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the Company has indemnified the directors in respect of proceedings brought by Employee participation third parties and such indemnification was in place throughout the year.
The Board recognises that the success of the business relies on the skill and dedication of its workforce and therefore Between 2005 and 2008, five of Lairds final salary pension encourages two-way communication with its employees.
The trustees of the schemes, including Operating subsidiaries encourage consultation at local level Nigel Keen who is Chairman of the trustees of the surviving and performance and development reviews reinforce the link scheme, received an indemnity from the Company against any between business goals, an employees contribution and his her claim or other liability arising out of or in connection with the remuneration.
Laird communicates regularly with its employees, pension schemes and their agreement to the merger.
including through the provision of information on key events within Laird, charity and community involvement and employee Change of control arrangements achievements.
Two employees of the Company have long-standing In recognition that Lairds business and its activities impact a agreements which provide for compensation, in addition to the wide community of stakeholders including investors, customers, contractual notice period, of up to a maximum of two years employees, suppliers and local communities, the Board reviews base salary for loss of employment which occurs as a result of a the significance of social, environmental and ethical matters takeover offer or scheme.
This additional compensation reduces which may affect Laird.
Further details on all these matters are pro rata to zero over the two years following the date of change available in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages of control.
Four other employees of the Group have agreements 30 to 40. which provide compensation of up to a maximum of one years base salary for loss of employment which occurs as a result of a Health and safety at work takeover offer or scheme, in addition to their contractual notice period.
This additional compensation is fixed at one years base Laird is committed to providing a safe working environment for salary during the first six months following the date of change its employees and continuous improvement is sought by the of control and reduces pro-rata to zero over the next 12 months.
setting of objectives and targets based on relevant national No director benefits from these arrangements.
and international health and safety standards and monitoring performance against these.
In addition Laird maintains a proactive communications strategy amongst all employees to promote and develop good health and safety practices.
Further information is shown in the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 30 to 40.
Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 65 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p46-66 v16.
indd 65 11 03 2014 18:06 Directors report continued Research and development Substantial equity interests Investing in research and development programmes delivers The Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules DTRs issued by product innovation and manufacturing improvements within the Financial Conduct Authority require notifications relating Laird.
Expenditure in 2013 on research and development, to control over exercising voting rights attached to shares.
amounted to 47.6m 2012, 37.4m, of which 11.6m has Categories of notifiable interests include direct interests been capitalised 2012, 8.5m.
Laird continues to develop holdings of shares with voting rights attached, indirect its technology capabilities, with research and development interests those with access to voting rights and financial expenditure during the year running at 8.9% of sales 2012, instruments which give the holder the formal entitlement to 6.9%.
This is in line with our strategic objective to increase R&D acquire shares with voting rights attached.
Notification must expenditure in the year and focus on innovation.
be made of each category, and also the aggregate of combined holdings, which exceed or fall below the notifiable threshold.
Going concern The requirements of the DTRs specify that, save in certain limited circumstances, notifications of holdings of 3% or over As set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on have to be made when a full percentage point increase or decrease page 88, the Accounts have been prepared on a going concern occurs.
The Company has only one class of shares, and does not basis.
A statement on going concern relating to a business hold treasury shares, so the total number of voting rights under requires judgement at a point in time about future events the DTRs is equivalent to the number of shares in issue.
which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain.
The directors have considered the ability of Laird to maintain committed As at 26 February 2014 being the latest practicable date prior loan finance, meet existing debt covenants and the impact of to the publication of this document the Company had received foreign currency exposures, as discussed in the Financial Review the notifications of control of 3% or more over the Companys on pages 46 to 51.
The directors have a reasonable expectation total voting rights and capital in issue as set out below: that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to Number of Percentage Nature continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
shares of voting rights of holding For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis Artemis Investment in preparing the Accounts.
Management 32,112,912 12.01 Direct Mondrian Investment Financial instruments Partners 13,875,833 5.21 Indirect Franklin Templeton An analysis of debt is given in note 22 to the financial Investments 13,359,477 5.02 Indirect statements.
An analysis of financial instruments at carrying Norges Bank 13,296,183 4.97 Direct value and fair value is given in note 28 to the financial statements.
Financial instruments and related disclosures, together with a discussion of financial risk management Disclosure of information to the Auditor objectives and exposures to credit and liquidity risk, are in As at the date of this report, as far as each director is aware, accordance with IFRS 7. there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware.
Each director has taken all the steps that he It is the Companys objective to manage its financial risk so as ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware to minimise the adverse fluctuations in the financial markets of any relevant audit information and to establish that the on the Groups reported profitability and cash flows.
The Companys auditor is aware of that information.
policies for managing each of the Groups main financial risk areas are referred to in the Financial Review report on page 50 By Order of the Board and in more detail within note 14 to the financial statements.
Additionally, the Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages A M Downie 52 and 53 deal with currency exposure risk and the mitigating Secretary activities adopted.
27 February 2014 Post balance sheet events Registered office 100 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5NQ There have been no post balance sheet events.
55513 Auditor It is recommended that Ernst & Young LLP be reappointed as auditor.
Shareholders At 31 December 2013 there were 3,669 shareholders.
66 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p46-66 v16.
