Governance B oard of Directors Currently the Board is comprised of the Chairman, two executive directors and four other non-executive directors, all of whom have the skills and experience appropriate for Lairds business.
Dr Martin Read has been appointed to the Board with effect from 28 February 2014.
Nigel Keen Chairman, MA, FCA, FIET Appointed a non-executive director in 1993 and Chairman in 2000.
Nigel is Chairman of the Nomination Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
He is Chairman of Syncona Partners a Wellcome Trust Company, Oxford Instruments plc, Bioquell PLC and Deltex Medical Group plc.
From November 2011, Nigel Keen was Executive Chairman until 13 August 2012 when David Lockwood was appointed as Chief Executive.
He will retire from the Board of Laird at the AGM to be held on 2 May 2014.
Dr Martin Read, CBE Chairman Elect, MA, DPhil, FIET Appointed to the Board as a non-executive director with effect from 28 February 2014.
Martin is also a non-executive director of Lloyds of London, and the UK Governments Efficiency and Reform Board and the Chairman of the Remuneration Consultants Group.
He was Chief Executive of international IT services company, Logica, from 1993 to 2007.
Over the years, he has served as a non-executive director on the boards of Invensys plc, Aegis Group, British Airways, Boots and Asda.
He will succeed Nigel Keen as Chairman with effect from the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 2 May 2014.
David Lockwood, OBE Chief Executive, BA, ACA, RSA David Lockwood joined Laird on 2 July 2012 and was appointed Chief Executive with effect from 13 August 2012.
David was formerly Vice President Global Defence & Security at BT Global Services and he has experience of international operations, gained from his roles at GPT Marconi, BAE Systems, Intense Limited a photonics high-tech start-up and Thales Corporation.
David chaired the Scottish Governments Technology Advisory Group and, in 2005, was awarded Scottish Entrepreneur of the Year for Technology.
In February 2014 it was announced that he would be appointed as non-executive Chair of Knowledge Transfer Network Ltd, a vehicle which will be established in April 2014 to support the work of the Technology Strategy Board the UKs innovation agency which is sponsored by the UK Governments Department of Business, Innovation and Skills BIS.
Jonathan Silver Chief Financial Officer, BA, CA Jonathan Silver joined Laird in 1986 and was appointed to the Board as Finance Director in 1994.
Jonathan was previously Group Treasurer and Corporate Development Manager.
He is a non-executive director of INVESCO Income Growth Trust plc.
54 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p46-66 v15.
indd 54 07 03 2014 19:16 Paula Bell Non-executive director, Senior Independent Director, FCMA, CGMA Paula was appointed non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committee in 2012 and was appointed Senior Independent Director on 31 August 2013 following Tony Readings retirement.
Paula is also a member of the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Committee.
Paula became Group Finance Director of John Menzies Plc in June 2013 and prior to this was Group Finance Director of Ricardo Plc from 2006.
Paula has extensive commercial and finance experience working in senior roles of large international organisations, built on a 10 year period at Rolls-Royce Plc.
Paula is a Fellow of the Institute of Management Accountants.
Jack Boyer Non-executive director, BA, MSc, MBA Jack was appointed as a non-executive director on 7 May 2013 and is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit Committee.
He is a non-executive director of Mitie Group plc and Chairman of Ilika plc and iQur Ltd.
He sits on the board of the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council and previously held roles as CEO of Automotive Engineering Group TCG and at Goldman Sachs and strategy consultant Bain & Co. Sir Christopher Hum, KCMG Non-executive director, MA Appointed in 2006, Sir Christopher is a member of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees.
Sir Christopher retired as Master of Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge in 2012.
Sir Christopher was British Ambassador to the Peoples Republic of China, having previously served as HM Ambassador Warsaw and Deputy Under-Secretary for North Asia and the Pacific, and earlier as Head of the Hong Kong Department of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office.
Professor Michael Kelly Non-executive director, BSc, MSc, PhD, ScD, FRS FREng Appointed in 2006, Professor Kelly is a member of the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
Professor Kelly is Prince Philip Professor of Technology at the University of Cambridge and a Professorial Fellow at Trinity Hall.
He was formerly Chief Scientific Advisor to the Department for Communities and Local Government and was previously executive director of the Cambridge-MIT Institute and Professor of Physics and Electronics at the University of Surrey.
Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 55 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p46-66 v15.
