4 1 3 4 3 1 2 2 Our markets I ndependent view We approached Prismark, the electronics industry consulting firm, to provide us with an independent view on market trends in the sectors we serve and macroeconomic factors affecting growth in these areas.
Overview Changes in global electronics industry structure Almost all growth in the electronics industry over the past five years has 2013E 2017F been related to a narrow series of applications, primarily smartphones, tablet PCs, and automotive electronics.
The best segments will be tied to either high function portable electronics smartphones, tablets, Ultrabooks, linked infrastructure equipment, automotive systems 2013E 2017F $bn $bn or green energy LEDs, PVs, energy 1 Smartphones 257.0 353.0 8.2% 2 Tablets 79.0 111.0 8.9% efficient transportation, and smart grid.
3 Ultrabook PCs 18.0 55.0 32.2% 4 Server Storage Comm.
253.0 300.0 4.4% Smartphones 5 Automotive electronics 177.0 238.0 7.7% 6 Rest of the electronics industry 884.0 972.0 2.4% The strong recent growth in smartphones has transformed Total 1,668.0 2,029.0 5.0% the mobile phone sector, if not the electronics industry.
Although smartphones have been marketed for more than fifteen years, the current era began with the introduction of the original iPhone in 2007, followed quickly by Android and most recently Windows Mobile devices.
Smartphones now dominate the overall mobile phone market from both revenue and profit perspectives and represented 15% of the overall electronics industry revenue in 2013.
Smartphones are also responsible for driving innovation throughout the electronics supply chain.
Although smartphones are approaching saturation in selected markets and lower cost models will reduce average selling prices, smartphones will still deliver over 8% average annual revenue growth over the next four years.
28 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 28 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p01-29 v16.
indd 28 07 03 2014 19:13 6 6 5 5 Computing Transportation Like the mobile phone market, the computing sector has been Although transportation electronics had long been a lagging transformed by the emergence of high-function portable sector of the electronics industry, this segment has been a systems, in this case tablets and, to a lesser extent, Ultrabooks.
relative bright spot during recent years.
This recent strength Although only introduced in 2010, tablets have grown to exceed has several roots.
The first and most important is the increase 40% of the overall computing market in 2013 on a unit basis, in vehicle production driven by demand in the developed world with shipments of tablets now exceeding that of notebook PCs.
as well as in China, India, and the rest of Asia.
Transportation By 2017, these new high-function portable PCs will represent electronics has also benefited from the increase in electronic more than 50% of the overall PC market, with the conventional content per vehicle, much of this driven by increased regulations desktop and notebook markets flat to declining.
The transition e. g. emissions, fuel efficiency, or safety focused.
As a result to tablets is limiting the growth of the overall PC market 2.9% of these factors, automotive electronics should deliver annual CAAGR owing to their more modest ASP.
growth of more than 7% over the next four years one of the stronger segments of the electronics industry.
Computing and communications infrastructure industrial Computing and communications infrastructure equipment has been one of the most notable beneficiaries of the strong growth Industrial electronics has long been a catch-all, including in high-function connected devices.
The growth in tablets and systems not counted elsewhere, and possessing few large smartphones has created an insatiable need for servers and defining systems.
Over the past two years, the industrial storage i. e. the Cloud, increased bandwidth, and enhanced segment declined modestly owing primarily to severe price wireless connectivity e. g. LTE build-out.
The rise of an erosion within the photovoltaics sector.
Despite the recent interconnected populace dependent on ubiquitous high-speed history, the industrial segment is projected to be one of the connectivity is a long-term trend that will shape the electronics stronger segments of the electronics industry with growth supply chain for the foreseeable future.
The only significant forecasted to average 7% on an annual basis.
This growth dampener on the growth of infrastructure equipment is the istheresult of both recovery in the photovoltaics market, as increased capacity of such equipment, which modestly blunts wellas other green-energy-focused developments e. g. LED revenue growth.
lighting, advanced motor controllers, smart-grid build-out, andwind power.
Consumer electronics medical The consumer electronics sector, at least using a traditional definition e. g. TVs, audio equipment, digital cameras, DVD The medical electronics market is diverse, including capital players and game systems remains one of the lagging equipment purchased by medical groups e. g. MRI, ultrasound, segments of the electronics industry.
The relative weakness of devices marketed directly to consumers e. g. blood glucose this market has two roots: the stagnation of driving applications monitors, thermometers, and devices prescribed by health and the loss of traditional markets.
The development of costprofessionals for consumers e. g. pacemakers, hearing aids, effective, large format HDTVs boosted the consumer segment glucose pumps.
Medical electronics growth is supported by during the early years of the 21st century, but this boost has a number of factors, including graying populations in the now ended owing to continued price erosion and relative market developed world, rising standards of care in developing nations, saturation.
Although there is hope that large format OLEDs or the increasing role of electronics in medicine, and the rise in UHD will provide a needed spark, these systems are not likely chronic diseases such as diabetes.
Growth is however limited by to have an impact at least during the next five years.
The other an increasing focus on cost containment, most notably within issue that has impacted the traditional consumer segment is the important US market.
This focus on cost most impacts the growth of the smartphone and tablet, which has annexed capital equipment.
In total, the medical sector is forecasted to functionality formerly offered by standalone systems e. g. deliver 4.6% average annual growth over the next several years, digital cameras.
As a result of these factors, the consumer with the best segments related to portable monitoring and segment will struggle to grow faster than global GDP expected therapy cost-effective solutions to global demographic trends.
