Business model H ow we do business Our strategic differentiation allows us to continue to offer excellent products and services time and time again.
We combine this with our business model for operational and strategic focus on market development, inorganic opportunities mergers & acquisitions, our core business and our technology development to deliverour strategy through our day-to-day operations such as design engineering andmanufacturing.
The Business Model has been clearly defined and provides the framework for our business leaders to execute our strategy.
Business Model Company roles & responsibility Market development Mergers & acquisitions New segments to Laird New Laird business New geographies to Laird New geographic expansion Adjacent segments Business unit strategic Cross business unit Division enables BU-Company and Cross-BU interaction Core business Technology development Customer and product Organic business development focused growth New business unit products PRODUCt New Existing Business unit roles & responsibility The business model provides a framework in which we: Focus on capturing and creating value by delivering Explore inorganic as well as organic solutions to determine innovation, reliable fulfilment and speed, doing so in an the most effective and timely solutions to execute our environmentally respectful way, benefiting the communities strategy as shown in the top right of the Business Model in which we operate and creating an environment in which Business units are the entrepreneurial engines of growth, our employees can demonstrate their individual technical staying close to customers in developing, selling and making expertise whilst collaborating for greater success our products.
The role of the Company as a whole is to afford Invest in innovative new processes and technologies and bring these fast moving and adaptable businesses the systems and new products to market to realise sustainable growth over the benefits of a large organisation.
Company functions like finance, longer-term as shown in the X axis of the Business Model information technology, human resources and risk management provide expertise, shared services, policy and oversight to the Drive growth by executing on market entry strategies in new business units.
geographies, adjacent market segments and new market segments as shown in the Y axis of the Business Model, facilitated by collaboration across our business units as seen operating in the centre of our Business Model 8 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p01-29 v17.
indd 8 11 03 2014 18:04 Existing New MARkEt S tr at egic d iff er en tiation Innovation Reliable Fulfilment Speed Our commitment to A consistent level of high Fast response through the innovation is reflected quality engineering and design cycle and speed in our investment in R&D.
manufacturing processes of delivery matters to our ensures we deliver quality customers.
product on time, staying ahead of our competition.
Customers know they can rely on We have extensive manufacturing We have the ability to turn around our design teams to develop smart facilities around the globe and are prototypes within 24 hours and have technology from product conception located close to our customers for quick response times for design through to manufacture.
This competitive advantage work closely with customers as design is highly valued by our customers.
We have precision tooling and state partners, to deliver them bespoke solutions.
of the art automation incorporated Automation and a large skilled local Customers value the design freedom into our production processes.
workforce allows us to fulfil customers Lairds products and service can provide.
needs reliably and to meet their By having on-site testing and required timescales.
We have Business Design Centres, close industry accreditation, we provide to our customers.
assurances for customers across a Speed is of the essence throughout number of different markets it the whole product cycle from design provides peace of mind to allow them to production, through to delivery.
to focus on their own business.
Our value to customers mindshare Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 9 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p01-29 v16.
indd 9 07 03 2014 19:13 How we do business continued The effective application of our business model will drive revenue growth, allowing us to take share in a market which is itself growing.
Tangible progress has been made in 2013: Adherence to new product roadmaps in 2013 was much improved, reducing the product development cycle and will be a contributor to revenue growth in 2014.
Working collaboratively across our business units in Performance Materials, selling more products and solutions to existing customers, has brought results.
One notable success in the Performance Materials division has been in the gaming market segment.
In Wireless Systems, collaboration across business units has not only been in our routes to market, but also in new product development.
Examples include combining radio modules from our Telematics M2M business unit and antennae from our Infrastructure Antennae Systems business to develop the innovative Dolphin product range ideal for applications in high density environments such as sporting stadia.
Collaboration across the two divisions is leading to the expansion of our Telematics M2Ms global footprint by partnering with the Performance Materials division in planning to utilise its manufacturing plants in Europe andMexico.
Geographic expansion is underway in Vietnam and Korea to service Performance Materials customers and reflects our strategic development of new markets and geographies.
Our customer engagement strategy has been redefined and is driving collaboration as well as changes in our channels to market and market entrystrategies.
Within our Performance Materials division, customers product launches are becoming larger and more frequent.
This requires constant innovation, the ability to ramp up quickly whilst meeting exacting quality standards reliable fulfilment and the need to respond with speed throughout the design and fulfilment process, all of which are valued by customers.
Laird exhibited at the Telematics Detroit 2013 exhibition and Our Wireless Systems division products and solutions tend to have longer design demonstrated the breadth of solutions cycles.
Key markets include automotive, industrial and medical, in which early that could be provided to customers.
design engagement and innovation is critical.
To service these markets reliable fulfilment is essential: they are renowned for demanding high quality, defect-free products delivered on time.
Each divisional strategy is aligned to the overall Group strategic objectives.
Both divisions have clearly defined target markets that they work to penetrate.
All business units across both divisions benefit from economies of scale, See organisational structure changes standardisation of processes and process improvements brought by Lairds on page 16 company-wide IT, HR and Finance Shared Service Centres.
Corporate Centres of Excellence support business units, including risk and quality assurance, trade compliance and training, all fundamental to delivering superior reliable fulfilment which differentiates Laird from its competitors.
Leadership teams for Technology, Operations, Sales and Supply Chain were established at the beginning of 2013 and were operational throughout the year.
The Leadership teams bring together key senior managers from across the business units in both divisions to drive collaboration and innovation and implement best practice across the Group.
10 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p01-29 v16.
indd 10 07 03 2014 19:13 Where we sit in our customers value chain Our customers engage with us for design and innovation and rely on us for reliable fulfilment and speed of response throughout the design to delivery cycle.
Our design engineers engage with customers at every stage of the design See our strategic differentiation in practice within our case studies process, creating value by providing technology and innovation, and are able to on pages 21 to 27 respond with speed to the many design iterations throughout the design cycle.
The Performance Materials division aims to own the electronics environment creating design freedom for its customers.
The products we supply are a small proportion of a customers bill of materials, but integral to the design and reliable function of the customers end product.
The Wireless Systems division provides connectivity and enables smart systems.
As the Internet of Things and M2M machine-to-machine communication becomes ever more prevalent in peoples lives, customers demand communication systems that will not be disrupted.
There is a broad product range from single antenna to multi-band, integrated antenna solutions or software aided diagnostics and after-sales service and support.
Our customers value the reassurance Laird brings, that their products will be connected reliably, and operate effectively in harsh operating environments that have competing signals and challenging radio frequency transmissions.
How we create and capture value through our differentiation The differentiation our customers are willing to pay for innovation, reliable fulfilment and speed means our customers know what they can expect from Laird as a technical design partner.
It sets us apart from the competition, improves our ability to capture customer mindshare and helps protect the Laird brand.
What are the key relationships that allow our Business model tobe successful?
The success of our business is dependent on winning and retaining customer mindshare and being a trusted design partner.
We engage with our customers development engineers and also with their supply chain.
Many customers share with us their early product designs and highly confidential detail about their next generation models.
They need a trusted partner to provide innovative solutions with the ability to turn around design iterations at speed.
Customers may outsource production to contract manufacturers.
Although we may be a specified supplier we must ensure we stay close to their designated assembler and deliver on reliable fulfilment and retain our allotted share of business.
Reliable fulfilment means we dont let our customers down.
From the initial design phase through to manufacture and delivery, they trust us to deliver reliably on time.
We ensure we have the capacity in place to ramp production and support product launches and are able to meet the seasonal peaks.
Our development engineers use their expertise to design bespoke products for our customers.
Through improved adherence to technology and product roadmaps in 2013, our engineers have ensured that resources are focused on developing what the customer needs and delivering when they need it.
Our sales teams and field engineers understand what customers want and can offer them the solution that is most efficient to their own businesses.
See an example of our collaboration Our operational managers have the responsibility of ensuring our plants within our Wireless Systems division onpage 45 deliver the right levels of high quality when needed.
Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 11 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p01-29 v16.
indd 11 07 03 2014 19:13 How we do business continued Our focus in 2013 has been on greater collaboration across the whole organisation and this is delivering results with collaborative design innovation and the exchange of ideas and technical forums between engineers taking place much more frequently.
This enhanced teamwork marks a cultural change throughout Laird.
Relationships with our own suppliers are also paramount.
In September we hosted our first ever Global Supplier Conference, held in Shanghai, giving them the opportunity to learn about our strategic objectives and how they can support us in achieving reliable fulfilment.
We require them to maintain the highest quality standards and rely on them as trusted partners in our own supply chain.
We maintain conservative levels of gearing and our customers value our strong financial position.
What risk relates to our business?
As a global manufacturing business, there are risks that could impact our business as shown in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties table on pages 52 to 53.
Retaining the knowledge and experience of our employees is key to keeping See Our People in the CSR report onpages 35 to 38 for more ahead of the competition.
Our people are passionate about what they do.
information oncareer development Managing clear career development and keeping remuneration programmes and performance rewards competitive are essential see CSR and remuneration report.
Through appropriate planning and risk management, we avoid business continuity issues arising that have the potential to disrupt our production.
A significant proportion of our operational footprint is in China which is subject to relatively high wage and salary inflation.
We mitigate this pressure on the cost base through continuous improvement in operational efficiency and automation processes.
We depend on a variety of raw materials in our own supply chain and have appropriate risk mitigation strategies in place to deal with sourcing.
Any delay or failure to receive the materials we require could impact our reliability as a supplier.
Sustaining strong relationships with key suppliers and multi sourcing helps manage the risk in our supply chain.
A relatively small proportion of revenue is in Chinese Renminbi compared to a relatively large proportion of the cost base, which could continue to appreciate and have an adverse impact on margins.
We mitigate the short term impact by taking out forward foreign exchange contracts and take into account the medium and longer term impacts in the pricing of new products.
How do the strategy and kPis relate to our Business model?
Our strategy of identifying the right growth markets in which to diversify our customer base, and grow our business by market segment and geography, can be measured by KPIs for new contract and customer wins and ultimately revenue growth.
The business model provides a framework in which to map out strategic routes but also measures our progress against the overall strategy and allows for feedback on our operational performance.
Non-financial KPIs allow performance to be monitored as to whether the whole business is being run effectively and in accordance with the strategy while respecting the local communities in which weoperate.
Our financial strength of our business allows us to carry out our day-to-day operations, invest for the future and monitor the overall returns that our strategy is delivering across our business.
This can be seen in our financial KPIs such as See the KPIs that measure our progress on pages 19 and 20 R&D expenditure, profit generation and return on capital employed.
12 Laird PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 016933 LAIRD AR 13 p01-29 v16.
