01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 33 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Performance BEE Equity Ownership Judicial Commission of Inquiry The Company is required to increase HDSA The Farlam Commission into the events of August ownership in its prospecting and mining ventures by 2012 at Marikana continues with our full participation.
31 December 2014 to at least 26% as required under We continue to wholly support the inquiry and expect the Mining Charter.
As at 30 September 2013, HDSA some of our employees to be asked to give evidence investors directly and indirectly owned 18% of the in early 2014. share capital of the Companys subsidiaries that own and operate Marikana and Limpopo and that participate in the Pandora joint venture, as well Our Environment as 26% of the share capital of the subsidiary that owns Akanani.
Respecting our resources By its very nature mining affects our environment, Shanduka owns 50.03% of the Companys BEE sometimes adversely.
Through our Integrated partner, Incwala Resources Pty Limited Incwala.
Environmental Strategy our approach to environmental Other equity investors in Incwala include a trust for management is a precautionary one, based on a the benefit of community members, the Industrial sound assessment of potential risks and their mitigation Development Corporation and Lonmin itself.
In throughout the life cycle and value chain of our considering how best to meet its HDSA ownership operations.
Our strategy is aimed at: requirements by 31 December 2014, the Board believes that it should strive to achieve further HDSA Maintaining effective environmental programmes ownership through a broad based solution as this will to comply with existing and new environmental ultimately be in the best interest of shareholders.
legislation and to minimise the risks of directives or fines being issued: The Company will in the coming financial year, Continually progressing towards environmental facilitate the creation of trusts for the benefit of current and future employees, and separately for members of maturity: the Greater Lonmin Community to which new shares Implementing uniform and integrated systems: will be allotted for their sole economic benefit.
In order Using resources efficiently, with strategic to achieve this increase in HDSA participation, the programmes and corporate targets in place Company is considering a range of options involving relating to energy, water and waste management: the issuance of additional shares which could dilute Minimising our environmental footprint, pollution, the interests of shareholders.
The Company has not degradation and social liability by integrating yet finalised its proposals, and any future transaction short-, mediumand long-term closure planning would need to be considered on its merits and may into operational environmental plans: and require prior shareholder approval.
Maintaining a good business and stakeholder standing by facilitating environmental integration within the business, strengthening relationships with stakeholders and enhancing community wellness and development through the implementation of environmental community projects.
All our operations retained ISO 14001 certification.
We have developed an internal environmental maturity protocol, aligned with ISO 14001 as well as general environmental best practice.
