K4 Rowland MK2 Phase 1 E2 Deepening E3 Pandora Rowland MK2 Phase 2 Pandora E4 Newman Merensky Pandora Deeps MK3 & K5 10 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our Strategy Our current competitive position The following diagram illustrates our current pipeline in mining, the engine room of our business which is indicative of life cycle only: Shaft Lifecycle of Marikana Mines 100% Hossy Saffy Newman UG2 E2 K3 Sub Incline E1 W1 0% Study Capital Project Steady State End of Life Karee Westerns Easterns Pandora We have an extensive project pipeline which offers a range of options extending the life of maturing shafts, expanding production to fill existing infrastructure or growth options, should market conditions allow.
Pursuing these opportunities will require capital investment.
Of our eleven mine shafts, a significant number are either in the early stages of ramp up or in the sunset phase of their existence.
To bring the early stage operations to economic maturity will require capital investment.
Given the cyclical nature of our business and the risks associated with being a pure play single commodity miner, we seek to avoid carrying material levels of bank debt on anything but a short-term basis.
Our philosophy is that long-term projects should be funded from shareholders funds, whether equity or retained profits and our ability to re-invest in our asset base is therefore contingent on short and medium-term profitability.
Context Our Markets PGMs are used globally in a range of ways: Autocatalysts a vital component in the reduction of emissions from internal combustion engines, principally those powering cars, vans and trucks, but also extending to ships, trains, motorcycles and even lawnmowers: Jewellery platinum is seen as the ultimate jewellery metal pure, rare and eternal and has secured a position as the metal of choice in the bridal market: Industrial PGMs are used in a range of ways, either within or in the manufacture of everyday goods including flat screen televisions, mobile phones, glass manufacturing, medical applications and in petroleum refineries: and Investment demand interest continues for platinum, palladium and rhodium as investment metals, either in physical form as coins and bars or indirect holding in the form of Exchange Traded Funds ETFs.
Our aim We aim to be the safest primary producer of PGMs and to generate and preserve value for our shareholders.
Over time, we aim to generate returns greater than our cost of capital.
In pursuit of those objectives we aim to do no harm and, where appropriate, create benefit for our stakeholders.
E3 K 3 Rowland 4B 1B Reef Production % of Capacity 01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 11 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our Strategy Our strategic priorities 1.
Building a safe and sustainable business We aim to be the safest primary PGM producer and to minimise our adverse environmental impact our aim is to cause zero harm to people by integrating our operational and sustainability strategies.
While there are commercial advantages, this is simply the right thing to do.
Alongside our formal legal licences, we must also earn a social licence to operate from the people and communities who host our operations and pursue a number of initiatives to share some of the value we create.
We are giving significant focus to the needs of our employees, including housing, healthcare, HIV AIDS support and working with our employees and unions in re-thinking the whole employee value proposition.
We estimate that for every dollar of sales we achieve, around 60 cents flows to our workers employees and contract labour.
In January 2013 we announced five major projects which we are exploring with our employee, union and community partners and other key stakeholders, seeking to find fundamentally new and more sustainable ways of working: Employee relations and engagement: Empowerment and equity participation: Exploring alternatives to migrant labour and improved working arrangements: Better use of existing invested capital and infrastructure: and Living conditions sustainable housing and human settlements.
Protecting the short-term value of the Marikana assets We have significant amounts of shareholders capital tied up in the existing asset base, and mining is generally highly capital intensive.
Our expectation is that PGM markets will remain lacklustre in the shortterm, but we believe that there will be significant value potential over the longer term.
We therefore aim to remain frugal with our cash and optimise limited capital investment in the immediate future but without compromising the potential of the business to reach higher levels of production when market circumstances improve.
Our K4 shaft is currently on care and maintenance, but is a crucial asset for when we wish to replace or increase production.
Many other PGM producers in South Africa are facing the need to include a greater proportion of UG2 reef in the mix of ores they mine.
Our industry leading expertise in processing these ores is therefore a valuable source of competitive advantage, creating value for Lonmins shareholders.
Continuing focus on productivity and cost management We will maintain a rigorous focus on cost control, in relation to both gross costs and costs per PGM ounce produced.
Gross costs are tightly controlled through centralised procurement and unit costs are managed by developing a clear understanding of normal levels of usage relative to production, all of which is supported by strong management information systems and a robust internal control environment to ensure that all costs are properly incurred before payment is made.
The nature of our industry is that a significant proportion of our costs are fixed and add to the operational gearing of the business.
Excluding the effect of metal prices and foreign exchange, the profitability of our business is closely related to productivity and efficiency, as well as the level of production we achieve.
We therefore monitor all three factors very closely and seek out any innovative ideas as part of our continuous improvement philosophy.
