01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 13 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our Strategy SO HOW DO WE BUILD ON THESE UNIQUE ADVANTAGES TO DRIVE SHAREHOLDER AND STAKEHOLDER VALUE IN THE FUTURE?
The Evolving Picture The evolution of our strategy is based on a simple principle: we must maintain, then improve that which we do well and deliver step changes in performance in those areas where we can and must do better.
Lonmin has considerable strengths and there is much the business is doing successfully, but there are other areas where the Company needs to do significantly better, particularly around employee relationships and stakeholder engagement.
In these areas the evolution needs to be faster and stronger.
Below we set out our broad strategic approach to these key issues.
Strategic and Operational Imperatives At our annual results presentation on 11 November 2013 Lonmins Chief Executive Officer, Ben Magara, laid out significant changes in strategy based around four management pillars: Our People and Relationships Operational Credibility and Excellence Value Optimisation Management VOMA Sustainability and Social Agenda Our People and Relationships Relationships, in terms of how we interact with our employees and stakeholders, will be a key driver of our future success.
Here we require a new approach to delivery.
In the past, even where we have done good work, we have not brought to bear the same delivery focus we have applied to operational issues.
We understand the context within which we operate.
As a hugely labour-intensive business the future of mining in South Africa is inexorably linked to the development of the country as a whole.
The nations democracy is young and evolving rapidly.
That change brings pressures in all areas of life, including on business.
Lonmin acknowledges it must play its part and recognises that only as a thriving business can it make real changes around social development.
As the nations economy has grown there have been many winners, not least a newly empowered black middle class.
Yet the challenges of poverty, unemployment and lack of education and skills remain with us.
Beyond compliance with our Social and Labour Plans SLPs, we remain committed to work with communities to create sustainable change.
Whilst mining has been in a period of sustained transformation for almost two decades in South Africa, partly as companies work to be better corporate citizens and partly thanks to legislation around issues such as BEE and wider transformation, companies have found themselves consistently in the spotlight where these national socio-economic priorities are concerned.
Given the size of large mining operations, the scale of workforces and the impact on communities surrounding mining properties, this is inevitable.
What has become clear in recent years though is that the need and demand for change is accelerating.
More recently still, Lonmin has been thrust into the centre of the debate on these issues by events and it has become clear to the Company that its future as a business rests as much on the relationship it has with its employees and wider stakeholder group as it does on the core fundamentals of mining and markets.
Lonmin no longer subscribes to the idea that these are hard and soft issues.
The reality is that demand for Lonmins metals is expected to be solid and sustainable for the foreseeable future, and that the Company has excellent assets but to deliver that value for shareholders and all its stakeholders the business must operate effectively in a sustainable environment.
The Companys vision, then, is for operational excellence to marry with optimisation of value in a reliable environment where all Lonmins stakeholders are supportive of the business and wish to see it prosper.
That delivers both shareholder and stakeholder value.
It is a fact that this end state cannot be delivered by Lonmin alone, but the Company believes that in doing its part, effecting change where it can sustainably and with sound fiscal judgement it unlocks action elsewhere.
