01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 65 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Directors Report Introduction This report is required to be produced by law.
The UKLAs Disclosure & Transparency Rules DTRs and Listing Rules LRs also requires us to make certain disclosures.
The Corporate Governance Report, which can be found on pages 42 to 56, the Audit & Risk Committee Report on pages 57 to 64 and the section titled A Deeper Look on pages 158 to 177 form part of this Directors Report.
Disclosures elsewhere in the Annual Report and Accounts are cross-referenced where appropriate.
Taken together, they fulfil the combined requirements of company law, the DTRs and LRs.
Rob Bellhouse The Company Company Secretary 1.1 Legal form of the Company Lonmin Plc is a company incorporated in England & Wales, with company number 103002.
It conducts very limited business activities on its own account, and trades principally through its subsidiary undertakings in various jurisdictions.
The material subsidiary undertakings are listed in note 32 to the accounts on page 146.
A branch of Lonmin Plc operates in South Africa, trading as Lonmin Management Services or LMS and which is registered in that country as an external company with company number 1969 00015 10.
The branch and the English company are legally indivisible.
1.2 Amendment of the Articles of Association The Companys constitution, known as the Articles of Association, is essentially a contract between the Company and its shareholders, governing many aspects of the management of the corporation.
It may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
1.3 Rules on Appointment and Removal of Directors Subject to applicable law, a Director may be appointed by an ordinary resolution of shareholders in general meeting following nomination by the Board or a member or members entitled to vote at such a meeting, or following retirement by rotation if the Director chooses to seek re-election at a general meeting.
In addition, the Directors may appoint a Director to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director, provided that the individual retires at the next AGM.
A Director may be removed by the Company as provided for by applicable law, in certain circumstances set out in the Companys Articles of Association for example bankruptcy, or resignation, or by a special resolution of the Company.
All Directors stand for re-election on an annual basis, in line with the recommendations of the Code.
For a full description of the Companys policies in relation to the appointment and replacement of Directors see sections 1.3 and 5.4 of the Corporate Governance Report, from page 42 onwards.
Statutory Disclosures 2.1 Employees The Group employed 28,230 people in South Africa and 9 people in the United Kingdom at the end of the year.
Information on the Groups policies on employee recruitment and engagement can be found in the Sustainable Development Report.
As the Group employs less than 250 employees in the UK, the Company is not subject to the statutory obligation to discuss its policies in relation to employee involvement or the employment of disabled persons.
However, full and fair consideration would always be given to applications for employment from disabled persons, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities, or continuing the employment of people who become disabled during their career.
2.2 Research and development Group companies continue to focus on research and development in the areas of mineral extraction, processing and refining to unlock new technology opportunities and to extract optimal value from our assets.
Good progress has been made on these projects across the business, including: ongoing work on the characterisation of ores, leading to improved specifications for processing equipment and reagents aimed at improving PGM recovery at our concentrators: improved stability and availability of the smelting furnaces through sensor technologies, better mineralogical understanding and design improvements which has been evident in the performance of our smelting operations in 2013: ongoing work on a new process aimed at significantly upgrading the PGM concentrates from the BMR leading to an overall reduction in waste, reduction in residue tolling costs and improved PMR efficiencies as well as improvements made on the NiS04 crystalliser that has given us the ability to operate at higher and more stable throughputs at the PMR: and significant progress has been made on the development of a new process for the production of finished metals at the PMR following extensive and successful pilot plant trials.
Our research efforts remain pragmatic and cost-effective and are conducted in collaboration with the Universities of Stellenbosch, Cape Town and Pretoria under the leadership of Lonmin management.
This has the added benefit of generating a pool of highly competent and industry-focused graduates for the future.
