68 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Directors Report Reporting, Accountability and Audit 5.1 Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and Accounts The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company Accounts in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Strategic Report, Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Directors Responsibility Statement can be found on page 105.
5.2 How the Directors discharged their responsibilities in this area The Lonmin Group financial statements are presented in accordance with the IFRSs as adopted by the EU, using the US Dollar as its reporting currency.
Details of the Groups financial risk management are described in note 21 to the accounts on page 135 and in the discussion of Internal Controls and Risk Management in section 1.8 and 1.9 of the Audit & Risk Committee Report on pages 63 and 64.
5.3 Going Concern The Directors consider that the Group has adequate financial resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future and that it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors have satisfied themselves that the Group is in a sound financial position and that it has access to sufficient borrowing facilities and can reasonably expect those facilities to be available to meet the Groups foreseeable cash requirements.
Further information is provided in note 1 to the accounts on page 110 and A Deeper Look on page 167.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 69 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Directors Report 5.4 Scope of the reporting in this Annual Report and Accounts The Board has prepared a Strategic Report which includes the Chairmans Letter and the CEOs interview which provides an overview of the development and performance of the Companys business in the year ended 30 September 2013 FY2013 and its position at the end of that year, and which covers likely future developments in the business of the Company and Group.
Supplementary information is provided in the section titled A Deeper Look on pages 158 to 177, which is hereby also incorporated by reference into this Directors Report.
For the purposes of compliance with DTR 4.1.
8R, the required content of the Management Report can be found in the Strategic Report and this Directors Report, including the sections of the Annual Report and Accounts incorporated by reference.
We have been mindful of the best practice guidance published by DEFRA and other bodies in relation to environmental, community and social KPIs when drafting the Strategic Report.
The Board has also considered social, environmental and ethical risks, in line with the best practice recommendations of the Association of British Insurers.
Management, led by the CEO, has responsibility for identifying and managing such risks, which are discussed extensively in this Annual Report and Accounts and the online Sustainable Development Report.
5.5 External auditors So far as each current Director is aware, there is no information relevant to the audit of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any such information and to ensure that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
KPMG Audit Plc has notified the Company that they are not seeking reappointment.
It is proposed that KPMG LLP are appointed auditors of the Company and they will hold office from the conclusion of the AGM in January 2014 until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company.
See page 62 of the Audit & Risk Committee Report and the Notice of Meeting for further details.
The Strategic Report, the Directors' Report and the Directors' Remuneration Report were approved by the Board on 10 November 2013.
For and on behalf of the Board.
Rob Bellhouse Company Secretary www.
