01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Corporate Governance Report Compliance statement As noted in the Chairmans introduction, Lonmin is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code, published by the Financial Reporting Council and available on their website, www.
The edition of the Code published in September 2012 applied throughout our financial year ending 30 September 2013, but the Financial Conduct Authority has yet to change the Listing Rules and therefore requires that certain compliance statements are made in relation to the predecessor edition of the Code, issued in June 2010.
This report addresses the requirements of both editions of the Code.
During the year to 30 September 2013 FY2013 the Company has in all respects complied with the provisions of both editions of the Code, save in relation to the period 9 to 30 September 2013 and through to 1 November 2013 during which time less than half the Board excluding the Chairman were independent Non-executive Directors.
On 9 October 2013 we announced the appointment of an additional independent Non-executive Director, Brian Beamish, with effect from 1 November 2013 which restores compliance with the recommendations of the Code.
Almost all of the Groups business is based in South Africa, where the prevailing governance code is the King Report on Governance for South Africa 2009, more commonly known as King III, available from www.
While the Company and its subsidiaries are not subject to King III the Board has identified certain provisions which it feels are of benefit to the Companys overall governance framework, primarily in relation to ethics and sustainability, and which we follow on a voluntary basis.
Role and effectiveness of the Board The Company is led and controlled by a Board of Directors, which is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company.
It does so by creating and preserving value, and has as its foremost principle acting in the interests of shareholders.
How the Board of Directors operates 1.1 The role of the Board The Board is the custodian of the Companys strategic aims, vision and values.
It provides entrepreneurial leadership to management within a framework of prudent controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed appropriately.
It assesses whether the necessary financial and human resources are, and will continue to be, in place to enable the Company to meet its objectives and ensure that it takes full account of safety, environmental and social factors.
The graphic below shows the iterative nature of the Boards role: Monitor and understand the risk environment in which the Company operates Develop the business model Report to shareholders on and provide entrepreneurial business performance, and leadership ascertain their views Appoint the CEO Oversee reporting to other Consider and approve strategy, stakeholders Monitor the delivery of strategy business plans and budgets Challenge or support management as necessary Oversee governance environment, includin g through oversight delegated to Board Committees Oversee the internal control framework The schedule of matters reserved to the Board, last reviewed in January 2012 and available on the Companys website, sets out the Boards ultimate responsibility for the Groups strategy, operations and risks, and reserves to the Board power to approve a range of decisions of a significant nature.
While it is invidious to single out aspects of these responsibilities as being of greater importance than others, determining the Companys risk appetite which we define as the risks we actively seek or accept in pursuit of our long-term objectives, deciding the Companys business strategy, and then determining the risk tolerance which we define as the limit of risk we are prepared to face in pursuit of those long-term objectives are clearly crucial.
Naturally, these must be supported by sound risk management and internal control systems, the design and maintenance of which is also the responsibility of the Board.
