50 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Corporate Governance Report 1.
How the Board of Directors operates continued 1.11 Directors remuneration A report on Directors remuneration is set out on pages 70 to 99.
Interests in the Companys shares held by the Directors in office during the year, and to the date of this report, are shown in that report.
No Director held any beneficial interest in the share capital of any other Group company at any time during the year and to the date of this report.
1.12 Protection available to Directors In law, Directors are ultimately responsible for most aspects of the Companys business dealings.
As a consequence, they face potentially significant personal liability under criminal or civil law, or the UK Listing, Prospectus, Disclosure & Transparency Rules, and face a range of penalties including private or public censure, fines and or imprisonment.
In line with normal market practice, the Company believes that it is in the Companys best interests to protect the individuals prepared to serve on its Board from the consequences of innocent error or omission, since this enables us to attract prudent individuals to act as Directors.
The Company maintains, at its expense, a Directors & Officers liability insurance policy to afford an indemnity in certain circumstances for the benefit of Group personnel including, as recommended by the Code, the Directors.
This insurance policy does not provide cover where the Director or Officer has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
In addition, Deeds of Indemnity have been issued by the Company which, in general terms, protect all past, present and future Directors and officers of the Company to the extent permissible by law from all costs and expenses incurred in the defence of any civil or criminal proceedings in which judgement is given in their favour or the proceedings are otherwise disposed of without a finding of fault or where there is a successful application to court for relief from liability.
Under the terms of these indemnities, the Company may advance money to fund a Directors defence costs which, should the Director not be exonerated, would be repayable to the Company.
Each indemnity operates only to the extent that the applicable Director is not able to recover the relevant amounts under the Directors and Officers liability insurance policy.
All these indemnities were in force throughout the financial year and to the date of this report, and are available for inspection at the Companys Registered Office.
Accountability to Shareholders The Boards primary duty is to promote the long-term success of the Company for the benefit of its shareholders taken as a whole.
As seen from the schematic illustrating the role of the Board in section 1.1 above, accountability to shareholders is a key consideration.
This is a combination of reporting on what has been achieved and our plans for the future, and also assessing and reflecting on the views expressed by shareholders.
Whenever appropriate, we will hold open and frank discussions with our key shareholders, which can span a range of issues.
2.1 Owners of the Company Lonmin Plc has a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange and our UK share register has circa 13,750 registered shareholders.
We also have a secondary listing on the JSE Securities Exchange, South Africa.
Our South African branch register has approximately 2,000 beneficial owners of our shares, including those who hold their shares in dematerialised form in STRATE, representing approximately 49% of the Companys shares in issue.
We also have a sponsored Level I American Depositary Receipts programme, with around 650 participants.
Like most listed companies, ownership of the Companys shares is concentrated in a number of institutional and other corporate shareholders.
The Company had been notified pursuant to DTR5 of the following interests in 3% or more of the Companys total voting rights up to 10 November 2013: Holdings in the Companys shares and voting rights At date of notification At date of this report Number of Number of shares and shares and Nature of voting rights %age voting rights %age Holding Glencore Xstrata Plc 139,513,430 24.54 139,513,430 24.50 Direct Old Mutual Investment Group 47,476,258 8.34 47,476,258 8.34 Direct shares South Africa Ltd Indirect voting rights Prudential plc group companies 16,558,975 8.17 42,999,867 7.55 Direct Investec Asset Management Pty Limited 29,987,456 5.27 34,484,125 6.06 Indirect All ordinary shares of the Company carry the same rights, and no shareholder enjoys any preferential rights, regardless of the size of their holding.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Corporate Governance Report 2.2 How we communicate with our institutional shareholders The Code encourages a dialogue with institutional shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives.
The Executive Directors have regular discussions of operational trends and financial performance with institutional shareholders where they believe this to be in the Companys best interests, but no information is shared which is not available to shareholders generally.
Detailed feedback from these visits is shared with the Board.
Investors views in relation to governance and remuneration are sought ahead of the AGM are also summarised to the Board.
The Board is provided with detailed insight into any other shareholder views including in relation to governance and remuneration issues, and all Directors have the opportunity to meet major investors.
Copies of key sell-side analysts notes on the Company are circulated to all Directors, as are summaries of their views collected anonymously by the Companys joint brokers, financial PR advisors and other corporate advisory providers.
An independent review of the perceptions of the Companys major institutional shareholders was conducted during the year, and presented to the Board.
No material actions were judged necessary in response to the views expressed.
The Chairman periodically offers key shareholders the opportunity of meetings with either himself or the Senior Independent Director to discuss governance, strategy or any other matters shareholders wish to raise.
In addition, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee has given a standing invitation to key institutional shareholders and their representative bodies to discuss the Companys remuneration policy and practice whenever necessary.
The Senior Independent Director, Jim Sutcliffe, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels has failed to resolve or for which such contact would be inappropriate.
Roger Phillimore and Len Konar undertook an extensive round of meetings with major institutional shareholders in the UK and South Africa to exchange views on the Companys operating and financial strategy at the time of the 2012 Rights Issue.
In addition, Jim Sutcliffe, the chairman of the Remuneration Committee, held discussions with a number of key institutional shareholders in relation to the design of the bonus plan for FY2013 and subsequently consulted with a broader range of shareholders and their representative bodies on the Companys draft Directors remuneration policy, ahead of its presentation at the 2014 AGM.
This is discussed more fully on page 72.
2.3 How we communicate with our private shareholders The Code urges boards to use the AGM to communicate with private investors and to encourage their participation, and the Board has followed these principles for many years.
As well as stands explaining key aspects of the Groups business, a presentation is given to shareholders at the AGM by the CEO, and all Directors are available to answer questions both formally at the meeting and informally afterwards.
Shareholders vote on separate resolutions on substantially different issues, and we use electronic poll voting, with the results being announced to the markets and displayed on our website at the conclusion of the AGM.
Voting on a poll recognises Lonmins geographical diversity and enables the votes of all shareholders to be taken into account whether they are able to attend the meeting or not.
The use of electronic voting tools at the AGM provides a highly democratic voting method.
2.4 Formal reporting to shareholders We report formally in a number of ways: Regulatory news announcements or press releases are issued in response to events or routine reporting obligations.
Production reports are published quarterly, generally within one month of the calendar quarter end.
We publish an unaudited interim statement in May of each year, showing our financial performance to 31 March and including managements narrative commentary.
This is announced to the markets and presented in London later in the day, with an online feed available to all.
The presentation slides, a transcript and the interim statement are all made available on the Companys website.
Like most UK companies, we no longer publish a glossy interim report.
We publish our audited financial statements in November of each year, for the year ended 30 September, including a detailed management commentary.
We follow the same publication process as the interims, with the same materials made available on our website.
In December we publish the formal Annual Report and Accounts, which comprises the audited financial statements and the narrative reporting with many other items of statutory, regulatory or voluntary reporting across a range of issues.
All of the above is supported by a wealth of information on the Companys website, www.
The Code requires that the Board provides a fair, balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects in its external reporting.
This is the first Annual Report and Accounts prepared under this obligation, and the Directors were responsible for its preparation and approval.
They consider the Annual Report and Accounts for FY2013, taken as a whole, to be fair, balanced and understandable and believe that this provides the information necessary for shareholders to assess the Companys performance, business model and strategy.
In line with best practice, our default means of communication with shareholders is online.
This saves the expense, paper and other resources that would be entailed in printing and distributing large numbers of documents without knowing whether they are wanted.
Shareholders can opt to receive paper documents at any time, should they so wish.
