72 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2013 Policy Report Process This report sets out the Companys policy on the remuneration of its Executive and Non-executive Directors, and will be proposed for approval by shareholders at the AGM on 30 January 2014.
Our policy is unchanged from that in force in recent financial years.
It will take effect from the day following the AGM and may operate for up to three years although reviews of our business and remuneration strategies are currently underway, as noted below, and we anticipate presenting a revised remuneration policy for approval within the life of the policy summarised in this report.
So that we can implement this policy, the Company will be seeking shareholder approval at the AGM to extend the life of the Companys Long-Term Incentive Plan which would otherwise expire on 5 February 2014 by two years, to ensure that the Company has a suitable vehicle to facilitate long-term share-settled incentive arrangements.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee commenced a fundamental review of the Companys approach to the remuneration of the Executive Directors and other senior executives in 2012.
Following the appointment of the new CEO on 1 July 2013 a strategic review has also been underway.
It is clearly vital that the remuneration strategy supports the business strategy, and we have therefore deferred changes to our remuneration policy pending the finalisation of the strategy review.
We therefore envisage presenting a revised policy for consideration and approval at the 2015 AGM.
Remuneration policy is an integral part of the management of the business, and the Committee takes input from many sources, and routinely reviews the pay and employment conditions of employees of the Group.
The EVP Human Resources provides insight into levels of pay, bonus and other benefits relative to South African market norms for employees both at workforce and managerial levels.
Members of the Committee bring their experience from other Committees, notably the Transformation Committee, the Safety & Sustainability Committee and the Audit & Risk Committee to bear on their work, as well as the discussions at full Board meetings on matters including strategy, performance and labour relations including pay and employment conditions, and the presentations made by the CEO, CFO and other members of management.
The Company has not consulted its employees in formulating this policy.
However, as the Chairman made clear at the 2013 AGM, the strategy of the Company has to include imperatives to improve the social and living conditions of its employees, and the Balanced Scorecard see below has been adapted to bring remuneration practice into line.
As the policy is a continuation of that currently in force, the Committee has not used any remuneration comparison measurements, other than its own knowledge of market conditions for executive pay in the UK.
We are committed to discussing all major changes to remuneration policy and any major applications of discretion with shareholders in advance, wherever this is possible within the legal and regulatory constraints we face.
In preparing this policy, the Company took the known views of its major institutional shareholders into account.
In addition, the Committee Chairman wrote to the Companys twenty largest institutional shareholders and major representative bodies.
Two principal points emerged from these discussions.
The need for consultation with key institutional shareholders wherever possible prior to any exercise of discretion, and full retrospective disclosure explaining the circumstances, the need for discretion to be exercised and the consequences of this for remuneration.
In addition, shareholders requested a stronger explanation of how the performance measures chosen for the short-term incentive the BSC Bonus Plan, plus the ASAP and long-term incentive the LTIP plans supported delivery of the business strategy and goals.
The drafting of this policy report was updated in response to the views received.
Future policy Executive Directors The Companys policy in relation to the remuneration of Executive Directors has evolved over a number of years in response to changing circumstances.
It is designed to enable the Company to attract and retain individuals of the calibre necessary to manage the Boards strategic plans and lead the management team, to incentivise them to achieve stretching  goals and to align their interests with those of shareholders by delivering a significant proportion of the reward in shares.
This latter point is bolstered by a shareholding obligation which is at the upper end of market practice for a London-listed company of comparable size.
Crucially, the policy is also designed to operate through the economic cycle and to deliver outcomes which are fair to both the Executive Directors and shareholders.
The Committee sees its key purpose as ensuring that the Companys remuneration systems encourage value creation for shareholders, promote socially responsible and safe practices and maintain a demonstrably fair relationship between pay and performance.
The Company is incorporated in England, has its primary listing in London and is obliged to withhold UK tax and social security from Directors earnings, but the Executive Directors reside in South Africa together with the rest of the management team.
As a result, while we devise pay systems relative to norms in the London market for directors of listed companies, these also give due regard to remuneration practices in the South African mining sector, as well as South African tax and exchange controls rules and requirements.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 73 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2013 Future policy Executive Directors continued Components of How this supports the How this component of Maximum that may be paid Description of the framework used to Whether there are remuneration shortand long-term remuneration operates assess performance: any provisions for strategic objectives the recovery of 1 Applicable performance measures of the Group sums paid or and weighting where applicable the withholding note 2 of payment 2 Details of any performance period 3 Amount that may be paid at i the minimum level of performance that results in a payment and ii at any further levels of performance Base Salary Offering marketSalary is paid monthly in Base salaries for the year to 1 Not applicable No contractual competitive levels of arrears in cash.
While the 30 September 2014 are: provisions for 2 Not applicable guaranteed cash Companys obligation is claw-back or Ben Magara 462,150 3 Not applicable earnings should help denominated in sterling, malus Simon Scott 334,650 us attract and retain Directors resident outside across both employments executives of suitably the UK receive a proportion see page 91 high calibre to manage of their pay in local currency, the Boards strategic converted at prevailing Salaries are reviewed plans and lead the exchange rates.
individual therefore bears In normal circumstances, any the currency risk.
increase will reflect UK or Reflects the South African price inflation individuals skills, The Chairman of the and will be contained within experience and role Remuneration Committee the levels of increase offered within the Group.
discusses the performance to the workforce generally.
of each Executive Director in role with the Chairman Salary increases will also of the Board, and seeks reflect any changes in the view of the CEO in relation responsibility, market to other Executive Directors, conditions, and performance ahead of all pay reviews.
For confirmatory purposes, Year-on-year increase will not independent data on exceed 10% per annum.
prevailing market rates of salary for each role a paid in UK listed companies of equivalent size, complexity and risk profile and b comparable South African mining companies, will be reviewed by the Committee.
com 74 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2013 Future policy Executive Directors continued Components of How this supports How this component of Maximum that may be paid Description of the framework used to Whether there are remuneration the shortand remuneration operates assess performance: any provisions for the long-term strategic recovery of sums paid 1 Applicable performance measures objectives of the or the withholding and weighting where applicable Group of payment note 2 2 Details of any performance period 3 Amount that may be paid at i the minimum level of performance that results in a payment and ii at any further levels of performance Benefits Offering marketThe Company offers Policy limits are set at a 1 Not applicable No contractual in kind competitive levels Executive Directors a level that reflects market provisions for claw- 2 Not applicable of benefits-in-kind range of benefits practice for individuals of back or malus 3 Not applicable should help us including some or this level of seniority and at attract and retain all of: a cost which is affordable executives of to the business.
car allowance suitably high calibre paid in cash The maximum benefit that to manage the can be offered or paid to private medical Companys the Executive Directors for insurance for the strategic vision each element is: Executive Director and plans.
and their family car allowance of As the Company is 15,790 per annum income protection obliged to operate increasing annually in insurance cross-border line with base salary income tax and life assurance private medical insurance social security annual medicals is provided on a family deductions, we advice and support basis provide appropriate in managing their support to help income protection tax and exchange the individuals with insurance of control obligations these complex approximately 75% of obligations, to avoid access to salary in certain the distraction or independent circumstances time consumed in actuarial, financial life assurance of 4x base basic compliance and legal advice salary activities.
when necessary annual full medicals Where benefits are up to 10,000 per provided in kind, these annum VAT of tax and are generally sourced exchange control in the open market support and the Company and Committee keep the The Committee may costs under review.
choose to make suitable independent professional advice available to the Executive Directors: for example, in the event that a benefit is being removed or a material change to their terms and conditions of employment is being contemplated of up to 10,000 per annum VAT.
Relocation Offering assistance Assistance will include There are a number of 1 Not applicable No contractual expatriate to Executive but is not limited to variables affecting the provisions for claw- 2 Not applicable assistance Directors who are facilitating and or amount that may be back or malus 3 Not applicable asked to work meeting the costs of payable, but the away from their obtaining visas and Committee would pay home location work permits for the no more than it judged should enable the Executive Directors and reasonably necessary, in Company a to their immediate family the light of all applicable employ the best members, removal and circumstances.
For the person for each other relocation costs, purposes of compliance role and b where house purchase or with the Regulations, the the appointee is rental costs, childrens maximum would not already employed education, a limited exceed 250,000 in any by the Company, amount of family travel year for one individual.
provide career and tax equalisation and or personal arrangements: and development may extend to options and facilitating and or potentially help meeting the costs of retain their services.
re-establishing them to their previous location at the end of the employment or assignment.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 75 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2013 Future policy Executive Directors continued Components of How this supports the shortand long-term strategic How this component Maximum that Description of the framework used to Whether there are remuneration objectives of the Group of remuneration may be paid assess performance: any provisions for the operates recovery of sums paid 1 Applicable performance measures or the withholding and weighting where applicable of payment note 2 2 Details of any performance period 3 Amount that may be paid at i the minimum level of performance that results in a payment and ii at any further levels of performance Pension Offering market-competitive levels of guaranteed cash The Company The maximum 1 Not applicable No contractual earnings should help us attract and retain executives of currently offers an amount payable provisions for claw- 2 Not applicable suitably high calibre to manage the Boards strategic allowance expressed is 20.52% of back or malus 3 Not applicable plans and lead the management team.
as a percentage of base salary.
base salary which the Executive Director can choose to take a as an employer contribution to a defined contribution pension scheme subject to applicable tax law, b as a non-bonusable salary supplement, or c as a blend of the two.
Annual The short-term incentive arrangements use a Balanced Annual bonus is 125% of base 1 Executive Directors bonus There are no Bonus the Scorecard format to provide an incentive for delivery linked to base salary salary, if every metrics are currently weighted claw-back or Balanced within the financial year across a range of strategicallyonly.
metric was at target so that: malus provisions Scorecard important areas.
These reward delivery of key strategic achieved at in the plan rules Three levels of a 80% of value is linked to Plan the and personal objectives within agreed risk parameters stretch.
attainment are corporate KPIs: and BSC over a one year period, and help create a strong defined in advance b 20% of value is linked to performance culture.
For both corporate and personal The Committee uses the BSC as an opportunity to All bonus metrics are elements, stretch performance create a focus and financial incentive for the delivery of subject to audit or would be 1.5x these levels.
short-term strategic imperatives, in collaboration with other external the CEO and Board.
While we expect the majority of The corporate metrics support assurance and the the measures to be relatively unchanged year-on-year, our strategy, and can be formulaic outcome of the BSC is used as a tactical tool in support of strategic grouped under the generic the Balanced outcomes as circumstances dictate.
As a result, the headings of safety, Scorecard is Committee believes it is inadvisable to commit itself to transformation, sustainability, reviewed for fairness a fixed set of measures or BSC design in advance, as production, operations, financial, by the Committee.
this would greatly reduce the value and usefulness of risk and governance.
The key Bonus at target the tool.
Among the core measures that we do not elements are outlined in the would be 83.5% of expect to vary between financial years are the following: second column and disclosed base salary and at in full detail in arrears because Safety incentivises management to ensure that risk stretch would be the targets, and potentially the controls, safety procedures and the culture of the 125% of base salary, measures and or weightings, organisation are constantly improved to reduce LTIFRs being 1.5x target.
In addition, it reinforces the Bonuses are settled The Committee has discretion Companys commitment to Zero Harm to employees in cash but can be to alter the formulaic outcome and contractors which is essential for the long-term settled in shares or in the light of unforeseen events, sustainable operation of the mines.
The target is set a mixture of cash and to reflect the actual delivery to improve the LTIFR, subject a modifier which adjusts and shares at the of value to shareholders.
the value of the bonus for any fatalities.
discretion of the The personal metrics are agreed Social responsibility encourages management to Committee.
between the Chairman, the operate in a way that is thoughtful about the impact the Committee and the Director Company has on its host communities and recognise concerned each year in advance, that the vast majority of its employees have homes with a wide degree of discretion away from the mine.
They Platinum Production the Companys sole source generally relate to projects or of revenue is the metals it sells, and this measure initiatives linked to the design or incentivises management to produce finished metal delivery of strategic outcomes.
We choose to incentivise production Any discretion applied to the rather than sales to avoid distortions that could be BSC, its corporate or personal caused by movements in stock levels between year ends.
measures, weightings and The timing of sales can therefore be planned to maximise targets, will be discussed profits free from any influence caused by the bonus plan.
with shareholders whenever Operating Unit Costs encourages management to appropriate, and in any event keep control over cost per unit defined as cash operating fully reported to shareholders.
costs per PGM ounce produced, allowing the business The Committee has discretion to operate profitably through any down cycle.
to make changes in future years Net cash encourages management to devise to reflect the evolving nature of operational plans focussed on cash generation, to the strategic imperatives that create options for the Board in relation to among may be facing the Company.
other uses reinvestment in future production capacity, 2 Performance is measured over distribution to shareholders or social spending in one financial year.
support of the Companys licence to operate.
com 76 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2013 Future policy Executive Directors continued Components of How this supports the shortand How this component Maximum that Description of the framework used to Whether there are remuneration long-term strategic objectives of the Group of remuneration may be paid assess performance: any provisions for the operates recovery of sums paid 1 Applicable performance measures or the withholding of and weighting where applicable payment note 2 2 Details of any performance period 3 Amount that may be paid at i the minimum level of performance that results in a payment and ii at any further levels of performance Annual PGM recoveries efficiency and effectiveness in 3 The nature of the BSC is that any Bonus the recovering PGMs from rock mined and hoisted to surface amount between zero and the Balanced is crucial in creating value.
This metric encourages maximum can be earned.
Scorecard management to explore technical and other opportunities If all the corporate metrics were Plan the that could improve recovery rates and reduce the value achieved at the same level, the BSC of materials left in process residues and tailings.
resulting payment as a continued Weightings percentage of salary would be: The Committee also uses the weight attached to each at threshold: 43% assuming performance measure within the BSC in further support that half of the 20% personal of the short-term delivery of corporate strategy, and can element was achieved also use one or more of these measures as a hurdle or at target: 83.5% assuming that multiplier for part or all of the BSC, subject to the the 20% personal element was maximum amount contained in the plan rules.
There achieved in full will be times when it is appropriate, and in shareholders best interests, to attach more significant weight to at stretch: 125% assuming for example one or more of production, financial or the personal element was transformation outcomes, reflecting immediate priorities.
outperformed and assessed Again, the Committee believes it inadvisable to commit at 30% to a particular design in advance, as this would greatly reduce the value and usefulness of the tool.
Targets Once the measures and weightings have been set the Committee devises three levels of attainment for each measure, at threshold, target and stretch.
In general terms, the threshold level of performance is set at the minimum level of performance for which it would be reasonable to offer additional remuneration, and has a lower level of payment: target is generally set at or about budget or market consensus: and stretch which results in a higher level of payment is set at a challenging, yet potentially achievable, level which should result in the creation of direct or indirect value for shareholders.
Wherever possible, quantifiable hard targets are set to enable accurate measurement and assurance before payment.
Annual Share Ensures the interests of the Executive Directors and The face value of the The maximum 1 The bonus earned and paid in Malus can be applied Award Plan shareholders are aligned by providing a material award is of equal face value respect of the preceding financial at the Committees financial exposure to the Companys shares.
We expect value to the bonus of the award is year is used to determine the discretion at any time this to incentivise the delivery of long-term strategic paid for the capped at 125% size of the award.
during the three-year objectives as it clearly aligns the value of reward with preceding financial of salary.
vesting period in the Once granted, the only on-going performance.
The average event of 1 a The final value condition is continued prevailing share price misstatement of the As the award is forfeitable if the executive resigns or is of the award employment.
up to the award date financial results and or dismissed within three years of granting, this may help will depend on 2 The award is made on a value is used to health of the Company the Company retain Executive Directors.
share price discretionary basis to Executive calculate the number during the year for performance The ASAP supports the BSC Bonus Plan in driving the Directors who worked for part or of shares in the award.
which the underlying to the date on short-term delivery of strategic objectives, but value is all of the preceding financial year bonus was assessed Awards are structured which the award delivered in the form of Lonmin shares, after a deferral and are still in employment at the the Relevant Year : as nil-cost options, is exercised.
period of at least three years.
Please refer to the row date of granting.
2 an erroneous and vest on the third above for a fuller description of how the BSC Bonus In addition, in calculation in relation The award vests on the third anniversary of grant, Plan works in practice.
The delivery of value in the line with UK best anniversary of the date of grant, to the Companys subject to continued form of shares helps create a longer-term focus on practice dividend results or other and can be exercised at any service.
equivalents can, performance point up to the tenth anniversary, the award may be at the provided the individual is still in benchmark: 3 errors exercised at any time Committees in the Companys employment.
between the third and discretion, be financial statements: tenth anniversaries of 3 The face value of the award will paid on the or 4 discrepancies in grant at executives be of equal value to the gross vesting of the financial accounts discretion.
The award bonus paid in respect of the awards.
These for the Relevant Year, is settled by either the preceding financial year, capped equal the value whether or not arising issue of new shares at 125% of salary.
of dividends that from fraud or reckless or the transfer of would have been The final value of the award behaviour on the part market-purchased declared or paid will depend on share price of any Director or shares to the on the number performance to the date on employee of a Group Executive Director.
of shares vesting which the award is exercised.
Dividend equivalents during the tenor are paid on any of that award.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 77 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2013 Future policy Executive Directors continued Components of How this supports the shortand long-term How this component Maximum that Description of the framework used to Whether remuneration strategic objectives of the Group of remuneration may be paid assess performance: there are any operates provisions for 1 Applicable performance measures the recovery and weighting where applicable of sums note 2 paid or the 2 Details of any performance period withholding 3 Amount that may be paid at i the of payment minimum level of performance that results in a payment and ii at any further levels of performance Long-Term This plan aims to create alignment of An award over a fixed The rules of 1 The performance condition The rules of this Incentive executive and shareholder interests by: number of shares is this plan will, multiplies i the corporate plan will, in Plan granted on and following the elements of the BSC averaged respect of awards facilitating a material exposure to the value vests on the third 2014 AGM, over 3 years by ii Relative Total made following of the Companys shares by the Executive anniversary of grant, provide that the Shareholder Return RTSR the 2014 AGM, Directors subject to i maximum face over 3 years, relative to the provide that making the vesting of the award subject continued service value of an award median of a group of five PGM malus pre to the achievement of performance and ii achievement will not normally producers see page 93. vesting and conditions combining sustained operational of the performance exceed 150% clawback post The BSC is weighted on a scale performance and the change in value of condition.
of salary except vesting may be running from 0-1.5x and RTSR is shareholders investment relative to our in exceptional applied where The award is settled weighted on a scale running from peers circumstances, the level of grant by either the issue 0-2.0x, with the resulting sum which for or vesting of an We believe that the potential value available of new shares or then divided by 3, to give the to the Executive Directors through the LTIP Executive award has been the transfer of final answer.
By these means Directors would affected by any leads to fairness median performance market-purchased we create a bias towards the be limited to of the events should lead to median pay while upper shares to the delivery of value to shareholders.
quartile performance should lead to upper where the plan is described above Executive Director.
This is described more fully on used to facilitate in relation to the quartile total reward.
In turn this should help page 93. Dividend equivalents the buy-out of ASAP.
Clawback us attract, retain and motivate Executive are paid on any 2 BSC component: average incentives on may also be Directors of the right calibre.
mean of the three corporate recruitment.
applied where scorecards finalised during the the Company In addition, in three year vesting period.
discovers line with UK best RTSR component: performance any event of practice dividend pre-vesting over a period of 36 months equivalents misconduct broadly coterminous with the can, at the vesting period, but ending on a on the part of Committees the Executive calendar month end.
This allows discretion, be Director.
time to communicate the vesting paid on the outcome to participants in vesting of advance of the vesting date, so awards.
These that tax withholding obligations equal the value can be calculated.
of dividends that would have 3 Vesting can be at any level from been declared 0% to full vesting.
or paid on the The final value of the award number of will depend on share price shares vesting performance to the date on during the tenor which the award is exercised.
The Company imposes an obligation on the Executive Directors to amass and retain a personally significant investment in the Companys shares.
We regard this as an important and integral part of the remuneration policy, as this means that they experience the same changes in value as shareholders, and so are incentivised to create and preserve value.
Executive Directors are required to build up a shareholding within five years of taking office with a value of at least 3x salary in the case of the CEO and 2x salary other Executive Directors.
Should this be achieved but the market value then fall below the required level, the individual has a period of three years in which to restore compliance.
No forfeiture, clawback or malus provisions are applicable, as these are personal investments in the Companys shares created from after-tax income, including the vesting of awards under the Companys employee share schemes and other share-settled arrangements.
com 78 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2013 Future policy Executive Directors continued Footnotes: 1.
In addition to the items in the policy table, there are two arrangements forming part of the on-going policy, each applicable to only one of the Executive Directors.
Both awards were made in unusual circumstances, as permitted under Listing Rule 9.4.
2R: Simon Scott on 11 September 2012 the Committee approved the basis of a Special Award to be made to him, but this was only granted on 7 November 2012 after the Committee approved the terms of the performance condition.
This award was granted at a time when the Company faced multiple crises and an unprecedented level of uncertainty, and recognised his important role in the Companys recovery from the Events at Marikana.
As originally contemplated, this was a cash-settled award with a face value of 814,625, being 2.5 times Mr Scotts CFO basic salary for FY2012.
This reflected the regulatory and legal position in force at the time, which precluded the issue of a share-settled award.
The quantum reflected the fact that no LTIP award could be made to Mr Scott at that time.
Following discussions with key institutional shareholders, the award was converted from a cash-settled to a share-settled basis on 5 March 2013.
Linking the future value of the Award to the Lonmin share price should boost his alignment with shareholders interests more quickly and completely than would otherwise have been the case.
A maximum of 254,570 shares can be acquired under this award, the vesting of which is subject to the satisfaction of two performance measures.
The first is that the average corporate BSC performance for the three financial years FY2013 to FY2015 is at or above the threshold percentage.
The second performance measure is a personal performance element, being that Mr Scotts average personal achievement for those same financial years is at or above 65%.
Where each of the performance measures has been met, the award will vest in full on the vesting date, 7 November 2015, but the award will immediately lapse should one or both of the tests fail to be met.
The Award is not subject to any clawback or malus provisions.
The award is subject to continued employment with Good Leaver provisions applying in specified circumstances for example death, ill-health or redundancy or at the Committees discretion.
Should Mr Scott be classified as a Good Leaver the performance condition will be assessed in relation to completed financial years, with the Committee making such adjustments as it considers appropriate to take account of the shortened performance period.
If the performance condition is met, the award will vest immediately, subject to pro-rating for time.
Otherwise it will lapse in full.
Ben Magara he became entitled to the Recruitment Award on 1 July 2013 when he commenced employment with the Company, and the Award was granted on 10 July 2013.
This Award was designed to encourage Mr Magara to join the Company by making share-settled awards on joining of equal value to those he would forego on leaving his previous employment and a maximum of 130,302 shares can be acquired under this award.
The vesting of the Recruitment Award reflects the terms of the deferred bonus arrangements it replaces, which were effectively cash-settled and payable at three fixed dates.
As a result, the Award is not subject to a performance condition and vests in three equal tranches on 31 May 2014, 31 May 2015 and 31 May 2016, assuming Mr Magara is still in service at the relevant vesting date.
Should Mr Magara leave prior to any of these dates for a good leaver reason, then the entire value of the award vests and the shares will be transferred to him.
If he is summarily dismissed, the Award will lapse immediately.
By making the Award share-settled, we believe that we boosted his alignment with shareholders interests more quickly than would otherwise have been the case.
An LTIP award over the same number of shares was made on the same date, replacing performance-related awards held by Mr Magara which were lost on leaving his previous employment.
The Recruitment Award is not subject to any clawback or malus provisions.
In relation to both the Special Award and the Recruitment Award, on a change of control of the Company, the Committee will consider whether any performance condition has been satisfied in relation to the relevant period.
However, the vesting dates will not change, unless the Committee determines otherwise, and the Awards will not be pro-rated for time.
If any applicable performance condition is not satisfied the Awards will lapse in full.
Otherwise the Awards will be settled on the vesting date, or, if earlier, upon the relevant Executive Director ceasing to be employed by the Group unless he resigns other than in circumstances constituting constructive dismissal, ceases to be employed without giving or receiving notice, or his employment is terminated for a reason which would have justified summary dismissal, in which case the award will lapse in full.
No other Director was eligible to receive either the Special Award or the Retention Award, and the provisions of the Awards in relation to their maximum value, the performance condition if any and the basis of vesting cannot be altered to the advantage of the participant without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting except for minor amendments to take account of legislative change, or tax or regulatory treatment, or of an administrative nature.
The values of the Special Award and Recruitment Award are not pensionable.
The terms of the two awards are available for inspection at the Companys Registered Office.
As noted above, performance measures apply to the Balanced Scorecard Bonus Plan BSC, the Annual Share Award Plan ASAP and the Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
These were chosen and targets are set as follows: BSC the specific metrics and their weightings are set by the Committee in the light of the Boards assessment of the strategic imperatives facing the Company and the budgets and other operational plans adopted by the Board to best address both short and longer-term imperatives.
Management proposes suitable metrics which are quantitative wherever possible and levels of performance to form the threshold, target and stretch levels of attainment.
The Committee then assesses whether achievement of these is appropriately aligned with shareholders interests, and whether the reward that would accrue to the Executive Directors would be justifiable.
They also examine whether the metric is consistent with the requirements of prudent risk management and does not itself create perverse incentives and good governance.
ASAP shareholders will recall that this plan replaced the previous practice of mandatory deferral of after-tax bonus, following changes in South African tax law.
When the amounts available under this plan are combined with the value of the BSC bonus, the total value as a multiple of base salary has not changed for several years.
The maximum award requires significant performance achievement, which has resulted in actual awards under the BSC and ASAP having been considerably below the maximum in recent years.
As the prior year bonus determines the award size, the Committee believes that no subsequent performance condition is required, other than continued employment, noting that the ultimate value of the award will move with the share price.
The vesting period of three years is felt appropriate given practices in competitor companies and the requirement for the Executive Directors to build and retain material long-term holdings of Lonmin shares.
LTIP after consulting with shareholders in 2010, it was determined that the BSC plan was fully aligned with the strategic imperatives facing the Company, could easily be adapted to changing circumstances and so represented a strong means of assessing value-creating activities.
By averaging the outcomes over three years and including a longer-term assessment of shareholder value, a clear incentive is created to manage the business for value over the longer term.
We multiply the average BSC outcome by the Total Shareholder Return generated by Lonmin relative to the median of a peer group of other listed PGM producers, measured over a three-year period.
These companies have similar business activities to Lonmin, so face the same socio-economic and operational challenges.
The levels of relative performance were established after actuarial modelling of long-term historic data, with the intention that material levels of vesting would only occur for strong levels of performance.
Combining the two components of the condition helps avoid a situation where reward flows to the Executive Directors from operational performance but no relative value advantage has been gained by shareholders.
Details of outstanding awards under the ASAP and LTIP are set out on page 96.
These will continue on the terms set out in this report.
Other than as described in the policy table, there are no components of the Executive Directors remuneration that are not subject to performance measures.
All of the items now proposed for inclusion in the Directors remuneration policy formed part of the previous policy.
None of the items now proposed for inclusion in the Directors remuneration policy have been changed from those previously in force, save that we intend, as explained more fully on page 93, to amend the PGM peer group used for the LTIP performance condition to include only companies operating in South Africa.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 79 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2013 Future policy Executive Directors continued Footnotes: continued 6.
The policy in relation to the remuneration of the Executive Directors applies in virtually unchanged form to the members of the Exco and their more senior first reports we call this group the RemCo Purview Group, though the levels of awards tend to be lower than those offered to the Executive Directors and BSC targets may include elements relating to parts of the business for which the individual executive is responsible.
Below the RemCo Purview Group remuneration is a combination of fixed pay salary, benefits and pension and short-term incentive pay BSC and other one year bonus arrangements.
Share-settled long-term incentives are no longer offered to these employees as we judge that their roles do not have the longer-term dimensions that would this make this appropriate, but we do encourage employees to consider investing in the Companys shares.
For employees of the Group generally, pay comprises base salary, various allowances provided in cash or kind and short-term bonuses linked to safety, production and cost which are generally paid quarterly.
An Employee Share Ownership Plan for employees generally is under active consideration as part of our commitment to meet the transformational requirements of the South African governments Mining Charter.
Illustrations of application of remuneration policy We estimate that the level of remuneration received by each of the two current Executive Directors for the first full year in which the policy applies will be, indicatively, at three different levels of performance: Minimum where only fixed pay salary, benefits and pension is payable and no short or long-term performance-related pay accrues: At expectation fixed pay plus short and long-term performance related pay vesting at the levels reasonably expected: and Maximum fixed pay plus full vesting of all performance-related pay, but ignoring any share price appreciation.
Chief Executive Officer 92 4 27 1 579 693 462 579 Maximum Maximum 19 24 24 28 92 27 2 462 386 386 231 29 6 24 24 15 At expectation At expectation 92 Minimum 462 27 Minimum 79 16 5 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 000s % Salary Pensions Benefits in kind Bonus ASAP LTIP Chief Financial Officer 4 69 21 1 335 419 419 335 Maximum 21 26 26 22 Maximum 69 21 2 335 279 279 112 At expectation 30 6 26 26 10 At expectation 69 Minimum 335 21 Minimum 79 16 5 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 000s % Pensions Salary Benefits in kind Bonus ASAP LTIP The way in which the Companys annual bonus plan operates is such that amounts in respect of a financial year are only paid in the following financial year, after the completion of all audit, assurance and approval processes.
However, to preserve the integrity of the charts above, the bonus amount reflects the bonus earned in respect of the year of employment.
The basis of calculation and key assumptions used to compile the charts above is as follows: Salary, benefits in kind and pension as described in the future policy table are shown at the estimated cash cost to the Company or the taxable value to the individual, as appropriate.
No relocation assistance is currently in payment.
Bonus at minimum reflects the position where none of the corporate or personal metrics in the Balanced Scorecard is achieved at threshold level: expectation reflects the position where every such metric is achieved at target level: maximum reflects the position where every such metric is achieved at stretch level and is the amount at which the bonus payment is capped.
Annual Share Award Plan shows the value of the awards being equal to the gross bonus for the financial year made in respect of the year under review, ignoring any future change in the value of the shares.
Long-Term Incentive Plan shows the value of the award vesting in the year based on the proportion of the shares comprised in the award that will vest, multiplied by the original strike price used to convert the face value a multiple of salary into a number of shares under award.
This therefore ignores the change in the value of those shares over the vesting period.
As seen from the charts above, at target levels of performance, around 55% of the CEOs total pay, and around 65% of CFOs total pay, arises from performance-related elements, rising to over 70% at stretch levels for both, at which point total pay is capped.
The Committee is satisfied that there is a strong incentive for the prudent management of risk, and that there are no perverse incentives created by the pay policy.
