72 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2013 Policy Report Process This report sets out the Companys policy on the remuneration of its Executive and Non-executive Directors, and will be proposed for approval by shareholders at the AGM on 30 January 2014.
Our policy is unchanged from that in force in recent financial years.
It will take effect from the day following the AGM and may operate for up to three years although reviews of our business and remuneration strategies are currently underway, as noted below, and we anticipate presenting a revised remuneration policy for approval within the life of the policy summarised in this report.
So that we can implement this policy, the Company will be seeking shareholder approval at the AGM to extend the life of the Companys Long-Term Incentive Plan which would otherwise expire on 5 February 2014 by two years, to ensure that the Company has a suitable vehicle to facilitate long-term share-settled incentive arrangements.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee commenced a fundamental review of the Companys approach to the remuneration of the Executive Directors and other senior executives in 2012.
Following the appointment of the new CEO on 1 July 2013 a strategic review has also been underway.
It is clearly vital that the remuneration strategy supports the business strategy, and we have therefore deferred changes to our remuneration policy pending the finalisation of the strategy review.
We therefore envisage presenting a revised policy for consideration and approval at the 2015 AGM.
Remuneration policy is an integral part of the management of the business, and the Committee takes input from many sources, and routinely reviews the pay and employment conditions of employees of the Group.
The EVP Human Resources provides insight into levels of pay, bonus and other benefits relative to South African market norms for employees both at workforce and managerial levels.
Members of the Committee bring their experience from other Committees, notably the Transformation Committee, the Safety & Sustainability Committee and the Audit & Risk Committee to bear on their work, as well as the discussions at full Board meetings on matters including strategy, performance and labour relations including pay and employment conditions, and the presentations made by the CEO, CFO and other members of management.
The Company has not consulted its employees in formulating this policy.
However, as the Chairman made clear at the 2013 AGM, the strategy of the Company has to include imperatives to improve the social and living conditions of its employees, and the Balanced Scorecard see below has been adapted to bring remuneration practice into line.
As the policy is a continuation of that currently in force, the Committee has not used any remuneration comparison measurements, other than its own knowledge of market conditions for executive pay in the UK.
We are committed to discussing all major changes to remuneration policy and any major applications of discretion with shareholders in advance, wherever this is possible within the legal and regulatory constraints we face.
In preparing this policy, the Company took the known views of its major institutional shareholders into account.
In addition, the Committee Chairman wrote to the Companys twenty largest institutional shareholders and major representative bodies.
Two principal points emerged from these discussions.
The need for consultation with key institutional shareholders wherever possible prior to any exercise of discretion, and full retrospective disclosure explaining the circumstances, the need for discretion to be exercised and the consequences of this for remuneration.
In addition, shareholders requested a stronger explanation of how the performance measures chosen for the short-term incentive the BSC Bonus Plan, plus the ASAP and long-term incentive the LTIP plans supported delivery of the business strategy and goals.
The drafting of this policy report was updated in response to the views received.
Future policy Executive Directors The Companys policy in relation to the remuneration of Executive Directors has evolved over a number of years in response to changing circumstances.
It is designed to enable the Company to attract and retain individuals of the calibre necessary to manage the Boards strategic plans and lead the management team, to incentivise them to achieve stretching  goals and to align their interests with those of shareholders by delivering a significant proportion of the reward in shares.
This latter point is bolstered by a shareholding obligation which is at the upper end of market practice for a London-listed company of comparable size.
Crucially, the policy is also designed to operate through the economic cycle and to deliver outcomes which are fair to both the Executive Directors and shareholders.
The Committee sees its key purpose as ensuring that the Companys remuneration systems encourage value creation for shareholders, promote socially responsible and safe practices and maintain a demonstrably fair relationship between pay and performance.
The Company is incorporated in England, has its primary listing in London and is obliged to withhold UK tax and social security from Directors earnings, but the Executive Directors reside in South Africa together with the rest of the management team.
As a result, while we devise pay systems relative to norms in the London market for directors of listed companies, these also give due regard to remuneration practices in the South African mining sector, as well as South African tax and exchange controls rules and requirements.
