01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Performance Housing THIS IS A CRUCIAL AND COMPLEX AREA FOR LONMIN.
AS SUCH WE DESCRIBE WHAT WE HAVE DONE IN 2013 HERE AND DEAL WITH OUR STRATEGIC ASPIRATIONS AND INTENTIONS FOR HOUSING IN THE STRATEGY SECTION ON PAGE 16.
Housing is one of the areas which goes to the heart A feasibility study to develop additional infill apartments of our licence to operate, both legally in terms of The was conducted, which included security upgrades, Broad-Based Socio-Economic Empowerment Charter landscaping and recreation facilities, at the open for the South African Industry, known as the Mining spaces in and around the existing converted hostel Charter, and morally in terms of our relationship with blocks, which would provide accommodation for the our employees.
The study concluded that there was sufficient land to develop a total of 4,000 It is also true that whilst it requires significant family and bachelor accommodation units.
investment to achieve, a successful housing policy brings long-term benefits around productivity and We have also concluded research and scoping attendance.
projects around Integrated Human Settlements as part of our long-term planning for housing development Integrated Completion of Hostel Conversion and supporting infrastructure at Marikana.
Housing Human In our SLP, we originally committed to convert Settlements see p 163 for 128 traditional single-sex blocks with a mixture of Post the year end, we signed an agreement with the more information family and bachelor units.
Upon completion, the Provincial Department of Human Settlement, whereby, 128 converted hostel blocks will yield 812 family we have contributed 50ha of serviced land for units and 1,978 single units.
The conversion work immediate development.
This land contribution is commenced in 2008 and completion shall be an integral part of the integrated human settlement achieved in 2014.
To date, 107 hostel blocks have plan for the Marikana area and forms part of our been converted.
commitment to support the Presidential initiatives to improve living conditions.
In addition Lonmin will The hostel conversion programme is measured and contribute at least R0.5 billion over the next five years monitored by the Department of Mineral and Energy towards employee accommodation and bulk services and DMR on a calendar year basis.
as part of its SLP programme.
All the conversion work thus far has been executed by HDSA Greater Lonmin Community GLC companies which we have incubated, nurtured, mentored and assisted.
The outcome is that they are now able, technically, operationally and financially, to manage and deliver multimillion Rand projects.
