66 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Directors Report 2.3 Greenhouse gas emissions The disclosures concerning greenhouse gas emissions required by law are included in the Strategic Report, on page 34.
2.4 Political donations No political donations were made during the year.
Lonmin has an established policy of not making donations to any political party, representative or candidate in any part of the world.
2.5 Financial instruments Full details can be found in note 21 to the financial statements on page 135 and in A Deeper Look on page 168.
Share Capital and Related Matters 3.1 Share capital and reserves The total share capital and reserves attributable to the Group amounted to $3,409 million at 30 September 2013.
The structure of the issued share capital of the Company at 30 September 2013 is set out in note 25 to the accounts.
In addition to the Ordinary Shares of $1 each, the Companys share capital also comprises 50,000 Sterling Deferred Shares of 1 each, which were issued in 2002 and allotted to a nominee company to comply with the requirement that a public limited company must have a minimum share capital of 50,000.
These shares do not rank equally with the Ordinary Shares of the Company, and have minimal rights.
The holders consent is not required for changes to the Companys share capital, and they are not entitled to receive notice of, or attend, speak or vote at, any general meeting.
The holders are not entitled to participate in any distribution of income or capital save that, following the distribution of 100,000,000,000 plus the paid-up nominal value of every other share in the capital of the Company, they are entitled to receive an amount equal to the nominal value of their Sterling Deferred Shares.
3.2 Shareholders rights Holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to: receive all shareholder documents, including notice of any general meeting: attend, speak and exercise voting rights at general meetings, either in person or by proxy: and participate in any distribution of income or capital: subject to applicable law and the Companys Articles of Association.
In general there are no restrictions on the holders ability to transfer their shares or exercise their voting rights, save in situations where the Company is legally entitled to impose such restrictions usually where amounts remain unpaid on the shares after request, or the holder is otherwise in default of an obligation to the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between its shareholders that may restrict the transfer of their shares or the exercise of the voting rights attaching to them, save in relation to the employee benefit trust established by the Company, the Lonmin Employee Share Trust, to facilitate various employee share plans.
The trustee, which is independent of the Company, does not seek to exercise voting rights on the Ordinary Shares held in trust, and a dividend waiver is in place in respect of shares which are the beneficial property of the trust.
For details of the Companys employee share plans, see the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 70 to 99.
No shareholder, or trust relating to an employee share plan, holds securities carrying special rights relating to the control of the Company.
3.3 Powers conferred on the Directors in relation to share capital Subject to applicable law and the Companys Articles of Association the Directors may exercise all powers of the Company, including the power to authorise the issue and or market purchase of the Companys shares subject to an appropriate authority being given to the Directors by shareholders in general meeting and any conditions attaching to such authority.
There were two occasions in the year under review when shareholders delegated powers to the Directors in relation to share capital: at a General Meeting held on 19 November 2012, to facilitate the Rights Issue: and at the Annual General Meeting held on 31 January 2013.
