01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 85 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2013 Other policy provisions in relation to Directors pay continued Policy on payment for loss of office continued If employment is terminated by the Company the departing Executive Director may have a legal entitlement under statute or otherwise to additional amounts, which would need to be met.
In addition, the Committee retains discretion to settle any other amounts reasonably due to the executive, for example to meet the legal fees incurred by the executive in connection with the termination of employment, where the Company wishes to enter into a settlement agreement as provided for below and the individual must seek independent legal advice.
If the Executive Director has relocated to perform their duties, the Committee has discretion to meet the reasonable costs associated with returning that individual and where relevant their family back to their country of origin and winding up their affairs in the country in which they worked for Lonmin, including meeting the incidental costs incurred in so doing.
In certain circumstances, the Committee may approve new contractual arrangements with departing executives, potentially including but not limited to settlement, confidentiality, restrictive covenants and or consultancy arrangements.
These will be used sparingly and only entered into where the Committee believes that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to do so.
No Executive Director is employed on a service contract entered into prior to 27 June 2012.
Remuneration in the Year to 30 September 2013 This section of the Directors Remuneration Report sets out the Companys remuneration of its Executive and Non-executive Directors during the financial year ended 30 September 2013 FY2013, and will, together with the annual statement by the Committee Chairman, be proposed for an advisory vote by shareholders at the AGM on 30 January 2014.
It has been prepared on the basis prescribed in The Large and Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Amendment Regulations 2013 the Regulations and also includes the items required to be disclosed under Listing Rule 9.8.
8 2 R. Where required, data has been audited by KPMG Audit plc and this is indicated appropriately.
Context Consideration of Directors remuneration The Remuneration Committee the Committee is a Committee of the Board with delegated powers set out in its terms of reference, available on the Companys website.
These are reviewed periodically and updated where necessary.
The Committees main responsibilities are to: determine and agree with the Board the Companys executive remuneration strategy and policy: determine individual remuneration packages and terms of employment within that policy for the Executive Directors, members of the Executive Committee and twelve other senior executives collectively known as the Purview Group : oversee the operation of the Companys incentive schemes, including designing and setting performance measures and targets for annual bonus and long-term incentive schemes: consider major changes in employee remuneration in the Group: select and appoint consultants to advise the Committee: report to shareholders through annual reports: and make recommendations to the Board on the fees offered to the Non-executive Directors, after taking independent professional advice: all of which it carries out on behalf of the Board.
The Committee comprised three independent Non-executive Directors during the year and to the date of this report, Jim Sutcliffe Chairman, Jonathan Leslie and Karen fide Segundo.
Mr Sutcliffe has considerable experience of designing and implementing  remuneration systems, having been chief executive of several businesses, including a FTSE100 company.
Dr fide Segundo has extensive executive experience in natural resources having been CEO of Shells global gas and power business, and spent five years leading Shells renewable energy business.
Mr Leslie combines his knowledge and outlook as chairman of the Safety & Sustainability Committee with the expertise gained as a director of Rio Tinto and as CEO of Sappi based in South Africa and Extract Resources.
The Board feels that this collective experience enables the Committee to offer a balanced, informed and independent view on remuneration.
