36 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Board of Directors 4.
Simon Scott 55 Chief Financial Officer Non-Executive Director Simon joined Lonmin and the Board in Karen was appointed to the Board in September 2010, became CFO in 2005 and is a member of the Audit & November 2010 and was Acting CEO Risk, Nomination, Remuneration and during the period 24 August 2012 to Safety & Sustainability Committees.
He is a graduate with A graduate in law, with an MBA from Roger was appointed Chairman of the accounting and commerce degrees from Michigan State University, she spent Board in March 2009, having served as the University of the Witwatersrand, and more than 30 years working globally an independent Non-Executive Director has also attended the management with Shell, becoming their first female since 1997, and also chairs the development program at the University country head in 1983.
Born and raised of Cape Town.
A South African registered years as CEO of Shells global Gas in South Africa, Roger is a graduate in chartered accountant, he has held a & Power business, she spent five economics and law and has career-long number of financial management roles years developing and leading Shells experience of the international mining in South Africa with local and global renewable energy business.
Rogers previous experience employers including over eight years a non-executive director of British includes roles as joint managing director with Anglo American.
Most recently American Tobacco where she chairs of Minorco and as a non-executive he was CFO of the JSE-listed Aveng the Corporate Social Responsibility director of Harry Winston Diamond Limited, a globally active engineering Committee, a member of the Corporation and Engelhard Corporation.
and construction group with significant Pyry board and a member of the Roger is both a South African and a involvement in the mining sector.
Simon is supervisory board of E. ON.
both a British and a South African national.
Ben Magara 46 Chief Executive Officer Ben joined the Company and Board as Chief Executive on 1 July 2013.
He is a graduate Mining Engineer from the University of Zimbabwe and has attended various management programmes including the Accelerated Development Programme at the London Business School, UK and the AMP at GIBS, SA.
Ben has extensive mining experience in both underground and surface mining as well as soft and hard rock mining.
He also has experience in the energy and logistics industries.
Ben was the Chief Executive Officer of Anglo Coal South Africa and the Executive Head responsible for Engineering and Capital Projects at Anglo Platinum.
Ben is a non-executive director of Foskor and was previously a director of Anglo 8.
Jonathan Leslie 62 Independent American South Africa 2006-2013, was Director Non-Executive Director Chairman of Richards Bay Coal Terminal Appointed to the Board on 2 April 2013, Jonathan was appointed to the and the Eskom 2008 Coal Working Phuti is the CEO of Shanduka Group, Board in 2009, chairs the Safety Group.
He is also a Trustee of the Lonmins BEE partner, and was & Sustainability Committee, and is UNISA Foundation and is the Chairman nominated to the Board under a a member of the Nomination and of the Board of Trustees at St Peters contractual arrangement.
She has a BA in Remuneration Committees.
He is a Economics from Rutgers University, USA, graduating in jurisprudence and Zimbabwean national.
an MBA from fide Montfort University, UK qualifying as a barrister, Jonathan and completed the Kennedy School of spent 26 years with Rio Tinto, Government Executive Education including nine years service on its program Global Leadership and Public board.
His roles at Rio Tinto included Policy for the 21st Century at Harvard Mining Director and Chief Executive University in 2008.
Her executive of the Copper and later the Diamonds experience includes financing infrastructure & Gold Product Groups.
He was Strength through assets and other project finance work in subsequently CEO of Sappi, the both the US and South Africa.
She joined executive chairman of Nikanor and Shanduka Group in 2004 as the CEO of Extract Resources Limited.
Managing Director of Shanduka Energy, Jonathan is a British national.
our people and became CEO in September 2010.
She was selected as a Global Young Leader in 2007 by the World Economic Forum and listed as one of the Top 50 women in the world to watch in 2008 by the Wall Street Journal.
She is a director of a number of Shanduka Group investee companies, including Deputy Chair of AIM JSE listed Pan African Resources Plc.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Board of Directors 5.
Jim Sutcliffe 57 Independent Non-Executive Director 6.
David Munro 58 Independent Jim was appointed to the Board in 2007 Non-Executive Director and is chairman of the Remuneration David was appointed to the Board Committee and a member of the Audit in 2007 and is a member of the & Risk, Nomination and Transformation Nomination, Safety & Sustainability Committees.
He was appointed Senior and Transformation Committees.
Independent Director at the 2012 AGM.
He was most recently Development An actuary by profession, Jim has Director of Kazakhmys from 2006 extensive UK and South African to 2011.
Davids experience prior to business experience, including senior this includes roles as CEO of RMC executive roles with Prudential UK and Group Plc, Chief Development Office Old Mutual, being Group CEO of the of BHP Billiton, and as the director latter from 2001-2008.
He is a director of Biliton Plc responsible for its 7.
Len Konar 59 Independent of the Financial Reporting Council global aluminium and base metals Non-Executive Director Limited where he chairs the Codes and businesses.
David is a graduate Appointed to the Board in 2010, Standards Committee and is also a in mining engineering and has Len has chaired the Audit & Risk director of Liberty Group and Liberty extensive experience of mine Committee since July 2010 and is Holdings, and chairman of Sun Life management in South Africa.
a member of the Nomination and Financial.
Len holds degrees in accounting and 5.
7. commerce from South African and U. S. universities.
After qualifying as a chartered accountant, he pursued an academic career at the University of Durban-Westville, before moving into commercial roles.
He now has a broad ranging business career, chairing the boards of leading South African companies including Exxaro Resources and Steinhoff International and serving on the boards of others including Sappi and Alexander Forbes.
A member of the King Committee on Corporate Governance, he is also a member of the Corporate Governance Forum and the Institute of Directors.
Len is a South African national.
Paul Smith 43 Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Director Director Appointed to the Board on Brian was appointed to the Board Gary was appointed to the Board Paul was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2011 Mahomed is with effect from 1 November 2013. on 9 September 2013 on which 9 September 2013.
He is the Head a member of the Safety & He was formerly Group Director, date he also joined the Safety & of Strategy and Communications for Sustainability and Transformation Mining and Technology at Anglo Sustainability Committee.
He has Glencore Xstrata plc and sits on its Committees.
Mahomed has American where he worked for commerce and accounting executive capital allocation committee.
Brian was also a nondegrees from the University of the A graduate from Oxford University in experience of South African executive director of JSE-listed Witwatersrand, and qualified as a Modern History, he is also a qualified mining, gained from a senior Anglo American Platinum Limited Chartered Accountant in South Chartered Accountant.
His career level executive career with Anglo from May 2010 to 30 September Africa in 1999.
Since then he has to date has been in investment Coal, BHP Billiton and latterly 2013.
His previous executive roles held a variety of appointments within banking and fund management, as Chief Operating Officer of included four years as Operations the Glencore group, including more before joining Glencore in 2011.
Lonmin from October 2008 to Director of Anglo Platinum and than five years as CEO of Prodeco, Paul is a British national.
A graduate in working as COO and subsequently Glencores Colombian coal electrical engineering, Mahomed CEO of Anglo Americans global operation.
He is currently CEO of was awarded a fellowship from Base Metals business.
A graduate Glencore Xstratas Alloys Division Harvard Business School in in mechanical engineering from and is a member of its global 1990.
He is also a non-executive Wits University and of the PMD management committee.
Gary is director of Mechel Mining OAO programme at Harvard Business a South African national.
and of Aveng Africa Limited School, he has career long and chairs the boards of experience of the mining industry, Lonmins South African operating largely gained in operational roles subsidiaries.
Mahomed is a in South Africa and latterly in other South African national.
parts of the world, particularly South America.
He is both a British and South African national.
