38 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Executive Committee 3.
Albert Jamieson 55 Chief Commercial Officer to 31 December 2013 Albert joined Lonmin in 1989 after eight years at Impala, where he was responsible for their concentrator operations.
He has held a number of senior management and executive positions in the mine production and commercial areas of the business including responsibility for investments in Africa, South America, North America, Australia and Japan.
The commercial portfolio currently comprises business development, strategy, marketing and sales, exploration, legal and life of business planning.
Albert has a BSc in Minerals Engineering from the University of Birmingham and an MBA from the 2.
Simon Scott 55 Chief Financial Officer University of Cape Town.
Albert is a Biography included overleaf on page 36.
Ben Magara 46 Chief Executive Officer Biography included overleaf on page 36.
Thandeka Ncube 44 Business Transformation Manager, A team dedicated Shanduka Resources Thandeka was nominated by Shanduka.
She works with to the future of Shandukas investee companies advising on transformation and broad-based empowerment.
She holds a social sciences degree from Lonmin the City University of New York and an MBA from Henley Business School.
She began her career working with various government institutions, developing strategy and policy for small and medium enterprises, and then joined the retail banking side of Standard Bank.
Thandeka is a South African national.
01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Executive Committee 4.
Barnard Mokwena 49 Executive Vice President Strategic Business Transformation Barnard joined Lonmin in October 2005 as a Group Manager, Communications and External Affairs and was promoted to Executive Vice President, Human Capital and External Affairs in September 2009, at which time he was also appointed to the Exco.
In September 2013, Barnard assumed responsibility for Transformation, human settlements and mining charter compliance.
He previously worked in senior management positions in a range of sectors for a number of companies including Sentech, the South African Rail Commuter Corporation and the National Lottery Operator UTHINGO.
He holds a BA Phil from Urban Pontifical University, an MA Licentiate from Gregorian University and an EDP from Pretoria.
Barnard is a South African national.
President Mining Mark joined Lonmin in March 2008 in the mining business, becoming VP Capital Projects & Engineering before being appointed as EVP Mining in June 2009.
He joined Lonmin from DRDGold, where he spent six years holding a number of senior management positions including General Manager of DRDGold and CEO of DRDCapital.
Prior to this, he worked for AngloGold for twelve years.
He is a mining engineer and also has a degree in economics.
Mark is a South African national.
Lerato Molebatsi 44 Executive Executive Vice President President Human Resources Vice President Communications and Abey joined Lonmin in April 2008 as Processing and Sustainability Public Affairs Natascha joined Lonmin in 2008 Senior Manager Human Resources.
Lerato joined Lonmin in September 2013 from BHP Billiton, where she He held several roles including having worked at the Department of was General Manager for the Executive Manager External Affairs Labour since September 2011 as their Klipspruit mine.
Her initial and Executive Manager Human Deputy Director General: Corporate responsibility was for managing Resources.
Prior to joining the Department Lonmins concentrators, and in Executive Vice President Human of Labour, Lerato worked in senior Resources in September 2013.
Prior May 2011 she was promoted executive positions at Sanlam, Old to her current role, covering all to joining Lonmin, he worked in Mutual and Alexander Forbes.
She holds concentrating, smelting and executive human resources roles at a Bachelor of Arts degree in Psychology GrafTech South Africa, City of refining operations.
She holds from the University of Johannesburg and an engineering degree and is Johannesburg, Samancor Manganese a Post Graduate Diploma in Rural Policy currently studying for an and Denel.
Abey has extensive Development Policy and Management executive MBA at the University experience in human resource from the University of Witwatersrand.
Nataschas management, labour relations, She has also attended the Senior career stretches over various community investment and stakeholder Management Development Programme commodities and disciplines in relations.
He holds a Bachelor of at the University of Stellenbosch.
Lerato Social Sciences from the University the mining industry with nine has considerable experience in labour years in senior management roles.
of the North West and a Masters dynamics, community engagement, Before BHP Billiton she held Diploma in Human Resource government and regulatory policy.
Abey has also attended positions with Anglo American Lerato will be responsible for corporate and AngloGold.
Natascha is a the Global Executive Development communications, media and public South African national.
Programme at Pretoria Universitys relations, stakeholder management, Gordon Institute of Business Science.
South African regulatory affairs and Abey is a South African national.
Lerato is a South African national.
