80 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 30 September 2013 Future policy Non-executive Directors The Company seeks to appoint individuals as Non-executive Directors who have gained extensive strategic level experience, almost invariably through operating at Executive Director level in other businesses, and often in a South African operating context.
They are required to attend Board meetings, Committee meetings and other educational and briefing sessions, both in South Africa and the UK and to be available to the Chairman of the Board and the Executive Directors as needed.
In addition, they are expected to familiarise themselves with the Companys business and the context in which it operates, and to maintain their technical skills and knowledge.
The Companys general approach to the determination of their fees is to pay at levels applicable in the UK market for companies of similar size, complexity and risk, reflecting the travel commitment we require of the appointee.
No Non-executive Director receives any benefits in kind, relocation support, pension or performance-related payments.
Such other items as are to be considered Fee payable to Directors Any additional fees payable for any other duties to the Company in the nature of remuneration All Non-executive Directors are The Chairman of the Board receives a fee of 200,000 per No other items in the nature of offered a base fee of 50,000 per annum and the Senior Independent Director a fee of remuneration are provided by the annum for acting as a Director, 15,000 per annum, in each case in addition to their Company to its Non-executive same as explained below.
Directors, save that Mahomed Seedat also provides services Fees to independent Directors Where individuals serve as a member or Chairman of a to certain Group companies under are payable in cash upfront for Committee of the Board, additional fees are payable, a consultancy agreement, as the first year of appointment, as follows: described more fully on page 94. reflecting the commitment Audit & Risk Committee Chairman: 17,500 per annum necessary to undertake a full Audit & Risk Committee member: 10,000 per annum induction programme including site and other visits and in-depth Nomination Committee Chairman: 12,500 per annum research.
Thereafter fees are Nomination Committee member: 7,500 per annum paid in cash monthly in arrears.
Remuneration Committee Chairman: 17,500 per annum Where the individuals serving Remuneration Committee member: 10,000 per annum as Non-executive Directors are Safety & Sustainability Committee Chairman: 12,500 employed by a third party, then per annum the Company may instead be Safety & Sustainability Committee member: 7,500 invoiced quarterly by that third per annum party for a sum equal to the fees that would otherwise have been Transformation Committee Chairman: 12,500 per payable to the individual Nonannum executive Director, to be settled Transformation Committee member: 7,500 per annum in cash.
The Company believes that this level of remuneration is sufficient to secure the services of individuals possessing the skills, knowledge and experience, gained in an employment likely to be credible to shareholders necessary to support and oversee the Executive Directors in their execution of the Boards approved strategies and operational plans.
These fees have historically been reviewed biennially, the last such review being in July 2013, and in normal circumstances it is expected that the next review will be in July 2015.
There was no increase to the base fee at any of the last four reviews.
Any future increase to any of the above fees will not exceed 10% annum.
No Non-executive Director receives any performance-related pay.
No amounts due to a Non-executive Director are subject to any recovery or withholding arrangements.
None of the amounts stated above vary from those in force prior to the drafting of this policy.
Non-executive Directors in receipt of fees from the Company are obliged to amass a shareholding with a value of 1x their annual based fee within five years of taking office.
Should this be achieved but the market value then fall below the required level, the individual has a period of three years in which to restore compliance.
