56 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Governance Corporate Governance Report Management Committees As with any business, power is delegated from the Board to the CEO, and through him to the management team via a documented Cascade of Authorities, setting out the responsibilities, decision-making and approval powers of managers at different levels of the enterprise.
To support the CEO in managing the business, two Committees have been created as explained below.
Executive Committee The members of the Exco are the two Executive Directors, Ben Magara and Simon Scott, a number of senior executives and Miss Phuti Mahanyele, a member nominated by Shanduka Resources, the Companys principal BEE investor.
She has no executive responsibilities, but participates fully in the Committees activities.
The names and biographical details of the Exco members are set out on pages 38 and 39.
In addition, the Chairman of the Board, Roger Phillimore, served as a member of the Exco until June 2013 and a Non-executive Director, Mohamed Seedat, served as a member until 30 September 2013.
The CEO chairs the Committee, which meets monthly and has a weekly updating call.
It has formal terms of reference, which were last reviewed in October 2010 and which dovetail into the schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision.
Its responsibilities include the following key areas: to develop strategy for submission to the Board: to develop, implement and monitor operational plans, policies, procedures and budgets: to review financial performance, forecasts and targets: to prioritise initiatives and allocate resources: to identify and drive efficiencies across the Group: to approve capital expenditure proposals within the authority levels delegated by the Board and otherwise recommend to Board: to develop and monitor the Groups policies and practices in respect of health, safety and environmental matters taking into account legal requirements, regulations and best practice: to review ICAM findings for all serious incidents: to oversee risk management including identifying risks and developing and implementing risk mitigation plans: to develop and monitor the internal control environment: and to develop and implement Group-wide evaluation, training, reward and remuneration practices and manage wage negotiations benefits with unions.
Price & Risk Committee The Price & Risk Committee is chaired by the CEO and the members are the CFO, Chief Commercial Officer, Head of Treasury, Tax & Risk, Head of Financial Planning and Analysis and the Executive Manager, Marketing.
The primary purpose of this Committee is to review and agree proposals in relation to the forward sale of by-products, principally nickel and copper.
The Committee meets as and when required.
The Committees terms of reference were last reviewed in March 2012.
