01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Lonmin Plc 29 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Performance fide-bottlenecking of the Operations Alternative Shift Cycle Configuration A pilot project based on the Theory of Constraints A project was initiated as one of the Boards five management philosophy was conducted at Rowland initiatives to investigate alternatives to the current Shaft during the year.
The programme has delivered eleven day per fortnight shift cycle that is being worked.
promising results with the production output at The brief was to explore alternative shift cycles that Rowland increasing towards the end of the year to would be value accretive for all stakeholders in the achieve an 11.4% increase from the last financial year.
A number of options have been investigated Our intention is that this philosophy will be integrated and explored and have been narrowed down to those into the mining operating model and rolled out to all that have the greatest probability of success at our operations during the next year, starting with Saffy.
The remaining options will be further refined The best practice teams have also undergone and consultations with the unions will follow during extensive training in this and assist in the roll-out.
Implementation will be evaluated thereafter.
Processing DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR OUR TOTAL TONNES MILLED INCREASED BY 9.3% TO 11.8 MILLION TONNES.
THIS WAS A COMMENDABLE ACHIEVEMENT WHICH REFLECTS THE INCREASE IN TONNES MINED IN A CHALLENGING YEAR.
THE TOTAL MILLED HEAD GRADE IMPROVED TO 4.54 GRAMMES PER TONNE OR 1.1% HIGHER THAN THE PRIOR YEAR PERIOD.
Operational We saw a continued improvement in the concentrators The strategy to increase the back up capacity at the statistics efficiency during the year, with an exceptional improved smelter has proven to be successful, as production see p 170 for more information year-on-year recovery performance from 86.1% to from the smelter for the full year did not suffer after the 87.0%.
This was achieved against the backdrop of failure of the Number Two furnace roof in April 2013. one plant being out of operation for an upgrade for Whilst the smelter was able to process the backlog, the full year.
We rationalised plant use and took the some excess stock remained in the pipeline at the opportunity to upgrade the plant at the same time.
refineries at the year end.
A full refurbishment of all the The continued multi-year investment made in the pyrometry furnaces ancillary equipment was completed concentrator operating assets, to secure higher to improve the reliability of the back up capacity.
sustainable run times over previous reporting periods, PGM ounces produced of 1,336,109 were down enabled this outstanding performance.
We are 13,693 or 1.0% compared to the prior year period.
particularly proud of the fact that all our plants are The difference in production of Platinum and PGMs achieving recoveries in excess of 80% for the first time.
is a reflection of the longer processing times for For the financial year, we achieved 750,942 saleable non-Platinum PGMs.
ounces of Platinum in concentrate, up 10.5% and the In 2013, the Process Division spent $52 million on highest amount since 2007 due to higher mined capital compared to $121 million in 2012.
The 2013 production and improved recoveries.
Refined expenditure included the completion of the Number production was lower as a result of refilling the pipeline One shaft concentrator and the Number One furnace and a stock lock up following the smelter incident at integrity optimisation.
The prior year included the the Number Two furnace.
Platinum sales of 695,803 completion of the Tailings Treatment Project and the ounces were achieved during 2013.
