06 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our Business Model How we generate value for our shareholders LONMIN MINES, REFINES AND MARKETS PLATINUM GROUP METALS PGMS PLATINUM, PALLADIUM, RHODIUM, IRIDIUM, RUTHENIUM AND GOLD.
GOLD IS INCLUDED IN THIS GROUP IN THE ECONOMIC THOUGH NOT CHEMICAL DEFINITION.
PLATINUM IS OUR PRINCIPAL PRODUCT, AND IN A TYPICAL YEAR IS THE SOURCE OF 60-70% OF OUR REVENUES.
Our key institutional shareholders tell us that they invest in our shares because they believe in our business plans and management team but principally to gain exposure to the price of platinum.
For this reason, we dont mine other commodities, except as by-products from PGM mining.
Those commodities are chrome, nickel, copper and cobalt.
While there will inevitably be short-term volatility in the prices of one or more of the PGMs, we believe that the long-term fundamental economics of these metals remain highly attractive.
Our fundamental purpose is to create value for our shareholders.
This can take the form of dividends or other distributions or growth in the value of their investment, or both, as we move through the economic cycle.
We generate value from our operations in four stages: 2.
By developing these areas into resources and reserves and managing mining operations.
With over 40 years experience in mining PGMs 1.
By securing prospecting and mining rights in South Africa, Lonmin has developed expertise to areas which have PGM mineralisation.
that enables us to generate significant value from We hold rights to significant areas of the our predominantly underground mining operations.
Bushveld Complex in South Africa, the worlds largest deposit of PGMs and home to around 80% of the worlds known platinum resources.
We maintain a modest international exploration budget, operating 3.
By developing industry leading processing largely in areas of known prospectivity for and refining techniques.
We were the first PGMs if successful, this could provide us in our industry to commercialise the separate with new economic sources of PGMs in other treatment of UG2 ore and use our know-how areas of the world divorced from the socioand technology to create value by putting economic pressures associated with mining our ore through the full vertically integrated in southern Africa and so mitigate the risks processing chain, producing high purity faced by shareholders.
By maintaining deep relationships with key customers, acquiring market intelligence and understanding of market trends which then informs our investment decisions.
o i t a l e R e r u t l u C 01 Strategic Report 02 Governance 03 Financial Statements 04 A Deeper Look 05 Shareholder Information Exploration Processing e c n a n r e v o G Lonmin Plc 07 Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our Business Model We preserve and protect this value creation potential in five ways: We recognise that our business requires inputs from, and has an effect on, a Governance we have created and maintain a robust internal number of stakeholders.
We see it control and reporting environment, with strong processes for risk as crucial that each group regards identification and mitigation, implemented by a dynamic management that their relationship with Lonmin is team and overseen by an experienced Board of Directors: positive, and that they achieve some net gain, whether financial or otherwise.
Culture we are seeking to develop a value based culture where The analysis below shows how the the behaviour of all employees, managers, Directors and others $1,530 million of cash earned in the helps promote an ethical, responsible and fair approach to how financial year was distributed: we do business: Cents Relationships we work hard at establishing appropriate in the relationships with a wide range of stakeholders from employees Destination US$m dollar and their trades unions, through communities and local government, suppliers, contractors, customers and other business counterparties, Payments to employees to national government in its many guises and the providers of our including Directors 745 49 funding lending banks and our shareholders: Payments to suppliers 443 29 Sustainability we believe that there is only one way to sustain Payments to government 37 2 our success, by taking all critical risks into account when we are planning the business.
Working safely, respecting those with Payments to for communities81 whom we work and protecting the environment are all part of our core processes: and Payments to bank lenders interest etc 34 2 Transformation operating in South Africa brings with it a responsibility to help the nation overcome legacy challenges.
Cash retained for We endeavour to play our full part in addressing historic inequalities reinvestment 263 17 and creating the conditions in which current and future generations Reconciling to: Cash can succeed.
earned in the year 1,530 100 A significant proportion will be wages paid to contractors.
We estimate around 60% of our costs are labour related.
How we create value what we do In 2013 we met costs of 80 cents for every dollar we earned, predominantly in South Africa, and kept another 17 cents for future reinvestment, again predominantly in South Africa.
We spent 2 cents in every dollar on interest and fees to the banks who lent us money.
Payments for community projects and OUR AIM: donations amounted to one cent in TO CREATE VALUE every dollar earned.
Shareholders were FOR SHAREHOLDERS, OVER TIME, GREATER asked to provide funding to the Company THAN THEIR COST through the Rights Issue launched in OF CAPITAL 2013.
This generated net proceeds of $767 million, the equivalent of 50 cents in cash for every dollar of cash earned.
How we preserve value how we do it www.
