12 Lonmin Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Our Strategy 4.
Maintaining balance sheet strength We aim to preserve a conservative balance sheet with access to sufficient funds to finance both ongoing operations and, prudent and efficient capital expenditure.
We believe that, in general, long-term assets such as our mines and processing plants should not be financed from bank debt but rather from shareholders funds, and that bank debt should only be used sparingly and on a short-term basis to finance working capital, or to bridge short-term fluctuations in operational cash flows.
Preserve the longer term value potential of the Marikana assets We believe that the long-term demand outlook for PGMs will improve, and aim to ensure that the Company is well placed to benefit from increased demand when it occurs.
A number of our smaller shafts are currently in the later stages of their operational lives while some of the newer and larger shafts are still in a ramp up phase, and therefore less efficient.
Over the longer term, we expect the older shafts to reach the end of their operational lives and to invest further in the newer shafts in the expectation of production growth, improved cost efficiency and generate material profitability.
As the majority of these newer shafts are close to production-ready status, we believe that the execution risk associated with this strategy is acceptable.
Maintaining the option of attractive longer term growth opportunities We have established brownfield growth opportunities in Marikana and Limpopo assets and through our participation in the Pandora joint venture, and a greenfield opportunity through our Akanani assets.
In addition, we have a modest resource in the Sudbury Basin in Ontario, Canada which has the potential for a small open pit operation.
Further exploration work is being pursued in this part of Canada through three joint ventures.
All of the Canadian interests fall within the footprints of old nickel mining activities and would be classed as brownfield opportunities.
Monitoring Performance We have developed a set of Key Performance Indicators KPIs which are used by the Board and management to monitor the implementation of the various elements of this strategy, and which are reported in this Annual Report and Accounts on page 24.
These also form the core of the corporate Balanced Scorecard Annual Bonus Plan, which drives business performance.
The Board has scheduled meetings six times annually and, after reviewing safety, these KPIs are generally the first item for discussion.
