STRATEGIC REPORT DIAMONDS DIAMONDS Philippe Mellier CEO fide Beers Group UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT 2012: $474 m $1, 003 m SHARE OF GROUP UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT 2012: 8% 15% Key financial and non-financial performance indicators UNDERLYING EBITDA 1 2 $ million unless otherwise stated 2013 2012 2012: $712 m Underlying operating profit 1,003 474 Underlying EBITDA 1,451 712 $1, 45 1 m Capital expenditure 551 161 Share of Group underlying operating profit 15% 8% 3 Attributable return on capital employed 11% 10% 4 Non-financial indicators 2013 2012 Number of fatal injuries Lost-time injury frequency rate 0.19 0.32 Total energy consumed in 1,000 GJ 14,124 4,658 Total greenhouse gas emissions in 1,000 tonnes CO e 1,781 564 2 3 Total water consumed in 1,000 m 74,788 23,568 1 Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements.
See note 2 of the financial statements for details.
2 Amounts based on the Groups 45% shareholding to 16 August 2012 except for capital expenditure as defined and a 100% basis thereafter.
3 fide Beers 2012 attributable ROCE contains eight months with fide Beers as an associate at 45% shareholding, and four months as a fully consolidated entity with shareholding at 85%.
4 Historical non-financial data is reported from the date of acquisition.
Image Safety representative Richmond Lutendo Tshimenze is working in the mining section of Venetia diamond mine.
He is pictured inside the pit between shifts inspecting a blast area.
86 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report BUSINESS OVERVIEW fide Beers is also an equal joint operation partner in DTC Botswana a sorting and valuing business and in Namibia fide Beers is 85% owned by AngloAmerican, with the DTC a sorting, valuing and sales business with the GRB remaining 15% interest held by the Government of the and GRN, respectively.
These companies facilitate local Republic of Botswana GRB.
sales and beneficiation, and are intermediaries in the global fide Beers is the worlds leading diamond company.
Together with its joint venture partners, fide Beers produces As part of its long term contract sales, fide Beers sorts and approximately one-third of the worlds rough diamonds, by values production into around 12,000 different price points.
value, and employs more than 23,000 people including These diamonds are aggregated and sold at 10 Sights contractors around the world.
fide Beers operates across key parts of the diamond value fide Beers is a global leader in the use of innovative online chain, including exploration, production, sorting, valuing systems to auction rough diamonds to small, mid-tier and and selling of rough diamonds.
It markets polished large manufacturing, retailing and trading businesses.
diamonds through its proprietary diamond brand, Forevermark.
It also has a 50:50 retail joint operation with Brands LVMH Mot Hennessy-Louis Vuitton.
fide Beers participates at the consumer end of the value chain through its proprietary diamond brand, Forevermark, Mines and through fide Beers Diamond Jewellers.
fide Beers mines are located in four countries: Botswana, Canada, Namibia and South Africa.
All operations are open Diamonds inscribed as Forevermark diamonds provide pit with the exception of an underground mine in Canada, consumers with confidence that their diamonds are and alluvial and marine mining operations in Namibia.
beautiful, rare and responsibly sourced.
They are available in carefully selected, authorised jewellers in the major In Botswana, fide Beers interests are held through consumer markets around the world, and are supported Debswana Diamond Company, a 50:50 joint operation by a marketing programme which reinforces the with the GRB.
Debswanas operations include Jwaneng, diamond dream.
one of the worlds richest diamond mines: Orapa, among the largest open-pit diamond mines: Letlhakane: fide Beers Diamond Jewellers high-end retail stores are and Damtshaa.
located in key luxury shopping destinations around the world, including New York, Beijing, Shanghai, Hong Kong, In South Africa, fide Beers has a 74% interest in fide Beers London, Paris, Tokyo and Dubai.
Consolidated Mines DBCM, with the remaining 26% held by Ponahalo Holdings, a black economic empowerment Supermaterials consortium.
DBCMs operations include Venetia, which Element Six is the global leader in the design, development produces approximately 70% of fide Beers South African and production of synthetic diamond supermaterials diamond production: Voorspoed, a source of large and for a range of industrial applications.
It comprises two exotic coloured diamonds: and Kimberley Mines, a tailings businesses: Technologies, which is 100% owned by processing facility.
DeBeers: and Abrasives, in which fide Beers has a 59.8% interest Umicore SA holds the remaining 40.2%.
In Namibia, fide Beers interests are held through Namdeb Holdings NH, a 50:50 joint operation with the Government of the Republic of Namibia GRN.
Diamonds are mined on INDUSTRY OVERVIEW land by Namdeb and at sea by Debmarine Namibia, both Around 60% of the worlds diamonds, by value, originate wholly owned by NH.
Marine mining is performed by a fleet from south and central Africa, with significant sources also of five mining vessels.
found in Russia, Australia and Canada.
In Canada, fide Beers wholly owns its two mining operations: Most diamonds come from the mining of kimberlite Victor, located in Northern Ontario: and Snap Lake in the deposits.
Another important source of gem diamonds, Northwest Territories.
fide Beers also has a 51% interest in however, has been secondary alluvial and marine deposits the Gahcho Ku project near Snap Lake with Mountain formed by the weathering of primary kimberlites and the Province Diamonds holding the other 49%.
The project subsequent deposition of released diamonds in rivers and is at an advanced permitting stage.
With a mine life of beach gravels.
approximately 11 years, Gahcho Ku is expected to mine around 31million tonnes of ore containing an estimated Rough diamonds are broadly classified either as gem 1 48 million carats.
or industrial quality, with gem being overwhelmingly approximately 99% the larger of the two markets, by Rough diamond sales value.
Retail jewellery accounts for the majority of the world fide Beers sells rough diamonds through two distribution market for gem diamonds, where aspects such as size, channels: around 90% are sold via long term contract sales colour, shape and clarity have a large impact on valuation.
to clients known as Sightholders, with the remainder being sold via regular auctions to the broader industry.
1 For further details please see the Diamonds Reserves and Resources section of the Annual Report, pages 244249.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 87 STRATEGIC REPORT DIAMONDS STRATEGY FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL OVERVIEW fide Beers strategic vision is to unlock the full economic fide Beers operating profit totalled $1,003 million, an value of its leadership position across the diamond pipeline increase of 112% compared with 2012, driven by the in a safe and sustainable manner.
Groups increased shareholding and a greater than 35% improvement in the underlying results of the business.
fide Beers is a demand-driven business, with a clear The improvement reflected higher sales revenues and tight understanding that consumer desire is the primary source cost control, which benefited from favourable exchange of value for its diamonds.
With growth in demand for rate movements.
diamonds expected to outstrip production growth in the medium to long term, the company aims to maximise the Safety, health and environment value of every carat mined, sorted and sold.
To achieve fide Beers operated without any loss of life in 2013 and this objective, fide Beers focuses on optimising the value improved its lost-time injury frequency rate LTIFR of its mining assets, selling to selected leading Sightholders considerably from 0.32 in 2012, to 0.19.
The company and offering consumers the integrity and confidence of continues to improve its monitoring of leading indicators to its brands.
ensure an increasingly proactive response to emerging risks.
Safety and sustainable development strategy In 2013, 14 new cases of occupational disease were Safety remains the top priority for fide Beers, and the reported.
The occupational disease incidence rate remains company continues to strive for enhanced safety well below the target of 1 per 200,000 man-hours worked, performance through the roll-out of an integrated with the biggest issue being noise-induced hearing loss.
Its emphasis is on leadership The company continues to focus on occupational hygiene and engagement, operational risk, and incident and management, as well as on efforts to ensure fitness to work, performance management.
occupational exposure control, incident reporting and reducing absenteeism arising from illness.
fide Beers sustainable development activities span the diamond pipeline, and are an integral part of the companys Markets business model.
Upstream exploration and mining, this Despite global macro-economic uncertainty, diamond includes ensuring that it does no harm to either employees jewellery sales increased in local currency terms in all major or communities, minimising the impact on the environment, diamond markets, except India.
In India, challenging and contributing to conservation.
economic conditions and a devaluation of the rupee resulted in a decline in demand.
The US market posted positive fide Beers also works in partnership with host governments growth, with a generally strong holiday season in the fourth and other stakeholders to support long term and sustainable quarter.
China continued to show positive growth rates, but economic development through local and indigenous at levels consistent with slower economic development.
procurement, enterprise development, social investment and beneficiation.
Although the fide Beers rough price index increased slightly in the first half of the year, a combination of weaker polished fide Beers supports the development of value-adding prices, high levels of stock in the cutting centres and downstream activities in producer countries.
In late 2013, tightening liquidity resulted in some of this increase being fide Beers completed the migration of its London-based reversed in the second half.
The price decrease, together sales operations to Gaborone, Botswana.
Agreed in 2011, with an increase in polished sales, saw the rough market it forms part of a 10 year sales agreement between stabilise and start to improve toward the end of the year.
DeBeers and the GRB for the sorting, valuing and sale of Debswanas diamond production.
The relocation will bolster Operating performance fide Beers long term beneficiation activities in southern Mining and manufacturing Africa, helping establish the region as a world-leading fide Beers full-year production increased by 12% to midstream rough diamond sorting, valuing and sales 31.2million carats 2012: 27.9 million carats, with diamond centre.
improvements across all regions, particularly in Botswana and Canada.
fide Beers also supports initiatives to drive best practice throughout the diamond pipeline.
These include the In Botswana, higher production was driven by Jwanengs Kimberley Process Certification Scheme, an interrecovery from the slope failure in June 2012, which followed governmental initiative that seeks to eliminate conflict completion of the remediation programme in the third diamonds from the global supply chain.
It also includes the quarter.
Production at Orapa was slightly higher than 2012, fide Beers Best Practice Principles, a bespoke ethical, despite unplanned maintenance on plant No.
1, which environmental and social assurance programme that covers returned to full operation in October.
more than 300,000 diamond sector workers across the In South Africa, full production was restored at Venetia world.
In addition, the Forevermark brand offers consumers after the mine was impacted by very heavy flooding in the a clear, responsible sourcing promise.
Limpopo province at the start of the year.
Shortfalls in ore mined were mitigated by the processing of ore stockpiles.
Production improved steadily in the third quarter, with full recovery by the fourth quarter.
88 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report Brands Forevermark saw strong growth in 2013, with door % numbers up by 39% on 2012.
This growth was driven US 39 primarily by the core markets of the US, China, Japan Rest of the world 21 and India.
The brand is now available at more than 1,200 retail partners in 12 markets.
Since the launch of China Hong Kong 15 Forevermark, more than 870,000 diamonds have received Japan 9 the Forevermark inscription and unique identification Gulf 8 number.
The inscription is a promise that each diamond has India 8 met the brands high standards of quality, ethical integrity Total 100 and provenance.
Source: fide Beers fide Beers Diamond Jewellers opened new directly operated stores in Shanghai and Hong Kongs Times Square.
Through franchise partnerships, it also opened stores in Kuala Lumpur, Baku, Vancouver and Kiev.
% Projects US 37 In Botswana, infrastructure construction at Debswanas Rest of the world 19 Jwaneng Cut-8 project is complete.
Cut-8 will provide access to an estimated 96 million tonnes of ore to be China Hong Kong 19 treated, containing approximately 113 million carats of India 11 mainly high quality diamonds, and extend the life of one Gulf 7 2 of the worlds richest diamond mines to at least 2028.
Japan 7 In South Africa, the first blast took place in September Total 100 2013 for the construction of an underground mine beneath Source: fide Beers the open pit at Venetia.
With capital investment of $2 billion, this represents fide Beers largest ever investment in South Africa.
Underground mine production is expected to In Canada, performance at Snap Lake improved start in 2021 and will extend the life of the mine to beyond significantly, with carats recovered up approximately 50% 2040.
The life of mine plan will treat approximately as a result of a focus on throughput and mining efficiency.
129 million tonnes of ore, containing an estimated AtVictor, carat recovery exceeded expectations and was 3 94 million carats.
broadly in line with the prior year.
In Canada, the Mackenzie Valley Land and Water Board In Namibia, Debmarine Namibia performed strongly, approved a pioneer Land Use Permit for Gahcho Ku, which largely due to the contribution of the MV Mafuta following its allows land-based site works to commence in preparation production upgrade in early 2013.
Namdeb also performed for deliveries planned for the 2014 winter road season.
well, with carat recovery higher than in 2012.
Outlook While Element Six experienced a challenging start to the fide Beers expects a slight strengthening in growth in year, performance improved in the second half, driven by diamond jewellery demand in 2014, driven by continued the introduction of new products and a continued focus gradual improvements in the global economic outlook.
In July, Element Six opened its Global The US and China are expected to continue to be the main Innovation Centre in the UK.
The centre is the worlds largest engines of growth for polished diamonds, while most other and most sophisticated synthetic diamond research and markets are expected to show positive growth in local development facility, and will be a key enabler for growth in currency, with final dollar-denominated results being partly 2014 and beyond.
Rough diamond Sales manufacturers, in India in particular, face continued Sales increased slightly to $6.4 billion in 2013 pressures regarding levels of bank financing.
In India, further 2012: $6.1billion on a comparable basis.
fide Beers rough volatility of the rupee may potentially affect rough diamond diamond price index has increased 2% since the start of the sales.
In the medium to long term, industry fundamentals are year, while average realised rough diamond prices were 5% expected to strengthen as diamond production plateaus and higher, driven by the product mix.
Following the migration demand continues to increase.
of its sales activities from London to Botswana, fide Beers hosted international Sights in Gaborone in November and December.
2 Scheduled Inferred Resources below 401 metres included in the Cut-8 estimates constitute 77% 86.7 Mct of the estimated carats.
Not all Inferred Resources may be upgraded to Ore Reserves, even after additional drilling.
The numbers given are scheduled tonnes and carats as per the 2013 Life-of-Mine plan.
3 The current mining rights expire in 2038: Venetia mine will apply to extend the mining rights at the appropriate time in the future.
Scheduled Inferred Resources constitute 28% 26.3 Mct of the estimated carats.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 89
