STRATEGIC REPORT OUR BUSINESS MODEL DESIGNED TO DELIVER NOW ADDRESSING OUR HOW WE CREATE VALUE IMMEDIATE PRIORITIES AngloAmerican finds, develops, mines, processes and markets a range of commodities that meet our As part of our Driving Value change programme customers changing needs.
We have a diverse portfolio we have completed the review of our asset portfolio of high quality assets, with many having significant and now understand what has to be done to achieve scalability potential.
We are committed to running our both our short term targets and long term ambitions.
business all the way from discovery to market in a safe We have focused on four strategic priority areas to and responsible way, to deliver long term sustainable help us deliver now.
value to all our stakeholders.
CAPITAL ALLOCATION We have set ourselves a realistic financial target of OUR OPERATIONAL MODEL delivering at least a 15% attributable ROCE by 2016.
Achieving this target will require a renewed focus on capital We are developing a new approach to drive and discipline, our capital deployment to be directed towards support change across our value chain.
Starting high value, low risk projects, and ensuring we manage the with clear and realistic expectations, we will plan balance between growth and shareholder returns.
appropriately and then put those plans into action, For more information rigorously measuring and analysing successes and See page 20 failures to learn from both.
EXPECTATION SETTING AND OPERATIONAL PLANNING We have a high quality asset base with the potential to deliver better margins and returns.
The asset review process The first step in understanding how to optimise each has identified operational improvement opportunities and of our assets is to determine the gap between the current we are working towards executing against our plans while capabilities of the assets versus budgeted expectations.
remaining committed to the highest standards of safe and sustainable mining.
PERFORMANCE ANALYSIS For more information See page 34 We then analyse data and key performance indicators KPIs generated by the asset to confirm average performance levels, assuming no changes to the current process.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT We understand that we must work together with our stakeholders to partner with them to reach their potential.
CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT ability to build effective and mutually beneficial partnerships Incremental changes are made to the operation of with host communities and governments is of particular the assets to deliver a positive and sustainable shift importance to us and is a prerequisite for investment.
in performance with minimal capital outlay.
For more information See page 26 ORGANISATION STRUCTURE ORGANISATIONAL MODEL We believe that having the right people in the right roles We want to create a more effective and efficient doing the right work is critical to achieving our ambition, organisation, where we only carry out the necessary and so, we are redesigning our organisation to enable work the right work to achieve our strategy.
We aim our people and our business to be successful.
to reduce duplication, eliminate tasks that do not add For more information value, and ensure that the work required is carried out by See page 26 people with the right capabilities, resources and tools.
We are clear who makes decisions across the Group and, therefore, who is accountable for the outcomes of these decisions.
16 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report OUR KEY RESOURCES AND RELATIONSHIPS OUR RESERVES AND RESOURCES COMMUNITIES AND GOVERNMENTS OUR EMPLOYEES The quality and extent of its mineral Governments, as custodians, own the Our employees are the business.
We can resource base is the lifeblood of any mining resources we develop and set the tax and build our mines and our operations, but if company, providing it with a range of regulatory frameworks within which we we do not have an engaged and committed development and other value creating operate.
Our host communities are major workforce we will never achieve our true options for the future.
At Anglo American, providers of employees and suppliers, and potential.
We must participate in every we have an extensive ore reserve and without their support we cannot succeed.
individuals personal development, to mineral resource base across all of the support them to succeed in return for Both governments and communities commodities in our portfolio and across their commitment to give us their best.
expect us to run safe and environmentally our wide geographic footprint, providing us We believe we can be the Employer of responsible operations, and to contribute to with a suite of options for delivering value Choice by rewarding our people at the long term development of our host through different commodities economic market-competitive rates while providing communities and countries.
The efficient extraction of metals them the opportunity to realise their and minerals from these orebodies personal potential.
FIND SECURE MINE PROCESS MOVE MARKET FIND SECURE MINE PROCESS MOVE MARKET Our exploration teams Gaining and maintaining We apply more than We generate extra Whether providing We collaborate with our discover mineral our social and legal 95 years of opencast value by processing innovative haulage customers around the deposits in a safe and licence to operate, and deep-level mining and refining many of solutions within a mine, world to tailor products responsible way to through open and experience, along our commodities.
or co-ordinating global to their specific needs.
replenish the mineral honest engagement with unique in-house cargo deliveries, we resources that underpin with our stakeholders, is technological expertise, offer efficient and our future success.
critical to the sustainability to extract mineral effective transport of our business.
resources in the safest, of our commodities.
ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE OPERATIONAL WORK FUNCTIONAL SUPPORT We believe that the role of our business Operational work is the core valueOur mining operations and commercial units is to carry out core operational work generating work of our business.
For business cannot achieve the Groups and that the role of the Group corporate Anglo American, this includes finding, strategic objectives alone: they require functions is to provide support to enable mining, processing, and moving and value-adding specialist support and this to happen.
A basic principle of our new marketing our metals and minerals.
We also services by the Group functions at the organisation model is that all work should believe that building relationships with our corporate centre.
These provide expert be done at the operations unless there is stakeholders is core to operating effectively.
advice to our operational managers that a clear reason for it to be done elsewhere.
The work of Commercial is considered core helps improve business performance operational because it is a fundamental across the Group.
part of our value chain and is critical to our ability to deliver value to our shareholders and stakeholders.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 17 STRATEGIC REPORT KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS DESIGNED TO BE MEASURED 1 PILLARS OF VALUE KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS KPIs Safety and Health Work-related fatal injury frequency rate FIFR Lost-time injury frequency rate LTIFR FIFR is calculated as the number of fatal injuries to The number of lost-time injuries LTIs per 200,000 To do no harm to employees or contractors per 200,000 hours worked hours worked.
An LTI is an occupational injury which our employees renders the person unable to perform the routine For more information see New cases of occupational disease NCOD People on page 26 functions of his her job for one full shift or more the Number of new cases of occupational disease day after the injury was incurred, whether a diagnosed among employees during the scheduled workday or not reporting period Environment Energy consumption Total water consumed Measured in million gigajoules GJ Total water consumed includes water used To do no lasting harm for primary and non-primary activities, measured to the environment Greenhouse gas GHG emissions 3 in million m For more information see Measured in million tonnes of CO equivalent 2 Performance on page 34 emissions Corporate social investment Enterprise development Socio-political Social investment as defined by the London Number of companies supported, and number To partner in the benefits of Benchmarking Group includes donations, gifts in of jobs sustained, by companies supported by mining with local communities kind and staff time for administering community Anglo American enterprise development initiatives and governments programmes and volunteering in company time For more information see People on page 26 and is shown as a percentage of profit before tax People Voluntary labour turnover Gender diversity Number of permanent employee resignations Percentage of women, and female managers, To resource the organisation as a percentage of total permanent employees employed by the Group with an engaged, productive workforce For more information see People on page 26 Production Production volumes Production volumes for the year are discussed at a To extract our mineral commodity level within each Business Unit section resources in a sustainable ofthe annual report see pages 5491.
Quarterly way to create value production figures are shown on page 254 For more information see Performance on page 34 Cost Unit costs of production Unit costs of production are discussed at a commodity To be competitive by level within each Business Unit section of the annual operating as efficiently report see pages 5491.
Other factors that impact as possible costs across the Group are discussed in the For more information see Portfolio on page 20 Performance section of the annual report Performance on page 34 see pages 3445 Financial Attributable return on capital employed Underlying earnings per share The return on adjusted capital employed attributable to Underlying earnings are net profit attributable To deliver sustainable equity shareholders of Anglo American.
It excludes the to equity shareholders, before special items returns for our shareholders portion of the return and capital employed attributable and remeasurements For more information see Portfolio on page 20 to non-controlling interests in operations where Performance on page 34 Anglo American has control but does not hold 100% of the equity.
It is calculated as annualised underlying operating profit divided by adjusted capital employed 1 The table above reflects historically reported KPIs against our seven pillars.
It does not represent our new business scorecard.
18 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report 2 RESULTS AND TARGETS Work-related fatal injury Lost-time injury frequency rate LTIFR New cases of occupational Target: Zero incidents.
frequency rate FIFR disease NCOD The ultimate goal of zero harm remains Target: Zero fatal incidents Target: Zero long term 2013 2013 2013 14 fatalities, 0.008 FIFR 0.49 209 2012 2012 2012 0.58 13 fatalities, 0.007 FIFR 174 Energy consumption GHG emissions Total water use Million GJ total energy used Mt CO equivalent Target: 14% saving against 2020 projected BAU 2 Target: 19% saving against 2015 projected BAU.
Target: 7% saving against 2015 business as usual BAU Performance: 22% saving against 2013 BAU Performance: 19% saving against 2013 BAU.
Performance: 5% saving against 2013 BAU 2013 2013 2013 3 106 17 201Mm 2012 2012 2012 3 113 18 156Mm 3 Corporate social investment Enterprise development Enterprise development 2013: 2.2% of profit before tax Businesses supported Jobs sustained 2012: 2.8% of profit before tax 2013 2013 2013 $127 m 48,111 76,543 2012 2012 2012 $146 m 40,217 64,927 Voluntary labour turnover Gender diversity Gender diversity Managers who are female Women as a percentage of total workforce 2013 2013 2013 2.0% 23% 16% 2012 2012 2012 2.4% 23% 15% Kumba Iron Ore Copper Phosphates 2% 17% 6% Nickel Metallurgical Coal Platinum 2% 12% 5% Thermal Coal Niobium Diamonds 2% 2% 12% Real cash costs are the annual increase decrease in the Groups operating cash costs versus the prior year, excluding 2013 2% 2012 2% depreciation, the impact of CPI and foreign 2011 8% exchange, and is after capitalisation of 2010 2% stripping costs 2009 5% Group attributable ROCE Underlying EPS 2013 2013 11% $2.09 2012 2012 11% $2.28 2 The results and targets in the KPI table above include wholly owned subsidiaries and joint operations over which AngloAmerican has management control.
Data reported in 2012 includes results from fide Beers from the date of acquisition.
3 CSI data from 2012 has been restated owing to a change request made by fide Beers subsequent to the publication of the 2012 Annual Report.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 19
