STRATEGIC REPORT WHY MINING MATTERS OUR WORLD, OUR ROLE to fertilisers and pharmaceuticals.
Every day we learn The story of mining, and of Anglo American, of more uses for metals and minerals in our daily lives.
is about people and how we live every day.
The Yet we cannot take the earths minerals for granted.
The supply is finite and it is becoming more difficult and more smartphone that wakes you, the coffee machine costly to access these essential commodities.
Mining youve just switched on, your journey to work companies, and their shareholders, invest billions of dollars to find, develop and deliver the materials that help our none of those could happen without the products economies grow.
At Anglo American we are proud of doing this for almost a century.
We mine a range of diverse commodities, because MINING TODAY AND TOMORROW each is needed in different ways by people in countries Today, there are 7 billion people in the world, most with the around the globe.
For example, we mine iron ore and hope of enjoying a lifestyle that those in the developed world metallurgical coal, both of which are used to make steel take for granted.
And by 2025 there will be another billion, a product essential for the creation of emerging urban with more of us choosing to live in cities than ever before.
We mine copper a key component in the It is clear that our need for the products from mining will electrical and electronics revolution.
We mine phosphates continue to grow well into the future.
Mining not only enables delivering fertiliser products that help farmers maximise the modern world to function and develop, it enables the crops they grow.
The precious metals we mine are innovation, with minerals and metals the starting point for required in car catalytic converters and help improve the a variety of vital industries from chemicals and electronics, quality of the air we breathe.
158,900 $24.1 bn $1.6 bn EMPLOYEES AND CONTRIBUTION SPENT WITH SUPPLIERS CONTRACTORS TO SOCIETY BASED IN THE AROUND THE WORLD COMMUNITIES CLOSE TO OUR OPERATIONS INVESTING IN PEOPLE External training spend across Anglo American in 2013.
PROTECTING THE ENVIRONMENT $104 m Proportion of all water used at Anglo Americans BUILDING operations that is recycled.
COMMUNITIES New homes built in 2013 67% for employees at Kumbas Kolomela mine.
718 12 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report We believe that by mining such a wide range of metals and We believe that to be a force for good in a changing world, we We mine a minerals we spread our risk, increase the opportunities must maximise our contribution to sustainable development range of diverse available to us, and can transfer experience and best globally and act to the benefit of our host communities, both commodities, practice across commodities and geographies.
during and beyond the lives of our operations.
because each But mining is not just about delivering products to customers.
We have to work hard to make a positive and welcome is needed in Mining creates jobs and helps communities develop new impact in the communities and ecosystems around our different ways skills and improve education: it builds infrastructure such as mines.
We work with our host communities to help improve by people in electricity, piped water, telecommunications, roads: mining healthcare, education, and skills development, protect countries can also bring improved healthcare and environmental scarce resources like land and water, and we use our supply around the stewardship: and mining brings innovation and development.
chain to develop local economies.
We use our scale and reach to ensure a fairer distribution We will continue to explore and invest in new technologies of the opportunities mining brings.
For example, in 2013, to ensure more efficient operations, to reduce our impact almost 80% of the $24.1 billion Anglo American spent on the environment and realise greater value for our on suppliers, employees, and in taxes and royalties to customers and shareholders.
governments, was spent in developing countries, with the Most importantly, we will endeavour to work in partnership positive economic effects extending well beyond those with our key stakeholders in seeking the best way to deliver direct impacts.
the resources the world needs.
2.6 bn units 66 335 1.5 km INDIVIDUAL MINERALS TONNES OF STEEL, WORLDWIDE MOBILE THE AVERAGE THAT CONTRIBUTE TO A 4.7 TONNES OF COPPER, DEVICE SHIPMENTS CAR CONTAINS TYPICAL COMPUTER 3 TONNES OF ALUMINIUM WILL REACH 2.6 BILLION 1.5 KILOMETRES UNITS BY 2016 OF COPPER WIRE IN A SINGLE WIND TURBINE INNOVATING NEW TECHNOLOGY CREATING The target date for most SHARED VALUE major automakers for first commercial sales of their fuel Percentage of government BUILDING cell vehicles.
Most fuel cells revenues in low to middle PARTNERSHIPS contain platinum catalysts.
income economies generated by mining.
Jobs created or maintained 2015 through our enterprise development initiatives.
com, Canalys Research, Johnson Matthey Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 13
