STRATEGIC REPORT PLATINUM PLATINUM Chris Griffith CEO: Anglo American Platinum Limited UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT LOSS 2012: $ 120 m $464 m SHARE OF GROUP UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT 2012: 2 % 7% Key financial and non-financial performance indicators 1 $ million unless otherwise stated 2013 2012 UNDERLYING EBITDA Underlying operating profit loss 464 120 2012: $580 m Underlying EBITDA 1,048 580 Capital expenditure 608 822 $1,048 m Share of Group underlying operating profit 7% 2 % Attributable return on capital employed 6% 2 % 2 Non-financial indicators 2013 2012 Number of fatal injuries 6 7 Lost-time injury frequency rate 1.05 1.15 Total energy consumed in 1,000 GJ 24,942 24,393 Total greenhouse gas emissions in 1,000 tonnes CO e 5,936 5,743 2 3 Total water consumed in 1,000 m 33,412 34,911 1 Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements.
See note 2 of the financial statements for details.
2 The energy consumed data from 2012 has been revised due to an error detected subsequent to the publication of the 2012 annual report.
Image New tankhouse under construction at the Rustenburg Base Metals Refinery 80 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report BUSINESS OVERVIEW INDUSTRY OVERVIEW Anglo American Platinum Limited is the leading primary PGMs have a wide range of industrial and high-technology producer of Platinum Group Metals PGMs and accounts applications.
Demand for platinum is dominated by its use in for approximately 40% of the worlds newly mined platinum.
autocatalysts to control emissions from both gasolineand It mines an area called the Bushveld Complex in South diesel-engine vehicles, and in jewellery.
These uses are Africa, which contains PGM-bearing Merensky, UG2 and responsible for 66% of total gross annual platinum demand.
Platreef ores, and the Great Dyke in Zimbabwe.
Access to PGMs also have a wide range of other applications, in the an extensive portfolio of ore reserves ensures Platinum chemical, electronic, medical, glass and petroleum industries.
iswell placed to be a major PGM producer for many years Our Platinum business is the major funder of Platinum tocome.
Guild International PGI, which plays a key role in Following Platinums announcement of its portfolio review encouraging demand for platinum jewellery and in on 15 January 2013, and extensive engagement with the establishing new platinum jewellery markets.
Since 2000, South African government, unions and other stakeholders in China has been the leading platinum jewellery market, the subsequent months, the company began to implement followed by Europe, Japan and North America.
Industrial the restructuring of its operations.
This led to the applications for platinum are driven by technology and, consolidation and optimisation of five Rustenburg mines especially in the case of autocatalysts, by legislation.
The consolidation of Rustenburg was completed increasing stringency of emissions legislation continues to in the third quarter of 2013 through the integration of the drive growth in PGM demand.
Khuseleka 2 shaft and Khomanani mine into surrounding Palladiums principal application, accounting for 72% of mines.
The Khuseleka 1 shaft remains operational in the total palladium demand, is in autocatalysts, particularly medium term and has been integrated into Thembelani in gasoline vehicles.
The metal is also used in electronic mine.
The own mines division of Platinum consists of components, dental alloys and jewellery.
operations based in the Rustenburg mining area, which has been reduced to the Bathopele, Siphumelele and Rhodium is an important metal in autocatalytic activity, Thembelani mines: two mines in the Amandelbult Section, which accounts for nearly 80% of total gross annual Tumela Mine and Dishaba Mine: as well as the open pit rhodium demand.
Mogalakwena mine and Twickenham Platinum mine project.
Union mine is 85% held, with a black economic STRATEGY empowerment BEE partner, the Bakgatla-Ba-Kgafela traditional community, holding the remainder.
During 2013, For Anglo American Platinum, the objective of the portfolio Union North and Union South mines were consolidated as review announced in January 2013 was to assess the options part of the business review, the strategy being to prepare for available in order to create a sustainable, competitive and the entitys sale in the medium term.
Platinum also operates profitable business for the long term benefit of all its the Unki mine in Zimbabwe, which is currently wholly owned.
Platinums strategy is being built on five levers of priority: projects: commercial: people: operational: and Platinum also has two 50:50 joint operations: one with sustainability excellence.
a BEE consortium, led by African Rainbow Minerals, at Modikwa Platinum mine: and another with the Glencore The result of the restructuring was to align baseline Kagiso Tiso Platinum Partnership in respect of Mototolo production with long term demand expectations, focusing mine.
In addition, Platinum has a 50:50 pooling and sharing on a high quality portfolio of operations to produce PGMs agreement with Aquarius Platinum covering the shallow onan economically sustainable basis.
reserves of the Kroondal mine.
The company also owns Operationally, the company intends to change the 49% of Bokoni mine and holds, through Rustenburg composition of its portfolio to concentrate on more opencast Platinum Mines RPM, 27% of Atlatsa Resources.
Platinum and shallow, lower risk, lower cost, higher margin and more is in partnership with Royal Bafokeng Resources, and has a mechanised mining, supporting a significant reduction in its 33% shareholding in the combined Bafokeng-Rasimone cost base and achieving a more efficient allocation of capital.
Platinum Mine and Styldrift properties.
Through RPM, Platinum holds 12.6% of RB Plats issued share capital.
The major reconfiguration of Platinum is now under way and significant progress has been made in implementing In association with its mining operations, Platinum operates the first stages of the review.
Baseline production has been a tailings re-treatment facility, three smelters, a base metals maintained at 2.3-2.4 million ounces per annum, with refinery and a precious metals refinery.
250,000 annualised low margin, high cost, and unprofitable ounces no longer in production.
basket Platinum realised price $ Source: Anglo American Commodity Research As a result of the consolidation of the Rustenburg mines Platinum continues to take its social responsibilities from five to three and the consolidation of Union mines, seriously, particularly to its employees and surrounding 7,450 roles were eliminated in 2013, though there were no communities.
The implementation of the strategy aims to forced retrenchments.
Of that total, some 5,100 employees deliver a sustainable, competitive and profitable business had left the organisation by year end, while 2,300 employees that will be best placed to sustain employment over the had been redeployed to other parts of the business.
addition, the decision was made to continue to operate the Operating safely, sustainably and responsibly reconfigured Khuseleka 1 shaft at Khuseleka mine, as it Operating safely, sustainably and responsibly is a makes a positive contribution to cash flow.
fundamental part of Platinums business strategy.
Specifically, Following the substantial changes being made to the Platinum aims to improve and grow its relationships with all business to ensure its sustainability, a number of socialits stakeholders, and to create a sustainable business and mitigation plans have been implemented, including the sustainable communities and environments in and around company continuing to contribute to the welfare of its operations to the benefit of all stakeholders.
Critical areas employees affected by the restructuring.
The programme of performance are: includes employee assistance in the form of bursaries, Employee health and safety doing everything possible healthcare and retraining: support for local economic toensure zero harm to employees at work, and supporting development and a number of suppliers: and investment, employee and community health and well-being: together with local government, in housing development inthe Rustenburg region.
Environmental management complying with legislation and permits, and having no significant environmental A new organisational design and operating model has incidents: been implemented to ensure that the operations are appropriately supported by the various support service Community development making a positive contribution functions.
In addition, Platinums commercial strategy to sustainable socio-economic development in the areas aims to ensure value and stability for the company and its in which we operate: customers, while promoting new applications for PGMs.
Stakeholder engagement ensuring regular and ongoing We continue to evaluate and develop a number of projects, engagement with a broad range of stakeholders who including the Twickenham platinum mine project and a affect, and are affected by, Platinums business, with the number of low capital intensity projects to increase appropriate relationships and mechanisms in place to production potential at Mogalakwena.
The flexibility for amicably resolve conflict.
long term growth options will therefore be retained, ensuring Platinum is well positioned in future to make use of opportunities arising from an increase in demand forPGMs.
82 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 $ oz Strategic report FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL OVERVIEW Platinum recorded an underlying operating profit of 000 oz $464million in 2013, compared with an underlying South Africa 4,168 operating loss of $120 million in 2012.
This was primarily Russia 780 due to a weaker average South African rand against the Zimbabwe 363 dollar and an increase in sales volumes, which were partly North America 308 offset by lower realised basket prices, and cost increases.
Other 124 Cash operating costs per equivalent refined platinum Total primary supply 5,743 ounce increased by 4% to ZAR17,053 2012: ZAR16,364, Autocat recycle 1,224 primarily owing to increases in the costs of labour, electricity, Jewellery recycle 773 diesel and key inputs of processing operations, partly offset by higher production and cost savings.
Productivity, Industrial recycle 10 2 2 however, increased by 9% to 6.57m 2012: 6.05m.
Secondary supply 2,007 Gross supply 7,750 Safety and environment Platinum recorded its best ever safety performance: however, six employees sadly lost their lives on company operations during 2013.
The company extends its sincere condolences to their families, friends and colleagues.
Four fatal injuries were due to falls of ground and one involved 000 oz moving machinery.
The final incident is still under Autocatalyst gross 2,933 investigation to determine whether this was work-related Jewellery gross 2,747 ornot.
The companys safety performance has shown very Industrial gross 2,020 encouraging progress since 2007, with fatal injury and Investment 906 lost-time injury frequency rates declining by 60% and Gross demand 8,606 49%, respectively.
Source: Anglo American Platinum and Johnson Matthey The proactive management of safety risks has resulted in acontinued fall in safety stoppages from the high in 2011, though the number of Section 54 stoppages remained autocatalyst, jewellery and industrial scrap decreased by level with 2012, at 72.
In addition, 46,261 ounces of 29,000 ounces, or 1%, resulting in a 0.4% increase in gross production were lost as aresult of safety stoppages global platinum supply of 31,000 ounces.
The resultant 2012: 17,000 ounces, though this was well below the platinum deficit of 856,000 ounces was satisfied by 138,000ounces lost in2011.
cumulative above-ground stocks at market prices during thecourse of the year.
Potable water used for primary and non-primary activities 3 3 decreased by 6% to 17.3 million m 2012: 18.4 million m. Gross global palladium demand decreased by 437,000 The decrease in potable water consumption was influenced ounces, or 4%, as reduced demand from the jewellery, mainly by the consistent use of treated sewage water at industrial and investment sectors far exceeded the increase Rustenburg operations to offset the use of potable water.
Primary palladium supply reduced Platinum remains committed to striving towards zero use by 160,000 ounces, or 3%, as the reduction in supply from ofpotable water for industrial purposes.
Russia and the rest of world more than offset the increases from South Africa, Zimbabwe and North America.
There was one material environmental incident in 2013, Secondary supplies from recycled autocatalyst, jewellery with the occurrence of a tailings spillage from the Blinkwater and industrial scrap increased by 179,000 ounces, or 8%, tailings dam at Mogalakwena mine.
The incident, which resulting in flat gross global palladium supply.
The resultant is now contained and at an advanced stage of clean-up, palladium deficit for the year of 621,000 ounces was also affected the Mohlosane river for 2.5 kilometres.
The satisfied by cumulative above-ground stocks at market incident was caused by void tunnelling in the tailings dam prices during the year.
starter wall, and solutions have been put in place to prevent a recurrence.
In 2013, gross global rhodium demand increased by 19,000 ounces, or 2%.
Although autocatalyst demand Markets remained flat, this was more than compensated by increases In 2013, gross global platinum demand increased by in industrial and investment demand.
Primary supply 507,000 ounces, or 6.3%, as increases in industrial and decreased by 3% and secondary supply increased by 9%, investment demand more than offset declines from the keeping gross supply flat and with a resultant market deficit autocatalyst and jewellery sectors.
Primary platinum supply of 9,000 ounces.
grew by 60,000 ounces, or 1%, as increased supply from South Africa and Zimbabwe exceeded declines in Russia and North America.
Secondary supplies from recycled Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 83 STRATEGIC REPORT PLATINUM Autocatalysts OPERATING PERFORMANCE Global light vehicle sales grew by 3.8% in 2013, to Production 84.2 million units, driven by growth in China and North Equivalent refined platinum production totalled 2.32 million America, offset by declines in India, Russia and Europe.
Platinums own mines, including Gross demand for platinum in autocatalysis declined by Western Limb Tailings Retreatment, produced 1.5 million of 5%, owing largely to lower vehicle production in the equivalent refined platinum ounces, which was 2% higher diesel-dominant Indian and European markets.
Palladium year on year but in line with the companys strategy.
use in autocatalysis increased by 3%, in line with global growth in gasoline vehicle production, with an increase in Production at Khomanani mine, Khuseleka 2 shaft and palladium purchases for autocatalysis in China offsetting Union North decline was suspended in August 2013, in line weakness in other markets.
Gross rhodium use in with the proposed restructuring plans.
The resources from autocatalysis was flat in 2013, as the increase in Chinese these mines have now been integrated into the surrounding demand was offset by weakness in other markets.
As a result of these initiatives, 250,000 ounces of annualised unprofitable production have been removed.
Jewellery The Chinese platinum jewellery market accounted for 67% The industrial action at Platinums mining operations from of gross global jewellery demand in 2013, and is positioned 27 September 2013 to 10 October 2013, resulted in a loss to grow as disposable income increases and the effective of platinum production of 44,000 ounces.
The company market development by PGI continues.
Platinum jewellery quickly ramped up to full production following the strike, sales in China continued to benefit from the narrow price with little further loss of production.
premium to gold: gross demand, however, decreased by Production at the Western Limb operations Rustenburg, 5%.
The weak platinum price also reduced the volume of Union and Amandelbult mines was affected by the jewellery recycled, resulting in flat net demand.
The much industrial action during the second half of 2013.
In addition, smaller markets of Europe, North America and India all platinum production at Tumela and Dishaba mines increased in 2013, and this, combined with lower Japanese decreased by 2% year on year owing to shortages of recycled volumes, saw net global platinum jewellery production crews and supervisors.
The redeployment of demand increase by 86,000 ounces, or 5%.
labour programme following the placement of mines on Industrial care and maintenance was completed in the final quarter In 2013, platinum use in industrial applications increased of the year and benefits arising from the resulting by 250,000 ounces, or 14%, owing to growth in electrical productivity improvements should be seen in 2014. and glass applications.
Production at the Rustenburg mines increased by 12,700 Palladium industrial use declined by 146,000 ounces ounces, or 3%, while output from Union mines declined by as increased substitution by base metals in electronic 9%.
At Mogalakwena mine, output increased by 12% to a 1 capacitors and by ceramics in dentistry exceeded record 335,800 ounces following higher throughput at the palladiums increased use in polyester manufacture.
concentrators and improved head grade.
Equivalent refined platinum production at Unki increased by 2% to 63,200 In 2013, industrial use for rhodium increased by 9,000 ounces as the mine bettered its ramp-up schedule, reaching ounces, or 6%, following inventory changes in glass steady state production levels ahead of expectations.
manufacture and capacity increases in oxo-alcohol and acetic acid manufacture.
Refined platinum production, at 2.4 million ounces, remained constant year on year, primarily due to increased Investment feed from mining operations and improved performance at Platinum investment demand increased by 457,000 ounces, the AngloAmerican Platinum Converting Process ACP or 102%, owing to the rand-denominated platinum ETF plant which has been operating at a steady state level since launched in April 2013.
Palladium investment demand production issues caused by a high-pressure leak were declined by 451,000 ounces, or 98%, as a result of ETF resolved at the end of the second quarter of 2013.
Rhodium investment demand increased by production of palladium was relatively flat year on year, 8,000 ounces, or 20%.
decreasing by 1%, while rhodium output decreased by 5%.
Palladium and rhodium variances are a result of a different source mix from operations and different pipeline processing times for each metal.
Nickel production saw a 28% increase as technical challenges in the new nickel tank house are being resolved and as ramp up continues.
1 Includes 16,000 ounces produced at the Messina Baobab plant as part of a one-off toll concentrating agreement.
84 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report 02 01 03 01 Survey assistant Lennox Projects Following the implementation of the portfolio, Platinum is Mxathule and surveyor In an environment of capital austerity, careful consideration expected to keep baseline production flat at 2.3 to 2.4 million Zack Moatshe carry out an underground survey is taken to determine how projects are prioritised in line platinum ounces in 2014, with production lost from the of Bathopele mine.
with the companys strategy to increase scrutiny over mines closed in 2013, offset by production from higher 02 Metallurgist Sithi capital allocation.
Projects, including the development margin operations through the implementation of various Moribuko and supervisor of Twickenham and expansion of production capacity operational improvement plans.
Platinum continues to aim Deis Ngale discuss density readings at at Mogalakwena mine, are in line with the longer term to align output with expected demand, and to maintain theISA mills at strategy of increasing shallow, mechanised and lower cost flexibility to meet potential improvements in demand.
production and continue to be progressed.
Cost inflation will remain a challenge in 2014, as the 03 Human resources Outlook inflationary pressures from above-inflation wage increases development trainer Lefa Sedumedi locking The global platinum market is expected to remain balanced and electricity increases in particular, offset the cost out the centralised in the short term, with increasing deficits over the medium reductions realised following the Platinum restructuring.
blasting system term as steady demand growth in autocatalyst, jewellery As of 11 December 2013, Platinum settled on a two year Safeblast prior to entry of a section and industrial applications exceeds growth in supply from wage agreement with NUM and UASA at an average wage at Tumela mine.
secondary recycled sources and capital-constrained mining increase of 8.1% for the period.
The platinum price remains below sustainable and NUMSA are continuing, with the related current strike incentive levels despite significant reductions in cumulative impacting production.
Cash unit costs are estimated to above-ground stocks in 2012 and 2013.
The record high in increase to around R18,000-R19,000 per equivalent refined platinum investment demand from ETFs, bars and coins in platinum ounce for 2014.
2013 is unlikely to be repeated and some disinvestment Platinums project portfolio has been aligned with the from the greater than 850,000 ounce holding in the proposals of the business restructuring, and capital South Africa-based ETF should not be ruled out.
expenditure guidance will be ZAR6 billion to ZAR7.3 billion Continued deficits in the palladium market are likely in the for 2014, excluding pre-production costs, capitalised waste short and medium term owing to increased production stripping and interest.
of gasoline vehicles and supply growth being limited by platinum supply constraints.
Above-ground stocks of palladium are estimated to be far higher than those of platinum: however, demand growth is expected to more than offset the negative price sentiment associated with elevated stock levels.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 85
