STRATEGIC REPORT OTHER MINING AND INDUSTRIAL OTHER MINING AND INDUSTRIAL Duncan Wanblad CEO: Base Metals and Minerals UNDERLYING OPERATING LOSS PROFIT 2012: $168 m $ 13 m SHARE OF GROUP UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT 2012: 3% 0.2 % Key financial and non-financial performance indicators 1 $ million unless otherwise stated 2013 2012 UNDERLYING EBITDA Underlying operating loss profit 13 168 2012: $289 m Underlying EBITDA 81 289 Capital expenditure 53 171 $81 m Share of Group underlying operating profit 0.2 % 3% 2 Non-financial indicators 2013 2012 Number of fatal injuries 4 1 Lost-time injury frequency rate 0.23 0.25 1 Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements.
See note 2 of the financial statements for details.
2 Non-financial indicators are reported until point of divestment.
Image A Tarmac national contracting team during a major night time road resurfacing operation in the UK.
90 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report AMAP Building products A significant improvement in trading performance was Amap recorded a nil underlying operating profit for the driven by higher sales volumes and continued focus on 10months to the completion of the divestment of the managing the cost base in order to enhance margins and operation on 1 November 2013.
All profits and losses reduce operating costs.
Unlike in 2012, there was minimal generated by Amap from the signing of the sale agreement disruption from poor weather, which enabled building at the end of 2012 to completion were for the account of the activity to continue throughout the year.
During 2013, the purchaser and therefore the underlying operating loss of market improved in certain sectors, particularly housing, $7million incurred in the period has been excluded from the and forecasts indicate that this improvement will continue Group results.
The loss of $7 million 2012: $54 million profit in 2014. was mainly due to the suspension of export shipments following the event on 28 March 2013 see below.
The Middle East reversal of penalty provisions, as a result of contract The Middle East business experienced a lull in activity renegotiations, which had a beneficial impact on 2012 levels and profitability in 2013, following the completion underlying operating profit, was not repeated in 2013. of three major projects in 2012 and early 2013.
The road building market remains extremely competitive due to On 28 March 2013, a major geological event occurred new entrants over the past two to three years, while some which resulted in the tragic loss of four lives, with a further customers are becoming competitors through developing two people still missing, as well as the loss of the Santana their own in-house asphalt and surfacing capability.
The port operation of Amap and the suspension of all export outlook for 2014, however, is now more positive, as several shipments.
A detailed and independent technical major schemes have been approved across the region and investigation was conducted and a report was shared the forward order book is strengthening.
The business with the authorities and the investigation commissions in has continued to focus on managing down key costs by September 2013.
The independent investigation report improved raw material procurement, productivity and indicates that the incident was not caused by operational energy consumption initiatives and rationalisation of factors, but was a result of an unpredictable combination the workforce.
of factors, including geotechnical factors.
Lafarge Tarmac joint venture On 4 January 2013, Anglo American announced that it On 7 January 2013, following final clearance from the UK had reached an agreement to sell its 70% interest in Amap Competition Commission, AngloAmerican and Lafarge to Zamin Ferrous Ltd Zamin.
Following the 28 March announced the completion of the transaction to create an event, Anglo American entered into further discussions incorporated joint venture known as Lafarge Tarmac.
with its partner Cliffs Natural Resources Cliffs and Zamin.
Anglo American subsequently entered into an agreement The Groups share in the underlying operating profit for the with Cliffs to acquire its 30% interest in Amap, subject newly formed joint venture was $9 million, but cannot be to certain conditions, and entered into an amended sale validly compared to 2012 due to the separations and agreement with Zamin to reflect Anglo Americans disposal combinations of the merger.
Despite weaker markets and of a 100% interest in Amap to Zamin.
no surplus carbon credit sales, revenue from the continuing operations contributing to the joint venture increased as a On 1 November 2013, Anglo American completed the result of higher year-on-year volumes across all key product acquisition from Cliffs and simultaneously completed the lines.
Although cement prices declined during the year, sale of the 100% interest in Amap to Zamin for an initial largely as a result of the entry of a new competitor, excellent total consideration of approximately $134 million, net of progress has been made with the integration process, with certain completion adjustments.
In addition, Zamin will pay synergy delivery of $38 million 100%, which was 23% Anglo American conditional deferred consideration of up above original expectations.
Although selected market to a maximum of $130 million in total, payable over a indicators are pointing towards an improvement in 2014, fiveyear period and calculated on the basis of the market Lafarge Tarmac remains cautious about the underlying price for iron ore. As part of the transaction, Anglo American strength of recovery within the construction sector.
has assumed responsibility for, and the risks and rewards of, certain insurance claims including those relating to the On 14 January 2014, the UK Competition Commission CC Santana port incident, through the purchase of the claims published its final report relating to the investigation into the from Amap at the full claim value.
aggregates, cement and ready mix concrete RMX markets.
In this report the CC concluded that there were aspects of the cement markets that had adverse effects on TARMAC competition.
Accordingly it has determined that, amongst Tarmac reported an underlying operating loss of $6 million, other remedies, Lafarge Tarmac is required to divest of a compared with a profit of $73 million in 2012.
Tarmacs cement plant either the Cauldon or Tunstead cement underlying EBITDA was $88 million, 41% lower than in 2012. plants, plus relevant depots, and if required by a The results of 2012 included 100% of the contribution from prospective purchaser a number of RMX plants.
The CC Tarmac Quarry Materials, which formed part of the Lafarge has determined that the prospective purchaser cannot be Tarmac joint venture with effect from 7 January 2013. one of the existing cement producers in Great Britain.
Lafarge Tarmac disputes the conclusions of the CC and is reviewing its options taking into account the best interests of its employees, contractors, customers and shareholders.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 91
