STRATEGIC REPORT OUR STRATEGY DESIGNED TO DELIVER VALUE FOR ALL OUR STAKEHOLDERS Our shareholders own the business and are entitled to At AngloAmerican, we recognise that we must attractive returns, reflecting the risk they take in funding the business.
continually adapt and improve if we are to achieve Our employees are the business and must be treated our ambition to become the investment of choice, with care and respect and compensated fairly for their the partner of choice and the employer of choice.
Our stakeholders are partners in the business and are entitled to fair compensation for their contributions to business success.
We are clear about our purpose: Together, we create Although we do not have all the answers, we can start sustainable value that makes a real difference, and this the conversation about what better mining looks like means we need to deliver our promised returns to from both a shareholder and a stakeholder perspective.
shareholders, as well as work with our stakeholders to find mutually beneficial solutions to our shared challenges.
Our strategy to achieve this hinges on three key elements: our portfolio: our people: and, ultimately, our performance.
And we will measure value against our seven pillars.
Portfolio Safety and Health Investing in a portfolio of assets that deliver superior margins and returns through the cycle Environment Our values People guide us to achieve Our purpose Organising and our ambition.
Safety drives us Socio-political developing our people The investment Care and respect to deliver on our promises Together, we of choice, the and build respectful and Integrity create sustainable partner of choice mutually beneficial value that makes a Accountability and the employer relationships with our real difference of choice Collaboration stakeholders People Innovation Performance Operating safely Production and responsibly across the mining value chain to deliver sustainable value and best meet our customer and stakeholder Cost needs Financial 14 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report OUR SEVEN PILLARS OF VALUE Delivering on our commitments to shareholders We will use a business scorecard to measure the while creating an attractive and differentiated Group, business unit and asset performance against value proposition for our partners and stakeholders our objective of sustainable value creation.
The design is the very essence of delivering sustainable is still evolving: however, it will consider seven areas or long term value.
Safety and Health OUR STAKEHOLDERS to do no harm to our employees and contractors Continuously improving and maintaining positive Environment relationships with our many stakeholders is one of to do no lasting harm to the environment our principal priorities.
We believe that establishing Socio-political relationships built on trust is fundamental to our ability to partner in the benefits of mining with local to create sustainable value.
Our main stakeholder communities and governments groups are: People trade unions to resource the organisation with an engaged, governments productive workforce communities Production to extract our resources in a sustainable way suppliers and contractors to create value non-governmental organisations NGOs Cost and civil society bodies to be competitive by operating as efficiently as possible joint venture and other strategic business partners Financial customers to deliver sustainable value for our shareholders.
Read about our KPIs business peers.
See page 18 OUR DELIVERY ROADMAP IMMEDIATE FOCUS THE LONGER TERM SUSTAINABLE 15% RETURNS Effective and efficient Building on the foundations Our strategy sets out the path for sustainable As we have defined, 2016 is simply a date by which we success towards our ambition.
We must, however, intend to deliver a minimum acceptable return for our address some immediate strategic issues if we are shareholders.
Based on this foundation, we aim to to deliver long term sustainable value in the future.
continue to grow our financial performance to deliver a longer term sustainable return of greater than 15% We are doing this through Driving Value, a change through the business cycle.
programme that sets us on a path to recovery to 2016, and sets our business up for long term success.
Driving Value initiatives are under way to support our ambition to achieve at least a 15% attributable return on capital employed ROCE by 2016.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 15
