STRATEGIC ELEMENT: PORTFOLIO MOGALAKWENA A WORLD-CLASS PLATINUM RESOURCE PROVIDING FLEXIBLE GROWTH OPTIONS The Platreef, in South Africas Limpopo province, is one of the worlds largest precious-metal deposits and the location of our Mogalakwena platinum mine.
The mine currently produces around 300,000 ounces of platinum a year, and a similar by-product value contribution from Chris Griffith palladium, rhodium, nickel, copper and gold.
Its open-pit CEO, Platinum mining method and significant by-product credits result in it being the lowest operating cost, and highest cash margin, platinum operation in our portfolio, and positions Mogalakwena is an asset of rare scale and quality Mogalakwena comfortably in the lowest operating cost the largest open-pit platinum mine in the world quartile of the platinum industry.
Image and our largest reserve base, with the highestLeft to right Mogalakwena is an excellent example of an asset where Wi-Fi technician value contribution from nickel and copper.
we feel we can expand production without entering into Lerato Rakobela and Mogalakwena provides us with an enviable technical specialists significant capital commitments.
Based on our earlyrange of development options.
Mzu Hlebo and stage analysis, we believe the potential is there to reach Tikoane Sonopo with ground stability radar 400,000 ounces of platinum by 2017, at low capital intensity equipment at a real opportunity to deliver superior returns on our Mogalakwenas invested capital.
20 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report DISCIPLINED INVESTMENT TO DELIVER IMPROVING RETURNS 1 Location MINE LIFE Zimbabwe Mogalakwena is situated 30 kilometres north-west of the town of Mokopane in the province of Limpopo and is the only operating 27 years platinum mine on the Northern Limb.
Botswana RESERVES 4E Mogalakwena mine Mozambique Mogalakwena mines Platreef ore and consists of five open pits.
The mining method is open-pit truck and 141.6 Moz shovel and the current pit depths vary from 45 metres Mogalakwena North to 245 metres Sandsloot.
The ore is milled at the new, fully operational MINING RATE POTENTIAL BY 2017 North Concentrator and the older South Concentrator.
South Africa 400 koz pa Indian Ocean Pillars of value: Cost Financial For more on pillars of value and our KPIs See pages 1415 and 1819 Other platinum mines 1 Mine Life limited to the current Mining Right period.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 21 STRATEGIC ELEMENT: PORTFOLIO INVESTING TO DELIVER SUPERIOR MARGINS AND RETURNS THROUGH THE CYCLE FOCUSED CAPITAL ALLOCATION At Anglo American, we believe that being a Across the Group, we have applied a stringent capital global diversified mining company provides allocation model that will result in a more disciplined approach to sustaining and growing our production a natural hedge against price volatility and with less capital investment.
geographic pressures, giving us flexibility Our investment priorities have changed, such that our to meet the worlds changing needs.
primary scrutiny is on the quality and return profile of individual assets within attractive commodity industries, where previously our focus was directed more towards Our portfolio of mining and processing assets is chosen for building a greater presence in those commodities that the low cost and competitive position of such assets in their we believed to be most attractive.
given market, designed to deliver attractive returns through When it comes to development of our existing assets, normal commodity price cycles.
We have had operations in building new projects or acquiring assets, we will only Africa, Australia, and North and South America for many pursue an opportunity if the returns are attractive, we are years, but we are also building strong commercial confident in our delivery of the value, and that it is the best relationships in Europe and across Asia, including in India, place to commit our capital when compared against all other China, South Korea and Japan, to strengthen our positions options, including returning capital to our shareholders.
We have improved our investment review and approval We are widely recognised as industry leaders in discovering processes to support this approach, building greater new assets in addition to investing in existing ones, confidence in our assessment of the pipeline of options.
ensuring that we balance the need to grow as a business We will continue to review this pipeline to optimise its value while delivering improving returns to shareholders.
We by prioritising opportunities based on their expected take a long term view to managing our assets, continually returns and risk profiles, and we will seek new options stress-testing our portfolio against investment and at the lowest cost, supported by our industry-leading sustainability criteria to ensure it delivers value and that it exploration capability.
continues to meet our customers needs today, tomorrow and into the future.
Consistent with this approach, in 2013 we withdrew from the Pebble copper project in Alaska: reduced capital expenditure at Platinum, reflecting the industry challenges OUR TARGET FOR 2016 and our review of the assets: and reduced spend on Mining industry returns return on capital employed, longer-dated projects within the Nickel and Iron Ore or ROCE have dropped significantly from around business units.
In Peru, the Quellaveco copper project 24% in 2006 to 10% in 2012, despite a relatively positive was evaluated as part of the Group asset review, which commodity pricing environment over much of the resulted in a decision to reconfigure the project so that period.
Although there are many reasons for capital its economic returns are more robust.
A final review of the employed increasing at a faster rate than earnings, there project is expected during 2015.
During the intervening are some common themes across the industry, including: period, work will continue on the project site, aimed over-capitalisation of assets in an attempt to grow mainly at progressing the Asana river diversion tunnel, production at any cost: an active merger and acquisition along with various social and community programmes, environment when asset prices have been at all-time thereby solidifying the already high social support for highs: and significant overspend in projects as companies the project.
try to bring production on stream as fast as possible.
The concept study for the Michiquillay copper project in Anglo American has not been immune to these challenges, northern Peru was also evaluated within the broader context with the result that our attributable ROCE fell from a of the Group asset review.
Options are currently being pre-financial crisis high of over 30%, to as low as 11% in considered for this project.
2012, a situation that is acceptable neither to ourselves As a result of these and other actions, we have identified nor our shareholders.
We have, therefore, set ourselves a $300 million of savings on an attributable basis in clear target of delivering a minimum attributable ROCE of exploration and evaluation costs to be delivered by the 15% by 2016, and have defined a new approach and rigour end of 2016, in addition to $252 million of cash from to our capital-allocation process in order to help achieve non-core asset sales.
22 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report STRATEGIC REPORT THE PATHWAY TO 15% ATTRIBUTABLE ROCE Over the past eight months we have completed a review of our asset portfolio and have set out a clear path to Iron Ore and Manganese 19% achieve our targeted 15% attributable ROCE.
The chart Metallurgical Coal below shows the steps identified to lift attributable ROCE 1% at 30 June 2013 prices and foreign exchange rates Thermal Coal 23% from 9% in 2012, to in excess of 15% by 2016.
1 Copper 25% The impact of our approved major projects coming on Nickel stream, the operational improvement plans resulting from 2% the recent asset review, and our Driving Value programme Niobium and Phosphates 24% including the benefits from overhead reduction, Platinum commercial and supply chain initiatives, and our review of 6% the project pipeline are discussed in more detail on pages Diamonds 11% 3445, within the Performance section of this report.
Group 11% Capital structure and balance sheet Net assets of the Company totalled $37.4 billion at 1 Removing outstanding tax liability balances relating to the AA Sur 31December 2013 31 December 2012: $43.7 billion.
divestment, Copper attributable ROCE would drop to 24%.
This decrease resulted from impairments of $2.5 billion, the impact of the weaker South African rand and Australian dollar of $4.0 billion and depreciation of $2.6 billion, partially offset by capital expenditure for the year of $6.3 billion, including capitalised interest of $0.3 billion.
Attributable ROCE remained flat at 11% as a consequence of a higher proportion of operating profit coming from our non-wholly owned businesses: Anglo American Platinum: fide Beers: Anglo American Sur AA Sur : and Kumba Iron Ore. Average attributable capital employed increased to $39 billion 2012: $38 billion, due to capital expenditure in 2013, partially offset by the weakening of the rand, in which 29% of our balance sheet is denominated.
With the exception of Foxleigh, Peace River Coal and the Barro Alto impairment, all impairments and losses on disposal or exit have been taken as a reduction to capital employed.
The pathway to 15% attributable ROCE 1 2 ROCE % EBIT impact $ bn 15% 9% $3.3 bn $0.9 bn $1.2 bn $1.3 bn 2 2012 Projects Improvement plans Driving Value Further benefits 2016 target asset review net of to be identified headwinds 2012 and 2016 targets Identified upside Ongoing LoM strategy review Minas-Rio, Boa Vista Fresh Rock, Barro Alto, Cerrejn Defined plans 1 Attributable ROCE defined as operating profit attributable to Anglo American plc shareholders divided by attributable average capital employed.
2 ROCE and EBIT impact based on commodity prices and exchange rates at 30 June 2013 and including structural changes to portfolio.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 23 STRATEGIC ELEMENT: PORTFOLIO Net debt 1 $ million 2013 2012 Opening net debt 8,510 1,278 2 EBITDA 8,806 7,867 Working capital movements 1,121 526 Other cash flows from operations 44 29 Cash flows from operations 7,729 7,370 Capital expenditure including related derivatives 6,261 6,030 Cash tax paid 1,201 1,799 Dividends from associates, joint ventures and financial asset investments 264 348 Net interest 533 348 Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 1,159 1,267 Attributable free cash flow 1,161 1,726 Dividends paid to Company shareholders 1,078 970 Tax on sale of non-controlling interest in Anglo American Sur 395 1,015 Acquisitions of subsidiaries 4,816 Disposals 252 439 Movements in non-controlling interests 71 1,220 Purchase of shares by subsidiaries for employee share schemes 92 253 Other net debt movements 261 111 Total movement in net debt 2,142 7,232 Closing net debt 10,652 8,510 1 Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements.
See note 2 of the financial statements for details.
2 EBITDA is underlying EBITDA, as described in note 3 of the financial statements, less associates and joint ventures.
Liquidity and funding Net debt increased by $2,142 million to $10,652 million At 31 December 2013, the Group had undrawn committed 2012: $8,510 million and net debt to total capital at bank facilities of $9.3 billion and cash of $7.7 billion.
An analysis of key movements in The Groups forecasts and projections, taking account net debt in the year is detailed on page 2425. of reasonably possible changes in trading performance, indicate the Groups ability to operate within the level of Cash flow from operations its current facilities for the foreseeable future.
A reconciliation of underlying EBITDA to underlying operating profit is provided in note 3 to the financial Net debt statements.
The factors driving the operating results Net debt is a measure of the Groups financial position.
of the Group are discussed in the Performance section The Group uses net debt to monitor the sources and uses of the annual report on pages 3445. of financial resources, the availability of capital to invest or return to shareholders, and the resilience of the balance The working capital increase of $1,121 million sheet.
Net debt is calculated as total borrowings less 2012:increase of $526million represents investment cash and cash equivalents including derivatives which in stock of $562million 2012:increase of $329 million, provide an economic hedge of debt and the net debt of increase in debtors of $541 million 2012:increase of disposal groups.
$32 million and a decrease in creditors of $18million 2012: decrease of $165 million.
The reconciliation in the table above is the method by which management reviews movements in net debt and Within the investment in stock movement, $395 million comprises key movements in cash and any significant relates to increases in platinum stock owing to the growth non-cash movements on net debt items.
in precious metal stock holdings to manage business risk and an increase in the average stock valuation due to higher production costs.
24 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report STRATEGIC REPORT The majority of the remaining stock increases reflect strong Evaluation expenditure production performance in the closing months of the year at Evaluation expenditure decreased by 38% to $326 million, both Kumba Iron Ore and Copper.
driven by reductions in Copper and Nickel, partly offset by increases in fide Beers following the acquisition of the The strong production performance in the closing months additional interest in August 2012. of the year at Kumba Iron Ore and Copper also resulted in increased sales, with a resultant increase in debtors of Divestment update $373million.
On 4 January 2013, Anglo American announced that it had reached an agreement to sell its 70% interest in Amap to Attributable free cash flow Zamin Ferrous Ltd Zamin.
Following the 28 March 2013 Attributable free cash flow, as defined in the reconciliation major geological event which resulted in the loss of four of net debt, is a measure of the amount of cash generated lives, with a further two people still missing, as well as the by the Groups operations once all disbursements of tax, loss of the Santana port operation of Amap and the interest and dividends to minority interests have been taken suspension of all export shipments, Anglo American entered into account.
into further discussions with its partner Cliffs Natural Cash tax paid has decreased to $1,201 million from Resources Cliffs and Zamin.
Anglo American $1,799million, owing to tax rebates at both Copper subsequently entered into an agreement with Cliffs to and Metallurgical Coal.
Copper received a $191 million acquire its 30% interest in Amap, subject to certain rebate owing to overpayment in the prior tax year, while conditions, and entered into an amended sale agreement Metallurgical Coal received a net tax refund in 2013 with Zamin to reflect Anglo Americans disposal of a 100% of $43 million compared to a net payment in 2012 of interest in Amap to Zamin.
$330 million following a reassessment by the Australian On 1 November 2013, Anglo American completed the Tax Office of the tax instalment rate.
acquisition from Cliffs and simultaneously completed the Net interest represents interest income less interest sale of the 100% interest in Amap to Zamin for an initial expense and includes cash flows on financing derivatives.
total consideration of approximately $134 million, net of The increase was driven by higher interest paid of certain completion adjustments.
In addition, Zamin will pay $907 million 2012: $775 million due to the timing of the Anglo American conditional deferred consideration of up to issue and redemption of corporate bonds as well as the a maximum of $130 million in total, payable over a five year acquisition, on 16 August 2012, of $1,581 million of debt period and calculated on the basis of the market price for in fide Beers which, even when refinanced by the Group, iron ore. As part of the transaction, Anglo American has resulted in higher overall debt in 2013. assumed responsibility for, and the risks and rewards of, certain insurance claims including those relating to the The majority of dividends paid to non-controlling interests Santana port incident, through the purchase of the claims of $1,159 million 2012: $1,267 million were to minority from Amap at the full claim value.
shareholders of Copper and Kumba Iron Ore, where external dividends of $474 million and $663 million were Dividends paid respectively 2012: $100 million and $1,120 million.
Anglo Americans dividend policy is to provide a base dividend that will be maintained or increased through Other movements the cycle.
Consistent with the policy, the Board has Tax on sale of AA Sur of $395 million 2012: $1,015 million recommended to maintain the final dividend of 53 US cents relates to the profit on sale of the 25.4% share in AA Sur.
per share, giving a total dividend of 85 US cents per share Disposals relate mainly to proceeds received in the year for the year 2012: 85 US cents per share, subject to following the disposal of Palabora, certain fide Beers shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting to investment properties, the formation of the Lafarge be held on 24 April 2014.
The maintenance of the level Tarmac joint venture and Amap, net of funding provided of the dividend reflects the Boards confidence in the by the Group.
This recommendation is consistent with the commitment to have a disciplined balance between Other net debt movements mainly relate to the Main Street the maintenance of a strong investment grade rating, preference share structure, which was established to returns to shareholders and sequencing of future provide funding via preference shares for a black economic investment in line with resulting funding capacity.
From empowerment BEE company relating to Sishen Iron Ore time to time, any cash surplus to requirements will be Company.
In November 2013, the preference shares held returned to shareholders.
by Anglo American in the company were redeemed for $279 million and a mezzanine debt facility of $85 million Outlook repaid.
This resulted in the Group reducing net debt by Cash capital expenditure is expected to be between $364 million on the unwinding of the structure.
Net debt is expected to continue to rise in 2014, as expenditure on the Groups projects more than offsets cash generated from operations.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 25 STRATEGIC ELEMENT: PEOPLE ORGANISED TO REALISE OUR POTENTIAL REDESIGNING OUR ORGANISATION The aim of the new organisation design is to ensure we have the right people in the right roles doing the right work.
The resulting structure will be more effective, allowing greater clarity on roles and accountabilities while also removing unnecessary work and duplication.
The first aspect of the new organisation was announced in July 2013, with the creation of two new commodity groups: Base Metals and Minerals made up of the newly integrated Nickel, Niobium and Phosphates business, Mervyn Walker, Group Director Human Resources and Corporate Affairs and Copper: and Coal comprising Thermal Coal and Metallurgical Coal.
These businesses have been brought together to realise the synergies available from having either geographical or operational similarities.
Our new organisation aims to create an environment We reduced the number of direct reports to the chief executive from in which we are all able to work more effectively and 15 to 11.
The new Group Management Committee GMC was expanded efficiently.
By creating a meritocracy in which each and to incorporate the chief executive and his direct reports.
The GMC is every employee is encouraged to strive to reach their supported by two sub-committees Corporate and Operating with potential, we hope to unlock significant value.
By the end of 2013, we had appointed senior management roles across the corporate centres and have been designing proposals for the remaining structures and roles.
We plan to complete the design implementation in 2014.
26 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report Operations visited Group Management Committee In his first eight months in the role, new chief executive Mark Cutifani met and Chief Executive spoke with most of Anglo Americans top Mark Cutifani 400 managers, as well as several hundred employees, corporate office staff and mine operators.
During the year, he visited all of our major operations and projects, travelling to Australia, Brazil, Chile, Peru, Botswana, Kumba Iron Ore Iron Ore Brazil Coal Base Metals Platinum fide Beers South Africa, Canada, Singapore and China.
Norman Paulo CastellariSeamus French and Minerals Chris Griffith Philippe Mellier Mbazima Porchia Duncan Wanblad Pillars of value: Safety and Health Executive Human Technical Strategy, Business Finance Director RSA Resources and Tony ONeill Development Ren Mdori Socio-political Khanyisile Corporate Affairs and Commercial Kweyama Mervyn Walker Peter Whitcutt People For more on Pillars of value and our KPIs See pages 1415 and 1819 Image Mark Cutifani meets Quellaveco community relations manager Francisco Raunelli during a recent visit to the Quellaveco copper project in southern Peru.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 27 STRATEGIC ELEMENT: PEOPLE PROVIDING OPPORTUNITIES Assets alone do not generate value.
It is our people who are inspired to deliver sustainable % value that makes a real difference.
South Africa 99,500 63 Brazil 23,600 15 Other Africa 13,100 8 Guided by our values safety, care and respect, integrity, Chile 10,800 7 accountability, collaboration, innovation our people apply Australia Asia 6,800 4 their skills, knowledge and expertise to ensure we operate successfully and responsibly.
They develop trusting and Europe 2,100 1 respectful relationships with communities, governments, North America 1,600 1 suppliers, partners and peers to ensure that we deliver on Other South America 1,400 1 our promises.
Total 158,900 100 In return, we reward and recognise our people, supporting them in their careers and providing opportunities to help them develop and grow.
Our approach to the organisation redesign began with a team of organisational design experts conducting over 350 reviews to understand the current nature and extent THE RIGHT PEOPLE IN THE RIGHT JOBS of work being done across the business hearing first hand A key enabler in the implementation of our business strategy what our employees feel impedes their ability to contribute is the design of organisational structures, roles and systems to our overall business effectiveness.
Establishing this as is that support our business objectives.
inventory has informed GMC debate on the work that is important to us, and where this work is best carried out We have for some time been reviewing our organisational this forms the cornerstone of our organisational model.
Following the arrival of Mark Cutifani as chief executive in April 2013, this work culminated in: With the model agreed, organisation structures have been aligned with this, as well as with our organisation design bringing Business Unit CEOs into the Group Management principles an approach that is grounded in stratified Committee GMC, previously comprised only of the systems theory and other proven frameworks and models.
Group Directors of functions, and so collapsing the two-tier executive governance structure that preceded it: We aim to implement the majority of proposed changes to structures and roles for the in-scope areas in 2014. the decision to bring together our Thermal and Metallurgical Coal businesses to realise further Talent management and skills development technical synergies: To attract and retain the best talent, we seek to offer safe, worthwhile and stimulating work, provide opportunities for the move to integrate our Nickel, and Niobium and personal development, pay people competitively, recognise Phosphates businesses in Brazil and to locate their head and reward excellence, encourage diversity and protect office in Belo Horizonte, seeking to realise performance employee rights.
Our approach is underpinned by our and efficiency improvements for these businesses: human resources HR standards, management systems the grouping of our Copper, Nickel, and Niobium and and processes.
Phosphates businesses to form Base Metals and During the year, voluntary turnover accounted for 2.0% Minerals a regional grouping of commodities aimed of the total workforce, in comparison with 2.4% in 2012. at transforming the performance of the underlying businesses: Our Group-wide performance management process and system aligns individual objectives with the companys centralising, and further advancing, our strategy.
We continue to embed the People Development Commercial activity: and Way, our global capability framework detailing the the decision to redesign our Group and business behaviours, knowledge, skills and experience required 1 unit corporate centres.
of our employees to achieve our strategic objectives.
In conjunction with this, a range of functional People Ways The aim of our redesign is to increase the organisations have been introduced, to outline the specific capabilities effectiveness by prioritising work that adds value, removing required in different specialisms across the organisation.
any duplication of work and implementing an organisation design that creates clarity as to our business priorities, the Providing high quality training is a key attraction and work and authorities of each role, and the requirements of retention tool.
During the year we supported 2,974 role incumbents.
The resultant organisation provides the graduates, bursars, apprentices and other trainees minimum amount of structure needed to support productive 2012: 2,845. work and so, by placing the right employees in the right roles, empowers them to help reach their full potential.
1 2 With the exception of fide Beers given its integration into the Anglo American Average number of employees and contractors, excluding employees and Group in 2013, Iron Ore Brazil for its project structure, and Platinum following contractors from non-managed operations and our Other Mining and Industrial the portfolio restructuring conducted in 2013. business unit.
28 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report STRATEGIC REPORT Total number of fatal injuries and fatal injury Total number of lost-time injuries and lost-time frequency rate 20092013 injury frequency rate 20092013 Fatalities FIFR Lost-time injuries LTIFR 30 0.016 2,500 1.2 0.014 25 1 2,000 0.012 20 0.8 0.010 1,500 15 0.008 0.6 1,000 0.006 10 0.4 0.004 500 5 0.2 0.002 0 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 FIFR LTIFR Fatalities Lost-time injuries Formal learning is delivered at both business unit and ongoing, open and meaningful dialogue, ensuring that Group level, with external training expenditure across relevant changes to the organisation or its practices are Anglo American amounting to $104 million, 2% of total tabled with trade unions for discussion prior to their employee costs in 2013 2012: $98 million, 3% of total implementation and that, in turn, any employee concerns employee costs.
are brought for discussion within the organisation before they become the subject of disputes: and, We focus on and continuously review high quality leadership development and have a range of more than 200 external our appreciation that many of the issues of concern to our and internal development programmes currently in use employees also affect the mining sector generally and, across the Group.
Our flagship development programmes, sometimes, society as a whole.
the Advanced Management Programme and Leaders in Protecting labour rights Anglo American, were refreshed in 2013 to incorporate As signatories to the United Nations Global Compact, latest leadership thinking.
We have made significant we are committed to the labour rights principles provided progress in providing basic literacy and numeracy to our in the International Labour Organisation core conventions, employees, contractors and community members through including the right to freedom of association and adult basic education and training programmes.
In addition, collective bargaining, the eradication of child and forced we provide skills training that is transferable to industries labour and non-discrimination.
We do not tolerate any outside of mining.
form of unfair discrimination, inhumane treatment, forced A diverse workforce labour, child labour, harassment or intimidation in the By year end, 23% of managers were women Anglo American workplace.
2012: 23%, with 16% of our overall workforce being Full observance of these issues is also required of our female 2012: 15%.
Across our businesses, targets suppliers in tenders and compliance is audited.
At our have been set to increase further female representation, operations, we have clear policies and processes in place both within the management population and the in order to ensure that we do not employ any under-age or workforce as a whole.
No incidents of employing under-age or In our South African operations we continued to promote forced labour were reported in 2013. transformation in the workforce.
By year end, 64% Health and safety of our management were historically disadvantaged Managing mine safety risks has always been challenging.
Our main priority is to prevent loss of life and serious injuries Fostering sound industrial relations by creating safe and healthy work environments.
Our safety Approximately 91% of our permanent workforce is strategy and management approach focus on improving represented by work councils, trade unions or other similar our ability to anticipate and prevent harm to our people, and bodies and covered by collective bargaining agreements.
reduce safety-related stoppages at operations.
Building and maintaining sound relationships with our employees and trade unions is fostered through: a culture of inclusivity and a genuine concern for the well-being of our employees, partners and communities: Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 29 STRATEGIC ELEMENT: PEOPLE In 2013, eight employees and six contractors lost their lives while working for Anglo American.
This includes two MANAGING SLOPE employees and two contractors who lost their lives at the STABILITY RISK Santana port of Amap in Brazil following the destruction of a seaborne iron ore loading platform as a result of a 1 geological incident.
The Group fatal-injury frequency rate at the end of 2013 was 0.008, 2012: 0.007.
Our total recordable case frequency rate improved by 16% year on year to 1.08 in 2013, and by 40% since 2009.
At 0.49, the Groups annual lost-time injury frequency rate is at its lowest since listing on the London Stock Exchange, reflecting considerable progress at the Platinum, Metallurgical Coal and fide Beers businesses.
Our occupational health strategy and management approach is governed through a series of standards, guidelines and assurance processes aimed at preventing harm to our workforce.
Our principal health risks relate to noise, inhalable hazards and fatigue.
Our health and wellness programmes include the provision of care and Effective management of slope stability related risks treatment for HIV AIDS and TB, as well as support against is a fundamental part of a successful mining operation.
obesity, substance abuse, and for general well-being.
Predicting potential slope failure in open pit mines is Another strategic focus is strengthening healthcare systems integral to maintaining safety and mine productivity.
Anglo Americans open pit mines implement best in under-serviced rural areas and building partnerships to practice slope monitoring programmes that are linked improve access to quality healthcare.
to mine operational and emergency procedures.
Most regrettably, during 2013, 63 employees died from In June 2012, a slope collapse at Debswanas Jwaneng TB 2012: 59.
We also diagnosed 734 new TB infections diamond mine in Botswana tragically claimed the life of 2012: 677 cases, giving an annual incidence rate of 1,066 an employee.
The company suspended mining activities per 100,000 population, though this rate is in line with the for seven weeks to ensure the safety of all employees national average and below the industry average.
In and to allow the Department of Mines to carry out an southern Africa, the percentage of estimated HIV-positive investigation.
All investigations were concluded in 2013, and subsequently, Jwaneng mine extensively employees enrolled on our treatment programme has reviewed and strengthened its approach to managing increased steadily from 61% in 2011 to 75% in 2013.
Since slope stability related risks.
2011, the estimated prevalence of HIV infection in our workforce in southern Africa has remained steady at around The enhanced risk management approach ensured 17%, indicating that about 11,200 of our employees there that the mine picked up the first signs of slope instability at the beginning of October 2013.
The annual voluntary counselling and systems accurately predicted the time of failure and testing VCT rate dropped from 82% in 2012 to 75% in approximately 700,000 tonnes of waste came down.
2013, reflecting the impact of labour unrest in the year.
The failure occurred without any safety incidents, with The reduction in the number of new cases of occupational all personnel and equipment safely evacuated four hours earlier.
In 2013, a Group open pit slope disease recorded over the past few years reversed in monitoring strategy was developed and all our open 2013, owing to an increase in cases of noise-induced pit operations are reviewing their slope monitoring hearing loss NIHL reported at Platinum in South Africa programmes to ensure compliance.
and Metallurgical Coal in Australia.
The total of new cases of occupational diseases in 2013 was 209 2012: 174.
Debswana is a 50:50 joint operation between fide Beers and the Government of the Republic of Botswana.
A major focus for the business continues to be the Image elimination of exposure to noise.
A ground stability radar unit deployed at Jwaneng diamond mine in Botswana.
In South Africa, we continue to work with the provincial health departments in the Eastern Cape, Mpumalanga, Northern Cape and North West provinces, which are Pillars of value: associated with our operations or are labour-sending For more on Pillars of value and our KPIs areas, in order to improve health services.
In Brazil, See pages 1415 and 1819 we have a highly effective partnership with the NGO Reprolatina in providing sexual and reproductive health counselling to several communities.
1 An additional two employees involved in the incident remain unaccounted for and have not, at this stage, been formally declared deceased by the local authorities.
30 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report STRATEGIC REPORT WORKING WITH STAKEHOLDERS Our ability to create a sustainable business is inextricably INTEGRATING EMPLOYEE linked to our stakeholders most directly with our HOUSING INTO THE employees and the communities around our operations, COMMUNITY but, equally, with the stakeholders who indirectly affect, or are affected by, what we do, including governments and shareholders, as well as partners and suppliers.
To create shared value for all our stakeholders, we must understand their needs, concerns and aspirations, as well as the sustainability risks affecting our business, and consider them in our decision-making processes as we develop new mines and continue to improve our existing operations.
Our overarching aim is to mitigate the negative impacts of our activities and to take advantage of opportunities that deliver long term benefits to our stakeholders.
Our thorough internal understanding of operational risks has been strengthened by research into issues that are most important to our stakeholders.
This includes collating the results of our regular engagements with stakeholders and Kumba Iron Ores Kolomela mine at Postmasburg conducting selected surveys to establish the perspectives in Northern Cape province, South Africa, was of governments, communities and investors.
completed at the end of 2011, reaching full capacity in 2013, with 840 permanent employees.
The We are committed to working with government, business mines integration within the existing community and civil society to promote good governance and the is fundamental in delivering a long term positive responsible use of mineral wealth, and to prevent corruption.
impact and legacy after mine closure.
Finding solutions to increasingly complex societal In designing the new mine, we took the opportunity challenges requires meaningful collaboration between to lead by example with our housing programme for business, government, civil society, labour and research employees.
We engaged with the local authorities and were allocated land for housing development in bodies.
We place a strong emphasis, therefore, on three residential areas of Postmasburg.
In return, the developing partnerships with a broad range of stakeholders.
company committed to investing in building muchneeded bulk infrastructure services to support the upliftment of the impoverished community and boost Social investment output indicators socio-economic development.
Total number of community development 1,447 The housing project is designed to ensure that both projects delivering benefits to communities management and lower level employees have access in 2013 to similar housing and are not living in separate areas of the new accommodation complex as often incurred Total number of businesses supported 48,111 in older mines with segregated mining towns.
By the end of 2013, 718 homes for Kolomela employees had Jobs created maintained through enterprise 76,543 been completed, with close to half of these employees development initiatives coming from the local area.
The houses differ in size, Beneficiaries of education projects 2,697,933 but are uniform in quality and finish.
The average age of the employees is 30 and most are first-time house Beneficiaries of sports, arts, culture and 340,015 occupants.
The houses remain assets of the mine, with heritage projects each employee receiving a housing benefit and paying rates and taxes.
Beneficiaries of community development 2,628,455 Image projects Rebaone and Caroline Matloko live in one of the new houses in Postmasburg built for Kolomela iron ore mine.
Rebaone is Beneficiaries of disaster and emergency 6,966 a haul truck operator at the mine.
relief projects Beneficiaries with improved livelihood 259,050 Pillars of value: For more on Pillars of value and our KPIs See pages 1415 and 1819 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 31 STRATEGIC ELEMENT: PEOPLE Engaging with stakeholders Our approach Continuously improving and maintaining positive Anglo Americans social performance strategy focuses relationships with our stakeholders is one of our principal on observing human rights, proactive engagement with priorities.
We believe that establishing relationships built our stakeholders and leveraging our core business to on trust is fundamental to our ability to create value, but support long term socio-economic development.
recognise that many stakeholders currently have low levels We place considerable emphasis on integrating social of trust in business generally.
considerations into each stage of the mining life cycle, We rely on various channels of engagement with each of as well as on enhancing the expertise of our social and our main stakeholder groups, in order to facilitate open community development specialists and the social dialogue and identify principal concerns and interests.
Our awareness of line managers.
All operations are required principal external stakeholder groups are governments, to develop Social Management Plans to manage risks and shareholders, trade unions, suppliers, joint venture and impacts.
Human rights requirements are integrated into other strategic business partners, customers, investors, the Social Way and all other relevant policies, systems and and our host communities.
Other important groups include tools throughout the business.
Our approach is aligned with business partners, multilateral organisations, NGOs, our the Protect, Respect and Remedy framework provided in business peers and academia.
the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights.
Our engagement with governments include face-to-face Our businesses measure compliance against the meetings with government representatives, open dialogue requirements of the Social Way through annual selfand ongoing advocacy work through industry bodies, assessment.
Social incidents are reported centrally, as well as participation in inter-governmental and investigated, and corrective actions are completed where multilateral processes.
In 2013, 98% of sites complied with, or exceeded, the requirements of Anglo American standards.
With our host communities, our industry-leading SocioThere were no serious non-compliances.
Economic Assessment Toolbox SEAT is our primary means to improve operations understanding of their Complaints and grievances socio-economic impacts both positive and negative, Our mandatory Group-wide complaints and grievances enhance stakeholder dialogue and the management of mechanism is designed to ensure openness, accountability social issues, build our ability to support local socioand respectfulness in our handling of any stakeholder economic development, and foster greater transparency complaints.
The facility is a confidential and secure means and accountability.
We update SEAT as our social for our local communities and other external stakeholders performance capability improves and stakeholder to raise concerns.
All submissions are reviewed and expectations evolve.
responses provided and, where necessary, mitigating actions are implemented.
While the specific interests and concerns of our stakeholders typically vary by stakeholder group and In addition, at Group level we run an anonymous tip-off region, an issue that received particular attention during procedure, called Speak Up.
Speak Up allows communities, the year concerned reinforcing our relationship with the employees, contractors, suppliers, business partners and South African government following the industrial unrest other stakeholders to report concerns about conduct that is in 2012.
In turn, we have enhanced our involvement with contrary to our Business Principles, corporate values and communities around our Rustenburg mines as well as Business Integrity standards.
Disciplinary proceedings, including termination, are instituted where employees are those in Limpopo.
We are also engaging more closely found to have behaved contrary to our principles.
In 2013, with investors, under the leadership of chief executive there were no criminal cases regarding bribery brought Mark Cutifani, on the progressive business turnaround.
against Anglo American or any of its employees.
Managing our social performance Responsible supply chain management Our most significant social risks and opportunities fall Our supplier sustainable development assurance into two categories: our impact on host communities and programme addresses adherence to local legislative society more broadly: and the risks to our business that requirements and best practices in areas including safety, arise from wider societal expectations and social tension the environment, business integrity, human rights and in communities.
Since the scheme commenced in 2009, we have conducted a series of audits on high risk suppliers identified across the world.
A risk based approach is followed to identify suppliers to be audited, with a focus on small and medium enterprises, and we conduct follow-up audits to assess progress against improvement plans.
32 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report STRATEGIC REPORT Community development Our community development activities prioritise extending $000 % benefits associated with our core activities to those Community 47,719 37 associated with our operations.
This includes local development workforce development, local procurement and supplier Education and training 31,178 24 development, enterprise development, the beneficial use Health and welfare 13,773 11 of mine infrastructure and building the capacity of local Other 11,936 9 partners such as municipalities.
Critical needs that are not Sports, arts, culture 6,596 5 linked to core business activities and infrastructure, such as and heritage health, education and community housing, are addressed Institutional 6,268 5 through our social investment programme.
capacity development Local procurement Water and sanitation 5,708 4 Our local procurement initiatives are a principal value Environment 3,378 3 driver for the business and for communities around our Employee match giving 735 1 operations.
These initiatives aim to create opportunities Disaster and 166 0 for local suppliers to provide high quality goods and services emergency relief to support our mining activities.
The inclusion of small, Energy and 17 0 medium and micro enterprises in our value chain is a climate change critical priority as this serves to create thriving and fulfilled Total 127,474 100 communities.
In 2013, expenditure with suppliers based in the communities close to our operations was $1.63 billion 2012: $1.54 billion.
This represented 12.3% of total supplier expenditure 2012: 11.3%, against a Group target of 12.5%.
$000 % Economic transformation is a particular priority in our South Africa 76,529 60 South African operations, forming an important part of Chile 17,162 13 our contribution to the countrys drive to promote black Peru 10,164 8 economic empowerment BEE.
In 2013, Anglo American Brazil 6,904 5 managed businesses spent $3.9 billion 2012: $3.1 billion Canada 6,665 5 with HDSA businesses excluding goods and services Rest of World 3,394 3 procured from the public sector and public enterprises.
Nambia 2,880 2 Enterprise development Australia 1,169 1 Enterprise development is one of the most effective Zimbabwe 1,107 1 means of ensuring that the benefits for host communities United Kingdom 847 1 arising out of mining activities will be sustainable.
Our Botswana 653 1 enterprise development programmes are designed to support communities in identifying business opportunities, Total 127,474 100 developing them, with the aim of their ultimately becoming independent.
They aim to create more stable host communities and a more robust and competitive supply Building local capacity chain.
Over the past five years, our existing schemes in Our capacity development activities focus on strengthening South Africa and Chile have supported more than 75,000 the skills, competencies and abilities of employees and jobs.
In 2013, we launched new schemes in Botswana and community members to promote robust, self-sufficient Brazil and early in 2014 we launched a scheme in Peru.
local economies long after our mines have closed.
This included spending $3.1 million towards institutional capacity Infrastructure development development in 2013 2012: $1.9 million, often partnering Working with partners to provide infrastructure that can be with local municipalities on projects.
In South Africa, limited put to use during and after mining activities are completed or low capacity in municipalities potentially jeopardises our is an important way in which we create sustainable value for ability to deliver on social and labour plan commitments and our host communities.
Our mines are often situated in areas promote broader social stability.
that are underdeveloped and remote, where we can share infrastructure such as roads, health facilities and water Corporate social investment with local communities.
Anglo Americans corporate social investment CSI expenditure in local communities totalled $127.5 million In South Africa, where there is a shortage of affordable 2012: $145.7 million.
This figure represents 2.2% of housing and long waiting lists for units being built, we are operating profit from subsidiaries and joint ventures, helping to alleviate this problem in partnership with local before tax.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 33 STRATEGIC ELEMENT: PERFORMANCE OPTIMISING EVERY ASPECT OF OUR PERFORMANCE SHARING PERFORMANCE IMPROVEMENT LESSONS AT METALLURGICAL COAL Moranbah North, our metallurgical coal mine situated in Australias Bowen Basin, is an early adopter of the business process changes we are currently driving across the Group.
Following a period of underperformance at the mine, management implemented a number of processes to address the operational issues that were impacting Seamus French longwall cutting hours and, consequently, production.
CEO, Metallurgical Coal Critical to turning around production was the careful planning of work schedules, ensuring every mine employee knew what work was required of them and that they were The outstanding efforts of the Moranbah North accountable for delivering to plan.
By continually monitoring longwall team are a great indicator of the potential Image performance against plan and implementing incremental to drive business value.
The results speak for Operations scheduler Larnie Mackay, operational improvements, the team at Moranbah North themselves and are a demonstration of what can operations manager have raised longwall cutting hours from 57 hours per week be achieved when we understand what world Andy Morris and in 2008 to an average of over 85 hours per week in 2013, engineering class performance looks like, and apply it to our maintenance manager and it continues to improve in 2014. equipment.
Our Grosvenor longwall mine is currently Paul Stephen monitor under construction next to Moranbah North and longwall operations Process improvements at Moranbah North are now on a smart board at these improvements augur well for its capabilities.
being replicated at Metallurgical Coals Grasstree mine.
34 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 O Str pa et re ag tiing c r a ep no dr fi t financial review At Anglo American, we are resolute OWNERSHIP % ANGLO AMERICAN in our belief that a safe operation is a productive operation, as Longwall production tonnes 000 $ T FOB demonstrated by the significant 88% 1,000 150 safety, productivity and cost improvements at Moranbah North.
MINE LIFE 125 Since 2010, lost-time injuries have 800 fallen by 86%, while FOB unit costs 100 decreased by 34%.
Longwall 600 19 years move 75 400 Pillars of value: REDUCTION IN LTIs IN 2013 VS 2012 50 Environmental 200 25 Production 61% Cost 0 0 H2 2012 LTIs 9 H1 2013 LTIs 5 H2 2013 LTIs 4 Financial INCREASE IN SALEABLE July 12 Jan 13 Dec 13 For more on Pillars of value and our KPIs PRODUCTION IN 2013 VS 2012 See pages 1415 and 1819 Total $ T FOB excl.
royalty Saleable production Longwall production tonnes 1 LW 39% Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 35 STRATEGIC ELEMENT: PERFORMANCE OPERATING SAFELY AND RESPONSIBLY TO DELIVER SUSTAINABLE VALUE commercial opportunities the adoption of a more Ultimately, it is our ability to deliver value at commercial approach to marketing our products, while reducing our delivery and associated operating costs, will every stage from discovery to market in a safe help improve our margins and should deliver $400 million and responsible way that will determine the attributable EBIT improvements by 2016: sustainability of our business.
supply chain opportunities we continue to identify benefits from our procurement function and estimate we can reduce our costs by a further $100 million on an Safety remains our first priority and we strive every day attributable basis by 2016: to achieve zero harm in the workplace and beyond.
overheads we have reviewed our individual businesses We recognise our responsibility to preserve and, where and corporate centres and have identified sustainable cost possible, enhance, the natural resources we use at our reductions that would support $500 million attributable operations, such as land, water and energy.
EBIT improvement by 2016: We are disciplined in how we run our business, with a focus project pipeline we have refined our capital allocation on consistent delivery and strong financial returns.
Starting process and the way we manage early stage projects with clear and realistic expectations, we plan appropriately through the pipeline.
Consequently, we see an opportunity and then rigorously put those plans into action, measuring to reduce costs by $300 million per year on an attributable and analysing successes and failures to learn from both.
Further details on our capital allocation and project approval process can be found in the Portfolio section of The Groups technical mining expertise, allied to the this annual report on pages 2025. ability to tailor products to customers exacting requirements, provides a foundation to deliver financially stable business outcomes.
FINANCIAL AND OPERATIONAL PERFORMANCE IN THE YEAR DELIVERING ON OUR POTENTIAL Group results Anglo American reported underlying earnings of $2.7 billion At Anglo American, we have set ourselves a demanding 2012: $2.9 billion, with underlying operating profit but achievable target of delivering at least a 15% attributable increasing by 6% to $6.6 billion.
return on capital employed ROCE by 2016.
We have initiated a change programme, Driving Value, across the Underlying operating profit increased owing to fide Beers Group that will help us identify the opportunities to realise contributing for a full year as a subsidiary, improved sales significant further value from our assets.
at both Copper and Platinum and the weakening of the South African rand, partially offset by lower prices across Over the past nine months, we have conducted a thorough the majority of our commodities.
and comprehensive review of each of our operating assets.
As a result, we now have a clear understanding of what The Groups results are affected by currency fluctuations improvements need to be made to ensure we can deliver in the countries where the operations are based.
The a more stable operational performance and, hence, drive strengthening of the US dollar against the rand and the improved margins and returns, across the portfolio.
Australian dollar resulted in a $1,700 million positive exchange variance in underlying operating profit compared The business improvement opportunities and individual with 2012.
CPI inflation had a negative $595million impact elements to Driving Value we have identified to support the on underlying operating profit compared with the prior year.
required EBIT uplift include: Sales volumes were relatively flat compared with 2012, existing projects the delivery of planned projects should with the exception of Copper, where sales increased by result in a $0.9 billion attributable EBIT improvement by 124,600 tonnes to 768,200 tonnes.
The major projects underpinning this improvement are the Minas-Rio iron ore project, the Boa Vista Fresh Industry-wide, above-CPI cost pressures continued, Rock project at our Niobium business and the rebuilding particularly in South Africa and Australia, although these of the Barro Alto furnaces at our Nickel business: were mitigated by the continued positive performance of our business improvement and procurement programmes.
operations initiatives through the asset review process, we have identified a range of operational improvements Group underlying earnings were 7% lower at $2,673million, we believe can deliver $1.2 billion attributable EBIT despite the increase in operating profit, owing to the by 2016, after taking into account material risks and increased contribution from our non-100% owned negative operating conditions that may be experienced.
operations, i. e. fide Beers, Kumba Iron Ore, AA Sur and The improvements include: increasing extraction rates Anglo American Platinum.
and plant throughput at Los Bronces: redesigning the pit at Sishen to optimise ore extraction: continuing the longwall performance improvements at Moranbah North and applying what we have learned there at other coal longwall operations: 36 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report STRATEGIC REPORT Summary income statement Year ended Year ended 31 Dec 2012 1 $ million 31 Dec 2013 restated Operating profit from subsidiaries and joint operations before special items and remeasurements 6,168 5,493 Operating special items 3,211 6,977 Operating remeasurements 550 116 Operating profit loss from subsidiaries and joint operations 2,407 1,600 Non-operating special items and remeasurements 469 1,396 Share of net income from associates and joint ventures see reconciliation below 168 421 Total profit from operations, associates and joint ventures 2,106 217 Net finance costs before remeasurements 276 299 Financing remeasurements 130 89 Profit loss before tax 1,700 171 Income tax expense 1,274 393 Profit loss for the financial year 426 564 Profit loss to non-controlling interests 1,387 906 Loss for the financial period attributable to equity shareholders of the Company 961 1,470 Basic earnings per share $ 0.75 1.17 Group operating profit including associates and joint ventures before special items and 2 remeasurements 6,620 6,253 Operating profit from associates and joint ventures before special items and remeasurements 452 760 Special items and remeasurements 80 57 Net finance costs before special items and remeasurements 36 75 Income tax expense after special items and remeasurements 155 200 Non-controlling interests after special items and remeasurements 13 7 Share of net income from associates and joint ventures 168 421 1 Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new accounting pronouncements.
2 Operating profit before special items and remeasurements from subsidiaries and joint operations was $6,168 million 2012: $5,493 million and attributable share from associates was $452 million 2012: $760 million.
For special items and remeasurements, see note 6 to the financial statements.
Reconciliation of loss for the year to underlying earnings $ m Loss for the year 961 Actual 2012 6,253 Operating special items 3,291 Price 1,657 Operating remeasurements 550 Exchange 1,700 469 595 Non-operating special items CPI 130 713 Financing remeasurements Volume Special items and remeasurements tax 590 285 Cash cost Non-controlling interests on special items 216 79 Other Underlying earnings 2,673 Actual 2013 6,620 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 37 STRATEGIC ELEMENT: PERFORMANCE Special items and remeasurements, after tax and Niobium and Phosphates delivered a combined non-controlling interests, include: impairments relating underlying operating profit of $150 million, a decrease to Barro Alto $0.7 billion, Michiquillay $0.3 billion of 11%, mainly driven by lower phosphate prices.
and Foxleigh $0.2 billion : loss on disposal of Amap Platinum generated an underlying operating profit $0.1 billion and exit from Pebble $0.3 billion : and of $464million 2012: loss of $120 million as a result increased onerous contract provisions at Callide of increased production and sales and a weaker rand, $0.3 billion.
Full details of the special items and partly offset by weaker prices.
remeasurements charges are in note 6 to the financial statements.
Diamonds generated an underlying operating profit of $1,003 million, a 112% increase, reflecting the Groups Net finance costs, before remeasurements, and increased shareholding, together with improved prices, excluding associates and joint ventures, were $276 million largely owing to the product mix, and a weaker rand.
2012: $299 million, lower than 2012, owing to increased capitalised interest and a gain on fair value hedges, partly Other Mining and Industrial reported an underlying offset by increased net debt levels in the year.
operating loss of $13 million, a $181 million decrease, owing to a nil contribution from Scaw South Africa which The effective rate of tax, before special items and was divested in November 2012, a weaker market at the remeasurements and including attributable share of Lafarge Tarmac joint venture, and the Amap operation associates and joint ventures tax, increased from 29% not benefiting from the reversal of penalty provisions, as it in 2012 to 32%.
The increase is due to the impact of various had in 2012. prior year adjustments and the remeasurement of certain withholding tax provisions across the Group.
In future Corporate costs considered to be value adding to the periods the effective tax rate is expected to remain above business units are allocated to each business unit.
Costs the United Kingdom statutory tax rate.
reported externally as Group corporate costs only comprise costs associated with parental or direct shareholder Group underlying earnings per share were $2.09 compared related activities.
Corporate costs decreased by 12%, with $2.28 in 2012. partly driven by the positive impact of the weaker rand.
BUSINESS UNIT RESULTS Underlying operating profit Iron Ore and Manganese generated an underlying operating profit of $3,119 million, a 4% increase.
Kumba Iron Year ended Year ended Ores underlying operating profit of $3,047 million closely 1 $ million 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 matched the previous years owing to slightly higher average Iron Ore and Manganese 3,119 3,011 prices and the impact of the weaker rand, partially offset by a decrease in export sales volumes.
Samancor reported Metallurgical Coal 46 405 a more than doubling in underlying operating profit of Thermal Coal 541 793 $210 million, driven by higher manganese ore prices.
Copper 1,739 1,736 Metallurgical Coal generated an underlying operating profit of $46 million, an 89% decrease, primarily owing to Nickel 44 26 lower realised export selling prices, partly offset by Niobium and Phosphates 150 169 increased production and sales volumes, the weaker Australian dollar, and cost-cutting initiatives.
Platinum 464 120 Thermal Coal generated an underlying operating profit of Diamonds 1,003 474 $541 million, a 32% decrease, mainly as a result of lower Other Mining and Industrial 13 168 average export thermal coal prices, partly offset by the impact of the weaker rand.
Business performance was also Exploration 207 206 affected by a 32 day strike at Cerrejn in the first quarter.
Corporate activities and 178 203 Copper delivered an underlying operating profit of unallocated costs $1,739million, in line with 2012, as a result of lower Operating profit including realised sales prices, offset by increased production associates and joint ventures and sales volumes.
before special items and Nickel reported an underlying operating loss of $44 million, remeasurements 6,620 6,253 a $70 million decrease, owing to lower realised prices, a 1 Certain balances related to 2012 have been restated to reflect the adoption of new reduction in sales volumes, as well as the non-recurrence accounting pronouncements.
of the insurance receivable that benefited the business in 2012.
38 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report STRATEGIC REPORT PRODUCTION Metallurgical Coal, Copper, Platinum and Diamonds all reported production increases for 2013.
Kumba Iron Ore 2% Iron Ore and Manganese production of iron ore Metallurgical Coal 2% decreased by 2% to 42.4 million tonnes Mt, with higher Thermal Coal production from Kolomela offset by a weaker performance 2% from Sishen as a result of Section 54 safety stoppages and Copper 17% ongoing pit constraints.
Manganese ore production was flat, Nickel though alloy output increased.
12% Niobium Metallurgical Coal production increased by 2% to 2% 31.2 Mt, with record metallurgical coal production of 18.7 Mt, Phosphates 6% benefiting from the longwall improvement programmes at Platinum Moranbah North and Capcoals underground operation, 5% as well as operational improvements at Peace River Coal, Diamonds 12% partly offset by the impact of flooding at Dawson.
Thermal Coal production decreased by 2% to 67.6Mt, with improved machine rates and waste treatment at Greenside offset by lower than expected production at EXPLORATION New Vaal and Cerrejn.
The decrease at New Vaal was Global exploration activity for 2013 focused on greenfield attributable to wet weather interruptions and reduced projects across a number of mature and frontier locations, demand from Eskom, while Cerrejn was as a result of the as well as on adding value through increasing resources 32 day strike in the first quarter of the year, which was partly and reserves, to our operations and advanced projects.
mitigated by an effective recovery plan.
Exploration expenditure for the year amounted to Copper production increased by 17% to 774,800 tonnes, $207million 2012: $206 million and covered 19 countries.
benefiting at Los Bronces from the fully ramped up Iron ore exploration expenditure of $24 million was Confluencia plant and improved ore characteristics, and concentrated around operations in South Africa and from higher grades and recoveries at Collahuasi.
greenfield projects in Australia, Brazil and Liberia.
In Nickel production decreased by 12% to 34,400 tonnes South Africa, exploration was undertaken to support following the cessation of production at Loma fide Nquel Kumbas Sishen, Kolomela and Thabazimbi mines.
The from September 2012, partly offset by increased production high priority targets defined in 2012 were further drilled at Barro Alto.
in 2013, and the economic potential of these targets is currently being investigated.
Drilling will continue in 2014 Niobium production increased by 2% to 4,500tonnes, as to further investigate the potential.
throughput and recovery improvements offset the decline in ore quality.
Expenditure on metallurgical coal exploration was $19 million and included drilling, seismic surveys and Phosphates fertiliser production increased by 6% to coal-quality analysis.
In Australia, the focus was on 1,199,000 tonnes owing to improved performance following opportunities near existing operations with the main optimised maintenance scheduling, increased plant aim of improving the definition of additional coking coal availability and improved performance at the acidulation resources.
In Canada, emphasis was placed on the and granulation plants.
tenements surrounding the Peace River Coal Trend Mine Platinum equivalent refined platinum production and Roman Project, in order to help define additional open increased by 5% to 2,320,400 ounces as the company cut coking coal resources.
recovered from the impact of the strike in the fourth Expenditure on thermal coal exploration totalled $14 million.
quarter of 2012, partially offset by the production lost from This was incurred primarily on coal 82% as well as on coal Khuseleka 2, Khomanani and Union North declines shaft bed methane CBM drilling and analysis 18% in South being put on to long term care and maintenance from Africa and Botswana.
Exploration drilling was undertaken mid-August as a result of the business restructuring.
in 10 coal project areas, with the objectives of meeting both Diamonds production increased by 12% to 31.2 million statutory work programme requirements and providing carats, largely owing to the full restoration of operations at geological evaluation information to enable further project Jwaneng in the third quarter following a slope failure incident advancement.
In South Africa, CBM exploration was in June 2012.
Production from Canada also increased conducted on the Waterberg CBM project.
following further increases in mining volumes and improved Copper exploration expenditure of $31 million consisted grades at Snap Lake.
mainly of near-mine and greenfield exploration drilling in Chile, where key activities included drilling and drilling logistics at El Soldado and Los Bronces, respectively.
Greenfield exploration was also conducted in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Greenland, Indonesia, Peru, the US and Zambia.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 39 STRATEGIC ELEMENT: PERFORMANCE PROJECTS The Group has a number of projects in the execution phase, as summarised below, and is progressing with % the development of other growth projects, including the Iron ore 24 12 greenfield Quellaveco copper project in Peru.
Metallurgical coal 19 9 Minas-Rio Thermal coal 14 7 Minas-Rio is expected to produce 26.5 Mt wet basis of iron Copper 31 15 ore per annum and to capture a significant part of the global Nickel 22 11 pellet feed market, with its premium product featuring high Niobium and phosphates 6 3 iron content and low contaminants.
Construction of the Platinum 2 1 project continues in line with the revised plan announced Diamonds 53 25 in 2012.
By the end of 2013, the project was 84% complete Central exploration activities 36 17 overall and is on schedule to deliver first ore on ship at the end of 2014.
Total 207 100 Attributable capital expenditure at the Minas-Rio project is on track at $8.8 billion, with cash unit costs in a Polymetallic  group elements competitive position in the lower half of the global seaborne exploration expenditure included within the Nickel iron ore cost curve.
commodity line as disclosed in note 4 to the financial The main schedule risks identified at the end of 2012 statements, amounted to $20 million and concentrated have been resolved, and over the past year, significant on our Sakatti project in northern Finland.
Exploration construction and operational progress was made.
at this advanced project aimed to define the limits of the orebody and to test other surrounding targets.
Greenfield Grosvenor polymetallic exploration was also conducted in the The wholly owned greenfield Grosvenor metallurgical Musgraves region of Western Australia and the coal project is situated immediately to the south of Canadian Arctic.
our highly productive Moranbah North metallurgical coal mine in the Bowen Basin of Queensland, Australia.
Nickel exploration expenditure amounted to $2 million Grosvenor is expected to produce 5.0 Mtpa of high quality and related mainly to nickel laterite exploration in the metallurgical coal from its underground longwall operation Morro Sem Bon district in Brazil.
Near-mine exploration over a projected mine life of 31 years and to benefit from was undertaken at Niquelndia Codemin, also in Brazil.
operating costs in the lower half of the cost curve.
Niobium and Phosphates exploration expenditure totalled The project remains on target for first longwall production $6 million and was directed towards greenfield projects in 2016.
All key permits and licences are in place.
Critical in central Brazil, near-mine exploration at Boa Vista engineering and procurement activities have been niobium and further definition drilling of the Morro Preto completed and the majority of the project budget has been phosphates prospect.
Surface construction is well Platinum exploration accounted for $2 million and was advanced: earthworks and concrete are essentially mainly incurred on investigating new opportunities within complete: structural, mechanical and piping works are South Africas Bushveld Complex and on fulfilling the advancing well: and electrical works have commenced.
statutory work programme requirements to keep tenure The drift portal works are complete and underground in good standing.
This included a drilling programme to development has commenced with the commissioning examine the potential for shallow resources to be mined of a tunnel boring machine.
Prospecting for platinum group metals continued around our Unki platinum mine in Zimbabwe.
Diamond exploration spend was $53 million and related to diamond exploration programmes in Angola, Botswana, Canada, India, Namibia and South Africa.
The exploration team continued to provide technical services to the resource extension programmes for Jwaneng and Orapa mines in Botswana and Victor mine in Canada.
40 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report STRATEGIC REPORT SELECTED MAJOR PROJECTS Approved Capital First Full expenditure Greenfield G production production 1 2 Sector Project Country Brownfield B date date $ bn Production volume 3 4 Iron Ore and Manganese Minas-Rio Brazil G 2014 2016 8.8 26.5 Mtpa iron ore pellet feed Metallurgical Coal Grosvenor Australia G 2014 2016 2 5.0 Mtpa metallurgical Thermal Coal Cerrejn P40 Colombia B 2013 2015 2 8.0 Mtpa thermal Copper Collahuasi expansion Phase 2 Chile B 2013 2014 1 20 ktpa copper Platinum Twickenham South Africa G 2013 2024 2 202 kozpa refined platinum Bathopele Phase 5 South Africa B 2013 2017 1 replace 128 kozpa refined platinum 5 6 Diamonds Jwaneng Cut-8 Botswana B 2016 2018 3 approx.
10 million carats pa Venetia U G South Africa B 2021 2024 2 approx.
4 million carats pa 7 Niobium and Phosphates Boa Vista Fresh Rock Brazil B 2014 2015 1 6.5 ktpa total niobium production 1 Capital expenditure shown on 100% basis in nominal terms.
2 Represents 100% of average incremental or replacement production, at full production, unless otherwise stated.
3 Capital expenditure, post-acquisition of Anglo Americans shareholding in Minas-Rio, includes 100% of the mine and pipeline, and an attributable share of the port.
4 Iron ore pellet feed on wet tonnes basis at 8% moisture.
5 Waste stripping at Cut-8, an extension to Jwaneng mine, began in 2010.
Carat recovery will commence in 2016, with Cut-8 becoming the main ore source for Jwaneng from 2018.
6 Infrastructure expenditure of approximately $450 million has already been spent.
Project expenditure, including infrastructure expenditure, is likely to total approximately $3 billion and is anticipated to create access to an estimated 113 million carats over the life of the mine.
7 An extension to mine life by mining the unweathered ore after oxides have been depleted.
New processing plant from crushing to leaching required.
Venetia Capital expenditure In South Africa, the first blast took place in September 2013 for the construction of an underground mine beneath the Year ended Year ended open pit at Venetia.
With capital investment of $2 billion, $ million 31 Dec 2013 31 Dec 2012 the underground expansion represents fide Beers largest Expansionary 3,258 2,956 ever investment in South Africa.
Production is expected to Stay in business 2,242 2,290 commence from the underground mine in 2021 and will extend the life of the mine to beyond 2040.
The projected Development and stripping 761 784 life of mine plan will treat approximately 129 million tonnes 1 Total 6,261 6,030 of ore, containing an estimated 94 million carats.
Boa Vista Fresh Rock The Boa Vista Fresh Rock project in Brazil continued to progress during 2013 and is expected to start production later in 2014.
The project includes the construction of a new upstream plant that will enable continuity of the Catalo site through processing the fresh rock orebody.
Production capacity will increase to approximately 6,500tonnes of niobium per year 2013: 4,500 tonnes, allowing use of the full plant capacity.
Capital expenditure Total capital spend increased from $6,030 million in 2012 to $6,261million, predominantly as a result of the increased expansionary expenditure at Minas-Rio and Grosvenor, as well as the increased holding in fide Beers.
1 Scheduled Inferred Resources constitute 28% 26.3 Mct of the estimated carats.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 41 STRATEGIC ELEMENT: PERFORMANCE Overall, the changes we have been making across CREATING VALUE THROUGH OUR commercial provide the platform to deliver a $400 million COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES a year improvement in EBIT from 2016.
As commodity markets have evolved over recent years, This value will be created through more than 40 specific becoming more dynamic and competitive, we have been commercial initiatives which have been fully scoped and developing our strategy to take advantage of these changes assessed.
They include strategies to realise higher prices to improve returns from our commercial activities.
by changing our product mix to respond to market At Anglo American, commercial refers to the whole value developments and customer needs, as well as improving chain from the mine gate to the end-customer.
Since 2012, returns by diversifying our customer base, establishing we have been making significant changes across this area more direct customer relationships, and eliminating to become more proactive, globally co-ordinated and discounts or fees previously given to fabricators and customer-centric in our approach, and to enable us to other intermediaries.
realise the full value potential of our asset portfolio.
Some 60% of the $400 million of value identified We have moved from a highly decentralised commercial will come from projects that are at an advanced stage organisation built around nine export marketing offices of implementation, with resources already committed across the world, to a single global commercial function to delivery.
with two hubs, in London and Singapore.
This brings us closer to our customers in the respective European and SUPPLY CHAIN Asia-Pacific markets and is facilitating knowledge sharing and collaboration across our marketing and sales teams.
An important aspect of the Driving Value programme is Supply Chains commitment to deliver $100 million of Combining our commercial activities under a single sustainable savings to the Group by 2016 through the leadership team is also enabling us to enhance commercial focused implementation of a number of key initiatives.
capabilities across the organisation and better manage our talent pool and pipeline, as well as ensuring an integrated Optimisation of contracted services approach to value delivery across the commodity portfolio.
The initial focus is in Chile, where current contractor costs at our operations account for 55% of total expenditure.
Further benefits are being realised through improved Contracted service costs have increased significantly owing efficiencies, including harmonised processes and systems to escalating labour costs, a lack of skilled labour and a and the use of shared services in areas such as commercial strengthening Chilean peso.
A comprehensive review of finance and information technology.
these services has identified significant opportunities to During 2012 and early 2013, we established centres deliver savings.
Lessons learned from this initiative will be of excellence to drive best practice in key commercial transferred to all business units once implemented.
disciplines such as market intelligence and logistics.
Extending global tyre contracts and effective We have also developed, and are in the process of tyre management implementing, new commercial riskand performanceAnglo American currently spends $220 million on off-road management systems to measure value creation and tyres.
With competitive new long term contracts in place manage risk exposure more effectively.
to provide commercial benefit and ensure security of In addition, we have brought all our shipping activities supply, the focus is now on implementing multiple together within a single shipping division, and plan to initiatives, targeting a 30% improvement in tyre life.
significantly increase the proportion of business we do This is expected to be achieved through tyre pressure on a delivered basis over the coming years, with a target monitoring, driver awareness, road maintenance and freight book of 50 million tonnes by 2016.
all our shipping into a single portfolio enables us to leverage Implementing fuel management and efficiency our global scale and fully optimise our freight network to systems to reduce diesel consumption reduce costs and cargo turnaround times.
It also gives us Anglo Americans current annual fuel expenditure is in more control and flexibility in this part of the commercial excess of $1.1 billion.
In addition to ensuring we have value chain.
attractive commercial agreements in place, we are also reducing fuel consumption through a range of efficiency and technology initiatives.
Focal points include additional price and volume discounts, better fuel management, including the use of fuel-flow optimisation technology, and cleaner  fuels.
42 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report STRATEGIC REPORT Using Chinese suppliers to reduce Strategy and management approach procurement costs We seek to manage our environmental risks by minimising With the assistance of its China-based procurement office, our impacts and by taking advantage of opportunities that Anglo American has successfully used pre-qualified deliver long term benefits to our stakeholders.
We do this Chinese suppliers to reduce total life cycle costs.
Targeted by driving operational excellence, investing in technology, sourcing from China offers cost advantages and improved and engaging and partnering with our stakeholders.
The lead times which have significant value impact potential Anglo American Environment Way, which includes at our operations.
The introduction of alternative supply performance standards covering all our environmental possibilities has the benefit of driving competitive pricing aspects, guides our approach to responsible environmental in the market.
In 2013, we placed particular emphasis on water quality, legacy issues, and improving environmental A further $47 million of one-off savings has also been incident management and reporting.
This will come from the implementation of a common strategy across the business units for the disposal Our internal Safety and Sustainable Development risk and of surplus mining equipment so that the value returned to assurance function conducts reviews of our most material the business from the disposal of such assets is maximised, sustainability and technical risks on a rotational basis.
During along with greater control of the sale process.
2013, 15 environmental reviews were conducted, focusing on water quality, environmental legacy issues and tailingsdisposal facilities.
The results of such reviews are discussed MANAGING OUR IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT and addressed on site and with business unit leadership Growing regulatory and social pressure, increasing teams and reported to relevant oversight bodies, including demands for limited natural resources, and the rising committees of the Board.
We also received external costs of energy and water, all highlight the business certification on our environmental management systems imperative of responsible environmental management.
Within this context, the principal environmental risks Anglo American reports environmental incidents according facing our business relate to water and climate change.
to five levels of severity.
In 2013, 30 level 3 medium impact In our Sustainable Development Report we also report environmental incidents were reported.
All incidents are on land management, biodiversity, waste and air addressed on site and the root causes determined and quality as other important issues that require specific mitigated in order to prevent repeats.
has been completed for half of these incidents and is in We also see tremendous opportunity.
The metals we progress at the rest.
No level 4 or 5 high impact incidents mine are increasingly applied in innovative environmental were reported.
technologies: communities without access to water and sanitation can benefit from our mine infrastructure, and some of the land under our management control has yet to be used to its fullest potential.
In some of our waste facilities lies the opportunity to re-mine, while for others we research and trial novel applications for by-products.
We continue to make progress towards our environmental goals and internal targets, achieving tangible improvements in resource efficiency and associated cost savings and productivity.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 43 STRATEGIC ELEMENT: PERFORMANCE WATER Water is fundamental to our business, particularly as more % than 70% of our mines are in water-stressed areas.
To Water re-used recycled 67 maintain our licence to operate, we cannot degrade water Water used for 30 quality, or compromise the access rights of other users.
We primary activities also have an opportunity to play a leadership role in our Water used for 3 water catchments through partnerships and by increasing non-primary activities the shared benefits of our water-related mining activities Total 100 and infrastructure development.
Strategy and management approach Our 10 year water strategy, launched in 2010, reflects our Our performance aspiration to demonstrate leadership in water stewardship.
Anglo Americans total water consumption increased from 3 3 Most of our operations now go beyond compliance, using 156 million m of water in 2012, to 201 million m in 2013.
3 technology to reduce our dependence and impact on water Of th is total, fide Beers accounted for 75 million m. Nearly resources, and engagement that becomes part of broader, 40% of fide Beers consumption is sea water abstracted by catchment level water management solutions.
The increase was partially offset by divestments and savings from the implementation Our water management programme is supported by a of our WETT programme.
This once again had a material mandatory water standard and delivered via operational impact on improving our water efficiency such that we have water action plans.
Every Anglo American operation works already exceeded our 2020 water savings target of 14%.
towards a water reduction target that was determined in Water saving projects implemented include more effective 2011, using our water efficiency target tool WETT, which dust suppression, dewatering of tailings and more efficient forecasts the projected business as usual BAU demand ore separation.
Water cost savings exceeded $85 million of individual operations and registers water saving projects.
Operational targets are aggregated at business unit level, where they are included in business unit CEO performance Water re-use recycling levels dropped from 70% in 2012 contracts.
These make up our Group target of a 14% to 67% in 2013.
Excluding fide Beers, which does not yet reduction from our projected water consumption by 2020. fully account for all water recycled, this figure would have fide Beers targets will be established and included in 2014. been 73%.
Where operations face high risks related to water, we develop specific risk-management action plans.
Total water consumed against business These include plans to manage the tight water supply as usual BAU 20102013 balance at Los Bronces, the rain-immunisation 3 million m programme at Metallurgical Coal in Australia aimed 250 at protecting operations from extreme weather, and Sishen iron ore mines surface flooding and water 200 management programme.
150 WETT savings 100 50 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total new water consumed in ongoing business fide Beers Divested businesses BAU projection 44 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 { Strategic report STRATEGIC REPORT During 2013, Anglo American consumed 106 million GJ CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY of energy 2012: 113 million GJ.
The 6% year-on-year The key climate change risks we face are: increasing decrease, despite the inclusion of an additional 9 million GJ energy and compliance costs associated with new policy of energy use at fide Beers, was attributable to the measures, including carbon pricing: changing demand divestment of assets in our Other Mining and Industrial, for our products: and increased risks associated with the and Nickel businesses as well as the implementation physical impacts of climate change on our operations and of energyand carbon-saving projects as part of the neighbouring communities.
ECO MAN programme, where we added 61 new projects.
2 The total of 260 completed projects accounted for a 5% Governments in our countries of operation continue reduction against our BAU consumption target of 7% by to develop climate change policies.
The resultant avoided-energy cost is estimated at governments proposed carbon tax, if implemented in 2015, $95.5 million.
would introduce a higher carbon cost for our business.
In Chile, there is increased focus on climate risks, particularly The Groups total Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas around potential impacts on glaciers, and Brazil is GHG emissions declined to 17 Mt of carbon dioxide investigating options for a cap-and-trade scheme.
In equivalent emissions CO e 2012: 18 Mt CO e. The 2 2 Australia, our Metallurgical Coal business expects to benefit inclusion of fide Beers relatively modest GHG emission from the new governments intention to replace the existing profile 2 Mt CO e was countered by the divestment 2 carbon pricing scheme in July 2014 with a Direct Action of the energy-intensive Scaw South Africa business at Plan, the details of which are still to be confirmed.
the end of 2012, as well as the cessation of operations at Loma fide Nquel towards the end of that year.
The sale Strategy and management approach of Tarmac Quarry Materials, which now forms part of Improving operational energy and carbon management the Lafarge Tarmac joint venture and is not included in is driven through our industry-leading programme, Anglo American figures, as well as the divestment of Amap ECO MAN.
In 2011, energyand carbon-reduction targets 2 at the end of 2013, have further contributed to the reduction.
were agreed for every Anglo American operation.
These Largely as a result of Metallurgical Coals management of are aggregated into business unit targets and form part underground methane, Anglo American is on track towards of business unit CEO performance contracts.
Our overall achieving its carbon-saving target level of 19% by 2015. targets for greenhouse gas GHG emission and energy consumption reductions are 19% and 7% respectively, Within the current business, GHG emissions for 2013 against the projected BAU levels in 2015. increased by 14% at Kumba, mainly owing to increased use of diesel for waste stripping, and at Iron Ore Brazil, Our performance where emissions were 50% higher as a consequence of the By year end, we had achieved reductions of 3.5 million ramping up of construction at the Minas-Rio iron ore project.
tonnes Mt of greenhouse gas GHG emissions and 4.3million GJ in energy consumption against the 2015 BAU projections.
25 140 20 120 15 100 80 10 60 5 40 0 20 2010 2011 2012 2013 0 Energy consumed by ongoing business fide Beers 2010 2011 2012 2013 Divested businesses Energy consumed by ongoing business BAU projection for ongoing business fide Beers Divested businesses BAU projection for ongoing business Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 45
