STRATEGIC REPORT MARKETPLACE MARKETPLACE REVIEW Indonesia and South Africa experienced intense THE ECONOMY financial volatility given their perceived macro-economic vulnerability: slow growth, stubborn inflation, and persistent GROWTH DISAPPOINTMENT budget and trade deficits.
The turbulence eased in the According to the IMF, global GDP growth was 3% in 2013, autumn though financial markets remained nervous.
Activity was particularly weak in the first half of the year, especially in Europe, China and PROSPECTS other major emerging economies.
But there were more encouraging signs of stabilisation in the second half.
The The world economy should strengthen in 2014 and 2015, IMF estimates that real GDP growth in the advanced with real GDP growth picking up to around 3-4%, close to economies declined to 1% in 2013 from 1% in 2012. its historical average.
In the US and Europe, the diminishing In emerging market and developing economies, real GDP effects of fiscal tightening should support a solid recovery.
growth dropped to 4% from 5%, its slowest rate since the In Japan, the new governments Abenomics should also global recession in 200809.
The growth in world trade was contribute to stronger growth.
After the sharp slowdown in unchanged at 2% in 2013. late 2012 and 2013, the major emerging economies should grow in line with their underlying or potential growth rates.
After robust growth of close to 3% in 2012, the US economy slowed appreciably in 2013, with GDP growth of just 2%, Beyond the short term cyclical rebound, there is some principally reflecting the negative effects of a significant uncertainty around medium term trends in economic fiscal tightening.
With the administration and Congress growth.
Most economists believe the US economy should unable to agree on a programme to reduce the federal grow at around 3% a year, though there are concerns that budget deficit, temporary tax cuts expired in January 2013 sluggish investment might depress productivity growth for and automatic spending cuts sequestration took effect in some considerable time.
In Europe and Japan, there are still March.
This represented an aggregate tightening of around 2% significant concerns around the overhang of government of GDP, offsetting the steady improvement in private demand debt and the fragility of the banking system.
In the spring, the Federal Reserve hinted The turbulence in emerging economies has led to a more that it might start to scale back its asset buying programme, cautious assessment of their medium term growth which triggered a sharp rise in market interest rates.
With a less favourable external environment consequent tightening of financial conditions appeared to and increasing domestic challenges, the IMF recently dampen activity in the late summer and early autumn.
revised down its forecasts for growth.
Still, the powerful After the turmoil of its debt crisis in 201112, the European logic of convergence in living standards suggests there is economy stabilised in 2013.
The European Central Banks considerable growth potential.
But there is a great onus commitment to back stop government bond markets on domestic policymakers to implement much-needed calmed fears of a possible fragmentation of the euro.
In reforms to unlock this potential.
addition, the European Commission and the German government adopted a more pragmatic approach to fiscal consolidation in the troubled economies.
After falling back Real GDP into recession in late 2012 and early 2013, the euro zone % change on a year earlier, using PPP weighting Forecast has recovered in recent quarters.
While Germany has led 10 the improvement, there are also encouraging signs the worst is over in the crisis-hit peripheral economies.
8 Chinas economy slowed abruptly in the first half of 2013, causing some concern that growth might fall below the 6 governments 7% objective.
Apparent disagreement among policymakers added to the uncertainty.
But in the 4 summer, the authorities signalled their determination to support economic growth.
The subsequent mini-stimulus brought forward some infrastructure projects and pushed 2 economic growth above 7% for the year.
In November, the Third Plenum of the Chinese Communist Partys 18th 0 Central Committee laid out a comprehensive programme of reform to encourage rebalancing and restructuring in the 2 economy.
The programme is the most ambitious since Deng Xiaopings reforms in the late 1970s and, if implemented, it could transform the economys longer term growth potential.
4 There was considerable turbulence in other major emerging 6 economies in 2013.
Following the Federal Reserves hint about scaling back its asset buying programme, US interest 1990 1994 1998 2002 2006 2010 2014 2018 rates and the dollar spiked higher in the summer.
This Advanced economies triggered a significant reversal of capital flows to emerging Emerging and developing economies economies and their currencies fell sharply.
Brazil, India, World Source: IMF 06 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Strategic report 1 Indexed 2013 commodity prices 1.25 1.20 1.15 1.10 1.05 1.00 0.95 0.90 0.85 0.80 0.75 0.70 Feb 2013 Apr 2013 Jun 2013 Aug 2013 Oct 2013 Dec 2013 Dec 2012 Copper Manganese Iron Ore FOB Aus Nickel Metallurgical Coal Palladium Thermal Coal Platinum Phosphates 1 Monthly average prices Source: Anglo American Commodity Research year, as continuing market tightness was driven by strong COMMODITY MARKETS demand, especially from the Chinese autocatalyst sector, and a marginal decrease in primary supply.
From a commodity price perspective, 2013 was characterised by its lack of homogeneity, with our core commodities Robust steel production growth in China supported strong showing varied price trends in line with the structural growth in global demand for steelmaking raw materials fundamentals of each market.
Iron ore and palladium prices, in 2013, but despite similar growth drivers, price trends for example, were robust in the context of supportive market differed.
For iron ore, low cost seaborne supply has conditions, while annual average prices for thermal coal, expanded, though not sufficiently to entirely displace the hard coking coal HCC, nickel and platinum weakened need for high cost supply from Chinas mines.
Although there were steep declines in the prices averaged 4% higher during the year with a notably stronger of a number of commodities in the year, the global economic performance during the second half than many analysts situation, and hence the prospects for commodities, expected.
Manganese ore prices, too, were higher 10% on appeared to stabilise and even showed some improvement an average annual basis, as relatively strong growth in during the final months of the year.
seaborne supply was offset by a restocking cycle in China.
By contrast, HCC benchmark prices fell by 24%.
Supply side The monthly average copper price declined by 9% over the dynamics played a critical role, with a focus on productivity year.
After falling through the first half, driven by concerns leading to lower costs and increased production from key over the global macro-economic outlook, prices then Australian suppliers, while US miners also maintained stabilised for most of the rest of the year, underpinned by exports close to historical highs despite the lower price falling inventories on the three principal metal exchanges.
environment, as a result of the very high fixed-cost But, against a backdrop of reasonable global demand structures in the industry.
growth, mine output increased at its fastest rate for nine years, pushing the underlying metal market into modest Thermal coal prices also softened owing to excessive surplus, with inventories being built up either off-exchange, supply, despite opportunistic Chinese buying.
Supply downstream or in Chinese bonded warehouses.
growth outstripped demand growth as a result of producers hoping to spread fixed costs over greater volumes.
This The monthly average nickel price fell by 20% over the year.
resulted in prices appearing to find a floor well below some After a marked decline during the first half, driven by a producers cash cost levels at $77 t in the third quarter, growing market surplus and more general economic though they subsequently recorded steady improvement uncertainty, prices then stabilised at a depressed level.
during the final three months of the year.
There was a rapid increase in finished nickel production and, particularly, a surge in the output of nickel pig iron in China.
In early 2013, phosphates prices were under pressure Strong growth in global demand was insufficient to prevent from weak US demand, while more recently, a reduction LME inventories climbing to record highs.
Prices during the in input costs ammonia and sulphur has made lower price second half were at a level at which, according to some levels more sustainable.
Combined, this has deepened the estimates, around one-third of the global nickel industry recent drop in prices from the usual end of year seasonal was cash negative.
Niobium prices also declined slightly over the year, following the steel market.
Recent improvements in Platinum group metals experienced contrasting fortunes the ferrovanadium market are expected to filter through during 2013, with the monthly average platinum price to ferroniobium.
weakening by 14%, while the monthly average palladium price rose by 4%.
For platinum, this price fall came despite Over the next few years, a stabilising global economy market tightness, as supply was broadly flat.
Gross demand, should provide a solid foundation for demand across however, grew by around 6%, with significant incremental AngloAmericans suite of commodities.
On the supply demand generated by the launch of a South African ETF.
side, the prices of some commodities are likely to be Macro-economic developments, and in particular the impacted by the delivery of large projects in the short to weakening of the South African rand, combined with the medium term.
The consensus outlook reflects this view, calming of tension among platinum producers, government showing price improvements in 2014 and 2015, compared and unions, reduced the support for dollar-denominated with 2013, for most of Anglo Americans core commodities, prices.
In contrast, the palladium price was robust during the except iron ore and copper.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 07 Price Index, December 2012 1.0
