GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT GOING CONCERN The directors have pleasure in submitting the The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity statutory financial statements of the Group for position and borrowing facilities are set out in the Group the year ended 31 December 2013. performance section on pages 3445.
In addition, detail is given on the Groups policy on managing credit and liquidity risk in the Risk section on pages 4653, with details of our The Board considers that the Annual Report, taken as policy on capital risk management being set out in note a whole, is fair, balanced and understandable and that it 25 to the financial statements.
The Groups net debt at provides all information necessary for shareholders to 31 December 2013 was $10.7 billion 2012: $8.5 billion, assess the Companys strategy and performance.
Details of borrowings and facilities are set out in note 25 and net PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES debt is set out in note 24.
Anglo American is one of the worlds largest mining The directors have considered the Groups cash flow companies, is headquartered in the UK and listed on the forecasts for the period to the end of March 2015.
The London and Johannesburg stock exchanges.
Our portfolio Board is satisfied that the Groups forecasts and projections, of mining businesses meets our customers changing needs taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading and spans bulk commodities iron ore and manganese, performance, show that the Group will be able to operate metallurgical coal and thermal coal: base metals and within the level of its current facilities for the foreseeable minerals copper, nickel, niobium and phosphates: and future.
For this reason the Group continues to adopt the precious metals and minerals in which we are a global going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
leader in both platinum and diamonds.
At Anglo American, we are committed to working together with our stakeholders DIVIDENDS our investors, our partners and our employees to create sustainable value that makes a real difference, while An interim dividend of 32 US cents per ordinary share upholding the highest standards of safety and responsibility was paid on 12September 2013.
The directors are across all our businesses and geographies.
The Companys recommending that a final dividend of 53 US cents per mining operations, pipeline of growth projects and ordinary share be paid on 29 April 2014 to ordinary exploration activities span southern Africa, South America, shareholders on the register at the close of business on Australia, North America, Asia and Europe.
21March 2014, subject to shareholder approval at the AGM to be held on 24 April 2014.
Due to a public holiday More detailed information about the Groups businesses, in South Africa, the effective record date to qualify for the activities and financial performance is incorporated in this dividend in South Africa is 20 March 2014.
This would bring report by reference and can be found in the chairmans and the total dividend in respect of 2013 to 85 US cents per CEOs statements on pages 23 and 811 respectively.
In accordance with International Financial The Strategic report and Corporate governance statement Reporting Standards IFRS, the final dividend will be are on pages 291 and 92150 respectively and are accounted for in the financial statements for the year incorporated in this Directors report by reference.
Strategic report includes, inter alia, disclosures on greenhouse gas emissions, diversity and human rights.
SHARE CAPITAL The Companys issued share capital as at 31 December 2013, together with details of share allotments and issue of treasury shares during the year, is set out in note 33 on pages 197198.
The Company was authorised by shareholders at the AGM held on 19April 2013, to purchase its own shares in the market up to a maximum of 14.99% of the issued share capital.
No shares were purchased under this authority during 2013.
This authority will expire at the 2014 AGM and, in accordance with usual practice, a resolution to renew it for another year will be proposed.
144 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Governance MATERIAL SHAREHOLDINGS SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT As at 31 December 2013, the Company was aware of the The Sustainable Development Report 2013 will be available following interests in 3% or more of the Companys ordinary in March 2014.
This report focuses on the safety, sustainable share capital: development, health and environmental performance of the Number Percentage Groups managed operations, its performance with regard Company of shares of voting rights to the Companys Good Citizenship Business Principles, Public Investment 116,355,956 8.35 and the operational dimensions of its social programmes.
Corporation PIC Coronation Asset Management PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS PTY Ltd 75,411,187 5.41 Anglo American plc is a holding company and, as such, Blackrock, Inc. 63,318,019 4.54 has no material trade creditors.
Businesses across the Genesis Asset Managers, LLP 55,426,734 3.98 Group are responsible for agreeing the terms under 1 Tarl Investment Holdings Limited 47,275,613 3.39 which transactions with their suppliers are conducted, reflecting local and industry norms and Group purchasing Epoch Two Investment 42,166,686 3.02 1 Holdings Limited arrangements that may have been made with a supplier.
The Group values its suppliers and recognises the benefits 1 Epoch Two Investment Holdings Ltd Epoch 2 and Tarl Investment Holdings Limited to be derived from maintaining good relationships with them.
Tarl are two of the independent companies that have purchased shares as part of Anglo American acknowledges the importance of paying Anglo Americans share buy-back programme.
Epoch 2 and Tarl have waived their invoices, especially those of small businesses, promptly.
right to vote all the shares they hold, or will hold, in Anglo American plc.
During the period between 31 December 2013 and VALUE OF LAND 13February 2014, no changes to the substantial shareholdings were disclosed tothe Company in Land is mainly carried in the financial statements at cost.
accordance with Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5.
It is not practicable to estimate the market value of land and mineral rights, since these depend on product prices over the next 20 years or more, which will vary with DIRECTORS market conditions.
Directors biographical details are given on pages 9496.
Details of directors interests in shares and share options of POST-BALANCE SHEET EVENTS the Company can be found in the Directors remuneration report on pages 118143.
Post-balance sheet events are set out in note 37 to the financial statements on page 200.
Mark Cutifani was appointed CEO and a director with effect from 3 April 2013.
Byron Grote joined the Board on 19 April 2013, Mphu Ramatlapeng was appointed on 8 July 2013 and AUDIT INFORMATION Jim Rutherford joined on 4 November 2013.
Judy Dlamini The directors confirm that, so far as they are aware, there was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 January 2014. is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are Cynthia Carroll resigned as CEO of the Company with effect unaware, and that all directors have taken all reasonable from 3 April 2013, and as a director with effect from the steps to make themselves aware of any relevant audit closing of the AGM held on 19April 2013.
Peter Woicke information and to establish that the auditors are aware also resigned from the Board on 19 April 2013. of that information.
David Challen and Sir CK Chow are due to step down at the 2014 AGM, as mentioned on page 93.
Byron Grote will be appointed as the chairman of the Audit Committee to replace David Challen.
Byrons financial experience is set out in his biography on page 95.
Sir Philip Hampton will assume the role of senior independent director upon theretirement of David Challen.
In accordance with the Code, Anglo American will continue to propose the re-election of all directors on an annual basis.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 145 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT The Business Integrity Policy and its 11 Performance EMPLOYMENT AND OTHER POLICIES Standards support our anti-corruption commitment by The Groups key operating businesses are empowered to making it clear that we will neither give, nor accept, bribes, manage within the context of the different legislative and nor permit others to do so in our name, either in our dealings social demands of the diverse countries in which those with public officials or with our suppliers and customers.
The businesses operate, subject to the standards embodied in Policy sets out the standards of conduct required at every Anglo Americans Good Citizenship Business Principles.
level of Anglo American, including our subsidiaries, joint Within all the Groups businesses, the safe and effective ventures and associates, in combating corrupt behaviour performance of employees and the maintenance of positive of all types.
It also sets out the requirements of those with employee relations are of fundamental importance.
whom we do business and those who work on our behalf.
Managers are charged with ensuring that the following key The Business Integrity Policy and Performance Standards principles are upheld: have been translated into all the main languages that we adherence to national legal standards on employment use at our operations.
Two dedicated business integrity and workplace rights at all times managers, who operate within a broader risk management in addition, adherence to the International Labour and business assurance team, oversee implementation of Organisations core labour rights, including: prohibition the policy by working with senior managers in our business of child labour: prohibition of inhumane treatment of units and corporate functions and assisting them to put in employees and any form of forced labour, physical place adequate procedures for managing corruption risks punishment or other abuse: recognition of the right of our including extensive face-to-face training of employees in employees to freedom of association and the promotion high-risk roles.
of workplace equality: and the elimination of all forms of Our internal audit team provide assurance on antiunfair discrimination corruption controls on an annual basis and all stakeholders continual promotion of safe and healthy working practices are able to confidentially report breaches, or potential breaches, of the Business Integrity Policy through our provision of opportunities for employees to enhance their  Speak Up facility.
work related skills and capabilities The Group has a new social intranet called Eureka!
which adoption of fair and appropriate procedures for determining helps employees to connect, communicate and collaborate terms and conditions of employment.
In addition, the Company regularly It is our policy that people with disabilities should have full publishes Optima available on the Companys website and and fair consideration for all vacancies.
Employment of Our World, which contain items of news, current affairs and disabled people is considered on merit and with regard information relevant to Group employees.
only to the ability of any applicant to carry out the role.
We endeavour to retain the employment of, and arrange suitable CHARITABLE DONATIONS retraining for, any employees in the workforce who become disabled during their employment.
Where possible we will During the year, Anglo American, its subsidiaries and adjust a persons working environment to enable them to the Anglo American Group Foundation made donations stay in our employment.
for charitable purposes or wider social investments amounting to $127.5 million 2.2% of profit before tax from Further, the Group is committed to treating employees at subsidiaries and joint operations, before special items and all levels with respect and consideration, to investing in remeasurements.
Charitable donations of $0.8 million their development and to ensuring that their careers are were made in the UK, of which the main categories were: not constrained by discrimination or arbitrary barriers.
education and training 47.7% and health and welfare The Good Citizenship Business Principles are 41.5%.
These figures were compiled with reference to supplemented by four Anglo American Way documents, the London Benchmarking Group model for defining and covering the safety, environmental, occupational health measuring social investment spending.
A fuller analysis of and social aspects of responsible operation and sustainable the Groups social investment activities can be found in the development.
These set out specific standards for each of Sustainable Development Report 2013. these subject areas, in line with international best practice.
Copies of the Good Citizenship Business Principles and the POLITICAL DONATIONS AngloAmerican Way documents may be accessed on the No political donations were made during 2013.
American has an established policy of not making donations In addition, all Anglo American suppliers must commit to to, or incurring expenses for the benefit of, any political party adhering to the requirements set out in the Sustainable in any part of the world, including any political party or Development in Supply Chain Policy, which is available on political organisation as defined in the Political Parties, the companys website.
146 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Governance Rights and obligations attaching to shares ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary and The AGM will be held on 24 April 2014, when shareholders preference shares are set out in the Articles.
The Articles will have the opportunity to put questions to the Board, may only be changed by a special resolution passed by including the chairmen of the various committees.
separate booklet enclosed with this report contains the Voting notice convening the meeting together with a description Subject to the Articles generally and to any special rights of the business to be conducted.
or restrictions as to voting attached by or in accordance with Facilities have been put in place to enable shareholders on the Articles to any class of shares, on a show of hands every the UK register to receive communications electronically member who is present in person at a general meeting shall rather than by mail and, for those unable to attend the meeting, have one vote and, on a poll, every member who is present to cast their votes by electronic means, including those in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of shareholders whose shares are held in the CREST system.
which he she is the holder.
It is, and has been for some years, the Companys practice to hold a poll on every In accordance with best practice, voting on each resolution resolution at shareholder meetings.
to be proposed at the AGM will be conducted on a poll rather than by a show of hands.
The results of the poll will be Where shares are held by trustees nominees in respect announced to the press, and on the Companys website, of the Groups employee share plans and the voting rights after the meeting.
attached to such shares are not directly exercisable by the employees, it is the Companys practice that such rights are not exercised by the relevant trustee nominee.
ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS Under the Companies Act, members are entitled to appoint Since the implementation of the electronic communications a proxy, who need not be a member of the Company, to provisions in the Companies Act 2006, the Company has exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and substantially reduced the cost of annual report production vote on their behalf at a general meeting or class meeting.
Shareholders may elect to receive A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a notification by email of the availability of the annual report general meeting or class meeting provided that each proxy on the Companys website instead of receiving paper is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different copies.
For more information, please see the Companys share or shares held by that member.
A member that is a Notice of Annual General Meeting 2014. corporation may appoint one or more individuals to act on its behalf at a general meeting or class meeting as acorporate ADDITIONAL INFORMATION representative.
The debate around s323 of the Companies FOR SHAREHOLDERS Act has been resolved so that where a shareholder appoints more than one corporate representative in respect of its Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of the shareholding, but in respect of different shares, those Companys current Articles and applicable English law corporate representatives can act independently of each concerning companies the Companies Act 2006 the other, and validly vote in different ways.
Companies Act required as a result of the implementation of the Takeovers Directive in English law.
This is a summary Restrictions on voting only and the relevant provisions of the Articles or the No member shall, unless the directors otherwise determine, Companies Act should be consulted if further information be entitled in respect of any share held by him her tovote is required.
either personally or by proxy ata shareholders meeting, or to exercise any other right conferred bymembership in Dividends and distributions relation to shareholders meetings, if any call or other sum Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the presently payable by him her to the Company in respect of Company may, by ordinary resolution, from time to time that share remains unpaid.
In addition, no member shall be declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended entitled to vote if he she has been served with a notice after by the Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends failing to provide the Company with information concerning whenever the financial position of the Company, in the interests in those shares required to be provided under the opinion of the Board, justifies such payment.
The Board may withhold payment of all, or any part of any dividends or other monies payable in respect of the Companys shares, from a person with a 0.25% interest or more as defined in the Articles if such a person has been served with a notice after failing to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 147 GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT Issue of shares Transfer of shares Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act relating to All transfers of shares that are in certificated form may be authority and pre-emption rights and of any resolution of effected by transfer in writing in any usual or common form the Company in a UK general meeting, all unissued shares or in any other form acceptable to the directors and may be of the Company shall be at the disposal of the directors under hand only.
The instrument of transfer shall be signed and they may allot with or without conferring a right of by or on behalf of the transferor and except in the case of renunciation, grant options over, or otherwise dispose fully paid shares by or on behalf of the transferee.
The of them to such persons at such times, and on such terms, transferor shall remain the holder of the shares concerned as they think proper.
until the name of the transferee is entered in the register of shareholders.
All transfers of shares that are in Shares in uncertificated form uncertificated form may be effected by means of the Directors may determine that any class of shares may be CREST system.
held in uncertificated form and title to such shares may be transferred by means of a relevant system, or that shares The directors may decline to recognise any instrument of of any class should cease to be so held and transferred.
transfer relating to shares in certificated form unless it: Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the CREST a is in respect of only one class of share: and regulations and every other statute, statutory instrument, regulation or order for the time being in force concerning b is lodged at the transfer office duly stamped if required companies and affecting the Company together, the accompanied by the relevant share certificate s and Statutes, the directors may determine that any class of such other evidence as the directors may reasonably shares held on the branch register of members of the require to show the right of the transferor to make the Company resident in South Africa, or any other overseas transfer and, if the instrument of transfer is executed by branch register of the members of the Company, may be some other person on his her behalf, the authority of held in uncertificated form in accordance with any system that person so to do.
outside the UK that enables title to such shares to be The directors may, in the case of shares in certificated form, evidenced and transferred without a written instrument and in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason which is a relevant system.
The provisions of the Articles therefore, refuse to register any transfer of shares not being shall not apply to shares of any class that are in uncertificated fully paid shares provided that, where any such shares are form to the extent that the Articles are inconsistent with the admitted to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange, holding of shares of that class in uncertificated form, the such discretion may not be exercised in such a way as to transfer of title to shares of that class by means of a relevant prevent dealings in the shares of that class from taking place system or any provision of the CREST regulations.
on an open and proper basis.
The directors may also refuse Deadlines for exercising voting rights to register an allotment or transfer of shares whether fully Votes are exercisable at a general meeting of the Company paid or not in favour of more than four persons jointly.
in respect of which the business being voted upon is being If the directors refuse to register an allotment or transfer, heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in they shall send the refusal to the allottee or the transferee relation to corporate members, by corporate representative.
within two months after the date on which the letter of The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy allotment or transfer was lodged with the Company.
forms of not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
A shareholder does not need to obtain the approval of the Company, or of other shareholders of shares in the Variation of rights Company, for a transfer of shares to take place.
Subject to statute, the Articles specify that rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the written consent of Directors the holders of not less than three quarters in nominal value Directors shall not be less than 10 nor more than 18 in of the issued shares of that class, or with the sanction of an number.
A director is not required to hold any shares of the extraordinary resolution passed at a separate general Company by way of qualification.
The Company may by meeting of the holders of those shares.
At every such ordinary resolution increase or reduce the maximum or separate general meeting the quorum shall be two persons minimum number of directors.
holding, or representing by proxy, at least one third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class calculated excluding any shares held as treasury shares.
The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
148 Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 Governance Powers of directors Purchases of own shares Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act and any At the AGM held on 19 April 2013, authority was given for directions given by special resolution, the business of the the Company to purchase, in the market, up to 208.5million 86 Company will be managed by the Board who may exercise Ordinary Shares of 54 91 US cents each.
The Company all the powers of the Company.
did not purchase any of its own shares during 2013.
The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company Indemnities to borrow money and to mortgage or charge any of its To the extent permitted by law and the Articles, the undertaking, property and uncalled capital and to issue Company has made qualifying third party indemnity debentures and other securities, whether outright or as provisions for the benefit of its directors during the year, collateral security, for any debt, liability or obligation of the which remain in force at the date of this report.
Copies Company or of any third party.
of these indemnities are open for inspection at the Companys registered office.
The Company may by ordinary resolution declare dividends but no dividend shall be payable in excess of the amount recommended by the directors.
Subject to the provisions By order of the Board of the Articles and to the rights attaching to any shares, any dividends or other monies payable on or in respect of a share may be paid in such currency as the directors may determine.
The directors may deduct from any dividend Nicholas Jordan payable to any member all sums of money if any presently Company Secretary payable by him her to the Company on account of calls or otherwise in relation to shares of the Company.
The 13 February 2014 directors may retain any dividends payable on shares on which the Company has a lien, and may apply the same in or towards satisfaction of the debts, liabilities or engagements in respect of which the lien exists.
Appointment and replacement of directors The directors may from time to time appoint one or more directors.
The Board may appoint any person to be a director so long as the total number of directors does not exceed the limit prescribed in the Articles.
Any such director shall hold office only until the next AGM and shall then be eligible for election.
The Articles provide that at each AGM all those directors who have been in office for three years or more since their election, or last re-election, shall retire from office.
In addition, a director may at any AGM retire from office and stand for re-election.
However, in accordance with the Code, all directors will be subject to annual re-election.
Significant agreements: Change of control At 31 December 2013, Anglo American had committed bilateral and syndicated borrowing facilities totalling $12.3billion with a number of relationship banks that contain change of control clauses.
$6.0 billion of the Groups bond issues also contain change of control provisions.
In aggregate, this financing is considered significant to the Group and, in the event of a takeover change of control of the Company, these contracts may be cancelled, become immediately payable or be subject to acceleration.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2013 149
