Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 21 Focus on the UK FOOD HiGHliGHtS Food Food revenue 4.9bn 3.9% Market share 3.8% level Number of new lines Quality, trust and provenance continue to 1,900 underpin everything we do from our relationships with suppliers to the products we sell.
In a year when the industry was affected by supply chain issues, our commitment to provenance served us well, as customers continued to trust M&S to deliver responsibly sourced, quality produce.
All our beef, pork, salmon, poultry and in-season lamb is sourced from the UK and the Republic Customers trust of Ireland.
M&S to deliver quality, Our commitment has been acknowledged innovative food for by numerous awards this year including the Ethical Corporation Responsible every occasion.
Simply great value Business Supply Chain Excellence award.
S teve Rowe Simply M&S products are Quality at great value Executive Director, Food independently price checked every In a highly competitive market we week to ensure the range is launched Simply M&S: a range of 700 competitively priced.
The easy to Our Food business delivered an everyday food items that offer M&S quality identify packaging features a excellent performance in a challenging at great value prices.
Hundreds of prices shopping list style labelling and is market, with total sales up 3.9% to were lowered and new lines added to give mostly transparent so customers can 4.9bn.
We outperformed the market customers even more choice.
All Simply see the great quality of the products.
on a like-for-like basis, with sales up M&S eggs are free range, bacon is British 1.7%, consolidating our position as and all tea and coffee is Fairtrade the UKs leading high quality food underlining our uncompromising sourcing retailer.
The range complements to deliver for the most important existing lines and highlights M&S superb occasions and our continued focus on quality and value under one clear brand.
quality, innovation and availability Since launch, we have sold over 350 coupled with the roll-out of our new million products.
Food Hall format helped us strengthen market share.
Our high ethical and sourcing standards continue to set us apart from the Overview competition.
Our standards are industry Our market-leading innovation brought recognised: our leading animal welfare over 1,900 new lines into our Food Halls policies earned us the Compassion In this year.
From new international dishes to World Farming Good Pig Award and our healthy eating ranges, our innovative fish is recognised by the Marine products kept customers coming back Conservation Society for best-in-class offering greater choice and catering for sustainable seafood practices.
Our their changing tastes and priorities.
bespoke feeding programme provides With value front of mind for customers, we our Scottish Lochmuir salmon with ensured our offer remained competitive exceptional flavour and we sold through a combination of independent A summer of celebration 10.8 million packs of fresh and smoked weekly price matching and well targeted With several opportunities to salmon this year, up 16%.
We offset the commodity price celebrate during the summer, we Despite 2012 being one of the wettest rises in the market, thanks to stronger launched over 200 British-inspired years on record, we maintained supplies management of stock and promotions.
We sold over 800,000 tins of of high quality fresh produce, thanks to Diamond Jubilee biscuits worldwide The introduction of our Simply M&S range, our collaborative supplier relationships.
and in the first week of the Olympics coupled with everyday promotions such We delivered the finest soft fruits we sold over one million packs of as our 3 for 10 offer on meat and fish, throughout the summer, including the sausages and 350,000 burgers.
helped customers get even better value exclusive Driscoll Diamond strawberry, from their weekly shop.
Despite limited especially named in honour of budgets, customers were determined to The Queens celebrations.
Over the enjoy time with friends and family and extended Jubilee week we sold a record make the most of special occasions.
Our one million punnets of strawberries to iconic Dine In deal supported this desire customers celebrating at home.
to enjoy restaurant quality food at home and proved consistently popular.
Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 22 Focus on the UK A record Christmas Food continued We launched over 250 new Christmas lines and had our best ever week for party food in the lead-up to Christmas, selling 2.2 million packs.
We sold almost 1.1 million fresh turkeys, crowns and joints and over 24 million mince pies.
DELICIOUS Healthy eating CuStOmeR inSiGHt We supported customers healthy eating choices, I want M&S to adding new lines to our make it easy market-leading Fuller Longer and calorie-controlled count for me to enjoy on us ranges.
We also delicious healthy launched our Delicious & Nutritious range, inspired by food.
I dont vibrant cuisines from around want it to feel the world.
All meals contain health boosting ingredients like a diet.
such as seeds and Fresh produce whatever the weather wholegrains.
As wet weather threatened crucial Christmas crops, we worked closely with our suppliers.
The Haines family who have supplied M&S for 30 years were able to protect the crop on their Cotswold farm thanks to its relatively sheltered position, helping us ensure we had plenty of sprouts for our customers.
Sales of sprouts this festive season were up 100%.
Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 23 Focus on the UK We trace it so you can trust it Good food starts with good ingredients and the best ingredients come from the best farmers.
Every farm supplying us with fresh meat is known to us and independently audited to ensure the highest standards.
The tests on our products told us what we already knew: where it says so on the packaging, our products contain 100% beef.
Innovation and choice Our online Food to Order offer makes M&S is recognised for pioneering product entertaining even easier, with party-sized innovation and this year we continued to portions and helpful menu suggestions.
We offered customers even Our Christmas Food to Order proved more choice through constant innovation extremely popular, with over 400,000 and first-to-market products, launching orders placed during the festive period, 1,900 new lines and refreshing 25% of our up 5%.
Our Wine Direct business was up entire range.
25% this year as more customers ordered our award-winning wines and We strengthened our position as market champagnes by the case for delivery leader in international recipe dishes, with straight to their door.
the launch of Espaa the high streets Discover more online first range of contemporary Spanish Service and speciality cuisine, which uses authentic ingredients Our new store format has now been such as Oloroso sherry and pimento fide le applied to over two-thirds of our Food Cook with M&S vera.
We also introduced a new Modern Halls, improving the shopping experience, We relaunched our Cook and Stir Fry Asian range: inspired by the continents providing elements of theatre and ranges this year and stocked more aromatic, vibrant flavours.
Our most reinforcing our position as a specialist key ingredients to help customers popular dish is the Wok Beef Noodles food retailer.
Selected stores now include cook from scratch.
Designed to take selling over 210,000 items since launch.
delis and we have rolled out artisan the hard work out of preparing a bakeries to 330 stores, including 161 Our product developers responded to the delicious home-cooked meal, we Simply Food stores.
Bakery sales are up latest restaurant trends, with a number of introduced our new stir-fry shop, 20% as a result.
We received industry featuring a wide variety of fresh and recognition for our Runny Scotch Egg: This improved in store experience, was exciting ingredients.
We have sold over developed using the complex sous vide enhanced by even better customer 500,000 items since launch.
technique, it contains a perfect runny service.
Our Customer Ready Food centre.
Customers loved our twist on this initiative gave employees ownership of classic British favourite, with over 165,000 zoned areas within the Food Halls sold to date.
Capitalising on the Dim Sum ensuring they remained visually appealing trend, we introduced delicious Chinese and well stocked.
New videos and steamed pork buns in time for Chinese learning resources helped improve New Year celebrations in February.
Made employees product knowledge, enabling with succulent, slow cooked shredded them to provide expert advice on the pork in hoisin and soy sauce, we sold latest food innovations and trends.
Through our ongoing supply chain Trusted for the most important improvements and the implementation of occasions our new space, range and display system, When it matters most, customers turn to we further improved availability and we us for something truly special.
Our remain on track to deliver our 5% reputation for innovation, coupled with improvement target by 2013 14. exceptional quality, means M&S has become a destination of choice for customers looking to make celebrations more memorable.
This helped us deliver a record Christmas, with M&S outperforming the market in the two key festive trading weeks, followed by our best ever Easter week.
We also provided customers with Looking ahead inspirational gifts and treats to mark The market will remain challenging but special occasions.
We sold over through our commitment to quality 1.5 million Valentines Day chocolates, and innovation, we will continue to up 10% and sold over two million provide compelling reasons to shop bouquets and plants in the week before with M&S.
We will offer customers Mothers Day, up 6.5%.
Our online flower even greater choice, making better ordering business continues to grow, as use of our existing space and further customers enjoyed the convenience of improving availability.
In the year gifting on the go.
ahead, we will concentrate on providing more of what we know our customers love, with the aim of making every food moment special.
