Clic & Shop En magasin En ligne Via mobile livraison gratuite en magasin Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 10 Chief Executives overview Our plan in action Our aim is to make M&S a truly international, multi-channel retailer accessible to even more customers around the world.
We have created considerable momentum through a wide range of activities and are making good progress.
Cheshire Oaks Every aspect of the new M&S Focus on the UK format comes together at our new store.
Showcasing all Read more on page 16 our products in a visually Trusted food stunning environment, the In a year when trust store boasts impeccable was more important than green credentials and ever, customers turned has performed well to M&S for great quality, ahead of plan responsibly sourced food.
Our innovation kept them coming back with over 1,900 new lines launched this year.
1,900 Free next day delivery Shop Your Way orders Multi-channel increased this year, after we introduced free next day Read more on page 26 delivery to our stores.
54% Online sales of orders are now collected More people than ever or placed in a store.
chose the convenience of shopping with us online.
Improved navigation, greater choice and exclusive ranges and offers boosted online sales by 16.6% this year.
54% New stores M&S has a clear and targeted strategy International for international growth.
We continue to expand in key locations across Read more on page 28 our priority markets, employing a Multi-channel expansion mix of ownership models including We are building our partnerships and franchises.
European presence through a clicks & bricks approach.
Complementing our French new website, we launched Shop Your Way at our two Paris stores.
We have two additional full line stores due to open in 2013.
45stores CO neutral Plan A products 2 We were proud to retain 45% of our products now have a Plan A our status as a certified Plan A quality such as Fairtrade, Read more on page 32 CarbonNeutral company organic or made from recycled across our operations in the material.
Were making good progress UK and Republic of Ireland.
against our target of making this 50% We are actively developing of products by 2015. programmes aimed at encouraging our suppliers to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions.
45% Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 11 Chief Executives overview Perfectly edited New Home Our Perfectly campaign concept brought together a carefully With clearer edited collection of the segmentation and a iconic quality wardrobe more multi-channel staples that set M&S apart.
approach our new Each ad offered easy M&S Home concept style advice, showing drove a reappraisal different ways to wear of the offer.
new format is now featured in 33 stores.
33 iPhone app Castle Donington Sales via mobile Our fully mechanised increased 200% this 900,000 sq ft e-commerce year, following the distribution centre is the launch of our first UKs largest.
It has the transactional iPhone app.
capacity to process and It had received over ship up to a million products 580,000 downloads by per week to customers the year end.
homes and M&S stores across the country.
New Golden Bell Reaching more The Shanghai region is customers one of our strategic We are extending international markets.
We our reach across expanded our presence new and existing here with the opening of markets through our our 4,500 sq m flagship online development.
store at Golden Bell Plaza Following launches in one of the regions most Germany, Spain, popular shopping Austria and Belgium, destinations giving us a were now online total of 14 stores.
locally in ten markets and deliver to over 80 countries.
Zero waste to landfill Responsible We continue to work at Retailer of the Year reducing the amount of In recognition of the scale waste produced within the of our eco and ethical business.
Working closely programmes with our contractors, we achievements, M&S was fulfilled our commitment named Responsible of sending no waste to Retailer of the Year at the landfill from our UK World Retail Awards in stores, office, September 2012. warehouses and construction activities.
