Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 32 Plan a HiGHliGHtS Plan A Plan A Commitments 180 Commitments met 139 Commitments on plan After our five year milestone in 2012, Sustainable Clothing Action Plan and we this year was one of planning and were delighted that other major retailers 31 progress for Plan A.
The commercial followed our lead and introduced benefits of our commitment remained versions of Shwopping.
Supporting Fairtrade clear, as Plan A generated its biggest Of our top 100 clothing suppliers, 48 We continued to introduce net benefit to date, with 135m have worked with us to implement new lines of Fairtrade foods, available to be invested back into the energy efficiency measures and we now and sales have doubled since business.
Having achieved our have a total of 35 qualified for our Plan A began in 2006 07. ambitious operational targets of rigorous Eco-Factory status.
The launch becoming carbon neutral and sending of our Supplier Training and Education no waste to landfill, we continued our Programme STEP, made it even easier journey of improvement: stretching for suppliers to benefit from the lessons ourselves further and extending the we have learnt through Plan A.
Hosted influence of Plan A. on our Supplier Exchange website, it Continuing our journey provides access to a wealth of free In line with the seven pillars of Plan A, we resources and information.
extended our involvement with our Involving our customers and stakeholders to combat climate change, employees reduce waste, use sustainable raw Our customers are the central force for materials, trade ethically and help our driving change and this year, over five customers and employees lead more million customers took part in Plan A sustainable lifestyles.
We added a more digital measuring our progress against our 2015 dimension to Plan A too, using social targets and have achieved 139 of our media to tell customers how they can get 180 commitments, with a further 31 on involved and our Shwopping app on plan.
As we move towards our goal of Facebook attracted over 700,000 becoming the worlds most sustainable customers.
major retailer, we face some challenging targets: to meet sustainable sourcing Customers helped raise 1.5m for standards for key raw materials, to Breakthrough Breast Cancer through ensure 50% of products have a Plan A their donations and more than 690,000 quality and improve our suppliers for Macmillan Cancer Support, through sustainability performance.
our Worlds Biggest Coffee Morning.
At our Big Beach Clean-Up in April 2013, We have made good progress and 45% 9,000 M&S customers and staff helped of M&S products sold now have a Plan A clean over 160 beaches and canals quality such as Fairtrade, organic or collecting over 4,000 bags of rubbish.
made from recycled material, compared This year 3,000 schools registered to ENCAGEMENT to 31% last year.
We now use cotton take part in our School of Fish sourced from the Better Cotton Initiative educational programme.
BCI in over 900 M&S products, including our bestselling jeans and You can find out more about the lingerie and are committed to sourcing progress we made this year by visiting 25% of our cotton from sustainable our online Plan A 2013 report available at supplies by 2015. marksandspencer.
com plana2013 We extended the scope of our external collaborations so that our initiatives can influence behaviour beyond M&S.
In conjunction with Oxfam and Business in Recognition of our the Community, we extended our achievements successful Shwopping scheme with a Our performance was free clothes recycling service for offices recognised in more than 40 and workplaces.
More than 10,000 social and environmental garments were collected in the first awards and league tables.
month, with over 70 companies signed M&S was the only retailer up to Shwop at Work, including B&Q, included in the global Carbon IBM and Thames Water.
We are working Performance Leadership with other retailers as part of the Index and for the third time, M&S was named the Responsible Business of the Year by Business in the Community.
Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 33 Helping customers and employees count calories In line with our health and wellbeing commitments, we introduced calorie labelling in our store cafs and other catering services for customers.
We also now include calorie information on the menu boards in our Cutting construction waste employee cafs, and highlight In the year we launched our biggest, Eat Well products.
greenest store at Cheshire Oaks, we have already beaten our 2015 target to reduce construction waste by 50% for every 100,000 project we undertake, with no construction waste to landfill.
EN ENC GA AG GEM EMEN ENT T The impact of Shwopping CuStOmeR inSiGHt Through our Shwopping initiative, customers and employees helped I want businesses Looking ahead divert over 3.8 million items of to be in touch with clothing from landfill this year.
Plan A We are proud of what we have ambassador, Joanna Lumley visited achieved, but there is more to do in the communities some of Oxfams Shwopping-related terms of how we influence our they serve.
projects in Senegal that are already employees, customers, suppliers and making a difference to communities even our competitors.
In 2013 14 we and changing lives for the better.
will work with our external Sustainable Retail Advisory Board to shape our Discover more online future vision for Plan A ensuring it reflects changing social priorities, whilst continuing to tackle the environmental and ethical challenges that inspired its launch.
