Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 26 multi-CHannel HiGHliGHtS Multi-channel Revenue 651.8m 16.6% Weekly site visitors 3.6m 18% Multi-channel Home Hub As explained on page 24, we made more Our new Home Hub maximises of our products available to our our selling space, with touch customers through the introduction of and feel sample displays to new Browse and Order points to our showcase items such as stores and by equipping more store towels, fabrics and upholstery.
Large digital Customers can then browse screens play catwalk videos and our new and order from the full range Home and Beauty departments use via iPads and large format technology to inspire customers and touch screen points.
The provide tailored advice and guidance.
format also features interactive Were making it buying guides, such as Your In May 2012 we relaunched our mobilePerfect Nights Sleep, which optimised site to deliver an even richer easier for customers helps select the ideal duvet.
We to shop the way they launched our first ever transactional iPhone app in July 2012 and created a want with M&S.
new M&S Home iPad app, which brings Laura Wade-Gery our home catalogue to life in an easy-toExecutive Director, shop format.
As a result, mobile and Multi-channel E-commerce tablet sales increased by almost 200% and now account for 18% of M&S.
com This year we saw a good M&S.
performance, with sales up 16.6% As explained on page 16, we are tailoring despite tough comparatives.
Over the our marketing campaigns to reflect last 12 months we have made the customers increasing use of mobile and M&S shopping experience easier and the completed roll-out of free WiFi has more convenient as well as more made it even easier for them to browse inspiring for our customers, however and buy from their devices in our stores.
they choose to shop with us.
We are applying multi-channel thinking right Building a world class infrastructure across the business and are building To fulfil our multi-channel ambitions we a world class infrastructure to help us need to be an agile business, with the fulfil our customers expectations.
right infrastructure in place and the ability INNOVATION to innovate with pace.
This year we Throughout 2012 13 more customers made real progress and in February opted for the convenience of online 2013, we launched a new Digital Lab shopping.
We now have over 3.6 million function to help us move faster in weekly visitors to our UK site, thanks to a developing first-to-market technologies combination of improved navigation, more for e-commerce, in-store technology and style advice and greater choice, including digital marketing.
Our team of specialists 40% more online product exclusives.
test emerging retail technologies, build Our online business now accounts for a prototypes and develop concepts for greater proportion of our General implementation on a larger scale across Merchandise sales at 13% compared to M&S.
Some 40% of all dresses Our new 900,000 sq ft e-commerce were sold online and one in four M&S distribution centre at Castle Donington suits was sold through our website.
Located at the Now available in 476 stores, our Shop heart of the UKs road and rail network, Your Way service allows customers to the fully automated site will help us to order and collect their shopping in the better serve customers across the way that suits them best.
This year we country, with further improvements improved the offer with the launch of free expected to delivery times and product next day delivery to our stores.
The availability in the year ahead.
service grew in popularity, with over 54% During the year we began to introduce of M&S.
com orders being placed or elements of our new multi-channel collected in store.
The full new site will launch in New ways to shop Spring 2014, showcasing the best of Expanding M&S.
com not only gives us M&S via a fashion-forward online more reach, but drives more spend from environment and offering a crisp, our customers.
By providing new ways to easy-to-shop experience.
access products we attract slightly younger customers and extract more value from our stores.
Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 27 Mobile app Reaching more Downloaded over 580,000 customers times since launch, our Our international multiiPhone app puts a whole channel expansion continued stores worth of product in this year, and by April 2013 our customers pockets.
we had transactional websites It reached the top position in ten markets.
We further in iTunes Free UK Lifestyle improved our multi-channel offer, with fully mobile Apps and we continue to optimised sites and through add new features, such the introduction of Shop Your as M&S Live, which allows Way to our French and Irish customers to generate markets.
exclusive video content from printed images using augmented reality CuStOmeR inSiGHt technology.
I expect to be able to shop whenever and wherever I want.
IN INNO NOV VA AT TIO ION N More inspiration Online is not simply a place to buy, its where customers come to find inspiration and advice.
Launched in November 2012, the new Style Edit section of our website provides editorial features and Looking ahead videos on the seasons latest trends, as well as The customer remains at the heart of carefully selected outfit all our multi-channel initiatives and ideas for every we must continue to respond to their occasion.
changing needs, as we aim to help them truly shop their way with M&S.
2013 14 is a milestone year in our Virtual makeover multi-channel journey.
The launch of Our virtual makeover counter our new website platform, coupled uses facial recognition with a fully operational distribution technology to enable customers centre, will significantly enhance our to upload a photo and capabilities and help make M&S.
com experiment with the latest beauty the flagship experience for our trends.
Featured both online and customers showcasing our entire in store, it has attracted more product range, bringing the M&S than 200,000 visitors to date.
brand to life and offering a brilliant buying experience.
