Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 16 Focus on the UK Food Glorious Food Our brand In February we joined ITVs Food Glorious Food on a mission to find the nations favourite recipe.
Hosted by Carol Vorderman, a team of experts travelled the UK in search of the very best home cooked recipes.
Chosen by viewers, the winning dish was Rahila Spotlight on products Hussains Fragrant White Our Autumn Winter campaigns were Chicken Korma, which was both aspirational and inclusive sold exclusively by M&S, showcasing our products using a with 40p from each sale representative range of models of going to Great Ormond different shapes, sizes and ages.
the spotlight firmly on our product offer, the campaign helped inspire customers as to how they could wear the seasons latest styles.
Sales of featured lines were three times higher compared to the O ur brand is one of corresponding four weeks of the 2011 TV our strongest assets: campaign.
inspiring trust from Our Christmas campaign continued the theme of inclusivity demonstrating how customers.
Steven Sharp Featuring the strapline The Greatest Hits Executive Director, Marketing this Christmas, the campaign took inspiration from the popular Christmas Our campaigns demonstrate that we compilation album format and used a are in touch with our customers selection of popular tracks to highlight making M&S relevant to their the seasonal products M&S is known changing needs.
In an increasingly and loved for from cosy knitwear to competitive landscape, our marketing stylish party outfits.
activity focused on the innovation and quality that make our products Our Spring Perfectly campaign different and special providing a showcased the quality fabrics, unique clear reason to shop with M&S.
By innovations and expert design that set better integrating our marketing M&S wardrobe staples apart.
Featuring channels we helped put M&S front of iconic pieces such as our timeless mind for customers however they 39.50 belted mac and a curve flattering chose to interact with us.
crisp white shirt each ad displayed different ways to wear these classic In touch with our customers items providing stylish yet affordable With disposable incomes under fashion inspiration.
continued pressure, enjoying time with friends and family remained our Our Food campaigns concentrated on customers top priority.
They were the outstanding quality and innovation determined to get the most from their that makes M&S Food famous showing limited spend but this was not simply customers exactly why they can trust about price customers wanted to feel M&S for even the most important every purchase was worthwhile.
Our delicious products took result, they sought inspiration from M&S centre stage to highlight how M&S can on how to make the ordinary feel extra offer something different and make Integrated campaigns special and make time together more celebrations truly special.
The miniature We provided a compelling meaningful.
Belgian chocolate hot cross buns reason for the many featured in our Easter ad sold out over customers who watch TV With this in mind, we launched Easter weekend.
with a mobile or iPad in Weekends In, a new umbrella hand to interact with M&S, promotional campaign, which offers Interacting with customers with a TV ad that offered the customers a different delicious deal to This year, we used the latest chance to win 5,000 by enjoy every weekend.
Our iconic Dine In technologies to help us create fully naming the artists in our offer sits under this banner, and is integrated campaigns that reflect Christmas campaign.
Over alternated with deals such as Roast for customers changing behaviour.
Our 32,000 customers entered 5 and Chinese Takeaway for two growing social media presence and the via social media, causing putting M&S food at the heart of the launch of our first mobile app helped us #greatestHits to become the weekend.
further join up our different channels to second highest global engage and inspire our customers.
Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 17 Focus on the UK Womenswear Our Autumn Winter campaign used models of a broader representation of shape and size to give customers inspiration.
M&S Bank With over 25 years in personal finance, the creation of M&S Bank was a natural step.
Combining exclusive M&S rewards, a transparent account structure and the convenience of store opening hours M&S Bank was designed around our customers.
TRUST CuStOmeR inSiGHt Thanks a million Achieving a million Facebook fans I want to see exactly highlighted the iconic status of M&S and the unique level of engagement how I can wear the we have with our customers.
We celebrated by giving every fan a penny to donate to charity and publicised the milestone with a specially commissioned art installation made from a million pennies Shwop shop borrowed from the Bank of England.
Inspiring a new generation of Shwoppers to see fashion and sustainability as one, we Looking ahead launched the first-ever pop-up Shwop shop at our In the year ahead we will stay in Marble Arch store.
Featuring ongoing dialogue with our customers items including rare vintage to ensure we are in tune with their M&S pieces donated by the changing priorities.
We will continue public and celebrities alike, to provide new and compelling the two-day event raised reasons to shop with us by 4,000 for Oxfam.
highlighting the unique products available only at M&S.
