Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 28 inteRnatiOnal HiGHliGHtS International International revenue 1.1bn 4.5% Sales in our International business continued to grow our presence in were up 4.5% to 1.1bn this year, Shanghai, with the opening of seven new reflecting strong growth in our priority stores.
We now have a total of 14 stores markets.
However, operating profit in the Shanghai region including our new was down 9.9%, due to the impact of flagship store at Golden Bell Plaza.
Our currency translation, prevailing Hong Kong operations also performed macroeconomic conditions and strongly and we opened a new store in start-up costs in key markets.
We the New Territories in January.
now trade in 51 territories from 418 Our franchise operations across key stores totalling 5.4m sq ft and have territories in the Middle East performed further extended the reach of the well, with sales up 9.7%.
We opened 19 Golden Bell Plaza, M&S brand through the launch of new stores across 11 territories, Shanghai new in-country websites.
including new markets such as Georgia, Our new 4,500 sq m flagship Building a more international Kazakhstan and Armenia.
We enhanced store offers over 280 company our offer in existing markets, introducing exclusive fashion lines.
Our international strategy is built around the new store format to our flagship Bestselling items include a clear geographic focus, supported by Bagdat store in Turkey.
Savile Row Inspired suits and the right business model for each per una Speziale dresses.
Our European business was impacted by market.
We are growing our presence in the ongoing weakness of the Irish and India, China and the Middle East region Greek economies and sales were down including Russia and Turkey, as well as 0.4%.
Sales in the Czech Republic developing a multi-channel proposition strengthened as the business responded to serve customers in Western Europe.
well to the management and structural This approach is being delivered by a changes put in place last year.
best-in-class international management team, comprising high calibre external Our first full line French store opened in talent, M&S experience and valuable October at So Ouest in Levallois-Perret, local expertise.
Paris and attracted over 80,000 customers in its first three days of We began work to improve our trading.
EX PANSION international buying processes combining our central planning with local Multi-channel expansion market knowledge to deliver a more Our bricks and clicks strategy tailored product offer that better reflects combines international store openings local seasonality, culture and customer with website launches and the latest profile.
Supply chain improvements are digital technologies.
This approach enabling us to deliver product to our enables us to extend the reach of the international stores more efficiently.
We M&S brand in both new and existing trialled a new approach to product markets, as well as tailoring our offer to cataloguing across our 46 Czech stores, local customers shopping preferences.
developing a clear customer profile for In May 2012 we shared plans to trade in each store and adapting the product ten markets by the end of the financial range accordingly.
Following the successful launch of use of this model to more stores.
our local French and Irish websites, we Our specialist visual merchandising made significant progress, with the team, combined with the roll-out of our launch of a further six fully localised new store format to selected international European websites by April 2013.
Bringing London style stores, is helping us deliver a more In addition to our European e-commerce to Europe aspirational and consistent store offer, we are working closely with In November 2012 we environment for international customers.
international partners to benefit from launched fully localised This has been further supported through their local infrastructure and expertise to websites across Spain, the provision of additional marketing help us explore the growth opportunities Germany, Austria and Belgium.
support and visual merchandising in more complex e-commerce markets.
Each site trades in Euros and guidance to our franchise partners.
In January we launched an online shop offers the preferred local Regional focus on Chinas leading retail website TMall language, payment and In Asia, we focused on driving growth in and in February, we announced plans to delivery options.
In April 2013, our priority territories of India and China launch an e-commerce offer for the we added Luxembourg and and delivered a sales growth of 13%.
Russian market, operated by our existing The Netherlands taking the With our partners Reliance Retail, we franchise partner Fiba.
M&S brand to more customers opened six new stores in India and we across Europes fastest growing e-commerce markets.
Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 29 Total Europe: Total Middle East and North Africa: Total Asia: 15 5 s t o r e s 1 3 7 stores 1 2 6 stores 4 new stores opened -2 net 19 new stores opened 15 net 22 new stores opened 18 net 6 new websites 1 new website EX PANSION Focus on franchising Celebrating Britain We work with over 17 global The unique events of 2012 franchise partners accounting for put Britain in the global 35% of International sales.
The spotlight and we capitalised franchise model is lower risk, on our heritage with a range capital light, drives profitable of British-themed products.
growth and through our partners Our commemorative Jubilee local market expertise, helps us biscuits tins proved extremely access prime retail locations.
Our popular, selling over 200,000 growth plans place greater internationally.
emphasis on the franchise model and were working hard to strengthen relationships and give our partners confidence to further invest in the brand.
Looking ahead The coming year will see us continue to grow our priority markets, with a strong focus on franchise growth and a fully integrated multi-channel approach.
We will also drive growth in emerging markets by selecting mall developments that offer the very best opportunities to drive footfall to our stores.
