Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 18 Focus on the UK GeneRal meRCHanDiSe HiGHliGHtS General Merchandise General merchandise revenue 4.1bn 2.4% Womenswear market share 9.9% 0.5% pts Menswear market share Responding to customer feedback, we 11.6% started to reassert our quality credentials, 0.4% pts focusing initially on upgrading the products were famous for.
Our classic Kidswear market share 6 white tee shirt benefited from improved 6.4% styling, better fabric and superior 0.4% pts finishing, resulting a sales uplift of 15%.
We want customers to be confident that Lingerie market share regardless of fabric, cut or sub-brand, they will find great fitting styles.
So this 26.8% year we reduced the number of block Were reasserting 0.7% pts sizes used, creating more consistent Kantar Worldpanel Clothing and Footwear our quality and style sizing across all our ranges.
value market share 52 w e 14 April 2013 credentials to give Womenswear CuStOmeR inSiGHt 2012 13 was a challenging year for all our products the Womenswear, which nevertheless I want well M&S difference.
delivered good performance in individual constructed categories.
We bought with authority into John Dixon our advertised lines, selling over 46,000 clothes that are Executive Director, of our featured M&S Woman 49.50 General Merchandise made to last, Military Coat.
with a flattering This year we took decisive action to We bought with greater confidence into address the performance of our the seasons key trends and customers fit and style.
General Merchandise business: enjoyed our interpretations.
We sold over bringing in a new team, listening 115,000 items from the 60s-inspired carefully to our customers and Monochrome trend and almost 350,000 improving our operational execution.
pieces from our feminine, pastel Dolls This action, coupled with a renewed House collection.
focus on quality and style, resulted in We launched Twiggy for M&S Woman in early signs of improvement towards April.
Offering versatile, flattering fashion the end of the year.
and attention to detail, it received a Overview positive reaction from customers.
Over the last 12 months market Our Autograph range exemplifies the conditions were challenging and highly best of M&S, with designer-inspired promotional.
We protected margins, with sophistication and outstanding quality.
targeted offers that demonstrated great The range performed strongly this year value.
However, we retained the flexibility with sales up 4%.
Our Indigo Collection to respond to market conditions, with of casual, easy-to-wear outfits performed compelling online and category well and comfortably sits as our second promotions.
biggest brand behind per una.
Early in the financial year, our In March we appointed fashion expert performance was impacted by Hilary Alexander as Fashion Consultant merchandising issues.
We improved our to per una.
Her involvement includes processes, tightened stock management Hilarys Edit: a selection of key seasonal and changed the way we allocate stock outfits and an Ask Hilary column on our to stores.
We also aligned our buying website addressing customers fashion procedures more closely with our dilemmas.
marketing activity delivering record Rosie for Autograph availability on advertised lines.
Better editing of womenswear helped Our collaboration with Rosie strengthen the identity of our sub-brands In the autumn, we restructured the Huntington-Whiteley became and reinforce our fashion credentials.
business, creating four business units our best selling Autograph line Our new store format features more with realigned responsibilities and ever.
Soft, sophisticated and statement mannequin displays, and our greater accountability.
Combining ultra-feminine, the new Rosie online Style Edit see page 27 offers externally sourced talent with proven for Autograph collection takes easy-to-follow outfit inspiration.
M&S expertise, the new leadership team its inspiration from gorgeous has already made operational rose blooms and Rosies love improvements and has focused its time of vintage textiles.
Made from on really understanding what our sumptuous silk and delicate customers want from M&S.
French-designed lace, we sold over 430,000 items this year.
Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 19 Focus on the UK Fashion credentials In partnership with Vogue, we put together the ultimate go-to Spring wardrobe based around five easy-to-wear pieces.
This capsule collection focused on exceptional quality and timeless style to create a simple, transitional mix and match wardrobe.
Beauty AS SEEN IN We launched M&S Beauty in 55 stores this year using multi-channel activity to bring it to life.
The carefully edited collection includes prestige global brands and sales from our new Beauty departments were 25% ahead of other stores.
British Fashion Council Best of British is our exclusive threeyear partnership with the British Fashion Council, celebrating British fashion, home-grown talent and sustainability.
As part of the initiative, two new luxurious clothing collections will feature a combination of British heritage, sourcing and production.
QUALITY Our most sustainable suit ever Our Savile Row Inspired suit not only features impeccable design credentials courtesy of Richard James, it has a fantastic eco signature too.
Made from fully traceable organic wool and incorporating a lining made from recycled plastic bottles, its one of the greenest garments weve ever made.
It even carries a unique QR code so customers can learn more about its green credentials online.
Discover more online Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 20 Focus on the UK General merchandise continued Lingerie & Beauty Home We continue to lead the UK market in Despite the static housing market Looking ahead lingerie.
Our customers shop with us furniture sales rose 2%, driven partly by We are reasserting our commitment for everyday essentials, underwear improved quality and faster delivery to delivering the M&S difference on solutions and special occasion glamour.
times on a number of key lines.
We want our clothing Working in partnership with our world In August we launched our new in-store to inspire customers to look and feel class suppliers we introduced compelling Home concept, which transformed the their best, exceeding their value, quality and style for way we showcase our products.
It also expectations around fabric, fit and all customers.
We saw strong sales of embraces technology to offer greater finish.
With a new team in place, we our twopack Limited Collection bras at choice and make it easier to shop our are reinvigorating our style 16 and our French-designed, vintageranges.
The new concept is now in 33 credentials and will deliver confident inspired Autograph lace collection at stores and they are performing well, 10% edited collections of the seasons key 22.50.
Innovation remains a key feature ahead of non-concept stores.
styles, along with the quality of M&S Lingerie.
Successes include the wardrobe staples were famous for.
extension of our Heatgen Thermal range, up 33% and our Perfect Fit Bra, up 72%.
Autumn Winter Collection With an initial focus on womenswear, The merchandising teams focused We are refocusing our clothing strategy our new clothing strategy encompasses on improving availability and reducing on the values that made the M&S brand the following: lead times, enabling us to improve famous putting quality and style back performance in areas such as sports an investment in quality that includes at the heart of everything we do.
Over bras, up 19% and dressing gowns, upgrading to more premium fabrics, the last six months we have undertaken up 12%.
using product innovation to deliver a extensive research: listening carefully to better fit and finish, whilst maintaining our customers views and building on Menswear prices for customers: our heritage to help us rediscover the We remain the UKs number one fashion DNA that makes M&S special menswear retailer and saw strong sales clearer and more compelling and relevant.
in heritage departments such as coats sub brands, with the launch of M&S and outerwear, up 14% and nightwear Collection: up 3%.
Customers enjoyed our confident edits of the key trends for interpretation of the British heritage trend each season, that see M&S lead the and formal jacket sales rose 6%.
way: Improved style helped us strengthen our position in growth areas, with footwear improved fashion and design and accessories sales up 2%.
M&S is credentials, including a new Best of renowned for its tailoring and we have a British range.
suit for every age and budget from our Ultimately, we want to deliver beautifully great value 99 suit to our Savile Row made aspirational clothes that inspire Inspired range.
They will begin to see Kidswear these improvements from late July, Parents turn to M&S for great value when our new Autumn Winter kidswear they can trust.
We experienced collection launches in store and online.
our best ever year in schoolwear, selling Complementing the quality wardrobe 8.4 million items, up 8% on last year.
staples will be an edit of the key trends, Independent tests rated our schoolwear each designed to work for the M&S as the best quality on the high street.
customer in a considered and wearable way.
To share the progress we have With family celebrations a priority for made, we have included an exclusive customers, we offered great value on our STYLE shareholder preview of the collection occasion wear.
Our Spring 20% off with this report.
promotion proved popular ahead of the wedding season, with sales of boys suits and girls bridesmaid dresses up 33%.
