Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 72 Other disclosures Principal activities and Business review This year saw the first maturity of the 2009 ROI Save As You Marks and Spencer Group plc the Company is the holding Earn Share Option Scheme, with individuals being able to company of the Marks & Spencer Group of companies the exercise options at the price of 292p.
M&S has grown from a single market stall to become During the period, 8,381,090 ordinary shares in the Company an international, multi-channel retailer.
With 766 stores across were issued as follows: the UK and a growing e-commerce business, we sell high quality, great value food and remain the UK market leaders in 868,952 shares under the terms of the 2002 Executive Share womenswear, lingerie and menswear.
We aim to provide the Option Scheme at prices between 270p and 352p.
best shopping experience for our customers.
We now operate 7,369,406 shares under the terms of the United Kingdom in 51 territories across Europe, the Middle East and Asia and Employees Save As You Earn Share Option Scheme at prices continue to grow our international presence through a multibetween 203p and 319p.
142,732 shares under the terms of the ROI Employees Save As You Earn Share Option Scheme at the price of 292p.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group during the Restrictions on transfer of securities financial year ended 30 March 2013 including an analysis of the There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of securities in position of the Group at the end of the financial year, and a the Company, which is governed by the Articles and prevailing description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the legislation.
Nor is the Company aware of any agreements Group known as a Business review.
between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or that may result in restrictions on The information that fulfils the Business review requirements is voting rights.
incorporated by reference and can be found in the following sections: Variation of rights Subject to applicable statutes, rights attached to any class of Chairmans statement on pages 2 to 3 share may be varied with the written consent of the holders of Strategic review on pages 8 to 33 at least three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of Our plan in action on pages 10 to 11 that class, or by a special resolution passed at a separate Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 45 to 48 general meeting of the shareholders.
Financial review on pages 34 to 37 Social, environmental and ethical matters on pages 32 to 33.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, any More information is given in the How We Do Business report resolution passed by the Company under the Companies Act available on our website at marksandspencer.
com plana2013 2006 and other shareholders rights, shares may be issued Pages 1 to 76 inclusive together with the sections of the with such rights and restrictions as the Company may by Annual Report incorporated by reference consist of a ordinary resolution decide, or if there is no such resolution or Directors report that has been drawn up and presented in so far as it does not make specific provision as the Board as accordance with and in reliance upon applicable English defined in the Articles may decide.
Subject to the Articles, the company law and the liabilities of the directors in connection Companies Act 2006 and other shareholders rights, unissued with that report shall be subject to the limitations and shares are at the disposal of the Board.
restrictions provided by such law.
Powers for the Company issuing or buying back its own Other information to be disclosed in the Directors report shares is given in this section.
The Company was authorised by shareholders, at the 2012 AGM, to purchase in the market up to 10% of the Companys Profit and dividends issued share capital, as permitted under the Companys The profit for the financial year, after taxation, amounts to 466.7m Articles.
No shares have been bought back under this authority last year 573.1m.
The directors have declared dividends as during the year ended 30 March 2013.
This standard authority follows: is renewable annually: the directors will seek to renew this authority at the 2013 AGM.
It is the Companys present Ordinary shares m intention to cancel any shares it buys back, rather than hold Paid interim dividend of 6.2p per share them in treasury.
last year 6.2p per share 99.0 Proposed final dividend of 10.8p per share The directors were granted authority at the 2012 AGM to allot last year 10.8p per share 173.5 relevant securities up to a nominal amount of 133,890,820.
Total ordinary dividend, 17.0p per share That authority will apply until the conclusion of the 2013 AGM.
last year 17.0p per share 272.5 At this years AGM shareholders will be asked to grant an authority to allot relevant securities i up to a nominal amount The final ordinary dividend will be paid on 12 July 2013 to of 134,566,483 and ii comprising equity securities up to a shareholders whose names are on the Register of Members at nominal amount of 269,132,966 after deducting from such the close of business on 31 May 2013. limit any relevant securities allotted under i, in connection with Share capital an offer of a rights issue, the Section 551 Amount, such The Companys issued ordinary share capital as at 30 March Section 551 amount to apply until the conclusion of the AGM to 2013 comprised a single class of ordinary share.
Details of be held in 2014 or, if earlier, on 29 September 2014. movements in the issued share capital can be found in note 24 to the financial statements.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 73 A special resolution will also be proposed to renew the the $300m US Notes issued by the Company to various directors powers to make non pre-emptive issues for cash in institutions on 6 December 2007 under section 144a of the connection with rights issues and otherwise up to a nominal US Securities Act contain an option such that, upon a change amount of 20,184,972.
A special resolution will also be of control event, combined with a credit ratings downgrade to proposed to renew the directors authority to repurchase the below sub-investment level, any holder of such a US Note Companys ordinary shares in the market.
The authority will be may require the Company to prepay the principal amount of limited to a maximum of 161 million ordinary shares and sets that US Note: the minimum and maximum prices which will be paid.
the 1.325bn Credit Agreement dated 29 September 2011 between the Company and various banks contains a Interests in voting rights provision such that, upon a change of control event, unless Information provided to the Company pursuant to the Financial new terms are agreed within 60 days, the facility under this Conduct Authoritys FCA Disclosure and Transparency Rules agreement will be cancelled with all outstanding amounts DTRs is published on a Regulatory Information Service and becoming immediately payable with interest: on the Companys website.
As at 30 March 2013, the following the amended and restated Relationship Agreement dated information has been received, in accordance with DTR5, 1 February 2012 originally dated 9 November 2004 as amended from holders of notifiable interests in the Companys issued on 1 March 2005, between HSBC and the Company and share capital.
relating to M&S Bank, contains certain provisions which address a change of control of the Company.
Upon a change of control Ordinary shares % of capital Nature of holding the existing rights and obligations of the parties in respect of AXA S. A.
76,111,596 4.81% Direct & indirect M&S Bank continue and HSBC gains certain limited additional Brandes Investment rights in respect of existing customers of the new controller of Partners, L. P 74,959,501 4.73% Indirect interest the Company.
Where a third party arrangement is in place for Capital Research & the supply of financial services products to existing customers Management 63,140,887 3.93% Indirect interest of the new controller, the Company is required to procure the The Wellcome Trust 47,464,282 3.01% Direct interest termination of such arrangement as soon as reasonably In the period 30 March 2013 to 20 May 2013 we recorded the following disclosures in practicable whilst not being required to do anything that would accordance with DTR5.
Capita Research and Management below 3% and Legal & General breach any contract in place in respect of such arrangement.
Where a third party arrangement is so terminated, or does not Deadlines for exercising voting rights exist, HSBC gains certain exclusivity rights in respect of the sale Votes are exercisable at a general meeting of the Company in of financial services products to the existing customers of the respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard.
Where the Company undertakes a re-branding Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to exercise with the new controller following a change of control corporate members, by corporate representatives.
The Articles which includes using any M&S brand in respect of the new provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not less controllers business or vice versa, HSBC gains certain than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the termination rights exercisable at its election in respect of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
However, when calculating the Relationship Agreement: 48 hour period, the directors can, and have, decided not to the Company does not have agreements with any director or take account of any part of a day that is not a working day.
employee that would provide compensation for loss of office Significant agreements change of control or employment resulting from a takeover except that There are a number of agreements to which the Company is provisions of the Companys share schemes and plans may party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of cause options and awards granted to employees under such control of the Company following a takeover bid.
Details of the schemes and plans to vest on a takeover.
significant agreements of this kind are as follows: Board of directors the 400m Medium Term Notes issued by the Company on The membership of the Board and biographical details of the 30 November 2009, the 300m Medium Term Notes issued directors are given on page 40 and 41 and are incorporated by the company on 6th December 2011 and the 400m into this report by reference.
Details of directors beneficial and Medium Term Notes issued by the Company on 12 December non-beneficial interests in the shares of the Company are 2012 to various institutions MTN and under the Groups shown on page 66.
Options granted under the Save As You 3bn Euro Medium Term Note EMTN programme contain an Earn SAYE Share Option and Executive Share Option option such that, upon a change of control event, combined Schemes are shown on pages 69 to 70.
Further information with a credit ratings downgrade to below sub-investment regarding employee share option schemes is given in note 13 level, any holder of an MTN may require the Company to to the financial statements.
prepay the principal amount of that MTN: Kate Bostock stepped down from the Board as Executive the $500m US Notes issued by the Company to various Director General Merchandise on 1 October 2012.
John Dixon institutions on 6 December 2007 under section 144a of the was appointed Executive Director, General Merchandise on US Securities Act contain an option such that, upon a change 1 October 2012 having previously been Executive Director, of control event, combined with a credit ratings downgrade to Food.
Steve Rowe joined the Board on 1 October 2012 as below sub-investment level, any holder of such a US Note Executive Director, Food.
Andy Halford joined the Board may require the Company to prepay the principal amount of as a non-executive director on 1 January 2013 and will be that US Note: appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee following Jeremy Darroch stepping down from the Board in June 2013.
Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 74 Other disclosures continued Steve Sharp will step down from the Board following the Annual meetings, personal letters home, email and broadcasts by the General Meeting on 9 July 2013 and will continue to work in the Chief Executive and members of the Board at key points in the business as Creative Director until 28 February 2014. year to all head office employees and store management.
In addition many of our store colleagues can join the briefings by Patrick Bousquet-Chavanne will take over responsibility for telephone to hear directly from the business.
These types of marketing and will be put forward for election to the Board as communication are supplemented by our employee publications Executive Director, Marketing and Business Development at including Your M&S magazine, Plan A updates and DVD the AGM on 9 July 2013 to take up this new role from 10 July.
More than 3,500 employees elected onto Business Involvement Groups BIGs across every store and The appointment and replacement of directors is governed by head office location to represent their colleagues in two-way the Companys Articles, the UK Corporate Governance Code communication and consultation with the Company.
They have the Code, the Companies Act 2006 and related legislation.
continued to play a key role in a wide variety of business The Articles may be amended by a special resolution of the changes, in what has been a very busy year.
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and any directions given by special resolution, the business of The eighteenth meeting of the European Works Council EWC the Company will be managed by the Board who may exercise established in 1995 will take place in September 2013.
This all the powers of the Company.
The Company may by ordinary Council provides an additional forum for informing, consulting resolution declare dividends not exceeding the amount and involving employee representatives from the countries in recommended by the Board.
Subject to the Companies Act the European Community.
The EWC includes members from 2006, the Board may pay interim dividends, and also any fixed our partly owned company in the Czech Republic, as well as rate dividend, whenever the financial position of the Company, representatives from Greece, Bulgaria, France, Slovenia, in the opinion of the Board, justifies its payment.
Romania, the Republic of Ireland and the UK.
The EWC will have the opportunity to be addressed by the Chief Executive Appointment and retirement of directors and other senior members of the Company on issues that The directors may from time to time appoint one or more affect the European business.
This will include the Directors directors.
The Board may appoint any person to be a director of International and Multi-channel and the Director of Plan A, so long as the total number of directors does not exceed the limit which all have an impact across the European Community.
Under the Articles any such director shall hold office only until the next AGM and shall then be eligible Directors and senior management regularly attend the National for election.
The Articles also require that at each AGM at least Business Involvement Group BIG meetings.
They visit stores and one-third of the current directors must retire as directors by discuss with employees matters of current interest and concern rotation.
All those directors who have been in office at the time of to both employees and the business through meetings with local the two previous AGMs and who did not retire at either of them BIG representatives, specific listening groups and informal must retire as directors by rotation.
In addition, a director may at discussions.
The business has continued to engage with any AGM retire from office and stand for re-election.
However, in employees and drive involvement through a scheme called line with the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010, all directors The BIG Idea.
On a quarterly basis the business poses a question will stand for annual election at the 2013 AGM.
to gather ideas and initiatives on a number of areas including how we can better serve our customers.
Several thousand ideas are put Directors conflicts of interest forward each time and the winning employee receives an award The Company has procedures for managing conflicts of and the chance to see how this is implemented by the Company.
Should a director become aware that they, or their connected parties, have an interest in an existing or Share schemes are a long-established and successful part proposed transaction with Marks & Spencer, they should notify of our total reward package, encouraging and supporting the Board in writing or at the next Board meeting.
In particular, around 25,000 controls are in place to ensure that any related party employees currently participate in Sharesave, the Companys transactions involving directors, or their connected parties, all employee Save As you Earn Scheme.
Full details of all are conducted on an arms length basis.
Directors have a schemes are given on pages 95 to 97. continuing duty to update any changes to these conflicts.
We have a well established interactive wellbeing website, Directors indemnities called planahealth.
com, a completely bespoke website and The Company maintains directors and officers liability service designed exclusively for M&S employees which was insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal action updated and re-launched in October 2012.
It gives any brought against its directors.
The Company has also granted employee the opportunity to access a wealth of information, indemnities to each of its directors and the Group Secretary to help and support.
We cover all areas of wellbeing, from healthy the extent permitted by law.
Qualifying third party indemnity eating and exercise to help in overcoming issues such as provisions as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act stress, financial challenges, achieving a positive work-life 2006 were in force during the year ended 30 March 2013 and balance and problems with sleeping.
New this year is access remain in force, in relation to certain losses and liabilities which to free physiotherapy, an enhanced counselling service and the directors or Group Secretary may incur to third parties in an improved wellbeing personal coach service.
the course of acting as directors or Group Secretary or employees of the Company or of any associated company.
The response has been excellent with 13,000 employees making personal pledges to improve a specific health or Employee involvement wellbeing issue.
Employees are able to interact with one We remain committed to employee involvement throughout the another, post information about clubs and groups in their business.
Employees are kept well informed of the performance area and can gain access to information about corporate and strategy of the Group through personal briefings, regular projects which link to their personal health pledges.
Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 75 We maintain contact with retired staff through communications The terms and conditions which govern the trading from the Company and the Pension Trust.
Member-nominated relationship between M&S and those of its suppliers that trustees have been elected to the Pension Trust Board, supply groceries to M&S incorporate GSCOP.
We continue to produce New suppliers are issued with information as required by a regular Pensions Update newsletter for members of our final the Order.
salary pension scheme and the M&S Retirement Plan.
M&S has a Code Compliance Officer as required under the Order, supported by our in-house legal department.
Equal opportunities Employee training on GSCOP is provided, including annual The Group is committed to an active equal opportunities refresher programmes and new starter training.
policy from recruitment and selection, through training and development, performance reviews and promotion to Under the Order and GSCOP, M&S is required to submit an retirement.
It is our policy to promote an environment free from annual report detailing its compliance with GSCOP to the Audit discrimination, harassment and victimisation, where everyone Committee for approval and to the Office of Fair Trading.
M&S will receive equal treatment regardless of gender, colour, ethnic submitted its report to the Audit Committee on 10 May 2013 or national origin, disability, age, marital status, sexual covering the period from 1 April 2012 to 30 March 2013.
All decisions relating to employment accordance with the Order, a summary of that compliance practices will be objective, free from bias and based solely report is set out below: upon work criteria and individual merit.
The Company is M&S believes that it has complied in full with GSCOP and the responsive to the needs of its employees, customers and the Order during the relevant period.
Only two suppliers alleged community at large.
We are an organisation which uses breaches of the Order GSCOP.
One of the allegations led to a everyones talents and abilities and where diversity is valued.
dispute, which is detailed below, and the other was withdrawn We were one of the first major companies to remove the default by the supplier and the issue resolved to the satisfaction of retirement age in 2001 and have continued to see an increase both parties.
in employees wanting to work past the state retirement age.
Our oldest employee is 86 years old and joined the business at One formal dispute has arisen under the Order GSCOP age 80.
The Company once again featured in The Times Top between M&S and a grocery supplier in the reporting period.
50 places for Women to work in April 2013 and considers this M&S completely denies any breach and arbitration proceedings to highlight how equal opportunities are available for all.
have not yet been initiated by the supplier.
Employees with disabilities Creditor payment policy It is our policy that people with disabilities should have full and For all trade creditors, it is the Groups policy to: fair consideration for all vacancies.
During the year, we agree the terms of payment at the start of business with that continued to demonstrate our commitment to interviewing supplier: those people with disabilities who fulfil the minimum criteria, ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment: and and endeavouring to retain employees in the workforce if they pay in accordance with its contractual and other legal become disabled during employment.
We will actively retrain obligations.
and adjust their environment where possible to allow them to maximise their potential.
We continue to work with external The main trading company, Marks and Spencer plc, has a organisations to provide workplace opportunities through our policy concerning the payment of trade creditors as follows: innovative Marks & Start scheme and by working closely with general merchandise payments are received between 25 and JobCentrePlus.
This year we have focused on introducing this 60 days after the stock was invoiced scheme into our new distribution centre in Castle Donington, food payments are received between 19 and 54 days after the where we are working with Remploy to support people with stock was invoiced: and disabilities and health conditions into work.
distribution suppliers are paid monthly, for costs incurred in Essential contracts or arrangements that month, based on estimates, and payments are adjusted The Company is required to disclose any contractual or other quarterly to reflect any variations to estimate.
arrangements which it considers are essential to its business.
Trade creditor days for Marks and Spencer plc for the year We have a wide range of suppliers for the production and ended 30 March 2013 were 24 days, or 16 working days last distribution of products to our customers.
Whilst the loss of or year 26 days, or 17 working days, based on the ratio of disruption to certain of these arrangements could temporarily Company trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts affect the operations of the Group, none are considered to be invoiced during the year by trade creditors.
essential, with the exception of certain warehouse operators and the provider of the Companys e-commerce platform.
Market value of properties The Directors believe that the open market value of the Groceries Supply Code of Practice properties of the Group exceeds their net book value.
The Groceries Supply Chain Practices Market Investigation Order 2009 Order and The Groceries Supply Code of Charitable donations Practice GSCOP impose obligations on M&S relating to In line with our Plan A commitments, during the year, the Group relationships with its suppliers of groceries.
M&S operates made charitable donations to support the community of 11m systems and controls to ensure compliance with the Order and last year 11.4m, excluding management costs and GSCOP including the following: memberships.
These principally consisted of cash donations of 6.2m last year 6.9m which included UNICEF, WWF, MCS, Breakthrough Breast Cancer, Macmillan Cancer Support, Governance Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 76 Other disclosures continued Royal British Legion, our Marks & Start programme and local state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU have community donations.
We also donated 1.2m last year been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed 1.3m of employee time, principally from fundraising, and explained in the financial statements: and volunteering, Marks & Start and school work experience, and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis stock donations of 3.6m last year 3.2m to a variety of unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will charities, including Shelter and The Newlife Foundation.
We also had another successful year supporting a number of The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting our charity partners in raising funds of 8.2m last year 8.5m.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys This principally consisted of funds raised from customer clothing transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time donations to Oxfam through Shwopping our clothes recycling the financial position of the Company and the Group and to initiative, funds raised by our Marks & Start charities as a result enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the of M&S support and other employee and customer donations.
Remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the Political donations IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the No political donations were made during the year ended 30 March assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking 2013.
Marks & Spencer has a policy of not making donations to reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and political organisations or independent election candidates or other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the incurring political expenditure anywhere in the world as defined in maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation Going concern in other jurisdictions.
Each of the directors, whose names and In adopting the going concern basis for preparing the financial functions are listed on pages 40 and 41 of the Annual Report, statements, the directors have considered the business confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: activities as set out on pages 1 to 37 as well as the Groups principal risks and uncertainties as set out on pages 45 to 48. the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in Based on the Groups cash flow forecasts and projections, the accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and Board is satisfied that the Group will be able to operate within fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the level of its facilities for the foreseeable future.
For this the Group: and reason the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis the Business review contained in this report includes a fair in preparing its financial statements.
review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of Auditors the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Resolutions to reappoint  LLP as auditors of the Company and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the 2013 AGM.
Disclosure of information to auditor Annual General Meeting Each director confirms that, so far as he she is aware, there is The AGM of Marks and Spencer Group plc will be held at no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors Wembley Stadium, London on 9 July 2013 at 11am.
The Notice are unaware and that each director has taken all the steps of Meeting is given, together with explanatory notes, in the that he she ought to have taken as a director to make himself booklet which accompanies this report.
herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the EU.
Under company law the directors must not approve By order of the Board the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give Amanda Mellor, Group Secretary a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the London Company and of the profit or loss of the Company and Group 20 May 2013 for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent:
