Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 24 Focus on the UK uK StOReS HiGHliGHtS UK stores Total UK portfolio 766 Premier 12 Major 59 Our stores remain the most popular The format also brings elements of High street way to shop with M&S, serving over theatre to our Food Halls, such as artisan 20 million customers every week.
bakeries and delis, to reinforce our 228 Over two-thirds of our UK stores have speciality positioning and showcase our Outlet now been transformed with our new fresh food to its best advantage.
This store format, which provides a more first phase has been rolled out to 337 48 inspiring and interactive shopping UK stores.
Throughout the year we Simply Food owned In the first half of the year we launched continued to carefully evaluate the the second phase of this programme, 176 geography of our UK store portfolio, including new look Beauty and Home ensuring that we are positioned in the Simply Food franchised departments.
The new format is helping best and most convenient locations customers reappraise the M&S offer and across high streets, retail parks and 243 these stores are performing ahead of the out-of-town developments.
UK store portfolio CuStOmeR inSiGHt Service in store This year our new store openings and Great service is an essential part of Great service extensions added 410,400 sq ft of new delivering an inspirational shopping space.
We opened a number of larger means friendly, experience and this year we continued to stores in retail parks, including Crystal invest, with the launch of our new In helpful and Peaks, Peterborough, Milton Keynes, Touch programme see page 30.
We also knowledgeable Designed to provide employees with the continued our modernisation knowledge and resources required to employees who programme, undertaking major updates respond to our customers changing in 19 stores this year including are available and needs, the in-store training module has Camberley and our flagship Marble now been rolled out to all stores able to answer Arch store.
In August we opened Cheshire Oaks, our Our Mystery Shop programme has new 151,000 sq ft flagship store for the helped ensure we continue to deliver the North West, second in size only to our very highest standards of service and Marble Arch store in London.
Serving a this years scores remained high at 81%.
catchment area of over 1.3 million However, as part of our aim to be more people, it showcases the very best of in touch with our customers, we decided M&S store design, multi-channel to replace our monthly Mystery Shop innovation, service and environmental programme with a more regular, in-depth standards under one roof.
Under this With outstanding green credentials, new format, one in every ten store Cheshire Oaks is also a true community customers is invited to take part in an store.
We engaged with local groups online survey through their till receipt and right from the start: with educational site incentivised by a prize draw.
We are visits and a focus on local investment, currently receiving over 12,000 we ensured key stakeholders remained responses every week.
informed of plans and progress Technology in stores throughout the build.
The store created This year our business unit, store design over 350 new jobs in the region and and e-commerce teams collaborated to attracted over 21,000 visitors on opening make our stores work harder and bring day.
The store has received excellent the M&S multi-channel experience to life customer feedback.
Trend zones in our stores.
Customers told us they were New look stores looking for more inspiration Using the latest technology, we are Last year we began the roll-out of our and reasons to spend in offering improved convenience, more new store format, designed to make our store.
Responding to this, our inspiration and greater choice.
We now stores easier to shop by improving visual merchandising teams have a total of over 250 Browse and navigation and making better use of created trend zones, bringing Order points across 82 stores enabling space.
Our new format features clearly products to life to show how customers to shop more of the M&S defined areas to reflect the distinctive outfits can be put together product catalogue.
Stores are now personalities of our clothing sub-brands and enabling customers to equipped with around 1,500 iPads, and improved product presentation.
quickly and easily recognise enabling employees to offer a more items from our advertising personalised service and order products campaigns.
for customers on the spot either for home or free-to-store delivery.
Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information Strategic review Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 25 Focus on the UK Our greenest store Quicker and more Cheshire Oaks includes the convenient latest sustainable building Following a successful trial, features such as a 100% FSCwe rolled out contactless certified engineered softwood payment across all our UK and timber roof, hemp and lime Republic of Ireland stores.
external wall panels and Customers are enjoying the harvested rainwater to supply speed and convenience of the toilet facilities and irrigate the payment method and 14% of stores living greenwall.
card transactions under 20 are now completed by contactless.
Discover more online SERVICE Customer satisfaction survey The new format provides us with regular, real-time insight into the things that matter most to customers.
They are invited to provide verbatim comments under the topics friendly and helpful, available to help, knowledge, and quick to pay.
Stores can access their scores via an online portal putting them more in touch with the customers they serve.
Looking ahead Our priority remains to deliver an inspirational shopping environment for our customers in the most convenient locations possible.
The Simply Food coming year will see us complete the Customers appreciate the convenience roll-out of our new look store format.
of our Simply Food store format and This improved product presentation this year we opened nine new M&S will be supported by more owned sites.
Seven of these were in knowledgeable and informed prime out-of-town locations with car employees.
We will continue to cater parks and many of the larger stores for our customers changing feature a bakery, deli or caf as well as shopping habits working closely our Shop Your Way order and collection with our digital team to deliver a more service.
We plan to maintain the rate of integrated experience.
new store openings in the coming year.
