Overview Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 04 Marketplace Customers are the heart of our Consumer confidence index business, so it is vital that we 0 understand what they want from M&S.
-5 Our Customer Insight Unit CIU uses -10 a combination of market research and customer feedback to help us -15 understand how our customers think -20 and identify the factors that influence -25 their shopping behaviour.
-30 Market overview -35 During 2012 13 there was little economic -40 growth in the UK, with a Gross Domestic Product increase of just 0.3% in 2012.
Vacancy rates remained high and over Source GfK the course of the year a number of well known retailers disappeared from the high street.
With the unique national celebrations Over the last year, any growth in the finished in the early part of the year, market has come from online, as more Rising energy costs and petrol price customers attached greater significance customers shifted to shopping across increases further squeezed household to traditional events and family multiple channels.
As a result, they budgets this year.
As the gap between celebrations.
They were determined to expected retailers to join up their different pay rises and inflation widened, incomes make these occasions truly special shopping channels and provide them were further eroded by benefit cuts and making their time with friends and family with a seamless experience and service the removal of certain tax credits.
whichever way they chose to shop.
The market was adversely affected by Health and wellbeing also featured The continued growth of smartphone unseasonal weather conditions during prominently in consumer priorities this and tablet ownership meant mobile 2012 13.
The early part of the financial year.
They looked to retailers to help make devices became an even more influential year included three of the wettest months living a healthier lifestyle more enjoyable browsing and buying tool this year.
This on record and the UK experienced the and affordable, with less emphasis on growth has not only made it easier for coldest March in over 50 years.
dieting and more focus on delicious and customers to shop on the move but it nutritious quality ingredients.
has also altered their behaviour at home, These factors contributed towards a with the rise of second screening.
Retailers Trust was also an important issue within This trend, whereby more customers fought hard to win consumers spend and the food industry this year.
Customer are watching TV with a mobile or tablet there were continued high levels of concerns about transparency and device in hand, has proved to be a promotional activity on the high street.
traceability in the meat supply chain valuable opportunity for retailers to prompted a move towards quality There were genuine moments of national engage directly and provide consumers food retailers.
celebration during the year and The with reasons to interact with their brand Queens Diamond Jubilee and the there and then.
Our marketing activity Ultimately, consumers wanted to feel Olympic Games lifted the nations mood.
responded to this trend, as explained every purchase they made was However, the feelgood factor they on page 16. worthwhile adding genuine value to generated proved fairly short-lived and their lives.
As a result, they looked to did not translate into higher retail sales.
Consumers purchasing decisions were retailers to inspire them and provide increasingly influenced by how quickly clear reasons to spend.
How is this affecting our and easily they could receive their customers?
How are our customers shopping?
As more retailers launched and Consumers have become used to With shopping trips restricted and improved next day delivery options, navigating choppy economic waters and budgets limited, customers told us that customers expectations were set even confidence levels continued to improve they wanted to enjoy their shopping higher.
Customers now expect flexible as a result.
However, high profile experience, in a stress-free and inspiring and tailored choices for both ordering administrations coupled with the environment.
They wanted to feel valued and delivery as standard and we worked ongoing threat of a triple dip recession by retailers and great customer service hard to improve our Shop Your Way meant this confidence remained fragile was a key consideration for shoppers.
service, as explained in the Multi-channel and a sense of caution prevailed.
As a result, we invested further in our section of this report on page 26. service proposition delivering new training to our store employees.
Nov 11 Dec 11 Jan 12 Feb 12 Mar 12 Apr 12 May 12 Jun 12 Jul 12 Aug 12 Sep 12 Oct 12 Nov 12 Dec 12 Jan 13 Feb 13 Mar 13 Apr 13 Overview Strategic review Financial review Governance Financial statements and other information shop your way in store online on the go free next day delivery to this store Overview Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 05 CUSTOMER INSIGHT I w ant every purchase I make to feel worthwhile and really make a difference to me.
How we have responded Area Impact Response Clothing Many consumers We established eye-catching trend The clothing market remained flat this deferred their zones aligned to our advertising year and was impacted by unseasonal shopping trips, campaigns in stores, giving weather.
Limited consumer budgets, deciding to make customers ideas on outfit building meant womenswear in particular do with their and enabling them to clearly identify continued to be extremely competitive existing wardrobe, the right products for them.
unless they were presented with compelling reasons to buy.
Home With continued emphasis on family and Our new inspirational roomset layout The static housing market meant sales socialising at home, customers looked delivered a real wow factor in stores, of big-ticket items such as furniture for inspiration and affordable style, as showcasing statement pieces of remained depressed.
Consumers their focus remained on smaller-scale furniture, homeware and accessories increasingly used stores projects to refresh and update from our collections.
We also featured as try before you buy their homes.
stylish room ideas on our website, showrooms to make Home catalogue and on the new M&S purchasing decisions, Home iPad app.
Furniture sales but used online methods increased as a result.
to purchase avoiding additional distractions.
Food Customers continued to demand good Our Simply M&S range caters for Driven by commodity and fuel price value food, but also expressed renewed customers seeking affordable quality increases, inflation continued to be commitment to healthy eating, and we continued to extend our the principal factor affecting the food particularly in the New Year.
Health offer, with a brand new market.
Competition amongst retailers They looked for a stress-free range Delicious and Nutritious.
remained intense, with high levels shopping experience, Our reputation for exceptional food of promotional activity.
In the wake with clear promotions provenance served us well this year of the supply chain issues, trust and and quality they and we reminded our customers traceability became a priority could trust.
of our longstanding relationships for customers.
with British farmers who share our values and commitments.
Brand With a limited budget available Our marketing activity highlighted the In a challenging market, dependable consumers turned to brands they trusted quality and innovation that sets M&S established brands continued to benefit.
They wanted apart both in Food and Clothing.
We The well publicised issues in the food every purchase to make a difference to used a broader variety of models so supply chain further fuelled their lives.
customers could see how the latest a migration towards quality, styles would make a difference to their trusted brands.
Our food campaigns showed how M&S Food can make ordinary occasions special.
Multi-channel Customers were This year we better integrated our This year online and mobile channels looking for integrated, shopping channels bringing the continued to play an increasingly effortless shopping latest digital technology into our important role in influencing shoppers experiences that stores.
We launched our first and determining their purchasing allowed them to transactional iPhone app and added decisions.
make well-informed new browse and order points to our choices and buy stores.
We rolled out over 1,500 iPads in the way that to our employees helping to offer a suits them best.
Overview Marks and Spencer Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2013 06 Marketplace continued International marketplace Plan A participation GDP continued to grow in our priority This year we continued to extend our markets of Russia, the Middle East, influence beyond M&S.
More customers India and the Shanghai region of China.
than ever took part in a variety of Plan A Trading conditions continued to be activities.
challenging across the Eurozone, particularly in Greece, Spain and Highlighting our credentials the Republic of Ireland.
The M&S brand is synonymous with British style.
Our Golden Bell store in Shanghai We believe most trends are global and carried a range of exclusive products that our UK catalogue is the core of our showcased our UK heritage.
Careful editing ensured that our collections remained relevant to the slightly younger age profile of our international customers.
We also As part of our strategy to become an In a challenging economic environment, responded to a variety of international international multi-channel retailer, we Plan A also helps us to run a more demand trends including increasing local launched websites in Germany, Spain, efficient business, through reducing garment sourcing in India.
This has Austria and Belgium, extending our reach waste and energy use.
We continued to resulted in faster speed to market, into the some of the fastest growing share our experiences with suppliers improved margins for us and better online fashion markets in Europe.
Making enabling them to reduce their own choice and fit for the customer.
We also the most of Londons status as an manufacturing costs and create a more introduced better phasing of outerwear international fashion capital, the launch sustainable future.
in Russia to capture the market earlier in was themed around showcasing the very This year we launched new ways to the season when demand is highest.
best of London style from our engage our customers in Plan A, with catwalk-influenced Limited Collection to Our British heritage and brand values exciting initiatives such as Shwopping the craftsmanship of our Savile Row are key assets for M&S in international and our Big Beach Clean-Up.
A heightened appetite for all will continue to play a leading role in our things British was particularly apparent international marketing activity.
this year, as global attention focused on The Queens Diamond Jubilee and How Plan A helps us respond the London Olympics.
These events Plan A our eco and ethical programme presented us with the ideal opportunities sets us apart as a leader in the to showcase the best of M&S and marketplace and helps us tackle the differentiate ourselves from local sustainability issues that face all major competitors.
With key raw materials and natural Looking ahead resources under increasing pressure, we continued to develop a more sustainable Customers are pragmatic about the supply chain, focusing on areas such as future, realising that economic cotton and sustainable fishing.
Our recovery is still some way off.
long-established strict sourcing However, they are gaining increasing standards meant M&S did not need to confidence, thanks to their ability to withdraw any products as a result of the manage through these difficult times supply chain issues.
and remain focused on spending wisely and well with retailers they trust.
