MarKeT OVerVieW We operate in the UK eating-out and drinking-out markets through our pubs: sell our products to the UK on-trade and off-trade: and export to 57 countries worldwide.
We carefully research the markets in which we operate so that we can assess and understand them, thus improving our standards, service and range to gain market share.
The UK PUb MarKeT There are over 50,000 pubs in the UK operating in one of the following ways: 1.
Managed pubs are operated by a pub company or brewer which employs a salaried manager and pub staff and determines the service style and product range.
There are around 8,000 managed pubs in the UK.
Marstons has around 500 of these and our variety of operating formats allows us maximum flexibility to best meet our consumers needs.
Tenanted Leased pubs are owned by a pub company or brewer but leased to, and operated by, a third party tenant or lessee, who pays rent.
The tenant or lessee is responsible for the management of the pub and generally contracts to purchase some or all of their drinks products from the pub company or brewer which owns the pub.
This part of the agreement is called the tie.
There are approximately 25,000 such pubs in the UK of which Marstons has around 1,000.
The relationship between pub owners and tenants and lessees has been the subject of government scrutiny in recent years and the industry remains a heavily regulated one.
Marstons has long argued that fair, sustainable rents and a partnership approach are vital for the success of tenanted and leased pubs, and all our agreements comply with the Pub Industry Framework Code of Practice.
In 2009 we introduced franchise agreements as a response to pressures on tenanted and leased pubs.
This enables us to take greater control of the retail offer and standards allowing the franchisee to focus on the customer.
We have approximately 600 franchised pubs.
Free houses and pubs which are independently owned and operated by private individuals, partnerships or companies.
We supply around 3,800 customers through our independent free trade channel.
6 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 Strategic Report Destination and Premium: growth in coffee sales up 19% eaTing OUT beer Whilst economic pressures continue to affect UK consumer Whilst the removal of the beer duty escalator earlier this year was confidence, spend on everyday treats and low ticket items has helpful, beer consumption in pubs remains in overall decline.
The market is worth in excess of 50 billion and Factors driving this decline include the harmful impact of this is expected to grow.
Managed and branded pubs are taking regulation and taxation on pubs in particular: the state of the a greater share of this growth driven by an improvement in their economy: competition for disposable income and leisure time: food offer and adapting to customer trends for all day and less lifestyle changes including increased health awareness: and the 1 formal dining.
adaptation of pubs to exploit growth in casual dining.
Consumers have a broad range of eating-out options and where However, there continues to be growth in home consumption of ale, they choose to eat is driven primarily by food quality, choice and particularly premium bottled ale, providing opportunities to grow value.
Research shows that consumers look at ingredients, market share.
Cask ales continue to outperform the market and now cooking techniques and menu descriptions rather than calories to account for over 15% of all beer sales.
They continue to recruit new 1 determine whether or not a meal is healthy.
Consumers are drinkers with appeal based on delivering greater product attributes demanding more from pubs and want to experience something of flavour, craft credentials and brewer provenance.
different whether that be the theatre of seeing their meals freshly cooked, walking up to a carvery and choosing what they want on Marstons strategy is focused on the growth areas of the market their plate, or customising their dish through a choice of toppings.
and we utilise our five breweries to innovate constantly and exploit There is also growth in less formal meal occasions and snacking emerging trends.
We continue to outperform a declining beer throughout the day.
market through our focus on cask and premium bottled beers.
Our new 7 million bottling line opened in October 2013 and will Our new-build strategy and value-for-money dining continues to support our aim of increasing market share in the UK premium TM represent a significant growth opportunity against this backdrop.
Fastcask continues to open up new markets Our focus on providing consumers with conveniently located for cask ale and our Revisionist range allows us to introduce new pub-restaurants offering good value and quality service in and exciting beers on a rotational basis.
At The Publicans Choice attractive surroundings has resulted in significant growth in food Awards 2013 Marstons was named as best national cask ale sales, which now comprise 52% of total sales in Destination and brewer.
The awards, voted for by readers of The Publicans Premium.
On page 11 we have set out some of the exciting Morning Advertiser, recognise the best suppliers in the trade.
developments Marstons has introduced to its food offerings.
Our extensive portfolio of beer styles and innovative approach to creating new beers: including the Single Hop and other beers in the craft range, contributed to our success at the awards.
Destination and Premium food growth 2013 2012 UK Premium Ale Volume Growth Trend Food sales mix 52% 49% Meals served 27 million 24 million 12 Spend per head on food 6.58 6.31 10 Marston's Market 8 6 4 Destination 2 and Premium: average profit per pub up 0 11.9% to -2 -4 207k -6 Aug 2011 Aug 2012 Aug 2013 Source: BBPA SVS Company Figures 1 Allegra.
Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 7 Numbers for internal use only, Chart can be published with the source.
