Governance The principles on which the determination of payments of loss of office will be approached are summarised below: Provision Treatment upon loss of office Payment in lieu of notice Payments to Executive Directors upon termination of their contracts will be equal to base salary plus the value of core benefits for the duration of the notional notice period.
Benefits may also include, but are not limited to, outplacement and legal fees.
They will also be entitled to pension contributions for the duration of the notional notice period.
For active members of the defined benefit pension scheme an equivalent cash allowance will be negotiated.
Annual bonus This will be at the discretion of the Committee on an individual basis and the decision whether or not to award a bonus in full or in part will be dependent upon a number of factors including the circumstances of their departure and their contribution to the business during the bonus period in question.
Any bonus amounts paid as estimated by the Committee will typically be pro-rated for time in service to termination and will, subject to performance, be paid at the usual time.
Deferred bonus Any deferred award under the deferred bonus plan will be determined based on the leaver provisions contained within the deferred bonus plan rules.
For participants leaving before the first anniversary of the date of grant deferred awards will lapse unless the participant is considered a good leaver.
For a good leaver the deferred award will vest in full.
Good leavers are participants who leave as a result of redundancy, death, ill-health, injury or disability, the sale of his employer out of the Group or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee.
For a participant leaving after the first anniversary of the date of grant the award will vest in full unless employment is terminated for reasons of misconduct in which case the award will lapse.
New LTIP Any award under the new LTIP would be determined based on the leaver provisions contained within the new LTIP plan rules.
For good leavers new LTIP awards will usually vest at the ordinary vesting point, be subject to performance conditions and pro-rated for time.
Good leavers are participants who leave as a result of death, ill-health, injury or disability, the sale of his employer out of the Group or any other reason at the discretion of the Committee.
In other circumstances LTIP awards will lapse upon the cessation of employment.
The Committee retains the discretion to accelerate vesting and to waive pro-rating for time.
Change of control Upon a change of control incentive awards will usually vest and be subject to performance conditions and pro-rated for time.
The Committee retains the discretion to waive pro-rating for time.
Mitigation Ralph Findlays service contract is formed under a model which was approved by the Committee in 2001 and there is no reduction in payments for mitigation or for early payment as the Remuneration Committee has taken the view that as a long-standing employee of the Group, full compensation would be merited in the event of unilateral termination of his employment by the Group.
Andrew Andrea and Peter Dalzells service contracts were formed under a new model approved in 2009 and provide that, subject to formal notice being given by either party, any payment during the notice period will be reduced by any amount earned in that period from alternative employment as a result of being released to work for another employer prior to the conclusion of their notice period.
Statement of consideration of employment conditions elsewhere in the Company Salary, benefits and performance related rewards provided to employees are taken into account when setting policy for Executive Directors remuneration.
Although employees are not actively consulted on Directors remuneration the Company has regular contact with union bodies on matters of pay and remuneration for employees covered by collective bargaining or consultation arrangements.
In October of each year a paper is submitted to the Remuneration Committee by the Group Human Resources Director summarising the outcome of any annual reviews made to the wider workforce including head office and supply chain employees but excluding pub based staff as the majority of these employees have their remuneration rate set by statute rather than the market.
This paper is taken into account when setting Executive Directors remuneration effective from the start of October for the following 12 months.
In addition, and where relevant, a similar paper is submitted in October covering the decisions taken by the Executive Committee relating to bonus payments for employees within the wider workforce.
This is taken into consideration by the Remuneration Committee when approving bonus awards for Executive Directors.
Statement of consideration of shareholder views The Committee is committed to open and transparent dialogue with shareholders and welcomes feedback on Executive and Non-executive Directors remuneration.
Prior to the new LTIP being formally put to shareholders, the Committee has had an open dialogue with major shareholders and institutional investor bodies setting out the proposals and the detailed thinking and planning behind them.
Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013 45
