sTraTegy in acTiOn Our strategy, as described below, focuses on the organic development of the business.
The potential for developing through acquisition is reviewed regularly and measured against the consistently strong returns achieved through our organic investments.
in 2014 we intend to accelerate our new-build development plans and to initiate a more aggressive disposal programme for smaller wet-led pubs.
There are five key components to our plans: 1.
Operating high quality pubs for current and future consumers New-build pub-restaurants Investment in new-build pub-restaurants continues to be the primary growth driver for Marstons.
In 2013 we opened 22 new-build pub-restaurants across the UK, including our first pubs in Scotland.
Over the past seven years we have built more than 100 new pub-restaurants throughout England, Wales and Scotland.
Our pub-restaurants are well located and designed to combine traditional pub ambience with convenience and provide attractive, relaxed dining options.
We focus particularly on value for money with high standards of service and building pub-restaurants which are ideal for day to day convenience, special treats or celebrations.
The new-build programme a national From an investment perspective, the organic new-build rollout with industry leading momentum programme has generated consistently higher returns on capital Marstons pub development initiative is a truly national programme and invested than historical acquisitions across the industry, reflecting 2013 saw us open pubs across the UK, including in the Isle of Wight, careful selection of hand-picked sites, attractive pub design and Dunbar, Hunstanton and Holyhead.
build, and a strong consumer offer.
The performance of our We employ a leading team of development surveyors to acquire land and new-build programme since 2010 has been good, consistently have concluded development deals with Premier Inn, Tesco, Morrisons, beating our target return on capital of 16.5% representing an KFC and Costa Coffee.
This high return on capital has Our achievements were recognised by the Property Industry in 2011, generated significant value for investors, demonstrated by the where we won Property Company of the Year Leisure at the Estates 2012 estate valuation of the new-build pubs which yielded an Gazette awards and we have been shortlisted, as finalists, again in 2013. uplift of over 50% against build cost.
We were selected ahead of many established property companies and are regarded as a successful property developer in our own right.
Site selection is critical to the success of our new-build pubWe expect to open 25-30 freehold sites per annum and have a good restaurants.
Our experienced acquisitions team have established pipeline of openings for many years to come.
good relationships with site developers, helping to maintain a Our 2013 2014 planned openings by region are shown below: preferred partner status based on knowledge and experience.
As a consequence we have a strong, visible site pipeline for the foreseeable future.
5 South East 9 Our success in finding good sites and the strong financial results Scotland 3 achieved through building new pub-restaurants have enabled us East to increase our expansion target from 20-25 per year to 25-30 Midlands per year.
North 5 3 2 South West Accelerated disposal of smaller wet-led pubs Consumer expectations are changing and demand for betterquality pub and dining experiences is increasing, stimulated by New-builds enable us to expand into new geography, with a building greater choice and new, exciting brands and formats.
This trend designed to maximise the consumer experience and operational provides opportunity, but it also exposes an increasing number of efficiency.
Our recent estate revaluation showed that each new pubs and licensees to a developing market which is pub-restaurant opened is worth over 1 million more than the demanding higher standards.
development cost meaning that our expansion programme is delivering significant shareholder value.
The pubs most exposed to this trend tend to be smaller, wet-led In reality quality pub-restaurants rarely become available in the open pubs where food sales are modest or incidental, and which lack market and, when they do, they attract significant premium bids from the the position or scale to compete effectively with either wellsector.
A controlled development programme means we do not have to implemented managed formats or very high quality independent rely on opportunistic purchases or compromise our return on capital ROC hurdle rates when such pubs present themselves.
These pubs have also suffered most from the governments taxation and legislative changes in recent years.
We are one of the few pub companies to achieve BREEAM Excellent As a result we now aim for a higher number of disposals, accreditation on new developments and incorporate many energy saving initiatives within our standard specification.
principally from the Taverns estate, with a target of 60-70 million proceeds per annum for financial years 2014 and 2015.
Our focus and track record of completing deals has resulted in a significant pipeline of sites under negotiation over 100 meaning that the new-build programme will be a cornerstone of Marstons expansion strategy for many years to come.
10 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
