DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Differences in policy from the wider employee population The Company aims to provide a remuneration package that is market competitive, complies with any statutory requirements and is applied fairly and equitably across the wider employee population.
Where remuneration is not determined by statutory regulation, the Company operates the same core principles as it does for Executive Directors namely: We remunerate people in a manner that allows for stability of the business and the opportunity for sustainable long-term growth.
We seek to remunerate fairly and consistently for each role with due regard to the market place, internal consistency and the Companys ability to pay.
With the exception of our pub managers and field-based operations teams, all bonus arrangements within the Group normally have the same structure and pay-out mechanism as those for Executive Directors.
Participation in the DBP and LTIP is extended to the senior management team at the discretion of the Board and, in line with the policy for Executive Directors, share ownership is encouraged and LTIP participants are expected to build and maintain a minimum level of shareholding.
We also encourage long term employee engagement through the offer of SAYE to all employees of the Group who meet a minimum service requirement.
Recruitment Remuneration Policy When hiring a new Executive Director, the Committee will typically seek to use the Policy detailed in the table above to determine the Executive Directors ongoing remuneration package.
To facilitate the hiring of candidates of the appropriate calibre required to implement the Groups strategy, the Committee also retains the discretion to include any other remuneration component or award which is outside the Policy.
In determining appropriate remuneration, the Committee will take into consideration all relevant factors including the quantum and nature of remuneration to ensure the arrangements are in the best interests of Marstons and its shareholders.
The Committee may make an award to buy-out incentive arrangements forfeited on leaving a previous employer.
In doing so the Committee will take account of relevant factors including the form of award, any performance conditions attached to these awards and the time over which they would have vested.
The Committee would seek to incorporate buyout awards in line with the Companys remuneration framework as far as is practical.
The Committee may consider other components for structuring the buy-out, including cash or shares awards, restricted stock awards and share options where there is a commercial rationale for doing so.
Appropriate costs and support will be covered if the recruitment requires relocation of the individual.
All recruitment awards will normally be liable to forfeiture or clawback on early departure.
For Executive Directors, early departure is defined as being within the first two years of employment.
The maximum level of variable remuneration which may be granted excluding buy-out arrangements is three times salary.
The Committee will ensure that such awards are linked to the achievement of appropriate and challenging performance measures and will be forfeited if performance or continued employment conditions are not met.
Service contracts and policy on payment for loss of office Executive Directors contracts are on a rolling 12 month basis and are subject to 12 months notice when terminated by the Company and six months notice when terminated by the Director.
The Committee may, in exceptional circumstances, in order to attract and retain suitable executives, offer service contracts with up to an initial 24 month notice period which then reduce to 12 months at the end of this initial period.
The current Non-executive Directors, including the Chairman, do not have a service contract and their appointments, whilst for a term of three years, may be terminated without compensation at any time.
All Non-executive Directors have letters of appointment and their appointment and subsequent re-appointment is subject to annual approval by shareholders.
44 Marstons PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2013
