Remuneration Report This report has been prepared in accordance with the Directors The intention is to target median levels of fixed pay, whilst operating Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
It also meets the relevant incentive schemes that provide management with the ability to earn requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority more for true out-performance, partly through the active encouragement and describes how the Board has applied the Principles of Good of management co-investment.
The key principles on which the share Governance relating to directors remuneration.
As required by the schemes are founded are: Regulations, a resolution to approve the report will be proposed at to reward and incentivise growth: the Annual General Meeting of the Company at which the financial to provide a strong link to performance: and statements will be considered.
to take account of and, as far as possible, to follow corporate governance best practice.
The Regulations require the auditors to report to the Companys members on the Audited Information of the Directors Remuneration Basic Salary Report and to state whether, in their opinion, that part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 An individuals basic salary is reviewed by the Committee to take as amended by the Regulations.
The report has therefore been divided effect from 1 January of each year and on any significant change of into separate sections for Unaudited and Audited Information.
In deciding levels of salary the Committee takes into account advice from Towers Perrin, data from appropriate third party surveys covering companies of a similar size and operating in a similar Unaudited Information sector to the Company, together with salary increases received elsewhere in the Group.
Generally, salaries should be at the median Remuneration Committee level for companies of a similar size and type given the continuing very good financial performance of the Group.
The Remuneration Committee Committee consisted solely of three independent non executive directors: Mr D A Robins Committee As a result of the most recent salary review, which took account of the Chairman, Sir Alan Cox and Mr P J Hill.
None of the Committee has continuing excellent performance of the Company and also recognised or has had any personal financial interests, conflicts of interests arising that the executive directors bonus payments were no longer from cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the business.
pensionable with effect from 1 January 2005, the basic salaries for executive directors have been increased, in line with the above policy, The Committee consults with the Chief Executive and has access to with effect from 1 January 2006 as follows: external professional advice.
In 2004 Towers Perrin were appointed as advisors to the Committee.
As far as the Committee is aware Towers T Twigger 482,000 Perrin have no other relationship with the Company.
In late 2004, P E Green 214,000 Towers Perrin conducted a benchmark review of the executive directors S G Young 278,000 salaries and total remuneration packages and in late 2005 updated this advice.
This was taken into account for the salary review which Annual Bonus Payments took effect from 1 January 2006.
Towers Perrin also recommended new share incentive schemes for the executive directors and other The annual bonus payments for Mr T Twigger, Mr S G Young and senior executives to replace the Executive Share Option and Equity Mr P E Green are awarded following consideration of both the Participation Schemes which would expire in 2006.
These new schemes performance of the Group and the individuals contribution to that were approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in performance.
The maximum bonus which can be earned by any May 2005 and the first awards were made during the year.
executive director is 150% of basic salary, other than in truly exceptional circumstances.
However this level has not been reached in the past and The terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee are available is expected to be very rarely reached by directors in the future.
Achievement of Group profit and cash targets with reference to the Group budget, together with the individuals personal performance and Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors contribution, are the criteria for awards.
The level of bonus payments awarded to the executive directors for 2005 ranged from 107% to 116% The Committee ensures that executive remuneration packages are of basic salary at 31 December 2005 and reflects the continuing designed to attract, motivate and retain directors of a high calibre, outstanding financial performance, growth and development of the to recognise the international and decentralised nature of the Groups Group, as shown by the improvement in profit: the increase in earnings business and to reward them for enhancing value to shareholders.
per share: the increase in final dividend: the continuing strong cash flow The performance measurement of the executive directors and the from operating activities and the successful integration of acquisitions.
determination of their annual remuneration package is undertaken by the Committee.
Advice has been received from Towers Perrin on executive directors remuneration.
Policy on Share Schemes The remuneration package for executive directors and senior The Companys Equity Participation Plan and Executive Share Option management is designed to include a significant performance Scheme are an important part of the performance-related remuneration related element.
In 2006 the main features are: of executive directors encouraging them to contribute towards the basic annual salary including directors fees : continuing growth in, and performance of, the Company by participating bonus payments in respect of performance of both the individual and in the Companys success along with other shareholders.
An award is the Group calculated as a percentage of basic salary: made under the Equity Participation Plan on an annual basis and grants eligibility for an award of shares under the Companys Equity are considered under the Executive Share Option Scheme subject to Participation Plan: regulatory and scheme limits.
During 2005 the new Equity Participation eligibility for a grant of options under the Companys Executive Plan and Executive Share Option Scheme were introduced following Share Option Scheme: shareholder approval.
No new awards will be made under the 1996 benefits which include membership of the Executive Pension Plan Equity Participation Scheme or 1996 Executive Share Option Schemes and the funded unapproved retirement and death benefits scheme but existing awards will vest in accordance with the rules of those schemes.
FURBS, fully expensed car and free medical insurance for the The annual cost of these new plans for awards made to executive individual and their immediate family.
From April 2006 contributions from the Company to the FURBS will be replaced by a Pension directors and 176 senior executives across the Group is in the region of 5 million, although it could be significantly lower if the earnings per Allowance paid direct to the executive directors.
share performance condition is not met in full.
Following introduction of the Equity Participation Plan and Executive Share Option Scheme during 2005 after shareholder approval, the mix between fixed and variable pay is broadly 50 50 for the executive directors.
36 Meggitt PLC report and accounts 2005 It is the Companys policy that directors and senior executives who have TSR Five-Year Performance received grants of options under the Executive Share Option Scheme, Growth in the value of a hypothetical 1 holding from 1 January to or an allocation of shares under the Equity Participation Plan, should 31 December in each of the five years: retain an investment in the Companys shares once the options have been exercised or shares transferred to the individual amounting to at least one years salary.
2.50 20 Comparator Companies 50th percentile Meggitt Meggitt Equity Participation Plan 2005 2.00 FTSE Aerospace & Defence Index An annual award of shares will be made under the Meggitt Equity 1.50 Participation Plan the Plan to executive directors of 75% of basic salary basic award.
The number of shares which are the subject of 1.00 the award is calculated by dividing the value of the award by the average 0.50 middle market quotations of Meggitt Ordinary Shares on the London Stock Exchange over the 30 dealing days prior to the date of the award.
Year The individual limit will increase if an executive director invests an 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 amount, not to exceed 25% of net basic salary, in Meggitt shares.
In that These comparator indices have been chosen as being the most relevant to the industry in which the event, an executive director can receive a further award of up to 50% Company operates.
of basic salary matching award.
Therefore, executive directors can receive a total amount of 125% of basic salary ie the 75% for a basic Meggitt Executive Share Option Scheme 2005 award with a maximum of a further 50% of basic salary if the director makes the maximum investment permitted under the Plan.
An annual grant of options will be made to executive directors.
The aggregate market value of shares put under option each year will be two The proportion of the basic award, if any, that an executive director will times basic salary.
The price payable for each share under option will be ultimately receive, will depend on Meggitts performance during a three the market value for such a share at the time the option is granted.
year period commencing at the beginning of the financial year in which the award is made measurement period.
Performance will be The performance condition for the grant of options to executive measured by comparing the Total Shareholder Return TSR achieved directors is linked to the aggregate increase in earnings per share by Meggitt with that of other companies in a comparator group chosen EPS over the three year period following the financial year ending by the Remuneration Committee.
The comparator group comprises the immediately before the date of grant.
An option can be exercised in following companies which are in similar sectors and are of a relevant respect of 30% of the shares subject to the option if the aggregate size and international spread to Meggitt: growth in EPS is at least equal to the increase in the Retail Prices Index RPI plus 5% per annum.
The option can be exercised in respect of all BAE Systems Rolls-Royce Group the shares subject to the option if the aggregate growth in EPS is at Bodycote International Rotork least equal to RPI plus 8% per annum.
For growth in EPS between Cobham Smiths Group 5% per annum and 8% per annum, the option can be exercised over, FKI Spectris between 30% and 100% of the shares under option determined on a Halma Spirox-Sarco Engineering straight-line basis between these points.
There is no retesting of the IMI Spirent performance condition.
The Remuneration Committee has considered Invensys Tomkins the impact of changes to accounting standards and will endeavour to Marconi Corporation Ultra Electronics Holdings compare EPS on a consistent basis.
Morgan Crucible Company The VT Group Renishaw Weir Group The first grants under this scheme were made during the year.
Following its fide-listing the Marconi Corporation will be replaced in the The Companys earnings per share performance during the last five comparator group with effect from 1 January 2006.
At the date of this years is shown on page 92. report the replacement had not been finalised.
No shares will vest if Meggitts TSR performance is below the Meggitt PLC Share Incentive Plan SIP 50th percentile.
At the 50th percentile, 30% of the shares that are subject of the award will vest, rising on a straight-line basis to The directors agree an amount of money annually to be set aside from Group profits for the purchase of shares by the Trustee of the SIP under 100% vesting at the 75th percentile and above.
Notwithstanding Meggitts relative TSR performance, shares will only become the provisions of the Finance Act 2000.
These shares are allocated to eligible UK employees, including UK directors, on the basis of total eligible for release to the extent that the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that it is justified by the underlying financial earnings in the year, and are transferred for no consideration.
performance of Meggitt over the measurement period.
Vesting of the matching award will depend on the Companys TSR performance as outlined above and on the executive retaining his investment in Meggitt shares during the measurement period.
No matching shares will vest if Meggitts TSR performance is below the 50th percentile.
At the 50th percentile, 60% of the shares subject to the matching award will vest, rising on a straight-line basis to 200% vesting at the 75th percentile and above.
Shares subject to awards will not normally be released until the third anniversary of the award date.
The first awards under the Plan were made during the year.
Meggitt PLC report and accounts 2005 37 Remuneration Report continued Directors Share Interests Directors Contracts The beneficial interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the Mr T Twigger and Mr P E Green have rolling service contracts dated Company at 31 December 2004 and 31 December 2005 were as follows: 26 February 2001 and Mr S G Young has a rolling service contract dated 27 February 2004.
The notice period required from the Company is Shareholding twelve months and they are required to give the Company notice of Ordinary shares of 5p each 2005 2004 six months.
Sir Colin Terry 2,284 2,284 Under the contracts for Mr Twigger, Mr Young and Mr Green the T Twigger 374,462 353,047 Company would pay compensation if it were to terminate the contract Sir Alan Cox 20,000 20,000 in breach of the terms of the contract.
The compensation would be P E Green 185,174 164,326 the annual salary plus the value of benefits for the unexpired notice P J Hill 6,000 period less 5%.
D A Robins 38,600 37,619 S G Young 31,825 14,285 Remuneration Policy for Non Executive Directors The remuneration of the non executive directors is determined by The executive directors were allocated shares at an initial market value the Finance Committee of the Board and the remuneration of the of 270.00p under the Share Incentive Plan during 2005 as follows: Chairman is determined by the Remuneration Committee of the Board within the limits set out in the Articles of Association.
The Finance and Ordinary shares of 5p each Remuneration Committees use information from external surveys, in T Twigger 1,107 order to set the level of fees.
Fees paid to non executive directors during P E Green 1,092 2005 are shown on page 39.
S G Young 1,002 Non executive directors are appointed for a term of no longer than three years, do not have a contract of service, are not eligible to join These shares have been included in the share interests shown in the table above.
Details of directors share options are shown on pages 40 to 41. the Companys pension scheme and cannot participate in any of the Companys share schemes.
Directors Pension Arrangements Directors Proposed for Re-Election The executive directors are members of the Meggitt Executive Pension Plan the MEPP which is separate to the Companys main pension At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, Sir Colin Terry and Sir Alan Cox will retire by rotation and are being proposed scheme.
Their dependants are eligible for dependants pensions and the payment of a lump sum in the event of death in service.
2 arrangements provide for a pension on retirement of up to 3 final pensionable salary.
The executive directors pensions are restricted by Policy on External Appointments the Inland Revenue pensions cap which is in effect their pensionable salary for the MEPP.
As the executive directors benefits from, and It is the Companys policy to allow the executive directors to hold contributions to, the MEPP are restricted, additional contributions are external appointments and to receive payment provided such made, based on the excess of basic salary over the pensions cap, to appointments are agreed by the Board or Committee in advance, a funded unapproved retirement and death benefits scheme Furbs.
that there is no conflict of interests and the appointment does not As the Furbs is a deferred contribution arrangement, there is no effect lead to a deterioration in the individuals performance.
During 2005 on the future funding liabilities of the Company.
no executive director was a director of a public company.
The pension contribution for the executive directors and all UK employees after taking into account the employee contribution is set following the receipt of actuarial advice from Mercer Human Resource Consulting.
Details of any changes in pension entitlements arising in 2005 are shown on page 39.
With effect from 1 January 2005 bonus payments to executive directors have not been pensionable.
There are no unfunded pension promises or similar arrangements for directors.
With effect from 6 April 2006 no further contributions will be made to the Furbs and a Pension Allowance will be paid instead to the executive directors in order that they might make their own arrangements for retirement savings.
The Pension Allowance will be calculated as 50% of the amount by which the executive directors basic salary exceeds the MEPP Scheme Cap of 112,500.
The cap will increase annually in line with the Lifetime Allowance.
38 Meggitt PLC report and accounts 2005
