888 Holdings Public Limited Company Annual Report & Accounts 2005 29 Remuneration Report This is the first Remuneration Report of the Board as a Remuneration Policy UK Listed Public Company.
The Company is not required Executive Directors to comply with the directors Remuneration Report Remuneration packages must be sufficient to attract, retain requirements in Schedule 7A to the UK Companies Act and motivate Directors of the calibre appropriate to a global 1985, but has chosen to prepare this Remuneration business in a competitive environment.
Report on the basis of those requirements.
The current remuneration packages of the Executive Directors The report sets out the structure and details of the were implemented preparatory to the October 2005 flotation.
remuneration of the Directors for the year ended Each Executive Director signed a new service agreement on 31 December 2005.
It also describes the Boards 14 September 2005.
The components of the remuneration approach to the Principles of Good Governance relating structure are set out on page 30. to Directors remuneration.
At least half of the total potential remuneration of the Chief A resolution to approve the Remuneration Report will be Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer is represented proposed, annually, to shareholders for approval.
This first by a variable element, dependent on the performance of the Remuneration Report will be put to shareholder vote at the Company.
The Remuneration Committee considers that these 2006 Annual General Meeting.
represent achievable and motivational levels of personal rewards commensurate with stipulated levels of corporate Remuneration Committee performance.
The Chief Technical Officer receives only a base The Remuneration Committee consists solely of independent salary and no additional performance related remuneration.
Nonexecutive Directors: Brian Mattingley Chair, Michael His significant share interest in 888 is considered to provide Constantine and Amos Pickel.
Since flotation up to his substantive linkage to corporate performance.
appointment as Chairman of the Company, Richard Kilsby was also a member of the Committee.
Details of attendances The Remuneration Committee is mandated by the Board at Committee meetings are contained in the statement on to satisfy itself that the level of the Directors and senior Corporate Governance on page 26.
The Remuneration managements remuneration is appropriate having regard Committee has formal terms of reference which are available to pay and conditions throughout the rest of the Group.
It on request in writing to the Company Secretary and on the will further satisfy itself that such remuneration aligns with Companys website, www.
the risks and rewards to shareholders.
In this context the Remuneration Committee will regularly review individual and The Board has overall responsibility for determining the corporate performance targets.
framework of executive remuneration and its cost.
It is required to take account of any recommendation made by the The 888 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP was approved prior Remuneration Committee in determining the remuneration, to flotation but no awards have been granted under the LTIP.
benefits and employment packages of the Executive Directors Performance criteria are to be set in relation to the planned and senior management and the fees of the Chairman.
operation of the LTIP see pages 30 to 31, and it is intended that they will be suitably stretching and linked Independent Advice to the Companys performance.
The Board intends that executive remuneration policies be both formal and transparent.
It further acknowledges the In 2006, after taking independent advice and with due importance of taking into consideration independent advice regard to existing contractual arrangements and relevant in setting remuneration policies and benefit levels.
statements made at flotation, the Remuneration Committee will consider, and thereafter keep under review, the level In the preparatory period for the Companys flotation on and composition of executive remuneration within 888. the London Stock Exchange, the Board was advised by The Committee acknowledges the importance of balancing BDO Stoy Hayward LLP which also acted as reporting fixed and performancerelated remuneration elements, Accountants on its initial policies, Freshfields Bruckhaus such that appropriate targets and aspirational levels for Deringer as English legal counsel and Herzog, Fox & executives align with the corporate objectives set and the Neeman as Israeli counsel.
Since the end of the financial successful operation of business strategies.
The review will year, a process has been commenced to identify an take into account the balance between fixed and variable independent executive remuneration adviser to advise the remuneration, and short and long term components of Remuneration Committee.
The selected adviser will be remuneration, together with the justification for any salaries familiar with benefit structures operated within comparable exceeding a comparator group median.
technology businesses, with a global spread and the leisure sector.
Non-executive Directors The Chairman and the Nonexecutive Directors receive fees only, and are not eligible to participate in any bonus plan, 30 Remuneration Report pension plan, share plan, or longterm incentive plan Long Term Incentives of the Company.
The Chairman and the Executive On 30 August 2005 the Company adopted two employee Directors determine the fees paid to the Nonexecutive share incentive plans which took effect from flotation: i the Directors.
The Chairmans fee is determined by the 888 AllEmployee Share Plan, and ii the 888 Long Term Remuneration Committee.
On flotation, awards were granted under the 888 AllEmployee Share Plan.
During 2005, no awards were Fees paid to the Nonexecutive Directors were set by granted under the 888 Long Term Incentive Plan and none reference to an assessment of the time commitment and have been made to date.
responsibility associated with each role.
Levels take account 888 All-Employee Share Plan of additional demands placed upon individual Nonexecutive All employees and Executive Directors of the Group who Directors by virtue of their holding particular offices, such are not within six months of their normal retirement age are as Committee Chairman and or Deputy Chairman.
The eligible to participate in the 888 AllEmployee Share Plan at fees paid to each Nonexecutive Director during 2005 the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
At the 2006 are disclosed in the Directors remuneration summary Annual General Meeting shareholder approval will be sought on page 32. to extend the definition of eligible participants to include Remuneration Structure consultants of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Base Salary and Benefits Awards under the 888 AllEmployee Share Plan can either be Base salaries are subject to annual review with the first granted for no nominal consideration or with a nil exercise review following flotation taking place in June 2006 for price or at an exercise price that will normally not be less Aviad Kobrine and Shay BenYitzhak.
In considering reviews than the market value of an Ordinary Share at the time of in the future, it is anticipated that the Remuneration grant.
In countries where an award or option involving real Committee will take into account key factors, including shares is not appropriate or feasible for legal, regulatory or individual performance appraisals, market competitive levels, tax reasons, a phantom award may be used.
geographic issues and the salary levels of other higher paid executives across the organisation as a whole.
The maximum number of Ordinary Shares that an eligible employee may acquire pursuant to share awards or options To assist the Remuneration Committee in their judgements, granted to him in any calendar year under the 888 All benchmark comparator group information comprising the Employee Share Plan may not have an aggregate market Companys principal competitors and other companies value, as measured at the date of grant, exceeding 200% of similar size and complexity in the FTSE 250 is of his annual base salary or such higher limits as the to be commissioned for compilation from independent Remuneration Committee may determine is appropriate in remuneration consultants.
The positioning of 888s executive any individual case.
Awards vest in instalments over a fixed salary levels within the benchmark group distribution will period of up to four years.
The Remuneration Committee may then be submitted to the Remuneration Committee for determine that the vesting and release or exercise of share consideration with independent advice.
awards and options under the 888 AllEmployee Share Plan Benefits provided to senior executives include a car is subject to performance conditions imposed at the time of allowance, and health, disability and life insurance.
The initial grant of awards upon flotation under this scheme was not subject to performance conditions, other Annual Cash Bonus than the actual occurrence of the flotation.
John Anderson and Aviad Kobrine are each entitled to an annual cash bonus subject to the achievement of a 888 Long Term Incentive Plan predetermined level of net earnings by their respective All employees and Executive Directors of the Group who employers in the case of John Anderson, the Company and are not within six months of their normal retirement age are in the case of Aviad Kobrine, the Company and Cassava eligible to participate in the 888 Long Term Incentive Plan Enterprises Gibraltar Limited.
The maximum annual cash at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
bonus entitlement for John Anderson is 200% of basic salary Share incentives under the 888 Long Term Incentive Plan can and for Aviad Kobrine, 100% of basic salary.
Shay BenYitzhak be awarded either for no nominal consideration or with a nil is not entitled to an annual cash bonus.
exercise price or granted as an option at an exercise price Pensions that will normally not be less than the market value of an John Anderson and Aviad Kobrine are each entitled to an Ordinary Share at the time of grant.
In both cases, the share annual contribution to their personal pension schemes award or option vests subject to, and to the extent that, of 15% of their respective basic salaries in the case of performance conditions determined at the time of grant Aviad Kobrine, 15% of his basic salary under both service are satisfied during the applicable performance period.
Shay BenYitzhak is entitled to an annual Performance conditions are not capable of being retested, so contribution to his personal pension scheme and managers that any proportion of a performance share award or option, insurance scheme of 13.33% of his basic salary.
which does not vest on the normal vesting date will lapse.
888 Holdings Public Limited Company Annual Report & Accounts 2005 31 In countries where a share award or option involving real Employee Trusts shares is not appropriate or feasible for legal, regulatory or The Company has established two Trusts to further the tax reasons, a phantom award may be used.
The maximum interests of the Company, its subsidiaries and shareholders number of Ordinary Shares that an eligible employee may by providing share incentives to employees including acquire pursuant to share awards or options granted to him Executive Directors of any Group company to enable the in any calendar year under the 888 Long Term Incentive Plan Group to attract, retain and motivate employees.
may not have an aggregate market value, as measured at The 888 Holdings Public Limited Company Share Plan the date of grant, exceeding 200% of his annual base salary Trust was created pursuant to a Trust Deed dated or such higher limits as the Remuneration Committee may 14 September 2005 and operated in connection with share determine is appropriate in any individual case.
awards made to certain employees upon the 2005 flotation.
No share award or option may be granted to an employee The Trust currently holds no shares in the Company.
under the 888 Long Term Incentive Plan in any calendar The 888 IPO Share Award Trust was created pursuant to year if he has previously been granted a share award a Trust Deed dated 14 September 2005 and operated in or option under the 888 AllEmployee Share Plan in the connection with the grant of share awards and nil cost same calendar year.
options to employees of the Group upon the 2005 flotation.
Subject to the satisfaction of applicable performance The Trust currently holds 211,432 Ordinary Shares in conditions, performance share awards and options will the Company.
normally vest in equal tranches over a fouryear vesting Director Appointments Service Contracts period, on each anniversary of the date of the grant or on and Directors Fees such other period or such other basis as the Remuneration Executive Directors Committee may decide.
In accordance with the Combined Code, each Executive As at the date of this report, no awards have been granted Directors service agreement is terminable on no more pursuant to the 888 Long Term Incentive Plan.
In the Prospectus than 12 months written notice.
Each Executive Directors published at flotation, the Remuneration Committee anticipated employment can be terminated by making a payment equal granting awards under the 888 Long Term Incentive Plan to to the salary and pension contributions and the value of members of the senior executive management team including other contractual benefits due to the Executive Director the Executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee has yet in lieu of any unexpired notice period.
John Anderson and to consider and determine how many shares will be subject to Aviad Kobrine continue to be entitled to be paid a bonus such awards or what performance conditions will apply to them.
during any unexpired part of the notice period even if the It is intended that they be suitably stretching and linked to the employment is terminated by making payment in lieu of Companys performance.
Awards granted under the 888 AllEmployee Share Plan to John Anderson and Aviad Kobrine pursuant to their Policy on Long Term Incentives service agreements and conditional upon flotation as The Remuneration Committee will obtain and consider described in the Prospectus shall continue to vest during independent advice in setting policy on the grant of options any unexpired part of the notice period and they shall be and awards, the performance criteria to which options and treated as a good leaver under the terms of the 888 awards are subject and the period over which options AllEmployee Share Plan where their employment has been and awards will vest when operating the 888 AllEmployee terminated by making a payment in lieu of notice.
No other Share Plan and 888 Long Term Incentive Plan in future.
The benefits upon termination of employment are payable.
An Remuneration Committee will also have regard to the total Executive Directors entitlement to share awards and share remuneration packages of all senior executives and Directors options under any share incentive plan on termination of when determining the amount of share awards.
employment will be governed by the terms of the relevant plan and in the case of John Anderson and Aviad Kobrine Scheme Limits by the relevant provisions of their service agreements.
Awards and options granted under the 888 AllEmployee Share Plan and the 888 Long Term Incentive Plan may be Resignations satisfied through the issue of new shares.
In accordance with Peter Montegriffo and Eyal Shaked resigned from the Board the Association of British Insurers Guidelines on Executive in August 2005.
Eyal Shaked did not have a service contract Remuneration, grants of options and awards are to be and Peter Montegriffo served under a Letter of Appointment planned so as not to exceed 5% of the issued Ordinary Share for a fixed one year term subject to the Companys articles capital in any rolling 10 year period for the 888 Long Term of association and the Board resolving to reappoint Incentive Plan, and 10% of the issued Ordinary Share capital Mr Montegriffo for a further term.
Clive Needham, whose in any rolling 10 year period for both the 888 AllEmployee services were provided to the Company by Skyefid Limited Share Plan and the 888 Long Term Incentive Plan.
The until his resignation in February 2005, did not have a Letter Committee intends to have regard to appropriate annual flow of Appointment.
rates so as to ensure that these limits are not breached.
32 Remuneration Report Annual Document Name Position Employer contracting party salary fee date 1 John Anderson Chief Executive Officer The Company 475,000 14 09 2005 Aviad Kobrine Chief Financial Officer The Company 112,500 14 09 2005 2 Aviad Kobrine Chief Financial Officer Cassava Enterprises Gibraltar Limited 137,500 14 09 2005 2 Shay BenYitzhak Chief Technical Officer Random Logic Limited US$250,000 14 09 2005 1 John Anderson is Nonexecutive Chairman of Burford Holdings plc and is not required to account to the Company in respect of his earnings from that company.
He does not receive fees in respect of his directorships of IGC or eCOGRA.
3 The unexpired term of the Executive Directors Service Agreements is 12 months.
Chairman and Nonexecutive Directors The Chairman and the Nonexecutive Directors do not have service contracts but have entered into Letters of Appointment.
Nonexecutive Directors appointments may be terminated by the Company without notice in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and the Gibraltar Companies Ordinance, except for the Chairman who is required to be given six months prior written notice of termination.
No compensation is payable on the termination of the appointment.
Each of the Nonexecutive Directors is appointed to serve until the 2006 Annual General Meeting and, if renewed at the Annual General Meeting, each Directors appointment will continue for a term of three years.
Annual Document Name Position Employer contracting party salary fee date Richard Kilsby Chairman The Company 140,000 14 03 2006 Brian Mattingley Deputy Chairman The Company 80,000 14 03 2006 Michael Constantine Nonexecutive Director The Company 60,000 14 09 2005 Amos Pickel Nonexecutive Director The Company 60,000 14 03 2006 Directors Remuneration Summary The cash emoluments or fees received by the Directors for 2005 are shown below: Base Annual Total Total salary fees bonus Benefits 2005 2004 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Executive John Anderson 847 1,100 217 2,164 1,678 2 Aviad Kobrine 147 250 37 434 3 Shay BenYitzhak 63 12 75 Eyal Shaked 66 42 22 130 148 Non-executive Marie Stevens 222 5 227 Richard Kilsby 46 46 Brian Mattingley 35 35 Michael Constantine 35 35 4 Clive Needham 3 3 1 Peter Montegriffo 27 27 31 Total 1,491 1,392 293 3,176 1,858 1 Where Directors remuneration is denominated in Sterling, costs have been converted at the applicable rate of exchange at the transaction date.
2 Part of Mr Kobrines remuneration is paid by one of his employers, Cassava Enterprises Gibraltar Limited, a whollyowned subsidiary of the Company.
3 Mr BenYitzhaks remuneration was paid by his employer, Random Logic Limited, a whollyowned subsidiary of the Company.
4 The fees in relation to the services provided by Mr Needham were paid to Skyefid Limited.
The Bonuses became payable to John Anderson and Aviad Kobrine upon achievement of the corporate performance target which requires that Net Profit excluding share benefit charges for 2005 exceed US$60 million.
888 Holdings Public Limited Company Annual Report & Accounts 2005 33 Directors Interests in Ordinary Shares The notified interests of Executive and Nonexecutive Directors in the issued share capital of the Company are: Ordinary Shares 2 1 31 December 2005 1 January 2005 Executive John Anderson 724,758 Aviad Kobrine 55,621 3 Shay BenYitzhak 57,522,356 77,238,562 3 Eyal Shaked 86,283,535 115,857,845 Non-executive Marie Stevens 142,857 Richard Kilsby 114,285 Brian Mattingley 142,857 Michael Constantine 22,857 Clive Needham Peter Montegriffo 1 Or date of appointment if later and adjusted for the share capital restructures during 2005.
2 Or date of resignation if earlier.
3 These shares are held on Trust and are subject to a Relationship Agreement dated 14 September 2005 between, among others, the Company and the Principal Shareholder Trusts.
Further details can be found on page 35.
Details of share capital restructures made during 2005 are explained in note 14 to the consolidated financial statements.
No changes in Directors share interests have been notified between 31 December 2005 and the date of this report.
Except where stated, all interests were held beneficially.
None existed on or prior to 1 January 2005.
No consideration was paid for the grant of any awards.
1 At the date of Exercise Transfer the market price of an Ordinary Share was 175p.
3 Awarded as a nil cost option.
34 Remuneration Report The market value of one Ordinary Share was 194p at 30 December 2005.
The highest market value during 2005 was 197.5p and the lowest was 134p.
No Director was materially interested during the year in any contract which was significant in relation to the business of the Company otherwise than as disclosed in the Prospectus or these Report and Accounts.
Graph of Total Shareholder Return The period between flotation and 31 December 2005 is considered too short to provide a meaningful comparison of 888 total shareholder return against a benchmark group and has not been shown in this first report.
Approval This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Brian Mattingley Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 16 March 2006
