Audit committee report Argyll Arms, Nicholsons, London 18th century pub with original snugs intact The Companys Audit Committee has met the requirements of the Review with management and the external auditors any financial UK Combined Code and the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act, as applicable statements required under UK or US legislation before to non-US companies, throughout the year.
A copy of the submission to the Board: Committees terms of reference is publicly available within the Establish, review and maintain the role and effectiveness of the Investor section of the Companys website.
Group Assurance function: Assume direct responsibility for the appointment, compensation, Role of the Audit Committee resignation, dismissal and the overseeing of the external The Committees principal responsibilities are to: auditors, including review of the external audit, its cost and effectiveness: Review the Companys public statements on internal control and Pre-approve non-audit work to be carried out by the external corporate governance compliance prior to their consideration by auditors and the fees to be paid for that work along with the the Board: monitoring of the external auditors independence: Review the Companys processes for detecting fraud, misconduct Oversee the process for dealing with complaints received by and control weaknesses and to consider the Companys response the Group regarding accounting, internal accounting controls to any such occurrence: or auditing matters and the condential, anonymous submission Review managements evaluation of any change in internal by employees of concerns regarding questionable accounting controls over financial reporting: or auditing matters: and Page 16 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Adopt and oversee a specic Code of Ethics for the Chief The co-ordination of the internal and external audit functions Executive, the Finance Director, the Deputy Finance Director, and The Groups framework for the identification and control all other members of the Executive Committee which is consistent of major risks with the Companys overall statement of business ethics.
Compliance with the code of ethics for the Executive Committee Corporate governance developments in the UK and the US Audit Committee composition Monitoring of the Groups International Financial Reporting The Committee is chaired by George Fairweather who, as Standards conversion exercise a Chartered Accountant and the finance director of a FTSE 100 Oversight of the Groups Sarbanes-Oxley compliance work company, has current and relevant financial experience and Review of the suitability of the Groups accounting policies is considered to be the Committees financial expert.
The and practices Committees other members are Drummond Hall, Sir Tim Lankester The appropriateness of the Groups early adoption of and Sara Weller.
The Committee wishes to retain the knowledge, FRS 17 Retirement Benets experience and judgement of the Chairman of the Board, but, The disclosure controls and procedures operated by the Group reecting recommendations within the Smith Guidance, Roger Carr The status of litigation involving the Group is not a member of the Committee, but attends at the invitation The Committees own terms of reference and its effectiveness.
The Committee regularly invites the external auditors, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director and The Companys public financial statements are reviewed by the the Director of Group Assurance to its meetings.
Discussions are Audit Committee in advance of their consideration by the Board.
however held in private when appropriate.
All of the Committees Adequate time is allowed between the Committees review and the members are independent Non-Executive Directors as dened Boards approval for any actions or further work requested by the in both UK guidance and US legislation.
Audit Committee frequency Evaluations carried out by the Committee in the year have been The Committee meets at least four times a year.
During performed with the assistance of the Director of Group Assurance.
2004 05 five full meetings of the Committee were held.
The Committee agreed that an external assessment of Group There was full attendance at all meetings other than one at Assurance would be conducted in 2005 06. which Drummond Hall was unable to attend.
On that occasion all the papers and information relating to the meeting were External auditors independence provided and he was able to discuss issues arising with the The Audit Committee has adopted a policy on the utilisation Committee Chairman.
of the external auditors for non-audit work that is in compliance with the requirements of the UK ethical standards and the US Audit Committee process Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The auditors may carry out certain specified The Committee discharges its responsibilities, as defined in non-audit work, in areas that have been pre-approved by the its terms of reference, through a series of Audit Committee Committee, up to a monetary limit of half the audit fee per transaction meetings throughout the year at which detailed reports are and subject to an annual total cap of no more than the audit fee.
The Committee commissions reports, Any other work for which management wish to utilise the external either from external advisers, the Director of Group Assurance, auditors must be approved by the Committee.
or Company management, after consideration of the Companys major risks or in response to developing issues.
The Committee meets privately with the external auditors and the Director Approved by the Board of Group Assurance at least four times a year and liaises George Fairweather with Company management in considering areas for review.
Chairman of the Audit Committee 29 November 2005 During the year, the Committees meetings considered the following matters: Interim and full year financial results and the associated UK and US reporting The scope and cost of the external audit Non-audit work carried out by the Groups auditors and trends in the non-audit fees in accordance with the Committees policy to ensure the safeguard of audit independence The scope of the annual internal audit plan, the Internal Audit departments terms of reference and its resourcing The external auditors interim and full year reports Periodic internal control and assurance reports from the Internal Audit function The effectiveness of the external auditors and consideration of their reappointment Periodic reports on allegations made via the Groups whistleblowing procedures and the effectiveness of these procedures The effectiveness of the Internal Audit function Management representations granted to the external auditors Major changes in the Groups internal controls Page 17 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Remuneration report Bells of Ouzeley, Harvester, Old Windsor Enjoying a drink and a meal by the River Thames This report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee No member of the Committee has any personal financial the Committee and has been approved by the Board.
It complies interest, other than as a shareholder, in the matters to be decided with Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985, which incorporates the by the Committee.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, and also with the Directors is decided by the Board as a whole on advice from Combined Code on Corporate Governance and with the UKLA Listing the Executive Directors.
Throughout this report, references to the year are to the 53 week period ended 1 October 2005.
Comparatives, however, are for During the year, the Committee appointed Watson Wyatt, benets the 52 week period ended 25 September 2004.
This report will be consultants, to carry out a review of Executive Directors reward put to shareholders for approval at the 2006 AGM.
in the Company, the outcome of which is explained later in this report.
The Committee also received external advice during the The Remuneration Committee year from Towers Perrin, benets consultants, and Allen & Overy, The Committee consists of the following independent the Companys general legal advisers.
The Committee took advice Non-Executive Directors: from Tim Clarke, the Chief Executive, Bronagh Kennedy, the Human Resources Director and General Counsel, and Sheila Mellish, Sara Weller Chairman Drummond Hall Head of Reward.
None of these participated in discussions George Fairweather Sir Tim Lankester concerning their own remuneration.
Additionally, during 2005, advice on non-executive remuneration was sought from Deloitte Sara Weller, the Senior Independent Director, is Chairman of & Touche who also advise the Company on general tax matters.
She has experience of human resources matters and has the appropriate skills to chair the Committee.
She does The terms of reference for advisers, which the Committee sets, not chair any other committee of the Board.
There have been are available on the Companys website, as are the terms of reference no appointments to or resignations from the Committee during of the Committee itself.
Towers Perrin and Watson Wyatt were the year.
independently appointed by the Committee, and do not provide other services to the Company.
Roger Carr, the Chairman of the Board, attends the meetings of the Committee at the invitation of its Chairman, as does Tim Clarke, The Committee is responsible for determining policy on the Chief Executive.
Neither attends on matters relating to his remuneration for the Executive Directors, other members of the own remuneration.
Executive Committee and certain senior executives and for reviewing the Chairmans fees.
It determines the actual remuneration of There were eight meetings of the Committee held during the the Executive Directors and reviews proposals in respect of other year.
George Fairweather, Drummond Hall, and Sir Tim Lankester members of the Executive Committee, taking account of a range of were each unable to attend one meeting, otherwise there was full factors, including percentage increases awarded across the Group.
Where a Director was unable to attend a meeting, For the year under review, the total remuneration earned by those he was nevertheless provided with all the papers and information members of the Executive Committee who were employed in the relating to that meeting and was able to discuss issues arising with Group at the year end, and who were not main Board Directors, the Chairman of the Committee.
is shown in the table on page 19: Page 18 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 No.
of executives 000 of Associated British Foods plc during the year, and received 34,090 during the year for that appointment.
20 250 2 251 300 3 301 350 Policy on Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors are paid a basic fee with additional fees Executives in this category were employed for a part year only.
for membership of the Remuneration and Audit Committees The rest of this report deals with the remuneration of the Executive and for chairing those committees.
The fees are approved by the and Non-Executive Directors only.
Board on the recommendation of the Executive Directors, based on a review of the fees paid in other companies of a similar size.
Remuneration policy for Executive Directors It is intended to carry out a review of these fees in April 2006 as The following overall policy has applied throughout the year they have remained unchanged since demerger.
Non-Executive and will apply for the financial year 2006.
This policy continues Directors do not participate in the Companys share schemes.
to apply notwithstanding the proposed amendments to elements of the Executive Directors remuneration packages as described Directors contracts on page 21.
For subsequent years, the Committee will review It is the Companys normal policy to provide Executive Directors the policy and recommend changes as appropriate.
with rolling 12 month contracts, which provide for 12 months notice from the Company and six months notice from the Director.
Remuneration packages are designed to attract, retain and Service contracts provide for summary termination in the event of motivate Executive Directors of the highest calibre.
In other circumstances, any severance payment The packages will be competitive within the leisure retailing would normally be based on a valuation of net pay and benets industry and in those markets from which the organisation recruits.
for any unexpired notice period in the expectation that the Director In xing remuneration, note will be taken of reward levels in the has made reasonable attempts to mitigate his loss.
Benets normally include membership of a pension scheme and a healthcare scheme wider community and of the remuneration structure throughout and the use of a company car.
The Remuneration Committee has the organisation.
decided to introduce, for new appointees to the Board, phased There will be an appropriate balance between xed and variable compensation payments on loss of office.
This reflects emerging risk reward.
The latter will be linked to the performance of the best practice.
individual and of the Group.
Basic salary will normally be set at median market level when Compensation compared with an appropriate comparator group.
Contract payable Using target or projected value calculations, performance-related start Unexpired Notice on early incentives for Executive Directors will equate to approximately Director date term period termination 60% of total remuneration.
Mike Bramley 15.04.03 indefinite 12 months n a Share and cash incentives will be designed so as to align the Tim Clarke 15.04.03 indefinite 12 months n a interests of Executive Directors with those of shareholders.
Tony Hughes 15.04.03 indefinite 12 months n a Shares arising from share schemes should not normally be sold Karim Naffah 15.04.03 indefinite 12 months n a until the minimum level of ownership, as described on page 22, To normal retirement age 60. has been satisfied.
No payment should normally be payable on termination, other than the salary and benets due for the notice period and, subject to the The Committee is considering the impact of the transition to IFRS discretion of the Remuneration Committee, such entitlements under on its incentive schemes and will make adjustments to ensure that incentive plans that are consistent with the terms of such plans.
measurement of achievement against the performance conditions remains fair, reasonable and consistent.
Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts, but operate under a letter of appointment which provides for their tenure of ofce Policy regarding pensions to be reviewed when they are about to stand for re-election, which UK-based Executive Directors and senior employees participate is every three years.
In any event, Non-Executive Directors may not with other members in the Mitchells & Butlers Executive Pension serve after the AGM following their 67th birthday.
There is no notice Plan and, if appropriate, the Mitchells & Butlers Executive period and no provision for termination payments.
The dates of Top-Up Scheme.
Executives in Germany, who do not participate appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are set out on page 14. in these plans, are entitled to participate in relevant local plans.
The Remuneration Committee is considering the Companys Components of remuneration packages current policy of using the Executive Pension Plan and the Basic salary Executive Top-Up Scheme to provide pension and related benets The policy is to set salary broadly in line with median market in a tax efficient way in light of the new legislation being introduced levels and is based on individual performance and on information in April 2006. from independent professional sources on the salary levels for similar jobs in comparator companies.
In setting salaries, salary Policy on external appointments levels in the Group and in the wider employment market are The Company recognises that its Directors may be invited taken into account.
to become non-executive directors of other listed companies and that such duties can broaden experience and knowledge, The proportion of the Groups basic salary bill attributable to the which will benefit the Company.
Executive Directors are therefore Directors and other members of the Executive Committee was allowed to accept one non-executive appointment with the 0.8% 2004 0.8%.
Companys prior approval and as long as this is not likely to lead to a conict of interest.
Fees received may be retained by the The average basic salary and short-term bonus of the Executive Director.
Tim Clarke was appointed a non-executive director Directors during the year was 621,394 2004 660,055 and the Page 19 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Remuneration report continued Cycle to Cycle to Cycle to average per non-Board employee was 13,320 2004 13,700 : September September September the ratio is therefore 1:47 2004 1:48.
The Board and the Company 2005 2006 2007 Remuneration Committee do not have a policy on this ratio, but aim to reward all employees fairly according to the nature of their Enterprise Inns role, their performance and market forces.
Fuller, Smith & Turner Greene King In the year under review, the average basic salary increase J D Weatherspoon for members of the Executive Committee, which includes the Luminar Executive Directors, was 2.9%, whereas the average increase Pizza Express for other employees was 3.8%.
Punch Taverns Regent Inns Of the components of the remuneration package, only basic Scottish & Newcastle salary is pensionable.
The Restaurant Group Whitbread Annual performance bonus Wolverhampton & Dudley Challenging performance goals are set which must be achieved Yates before a bonus becomes payable.
Up to 2004 05, the maximum Pizza Express was replaced with Fuller, Smith & Turner: Scottish & bonus opportunity has been 80% of salary.
For the year to Newcastle was removed from the group following its disposal of its pubs 1 October 2005, 60% was linked to earnings per share eps business: Yates was removed following its delisting.
and 20% to personal and Group business objectives as set out on page 24.
At the Remuneration Committees discretion, the For the cycle to September 2005 the Company has to nish in bonus is payable either in cash or in shares under the Short first to sixth position for an award to vest, graded between 100% Term Deferred Incentive Plan as set out below.
of the TSR element of the award for first or second to 20% for sixth position.
Below sixth position, the award relating to TSR lapses.
Short Term Deferred Incentive Plan STDIP The Company nished in ninth position, so no award will vest.
For Under the STDIP, an award of bonus shares earned in 2004 05 the cycle to September 2006 and September 2007, the Company will be deferred for three years and, if the Executive Director has to nish in first to fifth position for an award to vest, graded is in the Companys employment at the end of that period, the between 100% of the TSR element of the award for first to 20% for Company will provide matching shares on a 1:1 basis.
Below fifth position the award relating to TSR lapses.
Vesting of matching shares takes place subject to the The vesting of the other 50% of the award is based on the average achievement of a three year performance condition, as approved amount by which the Companys CROCE exceeds WACC over the by shareholders at the 2005 AGM.
There is no retesting of the performance period.
The award for this element of the performance performance condition.
For awards of matching shares in respect measure is graded so that, for the cycle to September 2005, if the of the financial year 2004 05, the performance condition is based amount by which the CROCE exceeds WACC over the performance on growth in eps as described under the Executive Share Option period is at least 4.5 percentage points, 100% of the CROCE Plan below.
element of the award will vest.
If the excess is 3 percentage points, 20% of the award will vest.
In between 3 and 4.5 percentage Eps has been applied because it is a measure which reflects points, the award will be graded on a straight line basis.
Below movement in shareholder value and the target, if met, would 3 percentage points, there will be no award in respect of this element.
represent a significant and challenging improvement in the The excess of CROCE over WACC for the cycle to September 2005 Companys performance.
was 4.2 percentage points, therefore 84% of this element of the award will vest.
The Companys auditors will review performance against the target.
For the cycles to September 2006 and September 2007, the vesting Performance Restricted Share Plan PRSP of the other 50% is based on the excess of CROCE over WACC as The PRSP allows Executive Directors to receive cash or nominal cost described above, except that if the amount by which the CROCE options over shares subject to the satisfaction of a performance exceeds WACC over the performance period is at least 5 percentage condition set by the Committee which is measured over a three year points, 100% of the CROCE element of the award will vest, whereas period.
Currently, three cycles are being operated, with performance if the excess is 3.5 percentage points, 20% will vest.
conditions based on total shareholder return TSR and cash return on capital employed CROCE exceeding the weighted average cost TSR was chosen as a measure because it aligns the interest of of capital WACC as described below.
management with that of shareholders.
The CROCE versus WACC measure was chosen to incentivise the Executive Directors to For each cycle 50% of the award is measured by reference to increase the cash returns generated by the business and to reduce TSR performance against a comparator group of other companies the overall cost of funding to the Company, thereby maximising the which, at the dates of award, consisted of: spread between the two and increasing shareholder value.
The Companys auditors review the performance condition under PRSP.
Executive Share Option Plan EXSOP Grants of EXSOP options have been made annually.
Grants have been made at the discretion of the Committee according to seniority, the Page 20 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 maximum value in any one year being two times salary.
A performance below therefore measures the Companys TSR performance, condition, set by the Committee, has to be met before the options may assuming dividends are reinvested, against both the FTSE 100 be exercised.
The performance condition for the grant made in May and 250 indices.
2003 was based on the cumulative growth of the Companys eps over Mitchells & Butlers TSR v FTSE 100 & 250 15.04.03 30.09.05 the three year performance period exceeding RPI by 12 percentage points.
As this performance condition has been achieved, 100% of the FTSE 250 200 options will become exercisable in May 2006.
For options granted in 2004, the performance measure is that cumulative eps over the three 180 year performance period must increase by at least 18 percentage Mitchells & Butlers points over the growth in RPI before the options can be exercised in 160 full.
For options granted in 2005, the performance measure is that the FTSE 100 Companys cumulative eps over the three year performance period 140 must increase by at least 27 percentage points over the growth in RPI before options can be exercised in full.
In measuring eps growth to determine whether the performance condition has been satisfied, the 120 Committee uses adjusted pro forma eps as reported in the year as shown on page 61.
The Companys auditors review the performance 100 Source: DATASTREAM measure under EXSOP.
15 Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul 30 Sep 03 03 03 04 04 04 04 05 05 05 05 Subject to approval by shareholders at the 2006 AGM of the proposed amendments to the share plans, as described below, it is intended to cease granting options under this plan.
TSR has been calculated in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985, except that the period covered is only Rolled-over options since the Companys listing in April 2003.
On demerger from Six Continents, the Groups executives, including the Executive Directors, with outstanding options under Review of Executive Directors remuneration the Six Continents Executive Share Option Schemes, were Background permitted to roll over those options into options of equivalent value The current Executive Directors remuneration package was over the Companys shares.
The performance conditions ceased introduced in April 2003 on the demerger of the Company from to apply to those options on demerger.
Since demerger, the Committee has made certain adjustments to the incentive arrangements to reect evolving Other share plans best practice, for example, by the removal of retesting and an Executive Directors may participate in the all employee Sharesave increase in the performance challenge on eps growth, as well as the Plan and Share Incentive Plan: performance targets do not apply introduction, under the STDIP, of a performance measure which has to such plans.
to be satisfied before the release of matching shares under the plan.
Companies used for comparison During the year, the Committee commissioned an in-depth review In assessing overall levels of pay and benefits, the Committee of the Executive Directors remuneration, which was carried out takes into account the packages offered by comparator companies.
by Watson Wyatt, benefits consultants.
This review concluded These companies are chosen by the Committee following advice that, whilst the incentive arrangements had clearly contributed to from independent external consultants having regard to: Mitchells & Butlers strong financial performance since demerger, the package was overly complex, slightly out of step with current Industry sector to include direct competitors and the wider market trends, a little over reliant on deferred remuneration and did retail sector: not sufciently incentivise or reward exceptional performance.
As a Size turnover, profits, margins and the number of people result, the Committee is proposing certain changes for the financial employed: and year 2005 06, subject to shareholders giving the requisite approval Structure and complexity of the business.
These are: The companies currently used for comparison are: 1.
To simplify the remuneration package This is to be done by reducing the number of share-based incentive Allied Domecq MyTravel plans from three to two, through ceasing to grant any further Avis Rank Group options under the EXSOP.
To compensate for the removal of EXSOP BAA RHM option grants, the level of award under the PRSP will increase from Eurotunnel Signet the current 90% of basic salary to 177%.
Gallagher Somereld HMV WH Smith Having considered the effect on the expected value of the Imperial Tobacco Whitbread current equity incentives of discontinuing the EXSOP and including InterContinental Hotels Group William Hill dividends on vested shares under future PRSP awards as explained John Lewis Woolworths in paragraph 3 below and, using a present economic value methodology consistent with the requirements of IFRS 2 Share-based Performance graph Total shareholder return Payments, the Committees advisers calculated that an appropriate From its listing on 15 April 2003 until 21 December 2003, rate at which to substitute future EXSOP options, on an equivalent the Company was a constituent of the FTSE 100 index.
Since basis, with PRSP options, would be around 2.1:1.
The Committee then it has been included in the FTSE 250 index.
The graph accepted this advice, as it is the Committees intention to maintain Page 21 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Remuneration report continued the current overall value of the combined EXSOP and PRSP twice salary, will be maintained.
However, for any future Executive options, taking into account the value of including dividends, as Director appointment, it is proposed to reduce the mandatory recommended by the Association of British Insurers.
shareholding requirement to one times salary, subject to this continuing to be reective of market practice at that time.
The existing performance measures of TSR and excess of CROCE over WACC will remain to support the Companys strategic 3.
Alignment with market practice and institutional guidelines objectives of delivering a strong return on capital, cash generation This is to be achieved with effect from financial year 2005 06 by and operational out-performance to grow market share.
increasing the maximum annual performance bonus payable through the STDIP from 80% of basic salary to 100% of basic 2.
To make the remuneration package a little less reliant on salary.
The Committee has been advised that this is in line with deferred remuneration recent market trends.
Previously, the Committee has generally required 100% deferral of bonus into shares under the STDIP.
Whilst this was believed The current 25:75 ratio of personal business objectives to have been appropriate in the early years of establishing the to Company financial performance, measured through eps, is to Company on demerger, the time is now right to introduce more be maintained.
Personal business objectives will continue to be exibility to allow account to be taken of individual financial set to support the execution of the Companys strategic objectives circumstances and to make the remuneration package a little less and include such measures as like-for-like sales growth, return reliant on deferred remuneration.
Therefore, from 2005 06, the on investment, and evaluation of guest satisfaction.
Committee will require that 50% of the annual performance bonus be deferred into shares and Executive Directors will have The Remuneration Committee has decided to bring the the choice to defer the balance of the bonus into shares.
remuneration package more in line with emerging institutional best practice guidelines, thus aligning the interests of the Executive All bonuses deferred will continue to qualify for an award of Directors more closely with shareholders.
Therefore for awards made matching shares by the Company at a ratio of up to 1:1, subject to under the STDIP and PRSP by reference to 2005 06 onwards, credit the achievement of a further performance condition.
It is intended will be given for dividends paid during the performance period.
that this performance condition will continue to be based on eps Under the PRSP, this will be done by making a grant of an option growth over three years and that the 2005 08 award of matching over Dividend Accrued Shares exercisable immediately on the shares will be subject to the same sliding scale condition as applied payment of 1 whose market value at the date of grant is as close to the EXSOP grant of 24 May 2005, as described on page 21. as possible to, and no more than, the value of dividends paid in respect of shares which have vested at the end of the performance To support the Companys commitment to ensuring that Directors period.
Under the STDIP, an award of Dividend Accrued Shares interests are aligned to those of shareholders, the unusually high would be made on the same basis, in respect of both the bonus mandatory shareholding requirement, which for the Chief Executive shares and the matching shares to the extent that these is three times his salary and for the other Executive Directors is have vested.
Summary of Executive Director remuneration current and proposed Current Proposed Executive Share Option Plan Maximum annual award of two times basic salary.
No further awards made under the EXSOP.
3 year eps growth performance condition.
Short Term Deferred Incentive Plan Maximum annual performance bonus Maximum annual performance bonus 80% of basic salary.
Remuneration Committee requires 100% Remuneration Committee will require deferral into bonus shares.
A Director can elect to receive the balance in cash or defer up to 100%.
Bonus shares matched 1:1 subject to 3 year Bonus shares matched 1:1 subject to eps growth performance condition.
Dividend Accrued Shares awarded, equivalent to gross dividend applicable over the performance period for vested bonus shares and matching shares.
Performance Restricted Share Plan Annual award of 90% of basic salary.
Annual award of 177% of basic salary.
3 year performance period and performance condition as currently applies.
Performance condition based on TSR and CROCE over WACC.
Dividend Accrued Shares equivalent to gross dividend applicable over the performance period for vested shares.
Page 22 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 The main components of Executive Directors remuneration Shareholder approval for on target performance both before and after the proposed The Committee confirms that the proposed changes are changes remain: consistent with its overall remuneration policy as disclosed on page 19.
Whilst the Company does not require formal shareholder approval for the increase in the PRSP grant level, it does require Short mediumLong-term Basic salary such approval for the inclusion of Dividend Accrued Shares in the term incentive incentive PRSP and in the STDIP and for the increase in the STDIP annual incentive.
Appropriate resolutions are being put to the forthcoming Fixed Performance based AGM.
Subject to approval by shareholders at the AGM of the proposals summarised above, it is intended that no further awards Performance shares Annual bonus will be made under the EXSOP.
PRSP plus deferred plus share options shares STDIP EXSOP The rest of this Remuneration Report on pages 23 to 28 has been audited by Ernst & Young LLP.
Circa 40% Circa 60% From financial year 2005 06 there will be no further grants under EXSOP.
Directors emoluments Total emoluments excluding pensions Basic Annual salaries performance 2005 2004 and fees bonus Benets 53 weeks 52 weeks 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors Mike Bramley 356 177 16 549 550 Tim Clarke 528 289 25 842 913 Tony Hughes 356 194 25 575 606 Karim Naffah 376 205 14 595 641 Non-Executive Directors Roger Carr 203 203 207 George Fairweather 50 50 49 Drummond Hall 43 43 7 Sir Tim Lankester 43 43 42 Sara Weller 50 50 49 Total 2005 2,005 865 80 2,950 Total 2004 1,882 1,105 76 3,064 Appointed July 2004, Drummond Halls fees are paid to Dairy Crest Group plc, his employer.
The prior year is restated to remove the value of shares awarded under the Share Incentive Plan, shown on page 25.
The gures above represent emoluments earned during the periods shown.
There were no payments for loss of ofce.
Benets incorporate the value of all benets arising from employment with the Company, which primarily relate to the provision of a company car and healthcare cover.
Page 23 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Remuneration report continued Salary As at 1 October 2005 and 29 November 2005, the basic annual salaries of the Executive Directors were as shown below.
The normal salary review date has been changed with respect from 2005 06 onwards from 1 October to 1 January.
01.10.05 and 29.11.05 Executive Director 000 Mike Bramley 350 Tim Clarke 520 Tony Hughes 350 Karim Naffah 370 Annual performance bonus The bonus for each Executive Director for 2004 05 was as follows: Gross Gross Net Maximum value of value of Group & value of bonus bonus of bonus personal bonus achievable awarded deferred Eps target objectives awarded Executive Director 000 000 000 000 000 000 Mike Bramley 280 177 177 145 32 104 Tim Clarke 416 289 145 216 73 171 Tony Hughes 280 194 194 145 49 114 Karim Naffah 296 205 103 153 52 121 The Committee exercised its discretion to defer 100% of bonus in respect of Mike Bramley and Tony Hughes and 50% of bonus in respect of Tim Clarke and Karim Naffah into shares under the STDIP.
Tim Clarke and Karim Naffah received the balance of their award in cash as both will have achieved their mandatory stockholding requirement as detailed on page 22 by 31 December 2005.
Assuming income tax at 40% and NI at 1%.
To achieve maximum bonus, Directors had to meet targets to support the Companys strategy related to the Companys earnings per share performance, and Group and personal business objectives.
Group and personal business objectives related to: like-for-like sales effective purchasing staff productivity return on investment guest satisfaction asset management.
Personal business objectives related to the financial performance in the business areas for which the Director was responsible.
Short Term Deferred Incentive Plan In respect of 2003 and 2004, all of the Directors bonus awards were deferred into shares.
The table below shows the maximum matching shares received or receivable.
These include those shares in respect of 2004 which were awarded in December 2004.
2 No performance condition attached to these matching shares under the rules of the STDIP as approved by shareholders on demerger.
All future awards of matching shares have a performance condition.
Shares vest subject to tax and NI.
As part of the terms of demerger, the Company provided 17,371 shares in December 2004 to Tim Clarke to meet entitlements he had accrued under the Six Continents Special Deferred Incentive Plan for 2002 03 to the date of demerger.
Page 24 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 Performance Restricted Share Plan The PRSP was introduced on demerger, initially to replace the Six Continents Long Term Incentive Plan for Mitchells & Butlers executives.
Participation in the PRSP is by means of an option which is exercisable for nominal consideration, once the performance condition has been satisfied.
In 2005, there were three cycles of the plan in operation as outlined below.
A 30 months performance period to September 2005.
The combined award, which vests on 1 December 2005, from the two measures TSR and excess of CROCE over WACC as described on page 20 is equivalent to 37.8% of basic salary at the date of the award.
A 36 months performance period to September 2006.
The combined maximum award from the two measures is equivalent to 90% of basic salary at the date of the award.
A 36 months performance period to September 2007.
The combined maximum award is also equivalent to 90% of basic salary at the date of the award.
Details of the performance measures are set out on page 20.
The maximum number of shares available as at the year end in respect of all three cycles as described above, and assuming all performance targets are achieved, is: Maximum Maximum Maximum potential Shares Shares potential potential shares as at lapsed granted shares as at award as at Earliest 26.09.04 in year in year 01.10.05 01.10.05 vesting Executive Director shares shares shares shares 000 date Mike Bramley 355,888 88,636 98,822 366,074 1,337 01.12.05 Tim Clarke 545,361 136,363 146,822 555,820 2,030 01.12.05 Tony Hughes 355,888 88,636 98,822 366,074 1,337 01.12.05 Karim Naffah 382,954 95,454 104,470 391,970 1,432 01.12.05 No awards vested during the financial year 2004 05.
The share price on 3 December 2004, the date of award, was 321.50p.
Based on the share price on 1 October 2005 365.25p.
Share Incentive Plan In respect of the all employee SIP, as described on page 21, the Executive Directors had the following conditional entitlements as at 1 October 2005, subject to the rules of the plan: Free shares Free shares Free shares awarded on awarded on awarded on 30.06.03@ 28.06.04@ 30.06.05 @ 232.5p which vest 271.75p which vest 330p which vest Total Director on 30.06.06 on 28.06.07 on 30.06.08 shares Mike Bramley 692 1,044 872 2,608 Tim Clarke 910 1,103 909 2,922 Tony Hughes 756 1,044 872 2,672 Karim Naffah 834 1,103 909 2,846 The share price on 30 June 2005, the date of award, was 334.25p.
Page 25 Mitchells & Butlers Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005
