Directors remuneration report 1 Introduction 3 Advisers to the remuneration committee The board has prepared this report in accordance with the requirements Hewitt Bacon & Woodrow has continued to provide advice to the of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985.
The report also meets committee on matters of remuneration policy during the year, has the relevant requirements of the Combined Code annexed to the been scheme actuary to the Northern Foods Pension Scheme, and Listing Rules issued by the Financial Services Authority, and is prepared provides advice to the company on general remuneration matters.
to the accounting year end of 2 April 2005.
The committee saw no conflict in the nature of the services provided to the committee.
This report to shareholders sets out the remuneration policy and explains the policy under which our executive and non-executive directors and The committee appointed DLA to advise on matters relating to management team were remunerated for the year ended 2 April 2005. directors contracts.
DLA also provides specific employment law It also provides details of the salary, incentives, share and pension advice to the company.
interests of all the directors for the year.
A resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the Annual general meeting of the company.
In determining directors remuneration for the year and in considering proposals for the future, the committee consulted P A ODriscoll, The auditors are required to report to the companys members Chief Executive and N Pickavance, Group Director of HR.
The secretary on the audited element of the Directors remuneration report and to the committee from April to September 2004 was E Cockburn, to state whether, in their opinion, that part of the report has been Personnel Executive and from October 2004 was R Cooper, Director properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
Performance & Reward, both of whom also provided information on pay practice in respect of executive directors and senior management.
2 Remuneration committee The remuneration committee is a committee of the board and the 4 Remuneration policy members during the year were A J Hobson Chairman, P H Blackburn, To deliver its objective of creating real increases in shareholder value C Dyer and O G Ni-Chionna.
There were six meetings during the year relative to its peers, the company needs to attract and retain the most and with the exception of C Dyer, who missed two meetings, all the capable and committed people and create the right employment members attended all the meetings.
At the invitation of the Chairman conditions and reward opportunities for them.
of the committee, the Chief Executive and Group Director of HR attend committee meetings to provide background and context on matters The companys remuneration policy is designed to support the relating to executive remuneration, but do not attend when their recruitment, motivation and retention of high calibre employees.
own remuneration or contracts are discussed.
Remuneration is considered within the context of the sector of which the company is a part, and with which the company competes for The role of the remuneration committee is to approve, implement, talent, within the geography in which it operates, employing people and keep under review the remuneration policy and practice of the in the UK and Ireland.
This sector includes UK food producers, group and specifically to: UK divisions and subsidiaries within FMCG.
agree with the board the framework and the value of remuneration Following the appointment of P A ODriscoll as Chief Executive, the of executive directors and senior managers committee has completed a strategic review of its remuneration policy.
agree the terms of the executive directors service contracts The objective was to ensure that the remuneration of executive and remuneration directors and senior executives is directly linked to the delivery of determine the nature and scale of long and short term performance strategic objectives that are closely aligned with the interests of incentive arrangements that encourage enhanced performance shareholders.
The GET FIT agenda which describes our business strategy and reward individuals in a fair and reasonable manner for their is set out earlier in the Chief Executives operating review.
The policy contribution to the success of the group.
for 2005 06 includes the introduction of differentiated rewards, according to performance, based on the introduction of rigorous individual In undertaking this role, the committee considers remuneration policy performance measures against the delivery of these strategic objectives.
and rewards across the company and not just at board level.
The new policy reflects the change from smaller autonomous No director plays a part in any discussion about his or her pay.
The operating companies to a One Northern corporate structure.
remuneration committee has been formally delegated the authority by the board to establish policy in respect of all terms of employment The policy continues to reward employees at the relevant mid-market for executive directors.
level for on-target performance, whilst delivering competitive rewards for outstanding performers with a package designed to align their The board believes that a properly constituted remuneration committee interests with those of shareholders.
In the case of senior executives, is essential in establishing a system of remuneration which clearly this includes a reasonable proportion of total remuneration being aligns the interests of executive directors and senior managers with dependent upon individual and group performance.
The policy those of shareholders, and links incentives for executives and other for directors is described in more detail below.
managers to improvements in the absolute performance and relative competitiveness of the company.
The committees terms of reference are published on the companys website.
Northern Foods plc Directors remuneration report 31 Directors remuneration report continued 5 Remuneration policy for non-executive directors A more rigorous approach has been adopted to the assessment Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term of three of individual performance, leading to greater differentiation in awards years with the expectation that, subject to satisfactory performance, whereby greater emphasis is placed upon the individuals contribution they will be invited to serve a second and third three-year term.
to the groups overall performance.
This is to ensure that the remuneration package for executive directors is aligned even more The dates of the Chairmans and current non-executive directors closely with shareholder interests.
Two-thirds of the Chief Executives letters of engagement, the date on which their appointment took and two-fifths of other executive directors total remuneration package, effect and the current expiry dates are as follows: exclusive of pension benefits, is dependent upon achieving clearly defined performance targets.
Date of Effective date Expiry date commencement of current term of current term The four main components of the remuneration package for executive P H Blackburn 13 Nov 01 1 Feb 05 31 Jan 06 directors and senior management in 2005 06, are: C Dyer 1 Jan 97 28 May 05 28 May 08 A J Hobson 28 May 02 28 May 05 28 May 08 basic annual salary is targeted at market median for the sector, O G Ni-Chionna 28 May 02 28 May 05 28 May 08 but it is recognised that it may be necessary to pay above this to attract sufficiently high calibre executives In February 2005 P H Blackburn announced his intention to retire an annual incentive plan, based upon the delivery of annual from the board of Northern Foods on the conclusion of the Annual operating plans for the company and individual strategic objectives general meeting in July 2005 and will be succeeded by A J Hobson, described in performance contracts currently Deputy Chairman.
participation in long term incentive plans based upon the performance of the group and individual.
The long term incentive plans are C Dyer will reach the conclusion of his ninth year of office on geared so that outstanding individual performance generates 31 December 2005.
With the recent changes in board membership, a higher level of reward the board believes that it is in the interests of the company, the pension and other benefits.
board and shareholders, that C Dyer remains on the board for a final three-year term as an independent director.
His independence will be The balance of the fixed and variable pay at current value for 2005 06, considered annually by the board and his appointment will be subject exclusive of pension benefits, is illustrated below for the two executive to an annual vote at the Annual general meeting.
The table is a theoretical model and assumes that on-target group performance is achieved for both short and long term incentives The appointments of the Chairman and the non-executive directors and that the directors individual performance is rated as satisfactory.
may be terminated by either party on three months notice.
The value of the share options is calculated using Black-Scholes No compensation is payable by the company on termination methodology.
Basic salary as a Annual bonus as a Long term incentives proportion of target proportion of target as a proportion of Fees for the non-executive directors are reviewed annually in remuneration % remuneration % target remuneration % September on the recommendation of the executive directors and M T Gribbin 66.6 16.7 16.7 then approved by the board.
Fees are set with regard to a range of P A ODriscoll 55.2 17.2 27.6 external information for equivalent companies.
There is no other remuneration for non-executives, except where the company meets authorised expenses incurred on Northern Foods activities.
They are 6.1 Salary Salaries of executive directors are reviewed annually taking into account not eligible for pension scheme membership and do not participate in any of the companys annual or long term incentive schemes.
information from independent sources on salaries for comparable roles in the industry and in other selected quoted companies.
6 Remuneration policy for executive directors Reviews also reflect the individuals responsibilities, performance and development, and the groups performance.
The remuneration The remuneration committee aims to ensure that the companys executive directors are fairly rewarded for their individual contributions committees objective is, and will continue to be, to maintain salaries at around the median level of the relevant employment market, to the groups performance.
The committees policy is to offer differentiated remuneration packages, dependent upon performance, although it may be necessary to pay above the median for a high calibre individual.
Salary is the only pensionable remuneration.
which are capable of attracting, retaining and motivating executive directors of high calibre, to ensure that the company is managed 6.2 Annual incentive plan effectively to the benefit of shareholders and will create real increases in shareholder value relative to its industry sector.
The remuneration committee believes that achieving annual performance targets is a high priority for the executive directors.
The committee, in setting the remuneration of the executive directors, Incentive targets for executive directors are set each year by the committee to take account of current business plans.
also takes account of and seeks to align this remuneration with the management remuneration throughout Northern Foods.
The committee The committee has modified the current annual incentive plan continues to aim for a structured and balanced remuneration package by looking at each element, as well as the package as a whole.
in 2005 06 to allow for greater differentiation in incentive award dependent upon the individuals contribution to group performance.
The committee believes that a significant proportion of the total The target incentive for an executive director is reduced to 25 per cent of basic salary for satisfactory performance.
In the case of exceptional remuneration of a director should be performance-related.
The proportion of potential reward dependent upon group and individual individual performance and group results significantly above expectations, the incentive payment increases up to a maximum performance has been significantly increased for 2005 06. of 100 per cent of basic salary.
32 Directors remuneration report Northern Foods plc 75 per cent of the maximum annual incentive is dependent upon Consistent with best practice, it is the committees intention that a combination of individual and group performance and requires the grants will continue to be made annually to executive directors minimum achievement of specific financial targets for 2005 06 in the future.
before payment of this element can be made.
The performance condition for awards requires that for grants with 25 per cent of the maximum annual incentive is directly related to a market value of up to one times salary the real growth in earnings the committees assessment of the directors individual performance per share is greater than 3 per cent per annum over the three-year against their personal performance contract, set at the start of the performance period before the options can be exercised.
In the event financial year, which contains six individual and business performance that the committee makes grants with a market value of greater than targets including targets for return on average invested capital ROIC one times salary, the performance condition for grants in excess of and free cash flow, which are considered appropriately stretching one times salary would require that the real growth in earnings per by the committee.
share is greater than 6 per cent per annum before the options can be exercised.
If the performance condition is not met at the end of One-fifth of any annual incentive earned will be paid as deferred three years there is no facility for retesting.
The performance will be shares through the companys Share bonus plan.
Shares acquired assessed by comparing the adjusted earnings per share growth to the through the Share bonus plan will be purchased in the market and growth in the RPI over the three-year performance period.
held in trust for the executive for a period of three years.
These shares will be forfeited should the executive director leave prior to the third The committee believes that the performance condition for the anniversary.
During this retention period the participants will be entitled long term incentive arrangements should align the interests of to dividends on the shares and to instruct the trustee how to vote.
directors with those of shareholders.
The committee also believes that real growth in earnings per share will only be achieved through The targets set for 2005 06 are made up of financial, business and the delivery of both the commercial and financial objectives of the individual performance measures.
The financial element includes company.
Furthermore, executives will only benefit from the plan profit performance.
The business element is related to specific targets if real growth in the earnings per share target is achieved and there for ROIC and free cash flow and a number of commercially sensitive is growth in the share price.
strategic objectives for each individual and the executive team.
The performance targets selected are considered appropriately stretching 6.3.
2 Performance share plan by the committee.
The committee believes that the performance conditions for the Performance share plan PSP should align the interests of directors 6.3 Long term incentive share plans with those of shareholders.
The benefits available to senior management The companys long term incentive policy has been developed to participating in the plan will only accrue to them if the company reflect market practice and to provide long term management focus and has delivered significant benefits to shareholders over a three-year motivation.
The remuneration committee believes that a significant period.
Participation in this plan is at the discretion of the element of executive remuneration should be linked to the delivery remuneration committee.
of above average long term returns for shareholders.
Under the plan, the committee awards shares in the company to Executives interest in both relative and absolute share price senior management conditional upon the achievement of corporate performance is important, and this is facilitated by share schemes performance targets over a period of three years.
The number of and the encouragement to build a significant personal shareholding shares conditionally awarded to each participant is determined by the in the company.
The company is developing a policy for directors committee.
The market value of shares which may be conditionally shareholdings which will be implemented from 1 April 2006. awarded to a participant in any year will be limited to a maximum of 75 per cent of salary.
Long term incentives are provided to executive directors in the form of performance shares and share options.
Executive directors will be Vesting of the plan is triggered by achieving two independent sets of eligible to receive an annual grant of options and performance shares, performance conditions, with 50 per cent of the vesting conditional provided that the combined expected value of awards made under upon each set as follows: both plans in any one year does not exceed 100 per cent of basic salary.
The value of share options is calculated using the Black-Scholes a measure of the companys relative market performance as methodology.
The level of grant for both options and performance assessed by growth in total shareholder return TSR against shares will be subject to individual performance as determined by the FTSE Food Producers Index, and the remuneration committees assessment of progress against the a return on capital measure, used as an absolute measure of strategic objectives set out in the directors performance contract.
The committee has determined return These two long term incentive share plans are described below.
on capital as a current strategic priority for realising growth in shareholder value.
In future years it is envisaged that the strategic 6.3.
1 Executive share options priorities will change.
Participation in the Share option plan is at the discretion of the remuneration committee.
The plan comprises an Inland Revenue 6.3.
2.1 Total shareholder return approved part and an unapproved part.
Under the unapproved part Vesting of 50 per cent of the PSP is triggered by comparing the the company will have the right to direct that a share settled exercise growth in TSR, in terms of share price growth and dividends, to that takes place.
Options will generally be exercisable in the seven-year of the TSR of the companies comprising the FTSE Food Producers period following the third anniversary of grant and before the tenth Index, excluding Unilever.
anniversary, provided that the executive remains in employment and subject to satisfaction of the performance condition.
Northern Foods plc Directors remuneration report 33 Directors remuneration report continued The proportion of the award that will vest is assessed by reference 6.5 Benefits to a vesting scale.
If the groups performance is ranked below the In addition to basic salary all the executive directors receive certain median, this part of the conditional award will lapse.
Where the benefits, principally a car or car allowance, private medical insurance company is placed at the median or above, the maximum number of and a pension.
shares available for vesting will be calculated on a straight line basis with 20 per cent of the conditional award being available when the 6.5.
1 Pensions company is placed at the median and the maximum of 50 per cent Executive directors are members of the company pension scheme.
of the award being available where the company is placed in the Their dependants are eligible for dependants pensions and the top quartile.
payment of a lump sum in the event of death in service.
The committee selected the relative TSR, compared with companies The pension arrangements for directors appointed prior to 22 March in the FTSE Food Producers Index, excluding Unilever, as a measure 2005, provide for a pension on retirement at age 60 of two-thirds that reflects corporate performance relative to companies with of basic annual salary after 20 or more years eligible service, subject similar characteristics and subject to similar market conditions.
Unilever is excluded from the comparator group on the basis of size and product diversity.
During the year the committee undertook a complete review of the companys pension arrangements.
The decision was taken to close The companies currently comprising the FTSE Food Producers Index, the final salary scheme Northern Foods Pension Scheme to new excluding Unilever, are: members with effect from 22 March 2005 and introduce a new career average, revalued earnings CARE scheme called Pension ABF Premier Builder, with effect from 1 May 2005.
Arla Richmond Cadbury Robert Wiseman For all employees, including directors, appointed after 22 March 2005, Cranswick Sygen the pension arrangements provide for pension on retirement at age Dairy Crest Tate & Lyle 65 based upon a career average accrual of either: Devro Uniq Northern Foods 1.25 per cent of annual salary per annum revalued at RPI up to 5.0 per cent, with an employee contribution of 6.0 per cent: or 6.3.
2.2 Return on capital 1.0 per cent of annual salary per annum revalued at RPI up to The proportion of the award that will vest is assessed by reference to 5.0 per cent, with an employee contribution of 4.5 per cent.
Vesting of 50 per cent of the PSP is triggered by the achievement of a minimum growth in return on capital of 100 basis The Pension Builder scheme has an optional salary sacrifice points over three years, measured against a base year of 2004 05. arrangement.
No other payments to directors are pensionable.
If the minimum target is not achieved this part of the conditional Currently the only director whose benefits under the scheme are award will lapse.
restricted by the Inland Revenue earnings cap is P A ODriscoll.
Benefits above the Inland Revenue earnings cap will be provided The maximum number of shares available for vesting will be calculated through an unfunded unapproved retirement benefits scheme.
on a straight line basis with 7.5 per cent of the conditional award None of the other directors benefits from the company scheme being available if the company achieves growth of 100 basis points, are restricted by current Inland Revenue limits.
and a maximum of 50 per cent of the award being available where the company achieves growth of 200 basis points.
Following the removal of the pensions earnings cap and the introduction of the lifetime allowance under the Finance Act 2004, For the purpose of determining any reward, return on capital is with effect from April 2006, it is intended to offer directors and defined as operating profit divided by average invested capital senior managers who have exceeded the lifetime allowance the being trading capital employed plus accumulated goodwill written off.
following options: This will be calculated under IFRS with the exception of the impact of the changes relating to pensions under IAS 19. continue to accrue pension under the scheme have benefits provided through an unfunded unapproved In response to any significant events, including material trading retirements benefit scheme events, the remuneration committee may at its discretion amend accept a cash alternative.
the performance conditions to reflect these changes.
6.6 Additional directorships Shares awarded under the plan are retained in trust on behalf of the Executive directors are encouraged to hold one non-executive participants for a further two years.
During this retention period the directorship in a listed business in a non-competing sector.
participants will be entitled to dividends on the shares and to instruct Fees for such directorships are retained by the executive director.
At the end of the retention period, the shares will be transferred to participants from the trust.
6.7 Directors contracts It is the companys policy that executive directors should have 6.4 All employee share scheme secure agreements, providing for a maximum of one years notice.
An approved savings-related share option scheme is open to all All executive directors have contracts which are subject to one eligible employees in the UK and overseas and, as it is an all employee years notice by either party.
plan, no performance conditions apply.
34 Directors remuneration report Northern Foods plc
