SUMMARY DIRECTORS REPORT The following pages are a summary of the information contained in In accordance with the companys Articles of Association, Iain the Directors Report and Accounts for the year ended 31st March Lough, Pat Zito, Oliver Stocken and William Harrison will retire 2005.
The summary financial statement does not contain sufficient by rotation at the annual general meeting and, being eligible, information to allow as full an understanding of the results and Iain Lough, Pat Zito and Oliver Stocken will offer themselves state of affairs of the company and of the Group, and of its policies for re-election.
and arrangements concerning directors remuneration, as would be provided by the full annual report and accounts.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE During the year the company has complied with the provisions BUSINESS ACTIVITIES AND DEVELOPMENT 35 set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Pilkington is a leading worldwide producer of flat and safety glass Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council in and a successful innovator of products and processes in the glass July 2003, which is appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial industry.
The Group serves the building and automotive markets.
Services Authority, except for the chairmans membership of the Remuneration Committee.
A more detailed report on corporate The principal activities and operations of the Group are described governance is contained in the Directors Report and Accounts.
on pages 14 to 21 of the Operating and Financial Review.
Further information, including details of important events affecting the business of the Group, its joint ventures and associates is given AUDITORS in the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review and the The auditors report on the full annual accounts of the Group for Finance Directors Review which are included in the first part of the year ended 31st March 2005 is unqualified and does not contain the Operating and Financial Review.
any statement concerning accounting records or failure to obtain necessary information or explanations.
DIRECTORS The names, biographical details and photographs of the directors The statutory financial statements will be delivered to the are on page 34.
Registrar of Companies in due course.
SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT INTRODUCTION Leng Chairman, Sir Nigel Rudd, William Harrison, Oliver Stocken and Christine Morin-Postel.
Sir Nigel Rudd has since stepped down This report to shareholders outlines the membership and workings as a committee member.
of the Remuneration Committee and provides an explanation of the various elements of the remuneration policy.
The report also outlines The committee determines the overall remuneration policy for how the executive and non-executive directors were remunerated executive directors and for other senior executives within the during the year.
Group and sets the remuneration packages of individual executive directors, the company secretary and executives who report The full report on directors remuneration, contained in the directly to the group chief executive in his capacity as group Directors Report and Accounts for the year ended 31st March 2005, chief executive.
In addition, it determines and approves annual will be put to shareholders for approval at the annual general and long-term incentive plans, including setting appropriate meeting of the company to be held on 28th July 2005. performance targets, and determines the policy relating to the 2005 remuneration key points grant of options under the senior executives share option schemes.
Executive directors again chose to invest all their annual bonuses The full terms of reference of the committee are available on the in company shares.
The performance awards under the Leadership Equity Award Plan The committee met five times during the year to 31st March 2005, LEAP made in 2001 did not vest in 2004 and performance and at its request, the group chief executive and the company awards made in 2002 did not vest in 2005 as the stretching secretary were invited to attend committee meetings except when minimum earnings per share growth targets were not met.
matters relating to their own remuneration and service agreements Each executive director has a 12 month contract with the company.
The group human resources director acted There were no changes made to executive directors pension as secretary to the committee.
All the executive directors exceeded the target set for their The committee has selected Deloitte & Touche LLP to advise it personal shareholdings.
During the year, Deloitte & Touche LLP All non-executive directors are remunerated entirely in the also provided advice to the board on non-executive directors form of company shares.
remuneration and advised the company on the expensing of share options and on proposed government changes affecting pensions.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Advice was also received from the group human resources director As at 1st April 2004, the members of the committee were James and the group compensation and benefits manager.
AR6483 Pilkington Operating & Financial Review Proof 11 26 05 2005 PILKINGTON plc OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 2005 SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The principal matters considered by the committee during the and benefits which include company car, medical insurance, pension year were: entitlement and life insurance.
The executive directors are not eligible Annual review of salaries for executive directors, the company to participate in the Deferred Bonus Plan or the senior executives secretary and certain other senior management.
share option schemes whilst participating in the Leadership Equity Performance criteria, targets and results for annual incentive Award Plan.
A significant proportion of the remuneration of the plans for executive directors and senior managers.
executive directors is linked to corporate performance and, where Performance criteria and targets for long-term incentive plans.
appropriate, individual business line responsibility.
Grant of awards under the Leadership Equity Award Plan Salary LEAP and the Deferred Bonus Plan.
36 The salaries of executive directors are reviewed annually.
The Grant of executive share options to non LEAP participants.
policy is to broadly align salaries with market medians for a global Share ownership targets for executive directors and senior business.
Pilkington has the widest geographical reach of any management.
In determining what the appropriate market rates are Executive and UK senior management pensions.
for the company, account is taken of turnover, market capitalisation, Executive directors service agreements.
the complexity and breadth of internationalisation and the Building Products and Automotive market sectors.
The committees POLICY ON REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS independent adviser, Deloitte & Touche LLP, provides external data AND SENIOR EXECUTIVES on appropriate comparator companies, where market capitalisation is Objectives of the remuneration policy one of several factors, and using these comparisons, the base salaries Pilkington is a global business, operating in 24 countries worldwide take account of median levels.
In reviewing salaries, account is also and selling into 130, in demanding markets.
The principal objectives taken of salary increases for other managers, the performance of the of the remuneration policy are twofold.
Firstly, to ensure that individual and the progress the company is making against annual remuneration packages are market competitive and designed in such and strategic plans.
Base salary is the only element of the executive a way as to attract, retain and motivate executive directors and senior directors remuneration which is pensionable.
executives of the highest calibre on a worldwide basis in an Annual performance-related bonus international business.
Secondly, to ensure that individual rewards Each executive director participates in an annual performanceand incentives are aligned with the performance of the Group and related bonus.
The current years plan for the executive directors the interests of shareholders as well as reflecting the commitment provides for a maximum bonus opportunity of 60 per cent of salary.
and achievements of the individuals concerned.
The individual The committee establishes the performance criteria and sets elements of the executive package will vary depending on the the appropriate bonus parameters.
The incentive plans are based market conditions in the countries in which they operate.
However, wholly on challenging financial performance targets relating to the annual bonus and long-term incentive plans follow a global policy annual budget which is approved by the board.
The plans for Stuart and are structured, designed and co-ordinated at Group level.
Chambers and Iain Lough are based on Group profit and Group The committee strives to align the remuneration policy and cash flow improvement.
The plan for Pat Zito is also based on practice with the short-term goals for the business in an international Group profit and Group cash flow improvement, but in addition market place as well as the medium to long-term strategy of takes into account the performance of Automotive worldwide where the Group which aims to increase shareholder value.
Salary and he has direct responsibility.
Performance against the targets set benefit packages are set at market competitive levels and annual is reviewed by the committee at regular intervals during the year.
performance-related payments are assessed against the achievement No bonus is paid to the executive directors if minimum targets are of key financial targets.
Share based long-term incentives are used not met and bonus payments to the executive directors are not to align the interests of the senior executive group with those of pensionable.
Bonuses were awarded on 25th May 2005 following shareholders.
This is achieved by linking executive rewards to the sign off by the companys auditors.
The design of the annual incentive scheme is such that, out of The remuneration policy also aims to encourage personal investment a possible maximum bonus award of 60 per cent of salary, the in company shares.
It believes that meaningful share ownership in achievement of the annual budgeted profit and cash targets would line with the companys targets for executive directors and senior generate a bonus of up to 40 per cent, with up to a further 20 per management links the interests of shareholders with those of the cent for performance in excess of budget.
In 2005 actual results executive team.
The long-term incentive plans have been designed achieved exceeded budget for the Group profit and cash elements, so that entry is conditional on executives investing part or all of resulting in actual bonus awards of 60 per cent for Stuart Chambers their annual bonus in the purchase of company shares.
This policy and Iain Lough and 52.2 per cent for Pat Zito.
is expected to continue in future years.
For 2005, the bonus payable to the executive directors amounts to The remuneration arrangements meet the provisions of the 726,000.
Each of the executive directors chose to invest all of his Combined Code published in June 2003. bonus in the companys shares.
None of the current executive directors has taken a bonus in cash since their appointment to the board.
The main components of the executive directors remuneration Long-term incentive plan The normal remuneration arrangements for executive directors The company has a long-term incentive plan that operates consist of salary, annual financial performance-related bonus, a internationally, known as the Leadership Equity Award Plan LEAP.
long-term incentive programme the Leadership Equity Award Plan AR6483 Pilkington Operating & Financial Review Proof 11 26 05 2005 PILKINGTON plc OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 2005 The plan was approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting Touche LLP, decided that it was appropriate to include a cash in July 2000 and was first operational in 2001.
The plan has been component in the 2003 and 2004 LEAP plans.
The committee designed to provide geared levels of reward in the form of company considered the generation of free cash flow before any exceptional shares for the achievement of exceptional company performance gains or losses to be a suitable measurement in determining over the long term.
Executive directors and selected senior executives management effectiveness in generating sustainable cash within the are invited by the committee to participate in the LEAP and as a result business.
The committee felt, however, that aggregate EPS should are not eligible to participate in the Deferred Bonus Plan or the still remain the key measure of management effectiveness and senior executives share option schemes.
Participants are invited therefore approved the 2003 and 2004 plans on the basis of three to invest all or a proportion of their annual after tax bonus in the quarters aggregate EPS and one quarter free cash flow.
As previously outlined, the committee believes performance targets for all four years granted since the introduction that requiring share purchase in order to participate in the plan of the LEAP are set out in the table below.
aligns the interests of the directors and senior managers with those As the Groups strategy moves to its next phase of investing for of the shareholders.
If the participants remain in employment and growth, the committee reviewed the continued appropriateness of the purchased shares are retained for three years, the company will the performance measures under this plan.
Whilst the committee match their investment with additional shares.
The matching by the still believes that aggregate EPS should remain the key measure company is made up of a core award and a performance award.
of management effectiveness, in order to strengthen the link to The core award consists of shares to the value of the participants shareholders it has decided to introduce total shareholder return gross annual bonus deferred and vests after three years subject to TSR for the 2005 plan 2006 to 2008, to reflect the Groups continued employment.
The value of the performance award will evolving strategy.
The measures will be weighted three quarters depend upon the achievement of stretching performance targets for EPS and one quarter TSR.
As the scheme has been in existence the Group over the next three years.
The committee is responsible for five years and as the company moves into the growth phase for setting the performance criteria and stretching targets each of its strategy, the committee will undertake a review of the year the plan is offered and takes into account the likely economic appropriateness of its long-term incentive arrangements.
environment and business challenges over the three years of the The Deferred Bonus Plan plan.
The committee considers earnings per share before exceptional The Deferred Bonus Plan is designed to encourage senior executives items EPS to be one of the key independent and verifiable measures to purchase and retain company shares and in doing so align on which the financial value of the company is assessed over the themselves with the interests of shareholders.
A minimum level of EPS must be achieved for 70 senior executives across the world are invited to participate but to the EPS performance award to vest.
The level of performance awards do so must invest part or all of their annual after tax bonus in company made will depend on the extent of the achievement of the targets set shares.
In return, the company grants the individuals a right to acquire whereby awards will vest between entry level and maximum on a the companys shares, the value of these shares being equivalent to linear basis.
Should these demanding targets be met in full, the 1.2 times the gross value of the individuals annual bonus originally performance award will be two and a half times the gross annual deferred.
The award is exercisable after three years provided the bonus deferred.
Performance awards only vest after the committee participants remain in employment and retain their purchased shares has reviewed and confirmed that performance against the conditions for a three year period.
In this way, the executives rewards are linked set have been met.
Currently there are three directors and 28 senior directly to shareholder value over the medium and long-term.
managers participating in this plan.
The plan is normally offered on an annual basis.
If the individual The performance targets set for the LEAP performance awards made disposes of the purchased shares before the end of the three year period in 2001 and 2002 were based wholly on aggregate EPS over a three or if the individual chooses to leave the company, the award will lapse.
For the plan commencing in the year 2001, awards did not vest because the minimum aggregate EPS target of 24.9p Since the introduction of the LEAP in 2001, the executive directors for the period 2001 to 2004 was not met.
For the 2002 plan, the and those selected executives who are participants of the LEAP are performance awards will also not vest because the minimum not entitled to participate in the Deferred Bonus Plan.
aggregate EPS target of 22.6p for the period 2002 to 2005 was not Share option schemes met.
Therefore participants will not receive any performance awards Only senior executives who do not participate in the LEAP are eligible for these two plans.
to receive share options under the executive share option schemes.
Given the Groups strategy to generate cash as well as profit, the The ability to exercise options is dependent upon the achievement of committee, having sought independent advice from Deloitte & predetermined performance targets based on growth in earnings per 3 year aggregate Weighting Cumulative Group Weighting EPS target element free cash flow target element Minimum Maximum % Minimum Maximum % June 2001 24.9p 29.7p 100 N A N A N A No performance award vested June 2002 22.6p 26.9p 100 N A N A N A No performance award vested June 2003 21.2p 27.1p 75 241m 300m 25 June 2004 23.1p 30.0p 75 251m 350m 25 i Each plan is based on a three-year period.
ii EPS numbers were adjusted to comply with the adoption of revised accounting standards and practice.
iii EPS and free cash flow achievements above the maximum targets pay no more than the 2.5 times the gross bonus invested.
AR6483 Pilkington Operating & Financial Review Proof 11 26 05 2005 PILKINGTON plc OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 2005 SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED share in excess of the retail price index RPI.
The current target set Service agreements by the committee is earnings growth in excess of RPI plus three per It is the policy of the Remuneration Committee that executive cent per annum.
Providing the earnings per share targets are met for directors should have contracts terminable by no more than one the prescribed three year performance period, the share options will years notice.
become exercisable after three years and up to ten years from the Details of the principal terms of the service contracts of each of the date of grant.
In line with best corporate practice, the committee executive directors are shown in the table set out below.
decided that for options granted in or after June 2003, the performance targets will no longer be subject to re-testing and accordingly if the In the event of termination by the company, other than for misconduct, performance targets are not satisfied after three years, the options each directors service agreement provides for a maximum payment 38 will lapse.
However, for options granted before June 2003, should the of 12 months pay and benefits including pension arrangements, performance targets not be met after three years, the committee has private healthcare and the provision of a company car.
the discretion to allow re-testing from a fixed base over four years Details of directors retiring by rotation and seeking re-election are and over five years.
Iain Lough has a service agreement which Prior to the introduction of the LEAP in 2001, the executive directors expires on 24th January 2007 and Pat Zito has a service agreement were entitled to share options.
None of the executive directors which expires on 2nd February 2009 unless termination occurs earlier.
exercised options during the year to 31st March 2005.
Oliver Stocken does not have a service agreement, but does have a letter of appointment for a term, which expires on 26th July 2006.
The Group also operates a savings-related share option scheme for all UK employees including the executive directors.
This scheme Policy on external appointments was established in 1984 and was renewed for a further ten years at The committee believes that the company can benefit from the the annual general meeting in 2002.
This scheme has a value to the experience gained by its executive directors holding non-executive company by aligning UK employee interests with those of appointments which represent a valuable opportunity in terms of shareholders and provides a long-term vehicle to enable employees personal and professional development.
Such appointments are to benefit from growth in the companys share price.
The invitation subject to the approval of the board and it is the companys practice to participate in this scheme, which was made in June 2004, offered that each executive director may only accept one such appointment, a three, five or seven year contract with an exercise price set at a and that fees from that appointment may be retained by the executive discount of ten per cent of the applicable market price.
Stuart Chambers holds a non-executive directorship with Associated British Ports Holdings PLC and Iain An all-employee share ownership plan now known as a share Lough holds a non-executive directorship with Wilson Bowden plc.
incentive plan was approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting in July 2000 but no invitations or awards have yet been POLICY ON REMUNERATION OF THE CHAIRMAN made under this plan.
AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Share ownership The remuneration of the chairman is determined by the committee, The board strongly believes in the value of employee share ownership without the chairman being present, and the remuneration of the in order to continually align the interests of employees with those of non-executive directors is determined by the board.
The Articles of shareholders and for a number of years has given share ownership Association contain a limit on the aggregate remuneration.
They are targets to the executive directors and certain senior executives.
not eligible for performance-related bonuses or awards under longThe executive directors and approximately 100 senior executives term incentive plans and no pension contributions are made on their worldwide have been given share ownership targets to achieve.
Since June 2000 the annual fees for the chairman and the current target for the group chief executive is 500,000 shares and for non-executive directors have been paid exclusively in shares.
All of the executive directors have achieved their targets and over 80 per cent of all senior CHAIRMANS AND NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION executives have exceeded their targets.
The chairman and all non-executive directors are paid exclusively in Pensions shares, which they are required to hold for four years, other than to All executive directors are entitled to a pension on retirement and the extent necessary to fund their tax liability on receipt of the such pensions are calculated in a similar way to pensions provided shares.
The details of the remuneration paid and due to the chairman under the Pilkington Superannuation Scheme.
The pension and non-executive directors for 2005 are shown on page 39.
The arrangements for the executive directors are affected by the Inland disclosure, under the heading aggregate value of shares allotted and Revenue cap on approved pension benefits.
Their arrangements are to be allotted at the reference price of 91.5543p, include the shares determined on an individual basis and are in part funded through the allotted in June 2004 and December 2004 at such reference price Pilkington Superannuation Scheme or personal pension plans with and the shares to be allotted in June 2005 at such reference price in the unapproved balance being provided through the Pilkington respect of the period from 1st December 2004 to 31st March 2005.
Date of Notice period Unexpired term from 31st March service agreement from company 2005 to normal retirement date Stuart Chambers 3rd December 2002 12 months 11 years Iain Lough 7th February 2003 12 months 1 year 8 months Pat Zito 3rd December 2002 12 months 3 years 8 months AR6483 Pilkington Operating & Financial Review Proof 9 17 05 2005 PILKINGTON plc OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 2005
