Reed Elsevier Annual Review 2005 37 Summary directors remuneration report This is a summary of the full remuneration report prepared Remuneration objectives by the Remuneration Committee the Committee of Reed The principal objectives of the policy are to attract and Elsevier Group plc and approved by the boards of Reed motivate executives of the highest calibre and experience.
Elsevier Group plc, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier These individuals are needed to shape and execute NV.
The full report, which complies with the strategy and deliver shareholder value in an ever more UK Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 competitive and increasingly global employment market.
the UK Regulations is contained in the Reed Elsevier The Committee believes that this requires the following: Annual Reports and Financial Statements 2005.
It is A pay and benefits package which is competitive also available on the Reed Elsevier website with packages offered by other leading multinational www.
companies operating in global markets, and is capable of providing upper quartile total remuneration for the Executive directors sustained delivery of the clearly superior The remuneration of executive directors is determined by levels of performance required by our challenging the Remuneration Committee which, throughout 2005, business objectives.
consisted wholly of independent non-executive directors: A reward structure that links individual performance, Rolf Stomberg Chairman, Mark Elliott and Cees van Lede.
company performance and share price performance so as to align the interests of the directors with those The remuneration policy has been designed to meet of Reed Elsevier and the shareholders of the the needs of a group of global business divisions, each parent companies.
of which operates internationally by line of business.
An approach to performance management that In order to support this business structure, it is essential stimulates enhanced performance by directors, to have a remuneration policy which: recognises their individual contribution to the aids the attraction and retention of the best executive attainment of our short term and longer term talent from anywhere in the world: and results and also encourages the teamwork which is underpins Reed Elseviers demanding performance essential to achieve the long term strategic objectives.
The Committee believes that the primary engine for the The challenges and demands created by the need for creation of long term shareholder value is sustained global market competitiveness as well as for internal growth in profitability.
In relation to shareholders, the consistency have led the Committee to apply a more global primary measure of profitability is growth in adjusted approach to the design and operation of its incentive plans.
earnings per share which is supported, at an operational level, by the measures of revenue growth, profitability and The Committee believes that in order to meet its cash generation.
Accordingly, these measures are remuneration objectives, the remuneration of executive integrated into our reward structure.
In all cases payments directors should comprise a balance between fixed and are made against a sliding scale of performance variable performance-related pay elements with the achievement because this is the fairest and simplest way greater proportion of potential reward being linked to to relate incentives to business targets.
For superior performance, some 60% of shareholder preference for longer term incentive total target remuneration is performance-related.
arrangements to include a performance measure based on shareholder return, it is proposed that a secondary The Committee constantly reviews remuneration policy to measure of Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to a ensure that it is sufficiently flexible to take account both of focused peer group will apply to awards made under the future changes in Reed Elseviers business operations and Long Term Incentive Scheme LTIS from 2006. environment and of key developments in remuneration practice.
Consequently, the policy set out in this report has The variable pay elements of remuneration include an applied during 2005 and will apply in 2006 subject to any annual incentive plan and longer term incentives, namely necessary changes.
the Bonus Investment Plan, the LTIS and the Executive Share Option Scheme.
38 Summary directors remuneration report Summary directors remuneration report continued Shareholding requirement Messrs Reid and Zelnick each donated a proportion of Participants in the LTIS are required to build up a their fees in respect of 2005 to charity and, in accordance significant personal shareholding in Reed Elsevier PLC with the programme, the company made matching and or Reed Elsevier NV.
At executive director level, the charitable donations of 22,500 a32,850 and current requirement is that they should own shares 30,000 a43,800, respectively.
equivalent to 1.5 times salary and that this shareholding should be acquired prior to any payout being made under TSR graphs the LTIS in February 2007.
The following graphs show the Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV total shareholder return performance, Under the proposed terms of the revised LTIS, the assuming dividends were reinvested.
They compare the shareholding requirement for the Group Chief Executive Reed Elsevier PLC performance with that achieved by the Officer will subject to shareholder approval at the FTSE 100, and the Reed Elsevier NV performance with the respective Annual General Meetings of Reed Elsevier PLC performance achieved by the Euronext Amsterdam AEX and Reed Elsevier NV increase from 1.5 times to three Index, over the five year period from 20012005. times salary and for other executive directors from 1.5 times to two times salary the revised shareholding For the five year period since 1 January 2001, the TSR for requirements to be met by February 2009.
Reed Elsevier PLC was a negative 13%, against a FTSE 100 return of 4%.
For Reed Elsevier NV during the same Service contracts period, TSR was a negative 16%, against an AEX Index Executive directors are employed under service contracts return of negative 22%.
As Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed which generally provide for one years notice and neither Elsevier NV are members of the FTSE 100 and AEX Index specify severance payments nor contain specific provisions respectively, the Committee considers these indices to be in respect of change in control.
The service contracts for appropriate for comparison purposes.
executive directors and for approximately 130 other senior executives contain detailed non-compete and nonReed Elsevier PLC total solicitation provisions and in certain circumstances shareholder return v require the repayment of gains made under long term FTSE 100 20012005 110 incentive plans.
100 90 Reed Elsevier PLC Non-executive directors 80 Reed Elsevier seeks to recruit non-executive directors 70 FTSE 100 with the experience to contribute to the board of a dual- 60 50 listed global business and with a balance of personal Dec 00 Dec 01 Dec 02 Dec 03 Dec 04 Dec 05 skills which will make a major contribution to the boards Source: Datastream and their committee structures.
Non-executive directors, including the Chairman, serve under letters of Reed Elsevier NV total appointment, do not have contracts of service and are not shareholder return v AEX Index 20012005 entitled to notice of, or payments following, termination.
110 Non-executive directors receive one annual fee in respect 100 of their memberships of the Boards of Reed Elsevier Reed Elsevier NV 90 PLC, Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier Group plc and 80 do not participate in any incentive plans or receive any 70 AEX Index 60 other benefits.
Fees were last reviewed with effect from 50 1 May 2003.
Dec 00 Dec 01 Dec 02 Dec 03 Dec 04 Dec 05 Source: Datastream During the year the Reed Elsevier Group plc board The total shareholder return set out above is calculated on introduced a charity donation matching programme for the basis of the average share price in the 30 trading days non-executive directors.
Under the policy, where a nonprior to the respective year ends and on the assumption executive director donates all or part of their fees to a that dividends were reinvested.
registered charity, the company may, at its sole discretion, make a matching donation to any charity, provided the charitys objectives are judged to be appropriate and are not political or religious in nature.
Reed Elsevier Annual Review 2005 39 Summary of directors emoluments A summary of the emoluments of the directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV including any entitlement to fees or emoluments from either Reed Elsevier Group plc or Elsevier Reed Finance BV is shown below.
During the period he received fees of 10,274 a15,000 in such capacity.
Benefits principally comprise the provision of a company car, medical insurance and life assurance.
Sir Crispin Davis was the highest paid director in 2005.
He exercised a SAYE share option during 2005 over 5,019 Reed Elsevier PLC ordinary shares, at an option price of 336.2p.
The notional gain on the exercise amounted to 9,576 a13,981.
Five executive directors participate in relevant Reed Elsevier pension schemes either in the UK Sir Crispin Davis, M H Armour and G J A van fide Aast or in the US A Prozes and P Tierney.
E Engstrom is not a member of a company pension scheme and the Company makes a contribution to his personal retirement account.
Total pension contributions made during the year on behalf of directors amounted to 134,753 a196,739 2004: 53,574 a78,754.
Pension payments made during the year to a former director amounted to 223,570 a326,413 2004: 189,720 a278,889.
40 Summary directors remuneration report Summary directors remuneration report continued Summary of interests in shares Options and restricted shares held by directors in Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV at the beginning and end of the year are shown below.
There have been no changes in the options or restricted shares held by directors since 31 December 2005.
Conditional share awards under the Bonus Investment Plan were at a nil exercise price.
ii Option exercises during the year were at option prices of 400.75p Reed Elsevier PLC Executive Options, 336.20p Reed Elsevier PLC SAYE options and nil for Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV Restricted Shares.
The aggregate notional pre-tax gain made by the directors on the exercise of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV share options and conditional share awards during the year was 471,482 a688,364 2004: 2,001 a2,942.
Reed Elsevier Annual Review 2005 41 The interests of the directors of Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV in the issued share capital of the respective companies at the beginning and end of the year are shown below.
There have been no changes in the interests of the directors since 31 December 2005.
