AR 2005. qxd 3 8 05 11:17 am Page 18 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration policy Service contracts and compensation The remuneration and nomination committee is responsible for No director has a service contract although the committee is setting the Companys framework of executive remuneration and working on the implementation of executive service contracts setting remuneration packages for each of the executive directors.
including the compensation implications of early termination which is expected to be completed in the next financial year.
The committees policy is to motivate and retain executive The three non-executive directors have been appointed under directors by rewarding them with competitive salary and benefit contracts for services which are intended to continue for an initial packages and incentives.
These are linked to personal period of three years.
However, these contracts may be terminated performance and the overall performance of the Group and, in by either the Company or the director on one months notice.
turn, to the interests of the shareholders.
The committee reviews annually all aspects of the executive directors remuneration, Performance graph performance and employment.
The graph below shows the Companys total shareholder return TSR performance, compared with the FTSE mid 250 index, Remuneration and nomination committee which the directors believe is the most appropriate broad index All the members of this committee are non-executive directors for comparison.
and a list of membership and the chair of the committee is set out on page 5.
The terms of reference of this committee are published on the Companys website.
Mercer Human Resource Consulting provides advice in relation to certain benefits for the directors and on the Companys pension scheme.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the executive directors.
Remuneration packages The committee reviews basic salaries to take effect from 1st July each year.
In deciding appropriate levels, the committee takes account of financial data taken from a cross-section of UK Rebased to 100 at 30th June 2000 companies within the electronic and engineering sectors.
Renishaw FTSE mid 250 The Company operates an annual appreciation award scheme for all group employees and directors, on which no pension The report was approved by the Board of directors on contributions are made.
The award is based upon group profit 28th July 2005 and has been signed on its behalf by:- performance and the achievement of a number of strategic objectives to maintain the long-term development of the Group.
T D Snowden FCA The non-executive directors do not participate in the appreciation Chairman, Remuneration and nomination committee award scheme.
The Company makes annual contributions to individual pension policies for each executive director, based upon a percentage of basic salary, as follows: D R McMurtry 41% of previous years salary B R Taylor 15% of current years salary A C G Roberts 15% of current years salary G McFarland participates in the Companys defined benefit scheme and more details are given in note 4 on page 26.
The non-executive directors do not participate in the Companys pension scheme.
Company cars and other benefits provided to directors are subject to income tax and no benefits are pensionable.
The benefits are included in the directors remuneration table on page 26.
There are no share options or long-term incentive schemes in operation for the directors.
Details of directors remuneration including pensions which form the audited section of this report are shown in note 4 on page 26.
