Remuneration Report Introduction The Remuneration Report the Report sets out the companys remuneration policy and details the remuneration of each director.
The Report has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 Schedule 7A and to comply with the provisions of the Combined Code.
A resolution to approve the Report will be proposed at the annual general meeting to be held on 18 May 2006.
The companys auditors,  LLP, are required to report to the companys members on the matters set out in part 3 of Schedule 7A and to state, in their opinion, whether that part of the Report has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
In accordance with Schedule 7A, paragraphs 1 to 4 of the section entitled Pay and Benefits have been audited.
The remuneration committee The companys remuneration committee the committee is responsible for making recommendations to the board on the companys remuneration policy and, within the terms of the agreed policy, determining the individual remuneration packages of the executive directors and other members of the Company Executive Board CEB comprising the divisional managing directors and functional heads.
The full terms of reference of the committee are available on the companys website or, if a hard copy is required, by application to the company secretarys department at the companys head office.
The committee consists wholly of independent non-executive directors: Messrs Spinney chairman, Long and Mason.
The committee met 8 times in 2005.
The meetings were fully attended, except that Messrs Spinney and Long were unable to attend two meetings and Mr Mason was unable to attend one meeting, all due to prior business commitments.
None of the members of the committee participates in company incentive arrangements or has any personal interest other than as shareholders in the matters under consideration, any conflicts of interest arising from cross-directorships or any day-to-day involvement in running the business.
No director plays a part in any discussion about his or her own remuneration.
The company secretary, Mr R Ward-Jones, acts as secretary to the committee.
Mr A Kemp joined the company as group human resources director on 26 September 2005 and, as part of his responsibilities, he is invited to attend meetings of the committee to provide views and advice on remuneration matters.
The committee authorised the appointment of two independent external consultants, Watson Wyatt Limited and Deloitte & Touche LLP Deloitte.
Watson Wyatt provided advice on the measurement of the companys total shareholder return for the purposes of the discretionary share option schemes.
Watson Wyatt also advised the company on aspects of its UK pension arrangements.
Deloitte has been appointed by the committee to provide advice on executive remuneration and on the proposed long-term executive incentive plan.
Deloitte also advised the company on corporate finance and tax matters.
Hewitt Bacon & Woodrow Limited advised the company on pension scheme funding matters.
Remuneration policy The companys remuneration policy is to provide remuneration packages that meet the strategic objectives of the business, enable the company to attract and retain talent, reward individual and company performance and align executives interests with those of shareholders.
During 2005, the company undertook a review of the effectiveness and competitiveness of the total remuneration and benefit packages of executive directors and senior executives, with assistance from Deloitte.
In the light of the recruitment of the chief executive, chief financial officer, group HR director, group strategy and development director and two new divisional managing directors and further to a general review of executive remuneration, the committee has concluded that the packages provided to executive directors and senior executives are market competitive.
40 Rentokil Initial plc Remuneration Report Components of remuneration Component of remuneration Commentary Base salary Set by reference to the market median, taking into account individual skills and experience Annual bonus Links pay to the achievement of financial and strategic performance goals Long-term incentive Links executive interests with the creation of long-term shareholder value and provides a focus on underlying financial performance Pension Provides a contribution to a retirement plan based on salary Each executive directors total remuneration consists of the above elements and other benefits described on page 48.
Historically, the company has granted share options to executive directors and senior executives but the last grant of share options was made in March 2005 after which the board, on the advice of the committee, decided that it was no longer appropriate to grant share options.
Accordingly, the committee was invited by the board to consider, with assistance from Deloitte, what alternative long-term incentive schemes were appropriate.
The committee considered these and, after consulting major shareholders, decided that a performance share plan was most suited to the companys future needs.
The new Performance Share Plan PSP will provide participants with the opportunity to earn shares in the company based on stretching performance targets over a three-year period.
Participation will extend to executive directors and other selected key individuals within the organisation, representing up to 500 people.
After due consideration the committee has decided that a combination of total shareholder return TSR and earnings per share EPS performance conditions is the most appropriate way in which to link potential rewards to company performance and the delivery of value to shareholders.
In the view of the committee, the conditions retain a clear focus on the financial performance of the company, while also attributing significant importance to the creation of shareholder value.
The performance conditions under the PSP would be split 50% on TSR and 50% on EPS in the first year of operation.
Further details of the new plan for which shareholder approval is being sought at the AGM to be held 18 May 2006 are set out in the circular which accompanies the Annual Report 2005.
The total remuneration of each executive director should comprise a balance between fixed and variable performance-related remuneration, the latter comprising elements of both short-term financial performance and long-term shareholder value creation.
The table below shows the approximate mix between fixed and variable pay for on-target performance in respect of 2005 remuneration for the current executive directors.
The policy, currently and in future years, is that a significant proportion of the total remuneration should be performance-related.
On-target TSR Position Chief executive Chief financial officer Base salary 50% 60% Pensions 10% 15% Annual incentive 25% 25% Long-term incentive 15% 0% Note: The chief financial officer did not receive a performance-related long-term incentive award in 2005.
It is expected that he will receive such awards from 2006 onwards and thus a greater proportion of his package will therefore be variable.
Rentokil Initial plc Remuneration Report 41 Remuneration Report continued Base Salaries Executive directors base salaries are reviewed annually and take effect from 1 January each year.
The committee takes into account company performance and the experience and contribution of individuals.
Deloitte provides the committee with market analysis, using data for companies of comparable size and complexity.
Bonuses At the start of each financial year, the committee sets the performance measures and targets that must be met if a bonus is to be paid under the Senior Executive Bonus Scheme.
The performance measures are designed to focus senior management on the business priorities for the coming financial year and align executives interests with those of shareholders.
With regard to the Senior Executive Bonus Scheme 2005, approximately 500 senior executives other than the chief executive were eligible to participate in the scheme.
The performance measures related to group profit and non-financial key performance indicators and, for those executives based in the businesses, profit and contract portfolio revenue for the relevant business unit.
Threshold performance levels must have been achieved or no bonuses were payable.
Cash bonus entitlements under this scheme were subject to a maximum of 50% of basic salary.
Bonuses are typically awarded in March following the end of the financial year to which they relate.
With regard to the Bonus and Deferred Share Award Plan, no bonuses have been awarded since 2003.
However, directors interests in shares awarded under the Deferred Share Award Plan in respect of 2003 are summarised in the Pay and Benefits section of this report starting on page 48.
No executive directors or members of the CEB qualified for the payment of bonuses under the Senior Executive Bonus Scheme 2005 as the group performance failed to meet the required performance levels.
However, Mr Macfarlane and Mr Kemp, who had been recruited during the year, were entitled to guaranteed bonuses.
Other members of the CEB excluding Mr Flynn who is considered below were awarded discretionary bonuses in recognition of the significant efforts made by them during the period of change and challenge for the company.
As was reported by the committee in the 2004 Remuneration Report, Mr Flynn was entitled to participate in a cash bonus arrangement with a maximum bonus entitlement of 100% of base salary with a target of 50% of base salary.
The committee considered introducing a scheme for Mr Flynn with detailed profit and other financial targets but decided that, in view of the strategic review which took place last summer and the subsequent reorganisation, it would not be feasible to design a scheme with meaningful financial performance conditions in advance of the review.
Accordingly, the committee decided to review and assess his performance in the year against broader goals when determining his bonus.
The committee considered that Mr Flynn had developed an effective management team to strengthen and replace the previous team, led the strategic review and implemented decisive action to focus and improve the business and therefore awarded him a bonus equivalent to the salary paid to him in 2005 600,000.
Long-term Incentives Both the chief executive and chief financial officer have been given compensatory awards to be vested in shares which are conditional upon their continued employment.
Further details are set out on pages 45 and 46.
The grant of share options in March 2005 was the last under the Discretionary Approved and Discretionary Schemes Discretionary Schemes which were approved by shareholders in 2000.
The performance conditions attaching to share options which have been granted prior to 2005 were summarised in the Remuneration Report forming part of the 2004 Annual Report.
With regard to the final grant of options in 2005, there were two levels of option award, Level 1 awards and Level 2 awards.
Executive directors and the divisional managing directors in post at the time were eligible to receive Level 1 awards and Level 2 awards.
Key individuals within the business were eligible to receive Level 1 awards only.
Approximately 500 senior employees were covered by these awards.
The current executive directors did not receive options under this plan.
Level 1: In 2005, the grant levels awarded were in the range of 16.7% to 66.66% of base salary.
For options to become exercisable, the companys EPS performance over a three to four year period has to exceed the UK rate of inflation by at least 4% per annum over the relevant period.
42 Rentokil Initial plc Remuneration Report Level 2: In 2005, the grant levels awarded were in the range of 33.33% to 44.44% of basic salary.
The performance condition for Level 2 option awards is the companys TSR performance compared with the TSR performance of the constituents of the FTSE 100 Index and a defined group of comparator companies which comprises support services companies over the same three-year period no re-testing is permitted.
TSR is defined as the appreciation of the share price including re-invested dividends and is calculated by a firm of external consultants, Watson Wyatt.
The performance condition is as follows: FTSE 100 Index Comparator companies TSR Position % of option that will vest % of option that will vest Below median 0 0 Median 25 25 Upper quartile 50 50 Where TSR performance is between median and upper quartile, the proportion that will vest is calculated pro rata, on a straight line basis.
The selected comparator group for the Level 2 share options granted in 2005 was as follows: Grupo Ferrovial Servicos SA The Capita Group plc Cintas Corporation Compass Group plc The Davis Service Group plc Hays plc International Service Systems A S Rentokil Initial plc Group 4 Securicor plc Securitas AB Serco Group plc The Servicemaster Company Sodexho Alliance SA The comparator groups for Level 2 share option awards since the introduction of the Discretionary Share Schemes in 2000 prior to 2005 are similar to the above list save that, from time to time, changes are required to reflect acquisitions and mergers of comparator companies.
The intention of the committee was that the composition of the comparator group should fairly reflect those companies in the support services sector which would be regarded as a legitimate peer group for the company.
A charge of 3.2 million has been recognised in the group income statement in respect of share-based costs of which 1.2 million relates to the chief executive.
Rentokil Initial plc Remuneration Report 43 Remuneration Report continued The performance targets for Level 1 share options granted since 2000 have not yet been satisfied, other than those granted in 2001 at a price of 205.25p.
The committee is reviewing the appropriate basis for calculating EPS growth in respect of the future years performance in the light of the company now reporting under IFRS.
The performance conditions for Level 2 share options granted since 2000 have been satisfied as to 85% in 2000 and 100% in 2001 but were not satisfied in respect of options granted in 2002 and 2003.
Level 2 options for which the performance conditions were not satisfied after three years have lapsed.
The minimum testing period has not yet expired in respect of Level 1 and Level 2 options granted in 2004 and 2005.
TSR Charts Rentokil Initial 2003 Option Grant TSR 1 January 2003 to 31 December 2005 Selected comparator group Rentokil initial 2003 Option Grant TSR 1 January 2003 to 31 December 2005 FTSE 100 comparator group The above charts show the companys TSR performance against a selected comparator group and the FTSE 100 for the period 1 January 2003 to 31 December 2005 for the purposes of illustrating the satisfaction of performance measures in relation to Level 2 share options granted in March 2003.
44 Rentokil Initial plc Remuneration Report Pensions The company announced on 19 December 2005 that, subject to consultation with active members, it proposed to close the defined benefit sections of the Rentokil Initial Pension Scheme in the UK to future accrual for active members.
The committee has approved a proposal for a new defined contribution structure which will be the subject of consultation.
Mr Brown, who retired on 5 January 2006, and Mr Payne, who retired on 9 September 2005, are members of the companys defined benefit pension scheme and have accrued entitlements under the scheme as set out on page 50.
Both of the current executive directors of the company, namely Mr Flynn and Mr Macfarlane, participate in defined contribution arrangements and are entitled to receive contributions from the company into pension arrangements equivalent to 22% of their base salaries.
Recruitment During 2005, the company recruited a new chief executive and new chief financial officer.
Mr Flynn was appointed as chief executive with effect from 4 April 2005 and Mr Macfarlane joined the board on 8 August 2005 and was appointed as chief financial officer with effect from 9 September 2005.
The following section describes arrangements put in place specifically designed for the recruitment, retention and motivation of these individuals.
Chief Executive Appointment award A one-off award was put in place at the time of his appointment to facilitate the recruitment of the chief executive at a time of significant transformation of the business.
This consisted of a compensatory award delivered part in cash and part in shares and a share award subject to the achievement of performance conditions over a period of five years.
Compensatory award An award of 2.4 million was made in compensation for awards forfeited.
This has been paid one third in cash and two thirds in Rentokil Initial shares.
The unconditional cash element of the award 0.8 million was paid in two equal instalments, with the first due after six months in employment and the second due after 12 months in employment.
The share element of the award 1,043,705 shares vests in three equal tranches, on the first, second and third anniversaries of the award being made.
There is an entitlement to the value of dividends attaching to the number of shares that ultimately vest under award.
Vesting is subject to continued employment.
Transformation incentive award This award constitutes the initial long-term element of the chief executives remuneration package and will be in operation for a period of five years.
The purpose of the award is to provide an incentive to improve the financial performance of the company and enhance shareholder value.
The award is in respect of 2,609,263 shares the number of shares being calculated by reference to the value of five times Mr Flynns base salary of 800,000 on appointment.
The award vests, subject to the achievement of performance conditions described below, in three equal tranches on the third, fourth and fifth anniversary of the commencement of employment.
There is an entitlement to the value of dividends attaching to the number of shares that ultimately vest under the award.
The performance condition is based on relative TSR as follows: 75% of each tranche of the award will be dependent on TSR against the constituents of the FTSE 100 excluding financial services companies: and 25% of each tranche of the award will be dependent on TSR against a selected group of business support companies Brambles Industries plc, The Capita Group plc, Compass Group plc, The Davis Service Group plc, Group 4 Securicor plc, Hays plc, MITIE Group plc, Prosegur Compania fide Seguridad SA, Rexam plc, Serco Group plc, Securitas AB, SGS SA, Sodexho Alliance SA.
Rentokil Initial plc Remuneration Report 45 Remuneration Report continued The following vesting schedule applies: Performance relative to comparator Level of vesting percentage of shares subject to group constituents relevant condition at the relevant date At or above upper quartile 100% Between upper quartile and median Pro-rata vesting At median 25% Below median 0% Chief Financial Officer Appointment award In relation to the chief financial officer, a one-off award was put in place at the time of his appointment to facilitate his recruitment.
This consisted of a compensatory award, to be delivered wholly in shares with a value of 600,000 and which vests in three annual tranches of one quarter, one quarter and one half on the first, second and third anniversaries of the award being made.
There is an entitlement to the value of dividends attaching to the number shares that ultimately vest under the award.
Contracts Executive Directors It is the companys policy that executive directors should have rolling contracts subject to one years notice by the company.
The executive directors have rolling contracts which are subject to one years notice by the company and six months notice by the relevant director and are dated as follows: Mr Flynn, 4 February 2005: and Mr Macfarlane, 17 August 2005.
The companys policy in respect of the notice periods for the termination of executive directors contracts conforms with the Combined Code.
The committee is fully aware that under the Combined Code it should take a robust line in reducing compensation to reflect departing directors obligations to mitigate loss.
Mr Payne retired as a director on 9 September 2005 but he remained an employee and his salary and other benefits were paid until 30 September 2005.
Mr Brown retired by mutual agreement as a director of the company on 5 January 2006 but, under the terms of his service agreement, he will continue in employment until the end of 2006 the cost of honouring the contractual termination commitment to Mr Brown is shown in the table on page 48.
In the event that he obtains alternative employment before 31 December 2006, then Mr Browns employment will cease and he will be entitled to the balance of his basic salary until 31 December 2006 but, by way of mitigation, all his benefits will cease with immediate effect.
Executive directors are entitled to accept one non-executive directorship or similar appointment outside the company, provided that the boards permission is obtained.
The chief financial officer, Mr Macfarlane, is a non-executive director of Invensys plc for which he is paid and retained fees of 45,750 in its last financial year.
As part of the review mentioned above and recognising investors preferences for executive shareholding requirements, the company proposes to introduce shareholding guidelines from 2006 onwards.
Executive directors will be expected to build if necessary, over a period of up to five years and subsequently maintain a holding of company shares with a market value equivalent to their annual salary.
The committee may take into account executives compliance with the shareholding guidelines acknowledging any special circumstances that may apply when considering future long-term incentive awards.
46 Rentokil Initial plc Remuneration Report Chairman Mr McGowan has a letter of appointment dated 24 August 2004.
Mr McGowan reverted to being non-executive chairman on 1 May 2005, when Mr Flynn took day-to-day responsibility for the running of the company.
Mr McGowans appointment as chairman may be ended by the giving of six months notice by either party.
Non-Executive Directors All non-executive directors have specific terms of engagement and their remuneration is determined by the board on the recommendation of the non-executive directors fees committee of the board within the limits set by the Articles of Association and based on independent surveys of fees paid to non-executive directors of similar companies.
The level of fees was reviewed with the benefit of the advice of Deloitte from 1 July 2005 with the result that the basic fee paid to each non-executive director in the year was increased to 45,000.
The chairmen of the remuneration and audit committees are each paid an additional 10,000 per annum.
Also, the deputy chairman receives additional fees of 10,000 per annum for fulfilling that role.
Mr Long was appointed chairman of the board of Rentokil Initial Pension Trustee Limited, a subsidiary, which acts as trustee of the UK pension schemes and as such he is entitled to fees at the rate of 25,000 per annum.
Non-executive directors do not have service contracts and they do not participate in any of the companys incentive schemes nor are they eligible to join the companys pension scheme as active members.
TSR performance graph The following graph shows the companys total shareholder return TSR performance relative to the FTSE 100 Index, of which the company is a constituent.
The graph has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 7A.
Rentokil Initial versus FTSE 100 Index Rentokil Initials total shareholder return compared against total shareholder return of the FTSE 100 Actuaries Share Index Total shareholder return Rentokil Initial FTSE 100 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Rentokil Initial plc Remuneration Report 47 Remuneration Report continued Pay and benefits Paragraphs 1 to 4 below have been audited.
Executive directors are provided with private health cover and a company car.
The value of the benefits is included under Benefits in the above table.
The Benefits referred to in the above table include the sum of 113,225 exclusive of VAT in respect of fees for legal and tax advice which was paid by the company on behalf of Mr Flynn, in connection with the negotiation and development of his service agreement and the structuring of his employment and pension arrangements.
The company provides a car and driver for the business use of Mr Flynn, other directors and senior executives and for the limited private use of Mr Flynn.
The cost of provision of the car and driver in the year ended 31 December 2005 was in the order of 42,000 2004: nil and is not included in the above table.
No director waived emoluments in respect of the year ended 31 December 2005 2004: the same.
Mr McGowans fees on an annual basis were reduced from 750,000 to 350,000, with effect on 1 May 2005 when he reverted to the role of non-executive chairman.
In addition to the amounts shown in the table, Messrs Flynn and Macfarlane, as a part of their appointment terms, have also received shares the vesting of which is conditional upon their continued employment.
Mr Brown resigned as a director on 5 January 2006.
Deferred Share Award Plan The Deferred Share Award Plan the Plan was not operated in 2005 and has been discontinued.
The shares vested in 2005 in respect of then executive directors were Mr Payne, 5,435 value 8,614 and Mr Brown 1,827 value 2,896.
The value of shares vested, which related to awards made under the Plan on 1 March 2004, reflects the mid-market closing price for the company shares of 158.5p on the last day of trading before the vesting of the shares.
48 Rentokil Initial plc Remuneration Report 3.
2 Mr Brown ceased to be a director on 5 January 2006 and his interests in share options did not change between 31 December and 5 January 2006.
All share options granted before 2000 are exercisable.
Level 1 share options granted under the Discretionary Schemes in 2000 and subsequently cannot yet be exercised as the performance criteria have yet to be satisfied, save for those granted in 2001 where the performance criteria have been satisfied.
85% of Level 2 share options granted in 2000 and 100% of Level 2 share options granted in 2001 are exercisable.
Level 2 share options granted in 2004 and 2005 cannot yet be exercised as the relevant performance criteria have yet to be satisfied.
As a result of the companys TSR in 2003 to 2005, the Level 2 options granted in 2003 have lapsed since the year end.
No other directors were granted options over shares of the company or any other group entities.
All share options under the Discretionary Schemes are required to be exercised within ten years of their date of grant unless a shorter period is prescribed under the rules.
Rentokil Initial plc Remuneration Report 49 Remuneration Report continued 4.
Pensions a Accrued entitlements for directors under the defined benefit section of the companys pension scheme are as follows: Additional Increase in accrued Accrued transfer value benefits earned entitlement at Transfer value at Transfer value at less directors in the year 31 December 2005 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 contributions 000 pa 000 pa 000 000 000 Mr R C Payne 26 227 4,745 3,749 970 Mr E F Brown 11 237 3,504 2,836 642 Additional Transfer value accrued Accumulated of increase in pension earned total accrued accrued pension in the year pension at less directors excluding inflation 31 December 2005 contributions 000 pa 000 pa 000 Mr R C Payne 32 227 692 Mr E F Brown 6 237 69 Benefits at 30.09.05 Notes 1.
The Additional Accrued Benefit earned over the year is the difference between the Total Accrued Benefit at the end of the year and the equivalent amount at the beginning of the year.
The figures in brackets have been adjusted to allow for inflation during the year.
The above Transfer Values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11.
The Transfer Values represent the value of the assets that the pension scheme would need to transfer to another pension provider on transferring the schemes liability in respect of the directors pension benefits.
The figures under Increase in transfer value less directors contributions are compliant with the Listing Rules and are the transfer value of the increase in each directors benefit over the year to 31 December 2005 again net of the directors contributions.
Members also have the option to pay additional voluntary contributions.
Neither these contributions nor resulting benefits are included in the above table.
None of the above directors are members of money purchase schemes sponsored by the company.
The effect of applying the early retirement factor to the accrued pension of Mr Payne meant that the movement in pension between 31 December 2004 and 31 December 2005 was negative.
The transfer value quoted as at 31 December 2005 is based on the value of a reduced pension that became payable immediately.
The total accrued benefit as at 31 December 2005 ignores the commutations for a lump sum payout that took place when Mr Payne retired.
50 Rentokil Initial plc Remuneration Report b Accrued entitlements for directors under defined contribution arrangements are as follows: The table below details pension contributions paid during the year in respect of defined contribution schemes for directors.
The pension contributions are paid by the relevant group employer.
2005 Pension Contributions 000 D Flynn 132 A Macfarlane 35 Total 167 Interest in shares The following table sets out the interests of directors, who were directors on 31 December 2005, in the shares of the company: 31 December 1 January 2005 Beneficial 2005 Beneficial Interests Interests Rentokil Initial plc ordinary shares of 1p each number number E Brown 392,203 390,376 D Flynn I Harley 2,000 2,000 P Long P Mason A Macfarlane B McGowan 5,000 5,000 R Payne 198,209 192,774 R Spinney 2,000 2,000 Notes 1.
Messrs Flynn and Macfarlane have, on advice, refrained from purchasing shares in the company to date in the light of the rules governing the use of inside information.
The interests of Mr Payne shown above are as at 1 January 2005 and the date of him ceasing to be a director on 9 September 2005.
Approval This report was approved by the board of directors on 29 March 2006 and signed on its behalf by Mr R R Spinney.
R R Spinney Deputy Chairman and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 29 March 2006 Rentokil Initial plc Remuneration Report 51
