Remuneration Report of the Directors 1 Consideration of Remuneration Matters by the Directors 2 Statement of Remuneration Policy 3 Elements of the Remuneration Package 2004 05 policy and advise, as appropriate, on the performance of Consideration of senior executives.
They are not present during any discussion Remuneration Matters of their own remuneration.
The Terms of Reference contain 1 by the Directors conflict of interest provisions to ensure that no directors are The ScottishPower Board is responsible for determining the involved in any decision relating to their own remuneration.
remuneration policy for the ScottishPower group.
The The Committee is able to draw on advice from Remuneration Committee, with delegated authority from the independent remuneration consultants and internal expertise.
Board, determines the detail of remuneration arrangements for Towers, Perrin, Forster & Crosby, Inc.
Towers Perrin act the Executive Team, including the executive directors, and as remuneration consultant and independent advisor to the reviews proposals in respect of other senior executives.
Towers Perrins appointment by the Committee relationship between the Board and the Committee is based followed a competitive tendering exercise.
Towers Perrin also on formal Terms of Reference, which are available on the provides remuneration and other human resources companys website, and are regularly reviewed to ensure that consultancy services directly to some ScottishPower they reflect best practice.
companies within parameters established by the Committee.
The Remuneration Committee consists solely of The Terms of Reference of the independent remuneration independent non-executive directors.
Its members are Nolan advisors are available on the companys website.
Company Karras Chairman, Euan Baird, Donald Brydon, Philip executives whom the Committee may consult include the Carroll, Nick Rose and Nancy Wilgenbusch the latter two Group Company Secretary, who acts as Secretary to the directors were both appointed to the Committee on 1 June Committee, the Group Director, Human Resources, the 2004.
Sir Peter Gregson was Chairman of the Committee, Director Group Talent Management and Reward, and the and Mair Barnes was a member, until their retirement from Head of Group Reward.
The Terms of Reference of the the Board at the AGM on 23 July 2004.
These members have Remuneration Committee empower it to avail itself of external no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in legal and professional advice at the expense of the company.
the matters considered by the Committee.
Details of the The Committee met on two occasions during the year payments made to all non-executive directors are set out in ended 31 March 2005.
During the year, the Board accepted all of the The Chairman of the company, Charles Miller Smith, and recommendations from the Committee without significant the Chief Executive, Ian Russell, are invited to attend meetings amendment.
and may provide guidance on the impact of remuneration ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 95 Remuneration Report of the Directors governance practice.
The Long Term Incentive Plan will expire at Statement of the 2006 AGM having reached the end of its ten-year lifespan.
2 Remuneration Policy The Committee will, therefore, design an appropriate new longPhilosophy and Policy term incentive plan for shareholder approval at the 2006 AGM.
ScottishPower seeks to ensure that remuneration and incentive Prior to this the Committee will consult with major shareholders.
schemes are in line with best practice, provide a strong link to At this time, no other substantial changes to the companys individual and company performance and promote a policies with regard to directors remuneration are envisaged over community of interest between employees and shareholders.
the next year and in subsequent years.
However, the Committee Rewards for executives and directors are designed to attract may develop policy and, should it determine any changes to be and retain individuals of high quality, who have the requisite appropriate, will report such changes to shareholders through skills and are incentivised to achieve levels of performance which established channels of consultation and reporting.
exceed that of competitor companies.
As such, remuneration packages must be market-competitive and capable of rewarding exceptional performance.
All senior management remuneration Elements of the Remuneration packages are set according to a mid-market position, with Package 2004 05 3 packages above the mid-market level provided only where Base Salaries supported by demonstrably superior personal performance.
The Committee sets base salaries for the Executive Team by Remuneration packages are developed to reflect the prevailing reference to individual performance through a formal appraisal market practice in each business environment.
system applied to all management employees, and to external Annual bonus arrangements have been structured so that market data, reflecting similar roles in comparable companies.
stretching targets are based on corporate, business unit and Account is also taken of salary increases and employment individual performance.
The company operates a Personal Shareholding Policy PSP, requiring executives and key senior managers to build-up Annual Performance-Related Bonus and retain a shareholding in the company in proportion to their Executive directors and senior management participate in the annual salaries.
These proportions are three times base salary for companys performance-related annual incentive plans.
Any the Chief Executive and two times base salary for other executive payments to UK executives under the plans are non-pensionable directors.
The Committee expects PSP participants to have and are determined by the Committee following assessment accumulated their respective shareholding targets within eight against stretching pre-determined targets.
In line with US market years of the introduction of the Policy, that is by the end of May practice, a proportion of bonus paid to US senior executives, 2008, or eight years after the first award under any discretionary including Judi Johansen the CEO of PacifiCorp, is pensionable.
share plan for external appointees to the Board.
The Committee The maximum annual incentive payment available to reviews this policy regularly to ensure that it is in line with executive directors is 100% of base salary.
75% of any award is evolving best practice and in the interests of shareholders.
paid immediately in cash and 25% is deferred into company In setting remuneration levels, the Committee commissions shares that are released to the individual after 3 years.
an independent evaluation of the roles of the Executive Team.
The 2004 05 annual incentive plan for the Chief Executive The Committee takes independent advice from Towers Perrin was based 45% on the achievement of key company financial on market-level remuneration, based on comparisons with other targets, including Earnings per Share EPS, interest cover, companies of similar size and complexity, including the major utility cash flow and return on capital.
A further 45% was based on the companies, with which the company competes for executive talent.
achievement of key strategic objectives including appropriate The Committee recognises the importance of linking pre-determined targets in relation to customer service and rewards to business and personal performance and believes that health and safety, amongst others and 10% was based on the arrangements detailed below provide an appropriate focus cultural and leadership behaviours.
on performance and balance between shortand long-term For the other four executive directors, 25% of bonus was incentives.
The annual bonus plan and long-term incentive based on the achievement of key company financial targets, 25% arrangements are expected to provide 51% of total reward for was based on the achievement of key strategic objectives, 40% on the achievement of stretching target objectives.
Higher the achievement of the appropriate function division balanced proportions of performance-based reward are available for the scorecard targets with financial metrics and performance targets delivery of exceptional personal and business performance relating to the function division, including, where appropriate, resulting in enhanced shareholder value.
customer service and health and safety metrics and 10% was The Committee constantly monitors market practice in based on cultural and leadership behaviours.
order to remain competitive, to ensure that reward policy Objectives are set annually by the Committee and supports company strategy and to reflect good corporate performance against these is reviewed by the Committee at the 96 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 half year and year end.
In determining annual incentive at which point 40% of the initial award vests.
100% of the shares payments for 2004 05, the Remuneration Committee gave vest if the companys performance is equal to or exceeds the top detailed consideration to outturn against target in relation to quartile.
The number of shares that vest for performance company, divisional functional and personal performance.
between these two points is determined on a straight-line basis.
Payments made to executive directors were within the range For LTIP Award 6, which had the potential to vest during the of 53% to 96% of the maximum available opportunity.
year, TSR performance was measured against a similar composition of international energy companies over the three-year period to Executive Share Plans 31 March 2004.
After careful consideration, the Committee The company currently operates a performance share plan, determined that the gateway measures relating to the financial and known as the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP for executive customer service performance of the company had been achieved.
directors and other senior managers.
In May 2004, the company As the company was ranked at the median TSR performance level made the final award under the Executive Share Option Plan against the comparator group, 40% of the initial award vested.
meant that at the maximum level of participation whereby awards Under the LTIP, awards to acquire shares in ScottishPower were made over shares with an initial value of 75% of base salary at nil or nominal cost are made to the participants up to a at May 2001, an award equal to 30% of base salary at May 2001, maximum value, at the time of grant, equal to 75% of base salary.
became available for exercise by participants in May 2004.
The award will vest only if the Committee is satisfied that there The Committee has approved the operation of the LTIP for has been sustained underlying performance of the company and, 2005 06 and will continue to focus on performance and to this end, certain gateway performance targets are measured potential in determining LTIP participation.
As an additional and the Committee reviews performance against these measures incentive and retention tool, the Committee will include selected when determining if awards vest.
The measures relate to the key key high potential high performance individuals in the LTIP as financial performance indicators of the company and customer identified by the talent management process if not already at a service standards.
These measures provide a mechanism to level that qualifies for participation.
The Committee has also safeguard stakeholder interests and provide an overview of the agreed that participants who would normally receive an LTIP financial and operational success of the business.
award as a result of their level in the company will only do so if The number of shares which actually vest is dependent upon they achieve a certain pre-determined level of performance as the companys comparative Total Shareholder Return TSR determined by the companys performance management system.
performance, over a three-year performance period.
TSR No significant changes to the operation of the LTIP have been measures ScottishPowers comparative performance against key implemented for 2005 06 and this will be the final grant under competitors and only provides rewards if ScottishPower is at this plan as it will reach the end of its 10-year lifespan.
least equal to the median performance of appropriate ExSOP awards were granted at market value to 300 senior comparators.
The Committee chose TSR as the performance executives including the Executive Directors in May 2004. measure for the LTIP as it believes that it provides a clear link to Executive directors in post at May 2004 received an award of the creation of shareholder value.
options with a value equivalent to 200% of base salary.
Options LTIP awards were granted to 54 directors and senior granted to UK executives under the ExSOP are subject to the executives during the year Award 9.
TSR performance is performance criterion that the average annual percentage measured against an international comparator group of 37 increase in the companys EPS be at least 3% adjusted for any major energy companies, as identified below.
increase in the Retail Price Index.
The Committee believes that AES Corp: American Electric Power Inc: Calpine Corp: EPS is an appropriate measure for the purposes of testing the Centrepoint Energy Inc: Centrica: Chubu Electric Power Co ExSOP because it is based on the underlying financial Inc: CLP Holdings Limited: Constellation Energy Group Inc: performance of the company.
This criterion is assessed at the Dominion Resources Inc: Duke Energy Corp: Dynegy Inc: end of the third financial year, the first year being the financial Edison International: El Paso Corp: Electrabel SA: Electricidade year starting immediately before the date of grant.
If not satisfied fide Portugal SA: Endesa SA: Ente Nazionale per lEnergia on the third anniversary, the criterion may be retested, from the Elettrica SpA Enel : Entergy Corp: Exelon: FirstEnergy Corp: same base, on the fourth and fifth anniversaries of grant.
FPL Group Inc: Gas Natural SDG SA: Iberdrola SA: Kansai Unvested options lapse at the fifth anniversary.
The Company Electric Power Co Inc: National Grid Transco plc: PPL Corp: will make no further awards under the ExSOP.
Progress Energy Inc: Public Service Enterprise Group Inc: RWE AG: Scottish and Southern Energy plc: Southern Company Inc: Performance Graph Tenaga Nasional Bhd: Tokyo Electric Power Co Inc: TXU Corp: The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations require that a Union Fenosa: Williams Companies Inc: and Xcel Energy Inc. graph be presented showing the companys TSR performance No shares vest unless the companys TSR performance is at against the TSR performance of a broad equity market index least equal to the median performance of the comparator group, over a five-year period.
The FTSE 100 has been chosen because ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 97 Remuneration Report of the Directors it is the principal index in which the companys shares are Defined Contribution Savings Plan 401 k quoted.
The graph below presents the comparative TSR Employees domiciled in the US are eligible to participate in a performance of the company during the period 1 April 2000 tax-beneficial savings plan known as a 401 k plan provided for 31 March 2005.
The graph shows that ScottishPower has all US employees.
The Plan provides for employee contributions outperformed the index over this period.
up to statutory limits, which are matched by the company at 50% of the employee contribution up to the first 6% of pay i. e. a 3% match.
The company also makes an additional contribution of Total shareholder return 2% of eligible pay for all participants.
All contributions to the ScottishPower plc FTSE 100 Index Source: Thomson Financial Plan are invested in a range of investment funds, including ScottishPower American Depositary Shares ADS, at the 120 discretion of the participant.
100 Pension 80 The UK domiciled executive directors, and other UK senior 60 managers of the company, are provided with pension benefits through the companys main pension scheme, and through an 40 executive top-up pension plan which provides a maximum 20 pension of two-thirds of final salary on retirement at age 63, reduced where service to age 63 is less than 20 years.
31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 00 01 02 03 04 05 Pensionable salary is normally base salary in the 12 months prior to leaving the company although there are prescribed This graph looks at the value net of withholding tax, at 31 mechanisms for calculating pensionable salary by averaging March 2005, of 100 invested in ScottishPower on 31 March base salary over a period of up to three out of the last 10 years 2000 compared with that of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 service.
The employee contributes 5% of salary to the scheme.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening Life assurance provision of four times pensionable salary and financial year ends.
a widows pension of half the executives pension on death are provided.
All-Employee Share Plans UK domiciled individuals who joined the company on or To facilitate high levels of share ownership by employees, the after 1 June 1989 are subject to the Inland Revenue earnings company operates three savings-related share ownership plans.
cap, introduced by the Finance Act 1989.
Entitlement to These are all-employee Inland Revenue or Internal Revenue pension benefits above the cap cannot be provided through the Service approved plans and are not subject to performance companys approved pension scheme, and therefore conditions.
Participation is available to executive directors on arrangements on an unapproved basis have been made to the same basis as to all other eligible employees.
provide total benefits for executives affected by the legislation as though there was no cap.
The total liability calculated on an Sharesave FRS 17 basis in respect of executives and senior employees Employees domiciled in the UK are eligible to participate in the arising in relation to unapproved benefits accrued for service for ScottishPower all-employee Sharesave plan.
Under this plan, the year to 31 March 2005 was 1,520,900.
The Trustee body of options are granted over ScottishPower shares at a discount of the Executive Top Up Plan is chaired by the Company Secretary.
20% from the prevailing market price at the time of grant to The Committee has considered, at length, the companys eligible employees who commit to save up to 250 per month response to the governments simplification of the pensions over a period of three or five years.
taxation regime to take effect on 6 April 2006 A-day.
In determining future executive pensions policy, the Committee Employee Share Ownership Plan ESOP ensured that no additional benefit would accrue to executive The company operates an ESOP also known as a Share directors as a result of the taxation reform.
The Committee Incentive Plan for all UK domiciled employees.
The ESOP has decided that the unapproved promise will remain the sole enables employees to purchase shares in the company from prevehicle for providing executive pensions above the new Life tax income up to the limits specified in the legislation.
of these shares is at risk as they are not normally released until The US domiciled executive director and other US senior the legislation allows.
The company matches these shares at no managers of the company participate in a qualified defined cost to the employee on a one-for-one ratio.
benefit pension plan and a Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan.
The defined benefit plan is a non-contributory retirement plan.
Benefits vest after five years of service and are determined 98 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 by each employees years of service with the company, final appointment to the Board, Simon Lowth and Judi Johansen average pay the highest 60 consecutive months of eligible pay entered into new service contracts with the company on 1 over the last 120 months of employment and age at retirement.
Pay includes base pay plus annual incentive plan payments up These are rolling contracts terminable by either party on no to 10% of annual base pay.
The amount of pay considered under more than 12 months notice.
They contain a payment in lieu of the plan is further limited by statute.
Benefits under the plan, notice provision that allows the company to terminate the plus benefits payable from the US Social Security system, at age contract immediately and a liquidated damages provision which 65 normal retirement are targeted to replace 60%-70% of final provides for a payment to the director if the company terminates average pay after a full career defined as 30 years with the the contract unlawfully.
The payment in lieu of notice and company.
liquidated damages provisions are calculated by reference to 12 As a US domiciled executive director, Judi Johansen months basic salary and contractual benefits except bonus, participates in the PacifiCorp Supplemental Executive Retirement pension and share-related incentives as set out below.
With the Plan SERP which provides additional retirement benefits to a exception of the US director, Judi Johansen, the company has select group of management or highly compensated employees as the discretion to pay these amounts in full on termination of a means to attract and retain highly effective individuals.
employment or, in line with emerging best practice, in Participants receive benefits at retirement based on length of instalments.
If instalments are paid, an initial payment will be service with the company and average pay in the 60 consecutive made in respect of six months loss only.
Further instalments months of highest pay out of the last 120 months, and pay for this may be paid if the director has not started alternative purpose would include salary and annual incentive plan employment within six months of the termination date.
Benefits are based on 50% of final average pay plus 1% director will only receive payment in respect of 12 months loss of final average pay for each year that the Company meets certain should he or she fail to start alternative employment within nine performance goals set for each fiscal year by the Company.
If the director starts alternative maximum benefit is 65% of final average pay.
Retirement benefits employment within nine months of termination, the instalments are reduced to reflect Social Security benefits as well as certain will be reduced by the basic salary received by the director in his prior employer retirement benefits and other retirement benefits alternative employment.
In line with US market practice any from the companys qualified retirement plan.
Participants are payments to be paid to the US director on unlawful termination entitled to receive full benefits upon retirement after age 60 with of the contract shall be paid on regular Company pay dates or as at least 15 years of service.
Participants are also entitled to receive otherwise agreed by both parties.
If the director commences reduced benefits upon early retirement after age 55 or after age 50 other employment within six months following termination of with at least 15 years of service and 5 years of participation in the employment, severance pay and benefits will not be offset by supplemental plan.
any salary received from an alternative employer.
If other The Committee has reported the pension expense in employment commences after six months following termination accordance with the requirements of the UK Listing Authority of employment, any remaining severance pay due will be and Directors Remuneration Report Regulations.
Pension costs reduced by any salary or bonus received from alternative detailed in the Accounts are calculated as the cost of providing employment for the remainder of the severance pay period.
benefits accrued in the 2004 05 year, in accordance with The directors entitlement under any performance related appropriate accounting standards.
pay scheme for the period prior to termination will be unaffected as will any entitlement under any executive share Benefits scheme.
In addition, the company will pay to the director an Executive directors are eligible for a range of benefits on which amount representing a proportion of his or her maximum they are assessed for tax.
These include the provision of a annual bonus for the notice period based on the companys company car or a cash allowance in lieu of a car, fuel, private performance against its pre-determined financial objectives.
medical provision and permanent health insurance.
The This will be paid at the same time as annual bonuses are paid to provision and level of benefits is reviewed regularly to ensure other employees providing the director has complied with that practice is in line with the market.
confidentiality obligations and any restrictive covenants and The US domiciled executive director participates in postmay be reduced if the director obtains alternative employment.
retirement healthcare plans, subject to the eligibility criteria at The service contract does not provide for any additional termination from the company.
Currently, those criteria are benefits where termination of a director is as a result of a change termination after age 55 with five or more years of service.
in control of the company.
If not otherwise terminated, the service contracts terminate Service Contracts automatically at Normal Retirement Age.
Ian Russell, Charles Berry and David Nish entered into revised The companys policy is that all new directors will be offered service contracts with the company dated 3 June 2003.
On service contracts on the terms outlined above.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 99 Remuneration Report of the Directors The Committees policy on early termination is to emphasise bonus, share option or other profit or long-term incentive plan.
the duty to mitigate to the fullest extent practicable.
Senior Full details of the remuneration of the non-executive directors managers within the company have notice periods ranging from are contained in Table 48. six months to one year.
The Chairman, Charles Miller Smith, does not have a service Compensation of Directors and Officers contract with the company.
For US reporting purposes, it is necessary to provide The Remuneration Committee, in light of the expected information on compensation and interests for directors and timetable for obtaining regulatory approvals for PacifiCorps officers.
The aggregate amount of compensation paid by the sale to MidAmerican, approved a cash retention award for group to all directors and officers of the company, as a group, PacifiCorps Chief Executive Officer, Judi Johansen, equal to one was 7,488,467. times base salary, which is contingent on the closing of During 2004 05 the cost to the group to provide pension, PacifiCorps sale to MidAmerican and also on her continued retirement or similar benefits for directors and officers of the employment and her satisfactory performance of duties in the company pursuant to any existing plan provided or contributed period through the sales closing.
She will receive 80% of the to by the group was 4,720,784 calculated in accordance with retention award upon the closing of the sale and the remaining Statement of Standard Accounting Practice 24 Accounting for 20% of the award 365 days from the date of the closing, pension costs.
provided there have been no breach of warranty claims against ScottishPower or PacifiCorp Holdings, Inc. under the Stock Interest of Management in Certain Transactions Purchase Agreement with MidAmerican.
There have been no material transactions during the groups three most recent financial years, nor are there presently External Non-Executive Appointments proposed to be any material transactions to which the company The company encourages its Executive Directors to become nonor any of its subsidiaries was or is a party and in which any executive directors of other companies, provided that these director or officer, or 10% shareholder, or any relative or spouse appointments are not with competing companies, are not likely to thereof or any relative of such a spouse, who had the same home lead to any conflicts of interest, and do not require extensive as such person or who is a director or officer of any subsidiary of commitments of time which would prejudice their roles within the the company has or is to have a direct or indirect material company.
This serves to add to their personal and professional interest.
experience and knowledge, to the benefit of the company.
Any fees During the groups three most recent financial years there derived from such appointments may be retained by the has been no, and at present there is no, outstanding executives.
indebtedness to the company or any of its subsidiaries owed or In this respect, during 2004 05 Charles Berry received a fee owing by any director or officer of the group or any associate of 1,135 from the Securities Trust of Scotland in his position as thereof.
No other Executive Director receives remuneration from their respective external non-executive roles.
Directors Interests Other than as disclosed, none of the directors had a material Remuneration Policy for Non-Executive Directors interest in any contract of significance with the company and its The remuneration of non-executive directors is determined by the subsidiaries during or at the end of the financial year.
The Chairman and the executive directors of the Board and consists of directors interests, all beneficial, in the ordinary shares of the a base fee of 31,000 p. a. a committee membership fee of 5,000 company, including interests in options under the companys p. a. not paid to a committee chairman, a fee of 15,000 p. a. for ExSOP and Sharesave Scheme and awards under the LTIP, chairing the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee, are shown on pages 102 to 105. and an international travel fee of 1,000 for attending a tranche of meetings that involve a Transatlantic journey.
Directors Emoluments With effect from 1 April 2004, the Board introduced a fee of Table 48 provides a breakdown of the total emoluments of the 10,000 p. a. for chairing the Group Finance Committee of the Chairman and all the directors in office during the year ended Board and 3,000 p. a. to be a member.
Such fees are only paid 31 March 2005. to the independent non-executive directors who serve on the Group Finance Committee.
Directors Pension Benefits Effective from 1 August 2004, the Board introduced a fee of Details of pension benefits earned by the executive directors 10,000 p. a. for the role of Senior Independent Director.
during the year are shown in Table 49.
In line with best practice, the independent non-executive directors do not have service contracts, but are appointed under The following tables provide details of the remuneration, standard letters of appointment.
They are not members of the pensions and share interests of the directors and the information companys pension schemes and do not participate in any is audited.
Nolan Karras and Nancy Wilgenbusch received emoluments in the US of 8,667 2004 9,637 and 2,709 respectively.
These amounts relate to services to the Utah and Pacific regional advisory boards and are paid in the form of cash and shares.
The amounts are included within Fees in the above table.
i The emoluments of the highest paid director Ian Russell excluding pension contributions were 1,380,079 2004 1,097,144.
Details of share related incentives are contained in Tables 50 and 51. ii Ian Russell has an entitlement under the unapproved pension benefits described further in Table 49.
ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 101 Remuneration Report of the Directors Table 49 Defined Benefits Pension Plans 2004 05 A B Transfer value Total change Additional of increases Value of Value of in value pension Accrued after inflation accrued accrued during the year Transferred earned in year pension at net of directors pension at pension at net of directors - in benefits net of inflation end of year contribution start of year end of year contributions Year p. a. p. a. p. a. Ian Russell 19,347 31,017 246,803 430,932 2,637,029 3,385,630 743,500 Charles Berry 37,397 152,287 525,393 1,416,165 2,125,091 703,827 Judi Johansen 20,401 59,547 78,327 146,921 252,611 105,689 Simon Lowth 34,577 12,005 53,529 116,115 347,141 530,246 178,005 David Nish 45,867 9,472 116,958 102,078 1,020,190 1,297,583 272,293 Part of Judi Johansens benefits are provided in defined contribution form, through a company 401 k plan.
The figures in the table do not include any 401 k element.
The company contribution payable to the 401 k plan in respect of Judi Johansen for the period 1 April 2004 to 31 March 2005 was 6,540.
See also note xi regarding her potential entitlement to post-retirement healthcare benefits.
The conversion rate used is 1 $1.846 being the average exchange rate during the year.
i The accrued entitlement of the highest paid director Ian Russell was 246,803 2004 208,489.
During the year, retirement benefits were accrued under the defined benefits pension scheme in respect of five directors 2004 five directors.
ii The transfer value of the increases after inflation A represents the current capital sum which would be required, using demographic and financial assumptions, to produce an equivalent increase in accrued pension and ancillary benefits, excluding the statutory inflationary increase, and after deduction of members contributions.
Although the transfer value represents a liability to the Pension Scheme in respect of approved benefits and to the company in respect of any unapproved benefits, it is not a single sum paid or due to be paid to the individual director and cannot therefore meaningfully be added to the annual remuneration.
Instead, this value would not be payable until the directors retirement date, and thereafter would be spread over the remainder of his her lifetime and also covering the cost of dependants benefits after his her death.
iii The total change in value B in the last column of the table above reflects the following elements: 1. changes to the economic and demographic assumptions underlying the transfer value basis over the year 2. any increases in pensionable salary received during the year 3. the completion of another year of pensionable service during the year 4. the directors are a year closer to drawing their pensions, which increases their pension value all other things being equal.
The change in the amount of the transfer values over the year includes the effect of fluctuations in factors that are beyond the control of the company and its directors, such as stockmarket movements and long-term interest rates.
iv The accrued pension shown is that which would be paid annually on retirement based upon service to the end of the year.
Members of the companys schemes have the option of paying additional voluntary contributions: neither the contributions nor the resulting benefits are included in the above table.
v Directors who joined the UK pension scheme on or after 1 June 1989 are subject to the earnings cap, introduced in the Finance Act 1989.
Pension entitlements which cannot be provided through the companys approved schemes, due to the earnings cap, are provided through unapproved pension arrangements, details of which are included in the Remuneration Report.
The pension benefits disclosed above include approved and unapproved pension arrangements.
vi The increase in UK accrued pension during the year excludes the increase due to RPI inflation as measured at December 2004 3.5%.
vii The value of directors UK entitlements has been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance note GN11, in two parts: the approved element being based upon the normal cash equivalent transfer value assumptions: the unapproved element being calculated in line with FRS 17 assumptions.
The value of the US directors entitlement has been calculated in line with FRS 17 assumptions.
viii Transferred-in plan benefits represent pension rights accrued in respect of previous employments.
The accrued pension shown at the end of the year includes transferred-in benefits.
ix The total liabilities, calculated on a FRS17 basis, arising in relation to UK unapproved benefits for all executives and senior employees for service in the year to 31 March 2005 was 1,520,900 2004 934,100.
This figure relates only to the cost of benefits accruing over the year but does not include any finance items.
It therefore differs from the full FRS17 charge for unapproved benefits over the same period.
x All benefits above are provided on a defined benefit basis.
xi Judi Johansen may also be eligible to participate in the companys post-retirement healthcare plans, providing that she meets the eligibility criteria at the time she terminates or retires from the company.
Currently that criteria is termination after age 55 with five of more years of service.
Table 50 Directors Interests in ScottishPower Shares 1 Ordinary shares Share options Executive Share options Sharesave Long Term Incentive Plan 1.4.
04 or date of or date of or date of appointment appointment appointment 1.4.
1 Includes options granted under the Executive Share Option Plan 2001 and, where applicable, the PacifiCorp Stock Incentive Plan.
These shares represent, in each case, the maximum number of shares which the directors may receive, dependent on the satisfaction of performance criteria as approved by shareholders in connection with the Long Term Incentive Plan.
These shares represent the number of shares the directors are entitled to receive when the LTIP award becomes exercisable calculated according to the performance criteria measured over the three-year performance period.
These shares include the number of shares which the directors hold in the Employee Share Ownership Plan, shown below.
Free shares Partnership shares Matching shares Dividend shares Total 31.3.
04 Ian Russell 50 50 1,580 1,210 1,580 1,210 430 266 3,640 2,736 Charles Berry 50 50 1,580 1,210 1,580 1,210 430 266 3,640 2,736 David Nish 50 50 1,580 1,210 1,580 1,210 430 266 3,640 2,736 Between 31 March 2005 and 19 May 2005, Ian Russell, Charles Berry and David Nish each acquired 60 Partnership shares and 60 Matching shares as part of the regular monthly transactions of the Employee Share Ownership Plan: and Judi Johansen, Nolan Karras and Nancy Wilgenbusch acquired 394.0877, 30.8167 and 30.8167 ScottishPower ADSs 1,577, 123 and 123 Ordinary shares respectively as part of the PacifiCorp Compensation Reduction Plan.
Additionally, 1,225 ADSs 4,900 ordinary shares held by Judi Johansen in the form of Unvested Restricted Stock in the PacifiCorp Stock Incentive Plan, vested and became non-forfeitable on 24 April 2005 and, in accordance with the deferral election executed by Judi Johansen, were all immediately transferred into the PacifiCorp Compensation Reduction Plan.
Otherwise, there have been no changes to the directors interests between 31 March 2005 and 19 May 2005.
These awards became exercisable either immediately or at any other time until the seventh anniversary of grant.
The market price of ScottishPower ordinary shares at the date of grant of these awards was 432.35 pence and on 27 May 2004, being the date of vesting, was 396.75 pence.
Long Term Incentive Plan awards granted before 2001 became exercisable on the fourth anniversary of grant.
Awards granted in 2001 and subsequently became exercisable on the third anniversary of grant, as approved by shareholders.
Awards granted during the year were granted for no consideration.
The market value of a ScottishPower shares at the date of grant was 396.75 pence.
The exercise of Executive Share Option Plan 2001 options by Judi Johansen on 1 June 2004 was over 30,912 ADSs at US$23.55 per ADS and 20,491 ADSs at US$24.40 per ADS.
The exercise of PacifiCorp Stock Incentive Plan options by Judi Johansen on 1 June 2004 was over 57,350 ADSs at US$25.06 per ADS and 43,850 ADSs at US$25.70 per ADS.
On 1 June 2004 the market value of a ScottishPower ADS was US$29.51.
i The market price of the shares at 31 March 2005 was 409.0 pence and the range during 2004 05 was 377.5 pence to 446.75 pence.
ii The Long Term Incentive Plan makes annual awards to acquire shares in ScottishPower at nil or nominal cost to the plan participants up to a maximum value equal to 75% of base salary.
The award will vest only if the Remuneration Committee is satisfied that certain performance measures related to the sustained underlying financial performance of the company and sustained underlying performance in certain Customer Service Standards are achieved over a period of three financial years commencing with the financial year preceding the date an award is made.
Assuming that such targets have been achieved, the number of shares that can be acquired under awards granted before May 2001 was dependent upon how the company ranked in terms of its total shareholder return performance over a three-year period, in comparison to the constituent companies of the FTSE 100 index and the Electricity and Water sectors.
A percentage of each half of the award would vest depending upon the company's ranking within each of the comparator groups.
For awards granted in May 2001 and subsequently, the company's total shareholder return performance is compared over a three-year period against an international comparator group of major energy companies.
A percentage of the award vests dependent upon the company's ranking within the comparator group.
The plan participant may acquire the shares in respect of the percentage of the award which has vested at any time after the third year or fourth year for awards granted before 2001 up to the seventh year after the grant of the award.
No dividends accrue to participants prior to vesting.
104 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 iii The company has granted options annually for the last four years under the Executive Share Option Plan 2001 to relevant executives and senior managers at nil or nominal cost.
The exercise of options granted to UK executives and senior managers, and of those granted to Judi Johansen since her appointment to the board of ScottishPower, is subject to the performance criterion that the percentage increase in the company's annualised earnings per share be at least 3% adjusted for any increase in the RPI.
This criterion is assessed at the end of the third financial year, the first year being the financial year starting immediately before the date of grant.
If the criterion is not satisfied over this period, it is tested again at the end of the fourth financial year.
If the criterion is not satisfied over this period, it is tested again at the end of the fifth financial year.
If the criterion is not satisfied over this period, then the options lapse.
The exercise of options granted to US participants is not normally subject to the satisfaction of performance criteria, and they normally become exercisable as follows: one-third of the options from the first anniversary of the date of grant, a further one-third from the second anniversary and the final one-third from the third anniversary of the date of grant.
In 2002, an additional, conditional share option award was made to some senior managers, including Judi Johansen, under the Executive Share Option Plan 2001.
The exercise of these additional, conditional options is subject to the same exercise period and performance criterion as options granted to UK participants.
iv On 21 August 2004, options granted on 21 August 2001 to Ian Russell, Charles Berry and David Nish under the Executive Share Option Plan 2001 vested following testing against the performance criterion and became exercisable immediately.
The market price of ScottishPower ordinary shares on 21 August 2001 and 20 August 2004 being the last trading date before 21 August 2004 was 475.99 pence and 390.25 pence respectively.
v Options granted to Judi Johansen under the PacifiCorp Stock Incentive Plan and the Executive Share Option Plan 2001 are granted over ScottishPower ADSs.
For the purposes of the above table, these options, in the case of Judi Johansen, have been converted to ordinary shares as follows: one ScottishPower ADS equals four ScottishPower ordinary shares.
The US$ ADS option prices were converted so that they may be represented in terms of ScottishPower ordinary shares.
The prices were further converted at the closing exchange rate on 31 March 2005 of 1 $1.890 so as to be quoted in pence in the above table.
61,824 options granted to Judi Johansen on 2 May 2002 and a further 81,968 options granted on 10 May 2003 under the Executive Share Option Plan 2001 became exercisable on 2 May 2004 and 10 May 2004 respectively.
The market price of ScottishPower ordinary shares on 2 May 2002, 9 May 2003 being the last trading date before 10 May 2003, 30 April 2004 being the last trading date before 2 May 2004 and 10 May 2004 was 411.5 pence, 376.25 pence, 383.25 pence and 378.00 pence respectively.
76,468 options granted on 24 April 2001 to Judi Johansen under the PacifiCorp Stock Incentive Plan became exercisable on 24 April 2004.
The market price of ScottishPower ordinary shares on 24 April 2001 and 23 April 2004 being the last trading date before 24 April 2004 was 477.00 pence and 391.75 pence respectively.
vi The option price for Sharesave options is calculated by reference to the middle-market quotation on the day immediately preceding the date of invitation and discounted by 20% in accordance with the Inland Revenue rules for such schemes.
The number of options granted to a director under the Sharesave Scheme is calculated by reference to the total amount which the director agrees to save for a period of either three or five years under an Inland Revenue approved savings contract, subject to a current maximum.
vii Total gains made on exercise of directors' share options and awards during the year were 623,361 2004 60,442.
The conversion rate for gains made by Judi Johansen is 1 $1.846, being the average exchange rate during the year.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Nolan Karras Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 24 May 2005 ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2004 05 105
