qxd 30 03 2006 12:07 Page 44 Directors Remuneration Report including the statement of remuneration policy for the year ended 31 December 2005 This report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee on behalf of the Board in accordance with the requirements of the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and The Listing Rules.
In accordance with Schedule 7a of the Companies Act 1985 the report is divided into two sections containing unaudited and audited information.
The audited information commences on page 47.
The Remuneration Committee The Board has a long established Remuneration Committee the Committee, which meets at least twice a year.
It is comprised solely of independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee comprises the following Non-Executive Directors: Mr. P. H. Blackburn who chairs the Committee, Mr. M. J. C. Borlenghi and Mr. D. A. Haxby, all of whom are independent within the definition set out in the Code.
They comprised the Committee for the entire year and up to the date of this report.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining, on behalf of the Board, the salary and benefits received by the Chairman and the Executive Directors and for overseeing the remuneration of other Senior Executives.
The fees paid to Non-Executive Directors are determined by the Board.
The Chief Executive, Mr. D. Williams, is consulted on the remuneration of Executive Directors and attends all meetings, except when his own remuneration is discussed.
The Chairman of the Board also attends by invitation but does not attend or participate in any way in connection with the determination of his own salary.
The Company Secretary provides information to the Committee and is in attendance at meetings.
During the year the Committee met six times and received information on management remuneration levels from a number of external advisers.
The Committee also takes independent professional advice, on an ad hoc basis, as required.
In January 2006, the Remuneration Committee appointed  LLP PwC, a leading consultancy firm with substantial expertise in Executive remuneration to act on behalf of the Committee in providing independent market information and remuneration advice on an ongoing basis.
During 2005 PwC also provided taxation advice and consultancy services to SIG plc.
Policy on remuneration of Executive Directors The Companys policy for 2005 and subsequent years is to provide remuneration packages that fairly reward the Executive Directors for the contribution they make to the business and are competitive enough to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors and Senior Managers of the right calibre.
The policy is designed to incentivise the Directors to meet the Companys financial and strategic objectives such that a significant proportion of remuneration is performance related.
In reviewing Executive Directors salaries due consideration is given to the levels of increase granted to other employees within the Group and the Committee reviews and notes the total individual remuneration packages of each of the other Senior Executives.
The Committee established in 2003 that the Executive Directors remuneration packages were considerably below both market rates and the Companys comparator group.
The salary increases awarded to the Directors in 2004 and 2005 reflected the ongoing process of alignment with market rates for the various positions.
Basic salaries are reviewed annually or when a change of responsibility occurs.
The Committee considers that the targets set for the different elements of performance related remuneration including the share option schemes are appropriate and demanding in the context of the Companys trading environment and the business challenges it faces.
The Committee believes that the Earnings Per Share EPS condition is appropriate for its share option schemes, as it requires substantial improvements in the underlying financial performance of the Company in order for the options to become exercisable.
Deloitte and Touche LLP in their capacity as Auditors are required to review the calculations as to whether the performance targets for all share schemes have been achieved before any exercise is permitted.
The main components of Executive Directors remuneration are given below.
Base salary and benefits The base salary and benefits of the Executive Directors are determined on an annual basis by the Committee based upon the recommendations of the Chief Executive and after a review of the individuals performance and market trends.
The Chief Executive does not make recommendations to the Committee in respect of his own remuneration.
In setting the base salary for each Executive Director, the Committee takes into account published remuneration information on comparable companies and salary policy within the rest of the Group.
Benefits include a company car and medical insurance.
The value of benefits is not pensionable.
Annual bonus The annual performance related bonus provides Executive Directors with an incentive to achieve performance targets, which are set at the beginning of a financial year.
The performance targets are predominantly based on profit before tax either of the Group or a subsidiary, whichever is appropriate.
In addition, for certain Executives, additional targets are based on cash flow, again either of the Group or a subsidiary, whichever is appropriate and personal objectives.
The annual bonus is not pensionable.
The pre-determined performance targets and personal objectives for 2005 were achieved in full by Mr. G. W. Davies and Mr. D. Williams resulting in the maximum 60% of base salary being payable to Mr. G. W. Davies and 70% of base salary being payable 1 1 to Mr. D. Williams.
In respect of the bonuses paid to Mr. G. W. Davies and Mr. D. Williams, 6 and 7 respectively related to the achievement of the specific personal objectives.
Mr. M. J. Chivers pre-determined performance targets, which relate to the profit performance of those businesses under his direct control and to the SIG Group as a whole, were substantially achieved resulting in an amount of 51% of base salary being payable 60% of base salary being the maximum.
For the 2006 financial year the Committee has agreed that the maximum bonus that can be earned will be 60% for Mr. M. J. Chivers and Mr. G. W. Davies.
Mr. D. Williams maximum bonus has been increased to 100% against the achievement of substantially increased targets and personal objectives.
The Committee has agreed that for 2006 the annual bonus criteria will be based on profit performance growth targets and additional specific objectives.
The element relating to the achievement of specific personal objectives represents up to 10% of the maximum bonus opportunity for Mr. D. Williams and Mr. G W. Davies.
The payment of annual bonuses is not guaranteed.
44 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate governance 5SIG 2005arm.
qxd 30 03 2006 12:07 Page 45 Pension schemes All of the Executive Directors are members of the Groups main contributory defined benefit pension scheme, which enables members to retire at age 60 with a maximum pension after 40 years pensionable service equivalent to two thirds of final pensionable salary.
Pensionable salary is basic salary, excluding bonuses.
Final pensionable salary is the average of the highest three consecutive pensionable salaries in the last ten years before retirement.
For service up to 31 July 2002, pensions in payment are guaranteed to increase by 5% per annum compound.
Following consultation with the active membership of the scheme certain changes were made to the contribution levels and benefits in order to limit future liabilities and, consequently, for service from 1 August 2002, pensions in payment are guaranteed to increase by the lower of 5% per annum or the increase in the Retail Price Index.
On death before retirement, a lump sum equal to four times current salary is paid, together with a spouses pension of 50% of pensionable salary.
As part of this scheme, all Executive Directors are covered by permanent health insurance.
Share option schemes Long Term Incentive Plans L-TIP All Executive Directors are eligible to participate in the L-TIP.
Under the L-TIP participating Directors and other designated senior managers are granted nil cost share options up to a maximum of 70% of base salary.
In 2004 Shareholders approved the adoption of a new L-TIP.
Options were granted in each of the five years ended 31 December 2003 under the old Plan and in 2004 and 2005 under the new Plan.
The three-year performance periods in respect of both Plans commenced on 1 January in each of those years.
As set out on page 49 in the Directors share options table under the heading Long Term Incentive Plan, Mr. D. Williams, Mr. M. J. Chivers and Mr. G. W. Davies have awards under both Plans, which had not vested at 31 December 2005.
The performance conditions which apply to them are given below.
At the end of the relevant period the Remuneration Committee assesses whether the performance conditions have been satisfied.
Awards under the L-TIPs are not pensionable.
Awards under both the L-TIPs are exercisable between three and seven years from the date of grant.
In the case of options granted prior to 2004, provided the individuals performance criteria are met the award would vest in full if, over a consecutive three-year period, the growth in the Groups earnings per share is 10% higher than the percentage increase in the Retail Price Index.
None of the award vests if the growth in earnings per share is less than 6% above the percentage increase in the Retail Price Index over the same period.
Between these two limits, the award vests proportionately.
The right to exercise options terminates upon the employee ceasing to hold office with the Group, subject to certain exceptions and the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
If the 6% minimum growth performance target is not met, the performance period is extended by one year and the minimum growth in the Groups earnings per share, over a consecutive four-year period, is increased to 8% over the percentage increase in the Retail Price Index over the same period.
The target for the full award to vest would be increased to 13.33%.
The awards for Mr. D. Williams and Mr. G. W. Davies would vest in full if the performance condition requirements set out above are achieved.
50% of the awards for Mr. M. J. Chivers would vest in full if the performance condition requirements set out above are achieved.
Providing the 6%, or 8% if extended to a fourth year, minimum growth performance target is met, the remaining 50% of the shares under the award would vest in full if the actual profit before tax of the SIG Roofing Supplies business in aggregate for the consecutive three or four-year period, referred to above, exceeds budgeted profit before tax in aggregate for the same period by 1%.
In the case of the 2004 and 2005 L-TIP Awards the percentage growth in the Companys earnings per share over the three-year period from the commencement of the financial year in which the award is made must exceed the percentage growth in the Retail Prices Index over the same period by a minimum of 3% per annum compounded for any of the award to vest.
At 3% per annum compounded 30% of the Award vests, between 3% and 10% compounded growth the Award vests proportionately between 30% and 100%.
Above 10% per annum the Award vests in full.
No re-testing of the performance criteria will occur.
The above performance conditions were chosen because they were believed to be challenging and not only take account of the need for long term performance and commitment but also are an important means of aligning the interests of employees and Shareholders.
In 2005 Awards were made under the Plan to Mr. D. Williams with a value of 70% of his base salary and to Mr. M. J. Chivers and Mr. G. W. Davies with a value of 50% of their base salary.
Awards made under the Plan are set out in the table on page 49.
Deferred Annual Bonus Scheme DABS In 2004, Shareholders approved the introduction of a DABS, the first awards under which have been made in 2005.
The DABS operates by inviting participants including Executive Directors to use up to 50% of their annual performance related cash bonus after income tax and national insurance in respect of the preceding financial year to purchase shares in the Company which must be kept for three years.
Participants purchasing such shares will be eligible to receive additional matching shares up to a maximum of one for one, providing certain pre-set earnings per share performance targets are met over a consecutive three-year period.
For 2005 the performance targets for the DABS require compounded EPS growth in excess of the Retail Price Index of a minimum of 3% for 50% matching to be achieved and 5% and above for full matching.
Awards made under the DABS are not pensionable and are set out in the table on page 49.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 45 5SIG 2005arm.
qxd 30 03 2006 12:07 Page 46 Directors Remuneration Report continued including the statement of remuneration policy for the year ended 31 December 2005 Share option schemes continued 1997 Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS Under the ESOS, Executives could be awarded an annual grant of share options at market price, provided that the total amount payable by him to exercise options under the ESOS or any other share option scheme of the Group excluding savings related schemes granted during the immediately preceding ten years does not exceed four times base salary, bonus and benefits.
Awards under this scheme are not pensionable.
Options granted under the ESOS are exercisable between three and ten years for the Inland Revenue approved scheme and three and seven years for the unapproved scheme from the date of grant.
The award would vest in full if, over a consecutive three-year period, the growth in the Groups earnings per share is 6% higher than the percentage increase in the Retail Price Index.
None of the award would vest if the growth in earnings per share is less than 6% above the percentage increase in the Retail Price Index over the same period.
The above performance condition was chosen because it was in line with market practice at the time and took account of the need for long term performance and commitment as well as being an important means of aligning the interests of employees and Shareholders.
The Committee has resolved that following the introduction of the DABS, approved by Shareholders at the 2004 Annual General Meeting, that no further options will be granted under this scheme.
Employee share schemes The Executive Directors are also eligible to participate in the Companys Share Incentive Plan SIP, which commenced in November 2005 and is open to all UK employees of the Group.
This replaced the Savings Related Share Option Scheme for UK employees as a decision has been taken not to operate both schemes at the same time.
Non-Executive Directors For Non-Executive Directors, the Companys policy is that their appointment will be for an initial term of three years, unless otherwise terminated earlier by and at the discretion of either party upon three-months written notice.
Non-Executive Directors will normally be expected to serve two three-year terms, although the Board may invite them to serve for an additional period.
The dates of their letters of appointment are: Mr. L. O. Tench 28 February 2003: Mr. P. H. Blackburn 14 June 2001: Mr. D. A. Haxby 28 February 2003: and Mr. M. J. C. Borlenghi 8 March 2004.
The Executive Directors are responsible for recommending to the Board the fees of Non-Executive Directors.
The basic Non-Executive Director fee calculated by reference to current market levels and taking account of the time commitment and the responsibilities of the Non-Executive Directors was with effect from 1 June 2005 37,000.
Mr. P. H. Blackburn and Mr. D. A. Haxby receive additional fees for their services as Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Chairman of the Audit Committee respectively.
Any reasonable expenses that they may incur in the furtherance of their duties are repaid by the Company.
Non-Executive Directors do not receive benefits from the Company and they are not eligible to join the Companys pension scheme or participate in any bonus or incentive scheme or any of the Companys share option schemes.
Service contracts The Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, do not have service contracts and their appointment may be terminated by either party upon three-months written notice by either.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specific terms of three years and the appointment reviewed at the end of each three-year term.
The Executive Directors have service contracts for a continuous term to retirement age providing for a rolling twelve-months notice period in writing by either party.
The service contract for Mr. D. Williams is dated 7 May 2002.
The Company can terminate his employment forthwith in lieu of a twelve-month notice period or any unexpired portion thereof by paying to him an amount equal to his basic salary for such period and an amount in lieu of the bonus which he would have received had he remained employed during the notice period and providing him with all benefits to which he is entitled, with the exception of his company car.
If the Company terminates employment without giving notice or making a payment in lieu, any damages to which he may be entitled is to be calculated in accordance with common law principles, including those relating to mitigation of loss and accelerated receipt.
The service contracts for Mr. M. J. Chivers and Mr. G. W. Davies are dated 1 January 1995 and 1 August 2002.
The Company can discharge any obligation in relation to the unexpired portion of their notice period or any notice required to be given under their service contracts by making a payment in lieu thereof subject to the deduction of tax and national insurance.
If the Company terminates employment without giving notice or making a payment in lieu, any damages to which the Executive may be entitled is to be calculated in accordance with common law principles, including those relating to mitigation of loss and accelerated receipt.
46 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate governance 5SIG 2005arm.
qxd 30 03 2006 12:07 Page 47 Share ownership guidelines To better align Executive Directors interests with those of Shareholders the Company has established the principle of requiring Executive Directors to build up and maintain a beneficial holding of shares in the Company equivalent to a minimum of one times basic salary.
Under normal circumstances it is expected that this should be achieved within five years of 31 December 2004, or within five years of appointment, whichever is the later.
It is anticipated that the satisfaction of this target will be mainly achieved by the vesting of shares through the Companys share schemes.
Performance graph The following graph shows the Companys Total Shareholder Return performance, compared with the performance of the FTSE Construction & Building Materials Index over the five-year period to 31 December 2005.
This index has been selected because the Company believes that the constituent companies comprising the FTSE Construction & Building Materials Index are the most appropriate for this comparison as they are affected by similar commercial and economic factors to SIG.
The Companys performance compared with the performance of the FTSE Support Services Index over the same period has also been included for information purposes as from 1 January 2006 the Company became a constituent of that Sector.
The Directors intend that future years comparisons will be made against that Index.
"Total Shareholder Return TSR 1 January 2001 to 31 December 2005, "", , % !# !"
"""#$%& !# & TSR rebased 100 at 1 January 2000 Audited information Directors interests in the shares of SIG plc The Register kept by the Company pursuant to Section 325 of the Companies Act 2005 shows that the Directors in office at 31 December 2005 and their families had the under-mentioned interests in the Ordinary shares of the Company."
The Register of Directors Interests, which is open to inspection at the Companys Registered Office, contains full details of Directors shareholdings and share options.
All shareholdings were unchanged as at 8 March 2006 other than on 16 January 2006 when Mr. D. Williams and Mr. G. W. Davies acquired a further 20 shares under the SIG SIP and on 15 February 2006 when Mr. D. Williams and Mr. G. W. Davies acquired a further 18 shares and Mr. M. J. Chivers 14 shares under the SIG SIP.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 47 5SIG 2005arm.
qxd 30 03 2006 12:07 Page 48 Directors Remuneration Report continued including the statement of remuneration policy for the year ended 31 December 2005 Audited information continued Directors emoluments Annual performance 2005 2004 Salary related Total Total and fees bonus Benefits emoluments emoluments 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s Chairman L. O. Tench Chairman from 01 05 2004 108 108 79 B. Cottingham Chairman to 30 04 2004 31 Executive D. Williams 425 297 10 732 543 M. J. Chivers 210 110 20 340 289 G. W. Davies 235 141 18 394 318 Non-Executive P. H. Blackburn 42 42 36 M. J. C. Borlenghi Appointed 02 04 2004 35 35 25 D. A. Haxby 39 39 33 Total 1,094 548 48 1,690 1,354 The base salaries for the Executive Directors as at 1 January 2006 following the annual pay review are: Mr. D. Williams 455,000: Mr. G. W. Davies 270,000: and Mr. M. J. Chivers 245,000.
The increases were in line with the Committees stated policy of aligning the various positions with market rates.
There were no expense allowances or compensation for loss of office payments.
Benefits relate to the estimated value of the provision of a company car and medical insurance premiums.
There were no sums paid to third parties in respect of the services of any Director.
Aggregate emoluments disclosed above do not include any amounts for the value of options to acquire Ordinary shares in the Company granted to or held by the Executive Directors.
Directors pensions The following Directors had retirement benefits accruing under the Companys main contributory defined benefit scheme in respect of qualifying services during the year: Transfer Transfer Increase value of Accrued Transfer value at Contributions Transfer value in accrued increase in benefits at value at 1 January made by increase after Increase benefits accrued 31 December 31 December 2005 or Executive to deducting in accrued net of benefits net 2005 or date 2005 or date date of the scheme Executive benefits inflation of inflation of cessation of cessation appointment in the year contributions 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s D. Williams 29 26 910 154 3,112 2,170 32 363 M. J. Chivers 18 16 498 95 1,782 1,268 16 209 G. W. Davies 12 12 174 39 453 261 18 90 The transfer values disclosed above are calculated in a manner consistent with Retirement Benefit Schemes Transfer Values GN11 published by the Institute of Actuaries and the Faculty of Actuaries.
They do not represent a sum paid or payable to the individual Director, but instead represent a potential liability of the pension scheme.
Members of the above scheme have the option to pay Additional Voluntary Contributions: neither such contributions nor the resulting benefits are included in the above table.
48 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Corporate governance 5SIG 2005arm.
qxd 30 03 2006 12:07 Page 49 Audited information continued Directors share options Mr. Blackburn, Mr. Borlenghi, Mr. Haxby and Mr. Tench, as Non-Executive Directors, did not hold or have granted any share options during the year.
qxd 30 03 2006 12:07 Page 50 Directors Remuneration Report continued including the statement of remuneration policy for the year ended 31 December 2005 Audited information continued Directors share options continued The aggregate of the total theoretical gains on options exercised by the Directors during 2005 amounted to 15,100 2004: 169,570.
This is calculated by reference to the difference between the closing mid-market price of the shares on the date of exercise and the exercise price of the options, disregarding whether such shares were sold or retained on exercise and is stated before tax.
No price has been paid for any awards of share options which were unexpired at any time in the financial year.
The market price of the shares at 31 December 2005 was 730p and the range during 2005 was 542p to 734p.
A resolution to approve this report will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board of SIG plc has approved this Remuneration Report.
On behalf of the Board Peter Blackburn Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 8 March 2006 50 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
