R310 SOCO 20-35 3 22 06 9:17 PM Page 35 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The Directors Remuneration Report has been prepared in shareholders is properly weighed against the overall quantum accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report of remuneration and the cost to shareholders.
The Committee Regulations 2002 and the relevant requirements of the consulted with the Chief Executive on its proposals for the Financial Services Authority FSA.
The disclosures contained other Executive Director and senior management, and in this report that are specified for audit by the Directors received administrative assistance from the Company Remuneration Regulations FSA are covered in the scope of Secretary.
The Audit Committee is consulted as deemed the Independent Auditors Report on pages 42 to 43. appropriate in setting and assessing the fulfilment of targets A resolution to approve the report will be proposed at the based on financial terms.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Deloitte was forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Company has retained by the Committee as advisors and provided advice complied throughout the period with the provisions set out in on executive remuneration in terms of relevant current market the July 2003 Financial Reporting Council Combined Code practice and developments in best practice guidance.
The the Code and has applied the principles set out in Code original appointment of advisors resulted from a tender provisions and in Schedule A to the Code relating to Directors process and alternate advisors are considered from time to remuneration as described below.
Deloitte also provided audit services to the Group, as set out in Note 9 to the financial statements.
The advisors terms Remuneration Committee of reference restrict the provision of certain services in order to The independent Non-Executive Directors who serve on the maintain auditor independence.
Remuneration Committee are Mr Peter Kingston Chairman, Mr Olivier Barbaroux and Mr Martin Roberts.
All members are Remuneration policy independent of management and free from any conflicts of The policies described in this report have been applied interest arising from cross-directorships or day-to-day throughout 2005.
Whilst these policies are envisaged to be involvement in running the Companys business.
No member consistently applied in the following and subsequent years, has any personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, the Committee has an ongoing process for monitoring its in the matters delegated to the Committee.
No Director plays policies, including its arrangements for performance based a role in deciding his own remuneration.
Additional information pay, against evolving market practice and relevant guidance.
regarding the Committee is contained in the Corporate Any proposed change would only be implemented following a Governance Report on pages 29 to 34. consultation, review and approval process deemed appropriate to such change.
The Committee is responsible for determining and agreeing with the full Board a broad remuneration policy that is aligned The Directors believe that a uniquely qualified and motivated with the Companys business strategy in the creation of executive management is vital to the effective management of shareholder value.
Within the context of that policy, the the Companys international portfolio and the successful Committee is responsible for setting the total remuneration execution of the Companys stated strategy of building packages of the Executive Directors and officers of the Group.
It is the Committees objective to attract The Committee also monitors the remuneration practices and and retain high calibre executives through remuneration which trends throughout the Groups internationally based is competitive with that offered in comparable businesses and workforce, including in particular for senior staff who is appropriate to those individuals positions, experience and contribute most significantly to achieving the Companys value to the Company.
The Committee aims to design strategic aims.
Additionally, the Committee is responsible for remuneration packages with a significant short and long term setting the remuneration of the Non-Executive Chairman.
The performance-related element linking appropriate, but Committees recommendations and decisions are developed significantly greater, rewards for greater achievements.
in full consideration of the Code, institutional guidelines and evolving market practice.
The Committee seeks to ensure performance based pay is linked to its business strategy.
To achieve this, shorter term In discharging its duties during the year, the Committee performance is monitored against targets based on the consulted with the other Non-Executive Directors, and Companys strategic plan.
In the longer term, performance received full Board approval for its proposals.
In particular, the targets are more closely linked to share price performance Committee has sought advice as it considers appropriate as an indicator of the Companys success in building from Mr Rui fide Sousa, who it considers offers the Committee shareholder value.
a valuable perspective as a substantial shareholder, in ensuring the strategy to align executive interests with those of SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 35 35 R310 SOCO 36-43 3 22 06 7:31 PM Page 36 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Executive Directors Bonus The Committee reviews all aspects of remuneration on an Bonus awards are considered in two levels, wherein annual basis and with respect to individual and corporate expected performance will result in awards in a target range performance during the year.
These reviews are normally of up to 50% of salary, with a stretch level providing a conducted in December.
The projected value and structure maximum annual cash bonus opportunity of up to 100% of of the Executive Directors packages are benchmarked to salary for exceptional performance.
competitive market ranges, taking into consideration the Groups size and complexity, and positioned within those The annual cash bonus is awarded based on individual and ranges considering the Executive Directors critical value to corporate achievements during the year towards goals the Company and demonstrated performance over time.
based on the Companys strategic plan.
Goals are set Year on year results of benchmarking are monitored for annually for each portion of the Companys portfolio aimed indications of potential unwarranted upward ratcheting.
at achieving the specific challenges the Company faces in meeting its strategic objectives.
The monitored measures for Package components particular projects may include specified timetables for Executive remuneration comprises a fixed basic salary and seismic, drilling and construction programmes, drilling eligibility to receive an annual performance based cash success ratios, discovery targets, reserve levels and bonus and annual awards under incentive plans approved production targets.
Portfolio objectives are set regarding by shareholders and designed to provide appropriate longer progress towards potential non-core asset divestitures and term incentive opportunities.
The annual cash bonus range new ventures.
Corporate goals, safety and environmental is structured to provide an appropriate balance between measures and financial measures against budgeted levels basic salary and the performance related element of annual are additionally established as deemed appropriate.
Overall packages are structured to specific targets set against these measures are considered deliver 60% of the projected value of the Directors total to be commercially sensitive and are therefore not set out compensation opportunity from performance related herein.
The actual achievement of each goal is ranked elements at performance levels in the middle of the target against a scale of expectations.
The Committee retains range, increasing to 80% at exceptional performance levels.
discretion over the amount of bonus paid out to ensure that appropriate consideration is given to the relative importance Executive Directors are eligible for additional benefits, of the achievements in the year and the actual contribution including money purchase pension scheme contributions, a of these towards furthering the Companys strategic plan.
permanent health insurance scheme, medical insurance, life assurance cover, critical illness cover, travel benefits and Achievements measured against 2005 goals were led by the car benefits.
outstanding results of the Groups drilling programmes in Yemen and Vietnam.
Aggressive targets were set, well Basic salary above industry averages, for drilling success ratios and Basic salary is fixed at appointment or in relation to changes production tests, all of which were surpassed.
Accordingly, in responsibility, and is reviewed annually.
Particular care is targeted reserve additions for the year were exceeded and given in fixing the appropriate salary level considering that provide a clear link between the success of these cash bonus and incentive plan awards are generally set as programmes and building shareholder value.
Targeted a fraction or multiple of basic salary.
Basic salary is the only progress towards an accelerated Vietnam development plan element of a Directors pay which is pensionable.
was achieved, despite suspension of the CNV-4X well which was the years only performance measure that did not Annual reviews take into consideration advice from meet or exceed expectations.
Targeted infrastructure remuneration consultants regarding relevant current market improvements in Yemen have resulted in a significant practice for salary levels and salary increases, as well as increase in production capacity.
Portfolio goals were met, in demonstrated performance.
Following the annual review particular by the monetisation of the Groups Mongolia conducted in December 2005, with effect from 1 January interest and the addition of an exploration Block in the Groups 2006 each Executive Directors basic salary has been targeted new core area.
Additionally, achievements were increased by 6%, and the Deputy Chief Executives salary made against certain corporate goals, including in particular has been repositioned in consideration of increased agreeing a financing facility.
Based on measurement of the demands and responsibilities of the role and in line with years achievements against the targets set out, and in benchmark data, resulting in a further 7% increase.
consideration of their individual contributions, bonuses were SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 36 R310 SOCO 36-43 3 22 06 7:31 PM Page 37 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED awarded to Mr Story and Mr Cagle at 75% of salary, midway the Companys relative TSR performance over a three year between the target and maximum bonus level.
period within a range of comparator companies in the oil exploration and production sector.
Once performance Incentive plans criteria have been met, there may additionally be a The Committee currently operates a Long Term Incentive requirement that awards be held for a specified retention Plan LTIP and a share option scheme the Plans.
The period prior to exercise or receipt.
participants and the level of awards granted, which is discretionary, are set in consideration of both corporate and Further details of incentive share awards are set out in the individual performance and take into account awards made table on page 40 and in Note 26 to the financial statements.
Awards under the Plans are subject to limits on individual participation whereby the market value, Five year TSR performance as measured at the date of grant, of shares subject to The performance graph below sets out SOCOs TSR awards made in any financial year will not exceed 200% of performance over the past five years.
The FTSE Oil & Gas the executives total earnings in that year, except in Index performance is similarly set out, being a broad market exceptional circumstances on appointment.
The Committee, index which is sector specific.
however, has a policy of operating the Plans within the more TSR % restrictive annual limit of 200% of the executives base salary.
550 500 The aggregate number of new issue shares which may be 450 subject to award under the Plans shall not exceed 5% of the 400 ordinary share capital of the Company.
Accordingly, at 350 31 December 2005, 3.1 million new issue shares 300 250 2004 3.1 million may be subject to award under the 200 Plans, of which there is available capacity remaining of 150 0.5 million shares 2004 0.5 million.
An employee benefit 100 trust currently holds sufficient SOCO shares to satisfy all 50 shares conditionally awarded under the LTIP, as more fully 0 described in Note 26 to the financial statements.
Decisions -50 Dec 00 Dec 01 Dec 02 Dec 03 Dec 04 Dec 05 governing acquisitions of shares into the trust are considered SOCO FTSE Oil & Gas and approved by the full Board.
Charges which have been reflected in the Groups income statement in respect of the Plans are set out in Note 26 to the financial statements.
LTIP LTIP awards are considered in the course of the annual At the date of grant of an award, the Committee sets review in December, which is intended to put in place an appropriate performance criteria which must be achieved opportunity for regular annual vesting based on performance before the award can be exercised or vest.
Award levels will targets achieved over successive three year periods.
Shares take into account the nature of performance targets to awarded under the Plan are subject to performance criteria ensure that projected total compensation opportunity at to be measured on the third anniversary of the date of grant, assumed levels of share price growth is appropriate in the and deemed fulfilled to the satisfaction of the Committee.
Measurement of the Companys performance criteria is carried out with reference to external If the TSR ranking exceeds the median, the award will data sources by the Committees remuneration advisors to become capable of vesting as to 30% of the shares subject ensure its independence.
A vesting schedule sets the next higher ranking position at 40% vesting, with proportionally greater vesting The Remuneration Committee considers that the for each higher ranking position up to 100% for performance Companys relative total shareholder return TSR provides in the top 17 percentile.
The actual vesting percentage will the primary basis for determining the value generated for be calculated on a pro rata basis between ranking positions shareholders over the longer term, and is also the primary to more closely reflect SOCOs actual TSR performance indicator of the Companys overall corporate performance.
relative to the next highest and lowest comparators.
The Accordingly, performance targets for awards under the comparator group comprises Aminex, Burren Energy from Plans since their approvals have been set with reference to 2004, Cairn Energy, Dana Petroleum, Dragon Oil, Paladin SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 37 R310 SOCO 36-43 3 22 06 7:31 PM Page 38 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Resources, Premier Oil, Ramco Energy, Regal Petroleum Other policies from 2004, ROC Oil having replaced Paladin from 2005, With prior approval of the Board, Executive Directors are SOCO, Tullow Oil and Venture Production.
For awards allowed to accept non-executive appointments to other granted prior to 2004, if the TSR ranking exceeds the boards and to retain the associated directors fees.
Under median, the award will become capable of vesting as to this policy Mr Story has been released to serve as a Non- 40% of the shares subject to award, with proportionally Executive Director for Cairn Energy PLC and retains the greater vesting for each higher ranking position up to 100% associated annual fees in the amount of 45,000. for performance in the top 20 percentile.
Non-Executive Directors Additionally, the Committee may give consideration, in light The remuneration of the Non-Executive Chairman is set by of any exceptional circumstances during a relevant three the Committee and approved by the Board.
The remuneration year period, whether the recorded TSR is consistent with for other Non-Executive Directors is determined by the the achievement of actual underlying financial and Board as a whole, within the aggregate limits set out in the operational performance which, for awards to date, shall Companys Articles of Association and approved by primarily be assessed, on the basis of appropriate external shareholders.
Remuneration levels are set based on outside advice, in terms of the additions to and the management advice and the review of current practices in other and quality of the Groups oil and gas reserves in view of companies, giving consideration to the time commitment goals set by the Board.
and responsibilities of the role.
Based on these factors, the annual fees for services as Directors payable to the Following measurement in 2005, it was determined that Chairman, the Deputy Chairman and the remaining Nonperformance criteria attached to awards granted in 2002 Executive Directors were set at 75,000, 60,000 and were not sufficiently satisfied.
In accordance with Plan rules, 30,000, respectively, with effect from 1 April 2005.
Nonthose awards have therefore lapsed.
Executive Directors are not eligible for participation in the Companys incentive schemes or pension schemes.
Option scheme The Committee currently operates one share option Directors contracts scheme, being the SOCO 1997 Company Share Option Executive Directors contracts are for an indefinite period Plan.
No options have been granted to the Directors since and are terminable by either party on giving one years 1999, prior to introduction of the LTIP.
All options held by notice which may be satisfied with a payment in lieu of Directors, having been measured against the relevant three notice.
The Committee has a duty to prevent the year performance criteria set at the date of grant, are 100% requirement to make payments that are not strictly merited, vested and exercisable.
Any future grants to Directors will be and endorses the principle of mitigation of damages on early subject to vesting and performance criteria set with termination of a service contract.
Any payment on early reference to best practice guidelines and fully disclosed to termination will be assessed on the basis of the particular shareholders.
circumstances, but in any event will not be in respect of any period beyond the one year specified by contract.
The NonPre-float option scheme Executive Directors appointments are terminable at the will The Directors hold share options under the SOCO-sub of the parties but are envisaged to establish an initial term of Unapproved Share Option Plan which were granted prior to three years after which they will be reviewed annually.
the 1997 listing of the Companys shares on the London The dates of the Directors service contracts or letters of Stock Exchange and are fully vested and exercisable.
No appointment, which may not coincide with their initial date additional grants are available under the plan.
of appointment, are set out in the Directors Report on page 27.
Pension contributions Contributions are paid into two money purchase pension schemes in respect of the Executive Directors.
Annual contribution levels are set at 15% of salary.
The Company monitors its pension commitments, including Executive Directors arrangements, in light of pension legislation and taxation in the relevant jurisdictions.
No changes are currently contemplated.
SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 38 R310 SOCO 36-43 3 22 06 7:31 PM Page 39 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Audited information Directors emoluments Fees basic Benefits Annual Total Total 1 salary in kind bonus 2005 2004 000s 000s 000s 000s 000s Executive Directors E Story 373 19 279 671 551 R Cagle 261 29 196 486 394 Non-Executive Directors P Maugein 70 70 55 2 P Kingston 59 59 55 O Barbaroux 29 29 25 3 R Brittain 9 R Cathery 29 29 25 E Contini 29 29 25 J Norton 29 29 25 M Roberts 29 29 8 J Snyder 29 29 25 R fide Sousa 29 29 25 Aggregate emoluments 966 48 475 1,489 1,222 1 Benefits include a permanent health insurance scheme, medical insurance, life assurance cover, critical illness cover, travel benefits and car benefits.
2 Emoluments receivable by Mr Peter Kingston are paid to Peter Kingston & Associates under an agreement to provide the Company with the services of Mr Kingston.
3 Emoluments in 2004 include amounts receivable by Mr R Brittain prior to his resignation on 5 May 2004.
No Directors received amounts as compensation for loss of office as a Director during the year.
2 Based on TSR performance against a comparator group, all options conditionally exercisable under the 1997 Company Share Plan have been tested against the relevant performance schedules attached to the awards and have been determined to be fully vested.
Additional details regarding the plan are set out within this report.
Options were exercised on 8 June 2005 at a market price of 5.0675, resulting in a gain of 1.2 million and 0.9 million on exercise by E Story and R Cagle, respectively.
3 These conditional awards are in the form of contingent rights or nil price options to acquire ordinary shares in the Company.
Those awards set out as exercisable from on or before 31 December 2005 have been tested against the relevant performance schedules attached to the awards and the balance held as at 31 December 2005 has been determined to be fully vested.
Those awards set out as potentially exercisable from a date subsequent to 31 December 2005 remain conditional upon performance criteria.
The deferred bonus and the LTIP were set out in the Annual Report and Accounts 2000 prior to seeking shareholder approval of the LTIP.
Additional details regarding the LTIP are set out within this report.
4 Options may not be exercised without appropriate Board consents, the Board having given consideration to any requirements on participants to maintain a specified minimum number of shares under option or equivalent shareholding requirements.
The market price of the ordinary shares at 31 December 2005 was 7.86 and the range during the year to 31 December 2005 was 3.88 to 8.34.
Directors transactions Pursuant to a lease dated 20 April 1997, Comfort Storyville a company wholly owned by Mr Ed Story has leased to the Group office and storage space in Comfort, Texas.
The lease, which was negotiated on an arms length basis, has a fixed monthly rent of US$1,000.
In January 2001, the Group entered into an agreement the Option Agreement with Mr Rui fide Sousa wherein, in exchange for consideration in the amount of US$400,000, the Group has secured an option to acquire a 30% shareholding in a special purpose entity created by Mr fide Sousa to pursue a specific field development and to hold any rights as may be acquired for such development.
The Option Agreement, which was negotiated on an arms length basis, was extended during the year for nil consideration and expires on 31 December 2006 unless extended prior to that date by the Group.
SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 40 R310 SOCO 36-43 3 22 06 7:31 PM Page 41 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Directors transactions continued With effect from July 2004 the Group entered into a consulting agreement with Quantic Limited Quantic, a company in which Mr Patrick Maugein and Mr Rui fide Sousa have an interest.
Under the terms of the agreement, Quantic is entitled to a consulting fee in the amount of US$50,000 per month in respect of such services as are required to review, assess and progress the realisation of oil and gas exploration and production opportunities in certain areas for a period of 24 months, after which time the consulting agreement will be reviewed.
Directors interests The interests all of which were beneficial except as noted below of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company Shares, warrants to subscribe for the same number of Shares Warrants and contingent rights or options to acquire Shares Options at 31 December 2005 were as follows: 1 Number of Shares Number of Options Number of Warrants 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 Executive Director E Story 1,149,254 994,456 3,466,129 3,793,582 2 R Cagle 262,209 70,000 3,169,998 3,580,646 Non-Executive Director 3 P Maugein 6,806,860 6,510,804 365,867 365,867 P Kingston 4,000 4,000 O Barbaroux 20,000 10,000 R Cathery 70,000 70,000 E Contini 60,000 20,000 J Norton 115,000 115,000 M Roberts 5,000 5,000 4 J Snyder 500,000 500,000 5 R fide Sousa 1,293,635 1,219,987 1,549,853 1,549,853 1 Details of Options granted to or held by the Directors in respect of their services as a director, including any relevant conditions of exercise, are set out in the table of Directors incentive share awards.
2 Mr Roger Cagles interests include 83,850 Shares 2004 - 70,000 and 1,177,068 2004 - 1,358,539 Options held by Cynthia Cagle, the Options having been granted to her in respect of her services to the Group.
3 Mr Patrick Maugeins interests are held by Chemsa Limited, which is owned by a trust company whose potential ultimate beneficiary is the family of Mr Maugein, and by Upper Ground Limited, of which Mr Maugein beneficially owns 100% of the issued share capital.
At 31 December 2005, Upper Ground Limited held 885,425 2004 - nil Shares and 40,652 2004 - nil Warrants at an exercise price of 0.55 per Share.
Subsequent to 31 December 2005, Upper Ground Limited disposed of 300,000 Shares.
4 Mr John Snyders interest is held by Snyder Family Investments, L. P. which is owned by Mr Snyder and other partnerships and trusts of which Mr Snyder and members of his family are owners and or beneficiaries.
5 Mr Rui fide Sousas interests are held by Palamos Limited, which is owned by a trust company whose potential ultimate beneficiary is the family of Mr fide Sousa, and by New Falcon Oil Limited, of which Mr fide Sousa owns 100% of the issued ordinary share capital.
Whilst the Executive Directors, as potential beneficiaries, are technically deemed to have an interest in all Shares held by the SOCO Employee Benefit Trust Trust, the table above only includes those Shares which are potentially transferable to the Directors and their families pursuant to Options which have been granted to them under incentive schemes facilitated by the Trust.
Details of the Trust and its holdings are set out in Note 24 to the financial statements.
Subsequent to 31 December 2005, Upper Ground Limited, which is 100% beneficially owned by Mr Patrick Maugein, disposed of 300,000 Shares.
There have been no other changes in the interests of the Directors between 31 December 2005 and the date of this report.
No Director held any other interests in any Group companies.
Approval This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 8 March 2006 and signed on its behalf by: Peter Kingston Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director SOCO International plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 41
