AstraZeneca Annual Report and 70 Form 20-F Information 2005 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT At the Annual General Meeting AGM 2005, except when their own remuneration Be as internally consistent as is practicable on Thursday 27 April 2006, a resolution will was being discussed.
They provided advice and beneficial, taking due account be proposed to approve the Directors and services that materially assisted the of market need.
Remuneration Committee during the year.
In doing so, Mr Brown drew on various sources Be competitive and cost-effective in each TABLE OF CONTENTS of data concerning directors and executives of the relevant employment markets.
Remuneration Committee salaries, bonus levels and other incentives Overall remuneration policy and purpose The cost and value of the components including general pharmaceutical industry Principal components of of the remuneration package are considered reports and surveys, as well as surveys employee remuneration as a whole and are designed to: specifically carried out for the Company.
Review of executive remuneration in 2004 These included certain surveys prepared for Executive Directors remuneration Ensure a proper balance of fixed and the Company by Towers Perrin.
During 2005, Performance targets and measurement variable performance-related components, ExcellerateHRO formed from the merger of AstraZeneca Share Option Plan linked to short and longer term objectives.
Towers Perrin and EDS also provided global AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan share plan administration services to the Executive Directors service contracts Reflect market competitiveness, taking Company and consultancy services to the Arrangements for ke Stavling account of the total value of all of the Companys US business.
Position of the Non-Executive Directors benefit components.
External appointments and retention of fees During 2005, Ms Carol Arrowsmith of Deloitte Directors emoluments in 2005 PRINCIPAL COMPONENTS & Touche was again appointed to provide the Directors interests in shares OF EMPLOYEE REMUNERATION Remuneration Committee with independent Audit Throughout 2005, the principal components advice on all matters being considered by it.
Pensions contained in the total remuneration package, During 2005, Deloitte & Touche also provided Total Shareholder Return for employees as a whole, were: taxation advice and other non-audit services Share options to the Company.
Gains by Directors on exercise Annual salary based on conditions in the of share options OVERALL REMUNERATION POLICY AND PURPOSE relevant geographic market, with provision The Company is committed to maintaining a to recognise, in addition, the value of REMUNERATION COMMITTEE dynamic performance culture, in which every individuals sustained personal performance, The members of the Remuneration Committee employee champions the growth of shareholder resulting from their ability and experience.
are Sir Peter Bonfield Chairman of the value, is clear about the Companys objectives, Committee, John Buchanan, Erna Mller and knows how their work impacts on those Annual bonus a lump sum payment and Joe Jimenez.
They are all Non-Executive objectives and that they will benefit from related to the targeted achievement of Directors.
The Board considers them all to be achieving high levels of performance.
corporate, functional and individual goals, independent.
Independence of Non-Executive measured over a year and contained within Directors is discussed in more detail in the The Board has confirmed that the Companys a specific plan.
The corporate goals are Directors Report on pages 63 and 64. overall remuneration policy and purpose are to: derived from the annual financial targets set by the Board and take into account The remit of the Remuneration Committee Attract and retain people of the quality external expectations of performance.
is, primarily, to recommend for decision by the necessary to sustain the Company as The functional goals are agreed by the Board the fundamental remuneration policy one of the best pharmaceutical companies Remuneration Committee at the start of, for the Company and to ensure the proper in the world.
and are monitored throughout, the year.
operation of all plans for employees involving the Companys shares.
More particularly, Motivate them to achieve the level Longer term incentive for selected it makes specific proposals in respect of the of performance necessary to create groups, targeted at the achievement remuneration packages of individual Executive sustained growth in shareholder value.
of strategic objectives closely aligned with Directors and the Companys most senior the interests of shareholders, namely the executives.
A copy of the Remuneration In order to achieve this, remuneration policy AstraZeneca Share Option Plan described Committees remit is available on the and practice are designed to: on pages 72 and 73 and, for some Companys website: astrazeneca.
individuals potentially, the AstraZeneca Closely align individual and team reward Performance Share Plan described on The Remuneration Committee met four times with business performance at each level.
Each meeting was attended by all of its members, except that other commitments Encourage employees to perform to their Pension arrangements appropriate to the prevented Erna Mller from attending the fullest capacity.
meeting on 21 March and Joe Jimenez from attending the meeting on 18 November.
Encourage employees to align their Other benefits, such as holidays and interests with those of shareholders.
sickness benefit, which are cost-effective At the request of the Remuneration Committee, and compatible with relevant national Sir Tom McKillop Chief Executive, Tony Support managers responsibility to welfare arrangements.
Bloxham Executive Vice-President, Human achieve business performance through Resources and Peter Brown Vice-President, people and to recognise superior Share participation various plans provide Global Compensation and Benefits as well as performance, in the short and longer term.
the opportunity for employees to take the Secretary of the Remuneration Committee, a personal stake in the Companys wealth Graeme Musker, attended all of its meetings in Be as locally focused and flexible creation as shareholders.
as is practicable and beneficial.
Directors Remuneration Report 71 The way in which these elements are combined The Remuneration Committee reserves Short term bonus: and applied varies depending, for example, on the right to modify the bonus outcome if it market need and practice in various countries.
believes it does not reflect the underlying The Chief Executive was eligible for an performance of the business.
annual bonus related to performance REVIEW OF EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION IN 2004 against the criteria described above.
In the 2004 Annual Report we described the Performance conditions on exercise of The bonus payable was on a scale review of the Companys executive remuneration options granted under the AstraZeneca of 0-180% of salary, with 90% of salary practice that took place in 2004.
Share Option Plan, with no re-test facility, payable for the achievement of target in line with best practice.
The bonus was not As a result of the review, which included the options lapse if any performance pensionable.
Sir Tom McKillops bonus consultation with shareholders, a number condition is not met when the option first for 2005 amounts to 1,251,000. of changes were proposed, including the becomes exercisable.
introduction of the AstraZeneca Performance The Chief Financial Officer was eligible for Share Plan.
These changes were summarised A requirement to hold shares equivalent an annual bonus related to performance in the Directors Remuneration Report for to one-times annual salary, and to retain the against the criteria described above.
2004 and details were provided with the 2005 net number of shares acquired under the The bonus payable was on a scale Notice of AGM.
AstraZeneca Share Option Plan for at least of 0-150% of salary, with 75% of salary six months after the option is exercised.
payable for the achievement of target The changes were intended to: performance.
The bonus was not A performance share plan, based on the pensionable.
Jonathan Symonds Make the overall remuneration Companys total shareholder return relative bonus for 2005 amounts to 597,000. of AstraZenecas most senior executives to a global industry peer group see separate more competitive, benchmarking against section below.
The Executive Director, Development predominantly UK-based, global companies.
was eligible for an annual bonus related The Board and the Remuneration Committee to performance against the criteria Link their reward more closely to the believe that bringing bonus and long term described above.
The bonus payable achievement of demanding performance incentive opportunities closer to the market for was on a scale of 0-150% of salary, conditions.
other major UK-based, global companies, with 75% of salary payable for the subject to demanding performance conditions, achievement of target performance.
Increase the variable elements of reward will appropriately rebalance the proportion of The bonus was not pensionable.
John as a proportion of the overall remuneration reward, so that variable, performance-related Pattersons bonus for 2005 amounts package, when compared to the fixed pay is dominant, and that it will significantly to 525,000. reward elements.
improve the Companys ability to attract and retain executives of the quality necessary to The Executive Director, North America The changes were approved by shareholders lead AstraZeneca in the future.
was eligible for an annual bonus related at the 2005 AGM.
to performance against the criteria EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION described above.
The bonus payable The Companys revised approach to senior In 2005, for each Executive Director, the was on a scale of 0-150% of salary, executive reward for Executive Directors and individual components were: with 75% of salary payable for the members of the Senior Executive Team SET achievement of target performance.
is closely aligned to current best practice Annual salary the actual salary for each The bonus was not pensionable.
David and includes: Executive Director determined by the Brennans bonus for 2005 amounts Remuneration Committee on behalf of the to $689,000.
An annual bonus opportunity linked to Board and established in sterling, with the a wide-ranging assessment of performance, exception of David Brennans 2005 salary, Longer term incentive Executive Directors together with a requirement for the SET which was established in US dollars.
These are also rewarded for improvement in the members to defer a portion of their bonus salaries reflect the experience and sustained share price performance of the Company earned into shares for a period of three performance of the individuals to whom over a period of years by the grant of share years.
As a result of the 2004 consultation they apply, as judged annually by the options under the AstraZeneca Share with shareholders, the basis of determining Remuneration Committee, taking account Option Plan.
The grant of such options the annual bonus for the SET members also of market competitiveness and the is determined by the Remuneration was changed.
For 2005 and beyond: level of increases applicable to all other Committee, as are the performance targets employees.
David Brennans salary with that apply and whether they apply to the 50% is determined by earnings per share.
effect from 1 January 2006 is established in grant and or exercise of options - this is sterling at 870,000 per annum and all of described in more detail below.
As of 2005, 25% by measures relating to the David Brennans terms and conditions will Executive Directors are also now eligible to individuals particular area of responsibility be UK-based, apart from his pension participate in the AstraZeneca Performance or, in the case of the Chief Executive, arrangements, which are described below.
the average of these individual outcomes for the other members of the SET.
Pension arrangements the table on page 76 gives details of the changes in the value 25% by a balance of qualitative and of the Executive Directors accrued pensions quantitative measures that address the during 2005. quality of business performance.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and 72 Form 20-F Information 2005 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED UK Executive Directors pension contribution in 2005 in respect of the Performance targets and measurement arrangements the Chief Executive and pension element was 130,000 Each year, as referred to above, both shorterthe Executive Director, Development are $238,000.
term and longer-term objectives are agreed members of the Companys main UK with the Board and regularly monitored, defined benefit pension plan.
The US Executive Directors pension in respect of both individual business functions normal pension age under this plan is arrangements David Brennan as the and integrated corporate strategy, in the 62.
However, a members accrued Executive Director, North America business performance report.
Performance pension is available from age 60 without during 2005 and as the Chief Executive against these objectives determines functional any actuarial reduction.
In addition, the Officer from 2006 onwards is a member bonuses and, separately, whether or not share accrued pension is available, unreduced, of the AstraZeneca US Defined Benefit options will be granted.
from age 57 if the Company consents to Pension Plan, under a schedule a request for early retirement and from applicable to legacy Astra Merck In respect of bonuses in 2005, relevant factors age 50 if the retirement is at the employees.
Benefits for members of this again included financial results ahead of Companys request.
plan are delivered on a tax-qualified expectations and excellent progress in key basis, with accrued benefits that exceed areas.
Earnings per share increased by 41% On death in retirement, the accrued specific limits under the plans formula compared to 2004: global sales increased pension is guaranteed payable for the and the US Tax Code being delivered by 10% overall and by 27% for key growth first five years of retirement and then through a supplementary, non-qualified products all at constant exchange rates.
reduces to two-thirds of this amount pension plan.
The normal pension age A supplemental New Drug Application was should there be a surviving spouse or under both plans is 65.
The tax-qualified submitted to the FDA for a new indication for other dependent.
Any member may plan has unreduced, early retirement Seroquel.
The development pipeline was choose higher or lower levels of benefits payable at age 62, or earlier if: strengthened, with four new chemical entities survivors pensions at retirement, entering phase 3 development, and further subject to HM Revenue & Customs combined age and service at augmented by three licensing transactions limits, in return for an adjustment to their retirement equals or exceeds 85: and and the acquisition of KuDOS Pharmaceuticals.
own pension of equivalent actuarial at 1 July 1996, combined age and These achievements were underpinned value.
Pensions are also payable to service was equal to or exceeded 60: by a continuing emphasis on cost discipline, dependent children.
In the event of a and improved productivity and performance senior employee becoming the member was categorised as a management.
Bonus outcomes reflected incapacitated, then a pension is payable non-highly compensated employee.
overall corporate and relevant functional immediately as if such person had performance in 2005 against clear objectives.
reached normal retirement age subject Similar early retirement terms apply to In addition, the Remuneration Committee to a maximum of 10 years additional the supplementary, non-qualified plan, took into account a balance of measures service, based on current pensionable as it relates to highly compensated addressing the quality of these annual results salary.
In the event of a members death employees.
to ensure that the bonus outcomes reflected prior to retirement, dependents are the underlying performance and strategic entitled to a pension of two-thirds of the The US Defined Benefit Pension Plan direction of the business.
pension that would have been earned and the supplementary, non-qualified had the deceased remained in service to ASTRAZENECA SHARE OPTION PLAN pension plan have a service cap at 35 age 62, plus a capital sum of four times The AstraZeneca Share Option Plan was years service, after which no further pensionable pay.
Pensions in payment approved at the AGM in 2000 following prior service accrual is earned.
are increased annually in line with consultation with major shareholders.
Its design inflation, as measured by the UK Retail took account of the overall competitiveness On death in retirement, there is a Prices Index, up to a maximum of 5%.
of the Companys remuneration arrangements pension payable to the surviving spouse for senior executives and US employees or other dependent if the member so In respect of UK Executive Directors in the context of the Companys peers in the elects prior to retirement.
The pension whose pensionable earnings are pharmaceutical industry.
plan provides for continuation of service capped by the earnings limit imposed credit in the event of disability until age by the Finance Act 1989, unapproved The plan, as approved at that time and operated 65, death or commencement of benefit.
defined contribution schemes are made subsequently, required that the Remuneration In the event of death prior to retirement, available.
Currently, only the Chief Committee must, before agreeing the grant pre-survivor retirement benefits are Financial Officer is affected by this limit.
of options to Executive Directors and others, payable under the pension plan and The Company has agreed to pay be satisfied that both the most recent and the under the insurance plans available to all annually 50% of base salary in excess of underlying performance of the Company justify US employees.
the statutory earnings cap for the each grant: in addition, it must be satisfied pension and associated tax liability, with that each individual to whom options are Members and surviving spouses the intention of providing equivalence of proposed to be granted has achieved the dependents can elect to take pensions benefits with non-capped UK Executive necessary performance.
in lump-sum form based on actuarial Directors.
If this does not provide valuation.
equivalence, the Company has agreed to make up the difference.
Other customary benefits such as a car The benefits derived from equivalence and health benefits are also made available are shown in the table on page 76 as if through participation in the Companys the scheme were a defined benefit flexible benefits arrangements, which arrangement.
The Company extend to the vast majority of the Companys UK, Swedish and US employees.
Directors Remuneration Report 73 In agreeing grants of options for 2005, the For the grants of options since 2004 to met at the end of a three year period.
In the case Remuneration Committee took into account members of the Senior Executive Team, of the Initial Award, the performance target that, in the four years prior to the date of grant, the Remuneration Committee has included relates to the three year period commencing AstraZenecas share price had consistently a condition to the effect that, if an event occurs on 1 January 2005. outperformed the market: in 2004, profits had which causes material reputational damage increased by 15% over 2003: earnings per to the Company, such that it is not appropriate Performance targets share had increased by 18% and were above for the options to vest and become exercisable, For the Initial Award, the performance target market expectations: and the dividend the Remuneration Committee can make will be the Companys Total Shareholder increased by 18%.
In addition, Group sales a determination to that effect.
Return TSR over the three year period increased in 2004 by 9% at constant exchange commencing on 1 January 2005 compared rates, with a 30% increase for the key growth ASTRAZENECA PERFORMANCE SHARE PLAN to the TSR of a selected peer group of 12 other products of Nexium, Seroquel and Symbicort.
As mentioned above, one of the changes pharmaceutical companies for the same period.
Although sales of Crestor in 2004 had been announced by the Company following the These companies are: adversely affected by allegations regarding the 2004 review of executive remuneration was the products safety, in March 2005 the FDA introduction of a new AstraZeneca Performance Abbott Laboratories, Bristol-Myers Squibb, denied a request that Crestor be withdrawn Share Plan the Plan.
Details of the Plan Eli Lilly, GlaxoSmithKline, Johnson & Johnson, from the market and stated that data were contained in the 2005 Notice of AGM Merck, Novartis, Pfizer, Roche, Sanofi-Aventis, supported the conclusion that for any degree and were presented to, and approved by, Schering-Plough and Wyeth.
of LDL-lowering, [Crestor ]is as safe, and may shareholders at the April 2005 AGM.
well be safer than, any other marketed statin Awards will vest on the basis of the Companys with regard to muscle toxicity, providing Grant and vesting of Awards TSR ranking and the vesting schedule set encouragement for future sales prospects.
The Plan provides for the grant of performance out below: Strong sales growth continued in emerging share awards Awards in respect of Ordinary TSRranking Vestingpercentage markets, for example 34% in China.
With Shares in AstraZeneca PLC Shares which of the Company of shares under Award regard to R&D, at the end of 2004 there were may be delivered in the form of American Below median 0% 40% more projects in clinical development than Depositary Shares in the US.
Save in exceptional at the end of the previous year and 20% more circumstances, vesting of Awards is contingent Median 30% projects in pre-clinical testing.
All these on the satisfaction of specified performance Upper quartile 100% improvements took place against a targets and continued employment with the Between median and upper quartile Pro rata background of strict cost control in all AstraZeneca Group.
Awards are not commercial, operational and service functions.
pensionable and may not be assigned or transferred except on a participants death, To alleviate any short term volatility, the return In addition to these performance considerations when they may be assigned to the index is averaged in the TSR calculations for taken into account at the point of granting participants personal representatives.
each company over the three months prior to options, the Remuneration Committee decided the start and end of the performance period.
to introduce testing performance conditions Basis of participation in respect of the exercise of such granted The Remuneration Committee is responsible The vesting date for the Initial Award is the third options for members of the Senior Executive for agreeing any Awards under the Plan and anniversary of the 29 June 2005 grant date.
Team, as referred to on page 71. for setting the policy for the way in which the Plan should be operated, including agreeing In addition to the TSR performance target being The Remuneration Committee also sought performance targets and which employees met for the Initial Award as set out above, the and received assurances that all individuals should be invited to participate in the Plan.
Remuneration Committee also has to satisfy proposed for a grant of options had been All employees of the Company and its itself that achievement of the TSR performance performing in a manner that justified a grant subsidiaries, including Executive Directors, target is a genuine reflection of the Companys to them.
It was noted that there was some are eligible to participate, although an employee underlying financial performance.
variation in the level of grants being proposed may not be granted an Award if he or she is between individuals, to reflect differing levels within six months from retirement.
In practice, The Remuneration Committee has the of performance.
participation will be highly selective and discretion to award Shares up to a further performance-driven.
25% over and above the Shares subject to the The dilutive effect of the proposed grants of Award, if the Companys TSR performance options on the Companys issued share capital Generally, Awards can be granted at any time, is substantially better than that of the upper was also considered by the Remuneration but not during a close period of the Company.
quartile of the comparator group.
Committee, in accordance with its commitment The first grant of Awards was made on 29 June that the percentage of the issued share capital 2005 the Initial Award, details of which The Remuneration Committee may vary that could be allocated under all of the are shown in the table on page 78.
Thereafter, or waive these performance target s to take Companys employee share plans over the majority of Awards are likely to be made at account of events that lead the Remuneration a period of 10 years should be under 10%.
This or around the same time as options are granted Committee, acting fairly and reasonably, to commitment is applied by the Remuneration under the AstraZeneca Share Option Plan.
believe the performance target s to be no longer Committee in practice as a limit, on average, No payment is required for the grant of Awards.
Any variation to the performance of under 1% per annum.
The Remuneration target s made by the Remuneration Committee Committee concluded that a grant of options to Performance period will not result in the revised performance target s those plan participants and individual Executive An Award may not generally vest before the being, in the opinion of the Remuneration Directors proposed for a grant was appropriate third anniversary of its date of grant nor unless Committee, more difficult or easier to satisfy given the level of performance achieved.
the specified performance target s have been than the initial performance target s. AstraZeneca Annual Report and 74 Form 20-F Information 2005 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Individual limit period will determine how many Shares will Mr Stavling received monthly compensation In respect of any financial year, the maximum vest under the Initial Award, as per the vesting from the Company until the end of January market value of Shares that may be put under schedule shown in the table on page 73.
The sum received by Mr Stavling in Award in respect of an employee is 500% January 2005 is included in the disclosure of that employees basic salary.
This limit The Peer Group Graph on page 77 shows of Directors emoluments on page 75. excludes the above 25% maximum additional how the Companys TSR performance has These arrangements have now ceased.
Shares that may vest, at the sole discretion compared with the TSR for the companies of the Remuneration Committee, if the POSITION OF THE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS in the comparator group from 1 January 2005 Companys TSR performance is substantially None of the Non-Executive Directors has a the first day of the performance period to above that of the upper quartile of the service contract.
They are not eligible for 31 December 2005 and how the Company comparator group.
performance-related bonuses or the grant ranks against those other companies on this of share options.
We will continue to report on the The actual individual limits that apply under the are made on their behalf.
The fees payable performance of each Award against the Plan are set by the Remuneration Committee to the Non-Executive Directors are set by relevant performance target s during the from time to time.
a committee of the Board comprising the relevant vesting period.
Cessation of employment before EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SERVICE CONTRACTS an Award has vested The service contracts of the current Executive EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS AND If a participant ceases employment with the Directors provide for a notice period of one RETENTION OF FEES AstraZeneca group before an Award has year.
For new Executive Directors, the Board With the specific approval of the Board in each vested at the end of the relevant period, his would aim to negotiate a one year notice case, Executive Directors may accept external or her Award s will generally lapse.
In exceptional circumstances, the initial appointments as non-executive directors of if a participant dies or leaves employment in notice period may be for longer than one year.
other companies and retain any related fees certain circumstances such as ill health, injury, In those circumstances, the Board would paid to them.
disability, retirement, redundancy or his or her explain to shareholders the reasons why it employing business being sold or transferred believed a longer notice period was necessary Sir Tom McKillop is a Non-Executive Director outside the AstraZeneca group, the Award will, and it would be the Boards intention that it of BP p. l. c. and was appointed as Deputy absent additional action by the Remuneration should be reduced to one year subsequently.
Chairman of The Royal Bank of Scotland Committee, vest pro rata to the time elapsed At the time of the AGM on 27 April 2006, the Group PLC with effect from 1 September between the date of grant of the Award and unexpired term of Executive Directors service 2005.
In respect of each position, he retained the date of cessation of employment, at the end contracts will be a maximum of one year.
the fees paid to him for his services.
In 2005, of the relevant performance period, subject to The details of the Executive Directors the total amount of such fees paid to him in the satisfaction of the performance target s individual service contracts are set out in respect of these services was 156,000. measured over the relevant performance period.
In the event of the termination of an Executive Directors service contract, John Patterson was appointed as In view of Sir Tom McKillops retirement on depending upon the circumstances, the a Non-Executive Director of Cobham plc on 31 December 2005, the Award granted to him Company may be liable to provide 1 November 2005.
In respect of such position, in 2005 will be appropriately pro-rated and will compensation to the Executive Director he retained the fees paid to him for his services.
vest in 2008 subject to the satisfaction of the equivalent to the benefits which he or she In 2005, the total amount of such fees paid performance target measured over the whole would have received during the contractual to him in respect of these services was 5,000. performance period.
Having left the Company notice period.
For current Executive Directors, six months after the start of the 36 month it is the Companys expectation that any such Jonathan Symonds is a Non-Executive vesting period, Sir Tom will receive Shares liability would be calculated on the basis Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee representing approximately one sixth of the of one years base salary, target bonus and of Diageo plc.
In respect of such position, value of the Award if any when it vests in 2008. other benefits.
The Companys policy in the he retained the fees paid to him for his event of the termination of an Executive services.
In 2005, the total amount of such Performance under the AstraZeneca Directors service contract is to avoid any fees paid to him in respect of these services Performance Share Plan in 2005 liability to the Executive Director in excess was 80,000.
Mr Symonds also receives and As mentioned above, the Initial Award was made of his or her contractual entitlement and aim retains fees of 15,000 per annum for his under the Plan on 29 June 2005 and is listed to ensure that any liability is mitigated to the position as a member of the UK Accounting in the table on page 78.
TSR looks at share price fullest extent possible.
increase and dividends re-invested in respect of a notional number of shares, from the ARRANGEMENTS FOR KE STAVLING DIRECTORS EMOLUMENTS IN 2005 beginning of the performance period to the end ke Stavling, formerly an Executive Dir ector, The Directors emoluments in 2005 are of it, and ranks the companies in the selected left the Company at the end of January 2003. disclosed on page 75. comparator group by reference to the TSR Mr Stavlings leaving arrangements were fully achieved over that period.
The rank which the disclosed in the Directors Remuneration DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARES Companys TSR achieves over the performance Report for 2003.
Under these arrangements, Details of the Directors interests in the Companys Ordinary Shares are disclosed Table showing details of Executive Directors service contracts at 31 December 2005 on pages 77 to 80.
Date of Unexpired term Notice Executive Director service contract at 31 December 2005 period AUDIT Sir Tom McKillop 11 January 1996 Retired 31 December 2005 One year The Directors emoluments in 2005 and the details of the Directors interests in David R Brennan 1 January 2006 One year One year the Companys Ordinary Shares disclosed John Patterson 1 January 2005 One year One year on pages 75 to 80 have been audited by Jonathan Symonds 20 May 1998 One year One year the Companys external auditor.
Directors Remuneration Report 75 DIRECTORS EMOLUMENTS IN 2005 The aggregate remuneration, excluding pension contributions and the value of share options and performance share plan awards, paid to or accrued for all Directors and officers of the Company for services in all capacities during the year ended 31 December 2005 was 11 million $19 million.
Remuneration of individual Directors is set out below in sterling and US dollars.
All salaries, fees, bonuses and other benefits for Directors are established in sterling, save for David Brennans salary, which for 2005 was established in US dollars.
2 Payment for pension-related tax liabilities.
3 Comprises compensation payment of 450,000 $818,000 and part-year Non-Executive Directors fee of 29,000 $53,000.
5 Part year only as only appointed as a Director on 14 March 2005.
Mr Brennans emoluments for the whole of 2005 totalled 916,000 $1,677,000.
6 These figures represent that portion of the bonus required to be deferred into shares for a three year period as explained on page 71.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and 76 Form 20-F Information 2005 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED In the tables on page 75, salaries have been converted between sterling and US dollars at the average exchange rate for the year in question.
These rates were: GBP USD 2003 0.62 2004 0.55 2005 0.55 Some Directors and officers were also granted options to subscribe for Ordinary Shares under the Companys share option plans and awards under the AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan or, in the case of David Brennan, the AstraZeneca US Executive Performance Share Plan.
Details of share options granted to, and exercised by, Directors and the aggregate of gains realised on exercised options, and of awards under the above performance share plans, in the year are given on pages 78 to 80.
No Director or officer has a family relationship with any other Director or officer.
PENSIONS Pensions are payable to Directors in sterling.
For ease of understanding, the table below has been presented in both sterling and dollars using the exchange rates for 2005 set out above.
Executive Directors Pension Arrangements Sir Tom David R John Jonathan Sir Tom David R John Jonathan   per annum 000 000 000 000 $000 $000 $000 $000 Defined Benefit Arrangements 1.
Increase in accrued pension during year as a result of inflation 16 6 7 29 11 13 3.
Adjustment to accrued pension as a result of salary increase relative to inflation 8 17 53 3 15 32 97 5 4.
Increase in accrued pension as a result of additional service 13 4 10 12 24 8 18 22 5.
Pensionable service years 36 12 30 30 12 25 12 36 12 30 30 12 25 12 In advance of the changes to the tax treatment of pensions in the UK, which will take effect from 6 April 2006, the Remuneration Committee considered the impact those changes may have on UK Executive Directors pension arrangements.
The Remuneration Committee has endorsed the offer of a cash allowance in lieu of future pension, payable at the election of each individual Executive Director.
The cash allowance will be consistent with the cost of the alternative gross pension benefit.
This approach was considered in the context of: The Companys desire to offer employees flexibility and choice in their reward packages.
The Companys policies of funded, defined contribution pension provision.
The Companys desire to ensure it does not respond to tax changes in a way that would effectively deliver a guaranteed net pension promise.
The requirement that any alternative to pension should be cost-neutral to the Company.
Any resulting impact of this on the presentation of the Executive Directors pension arrangements will be provided in the Directors Remuneration Report for 2006.
Directors Remuneration Report 77 TRANSACTIONS WITH DIRECTORS There were no material recorded transactions between the Company and the Directors during 2005 or 2004.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN GRAPHS The UK Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 require the inclusion in the Directors Remuneration Report of a graph showing total shareholder return TSR over a five year period in respect of a holding of the Companys shares, plotted against TSR in respect of a hypothetical holding of shares of a similar kind and number by reference to which a broad equity market index is calculated.
The Company is a member of the FTSE 100 Index and consequently, for the purposes of this graph which is set out below, we have selected the FTSE 100 Index as the appropriate index.
This graph is re-based to 100 at the start of the rolling five year period.
The AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan the Plan summarised on pages 73 and 74 requires that the total shareholder return TSR in respect of a holding of the Companys shares over the relevant performance period be compared with the TSR of a peer group of 12 other pharmaceutical companies.
The graph below shows how the Companys TSR performance has compared with the TSR for the companies in the comparator group from 1 January 2005 the first day of the current three year performance period to 31 December 2005 and how the Company ranks against those other companies on this basis.
To alleviate any short term volatility, the return index is averaged in the TSR calculations for each company over the three months prior to the start of the performance period as stipulated in the Plan and, for the purposes of this interim snapshot, over the last three months of 2005.
Total Shareholder Return: AstraZeneca compared with peer group 1 Jan 05 to 31 Dec 05 Total Shareholder Return: AstraZeneca compared with FTSE 100 over five years 60 110 50 100 40 3rd 90 30 80 20 70 10 ABT LLY BMS PFI 60 0 50 RCH GSK AZ SA NOV WYE SP J&J MRK -10 Jan 01 Jan 02 Jan 03 Jan 04 Jan 05 Jan 06 -20 AZ FTSE 100 Source: Thomson Financial Datastream DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN SHARES The table below shows the interests at 31 December 2005 or on the date of resignation if earlier of the persons who on that date were Directors including the interests of their families in shares and debentures of AstraZeneca PLC.
All such interests were beneficial except as otherwise stated.
However, interests in Ordinary Shares or American Depositary Shares ADSs that are the subject of awards under the AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan or the AstraZeneca US Executive Performance Share Plan discussed below, are not included in the table immediately below but are shown on page 78.
None of the Directors has a beneficial interest in the shares of any of the Companys subsidiaries.
Interest in Ordinary Shares Net shares Interest in Ordinary Shares Director at 1 Jan 2005 or appointment date acquired disposed at 31 Dec 2005 or resignation date Louis Schweitzer 4,000 4,000 5 2 Sir Tom McKillop 77,835 62,994 14,841 4 1,3 1 1 David R Brennan 52,160 28,452 80,612 5 3 John Patterson 353 150 503 5 Jonathan Symonds 10,929 598 11,527 Sir Peter Bonfield 500 500 John Buchanan 500 2,000 2,500 Jane Henney 500 500 Michele Hooper 500 500 Joe Jimenez 500 500 Hkan Mogren 62,164 62,164 Erna Mller 2,718 2,718 Dame Bridget Ogilvie 500 500 Marcus Wallenberg 70,882 3,618 67,264 1 Numbers of ADSs.
One AstraZeneca ADS represents one AstraZeneca PLC Ordinary Share.
2 Shareholding at date of retirement.
3 Shareholding at date of appointment.
4 Shareholding includes ADSs held in the AstraZeneca Executive Deferral Plan, the AstraZeneca Deferred Compensation Plan and the AstraZeneca Savings and Security Plan see page 78.
Does not include interests in ADSs that are the subject of awards under the AstraZeneca US Executive Performance Share Plan see page 78.
5 Does not include interests in Shares that are the subject of awards under the AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and 78 Form 20-F Information 2005 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The interests at 31 December 2005, or on the date of resignation if earlier, of the persons who on that date were Directors, in shares of AstraZeneca PLC that are the subject of Awards under the AstraZeneca Performance Share Plan are not included in the above table but are shown below: Awards made Monetary Awards held target number of shares during 2005 value of At 1 Jan 2005 or At 31 Dec 2005 or target Awards made Date on 1 appointment resignation number during 2005 Date of which Award Director date date of shares Award may vest 3 2 Sir Tom McKillop 104,417 104,417 2,339,985 29.06.05 29.06.08 2 John Patterson 41,945 41,945 939,987 29.06.05 29.06.08 2 Jonathan Symonds 47,723 47,723 1,069,472 29.06.05 29.06.08 1 The relevant target percentage of the Directors salary was divided by the price per share at date of grant 2241p to calculate the target number of shares.
3 To be pro-rated as described on page 74.
The interests of David Brennan at 31 December 2005 and on the date of his appointment in ADSs of AstraZeneca PLC that are the subject of awards under the AstraZeneca US Executive Performance Share Plan established in 2000 are not included in the above tables but are shown below.
One ADS equals one AstraZeneca Ordinary Share.
The number of ADSs to which Mr Brennan may become unconditionally entitled on the vesting date will be determined by reference to AstraZenecas total shareholder return compared to that of other companies in the US Pharmaceutical Human Resources Association over the three year performance period.
Awards Monetary Awards Monetary made during value of vested value of Awards held target number of ADSs 2005 awards during awards Awards At 14 Mar 2005 target made during 2005 vested during expired Date on appointment At 31 number 2005 number 2005 during Date of which award Director date Dec 2005 of ADSs US$ of ADSs US$ 2005 award may vest 1 2 David R Brennan 87,163 89,807 27,877 1,124,837 18,925 749,809 6,308 24.03.05 24.03.08 1 The award price was US$40.35.
2 The closing price of AstraZeneca ADSs on 28 March 2005 the date of vesting was US$39.62.
Unitised stock plans David Brennan, in common with other participating US executives, has interests in the following: the AstraZeneca Executive Deferral Plan, the AstraZeneca Executive Deferred Compensation Plan and the AstraZeneca Savings and Security Plan.
These are unitised stock plans and participants hold units in each plan.
A unit comprises part cash and part ADSs.
The overall unit price is determined daily by taking the market value of the underlying ADSs and adding the cash position.
The ADSs held within these units carry both voting and dividend rights.
Mr Brennan is deemed to have a notional interest in these ADSs, calculated by reference to the fund value and the closing price of AstraZeneca ADSs.
As the value of the unit varies the number of ADSs attached to each unit varies.
Therefore the number of ADSs held within each unit varies daily.
ADSs held at Net ADSs ADSs held Unitised stock plan 14 Mar 2005 appointment date acquired disposed at 31 Dec 2005 AstraZeneca Executive Deferral Plan 46,046 28,407 74,453 1 AstraZeneca Executive Deferred Compensation Plan AstraZeneca Savings and Security Plan 5,956 45 6,001 1 Mr Brennans interests in this plan do not currently include an interest in any ADSs.
No Director or senior executive beneficially owns, or has options over, 1% or more of the outstanding shares of the Company, nor do they have different voting rights to other shareholders.
Directors Remuneration Report 79 SHARE OPTIONS The interests of Directors and former Directors in options to subscribe for Ordinary Shares of the Company, which include options granted under the AstraZeneca Share Option Plan and the AstraZeneca Savings-Related Share Option Scheme, together with options granted and exercised during the year, are included in the following table: No.
2 First and last exercise dates of groups of options, within which periods there are shorter exercise periods.
Price at which he sold that same day to meet exercise cost.
Closing price on day of exercise AstraZeneca Annual Report and 80 Form 20-F Information 2005 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED In addition to the above, the following Director held options under the Astra Shareholder Value Incentive Plan which were converted into options over AstraZeneca shares on completion of the merger based on an exchange ratio of 0.5045 AstraZeneca options for each Astra option held.
No further options have been or will be granted under the scheme: Astra SVIP Options No.
of shares Exercise price Market price at First day Last day 1 2 2 under option per share SEK date of exercise exercisable exercisable Hkan Mogren At 1 Jan 2005 16,288 429.38 06.04.99 23.01.06 market price above option price market price below option price 16,288 429.38 06.04.99 23.01.06 Expired 6,462 410.53 06.04.99 14.01.05 At 31 Dec 2005 9,826 441.78 06.04.99 23.01.06 market price above option price market price below option price 9,826 441.78 06.04.99 23.01.06 1 Exercise prices are weighted averages.
Gains by Directors on exercise of share options The aggregate amount of gains made by Directors on the exercise of share options during the year amounted to $577,795.42 2004 $nil, 2003 $0.5 million and the gains made by the highest paid Director were $577,407.91 2004 $nil, 2003 $470,000.
The market price of shares trading on the London Stock Exchange at 31 December 2005 was 2829 pence and the range during 2005 was 1861 pence to 2837 pence.
The market price of shares trading on the Stockholm Stock Exchange at 31 December 2005 was 388.50 SEK and the range during 2005 was 243.00 SEK to 392.00 SEK.
The market price of shares trading on the New York Stock Exchange was $48.60 at 31 December 2005 and the range during 2005 was $34.72 to $49.50.
The Register of Directors Interests which is open to inspection contains full details of Directors shareholdings and options to subscribe for Ordinary Shares.
On behalf of the Board G H R MUSKER Group Secretary and Solicitor 2 February 2006
