A R 2005 17 3 06 12:34 pm Page 30 THE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The Board presents the following report on directors remuneration and the work and responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee.
THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE This Committee has been established for many years and operates under terms of reference agreed by the Board and which can be found on the Group web site: www.
In the period from the beginning of the year until his retirement from the Committee on 12th May 2005, Mr. M. Townsend was a member and Chairman of the Committee.
With effect from 12th May 2005 the Committee members are Messrs. G. Bullock, E. Lindh, and W. H. Whiteley Chairman, each of whom is an independent non-executive director.
The Committee is responsible for determining, on behalf of the Board, the Companys remuneration policy and for determining the employment conditions and remuneration packages of individual executive directors.
The Committee also administers and determines the grant of options under the Groups share option schemes for executive directors and other senior employees and administers and determines the grants of awards under the Performance Share Plan.
The Committee obtains independent professional advice from Towers Perrin to ensure that the Companys remuneration policy is appropriate and competitive.
Towers Perrin was appointed by the Committee and has not provided other services to the Company during the year.
Mr. M. Townsend, the Company Chairman, and Mr. M. J. D. Steel, the Chief Executive, attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee to provide information requested by it.
However, they do not participate in any discussions involving their own remuneration.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The Company has throughout the year complied with the provisions of The Combined Code and Code of Best Practice published in July 2003 with regard to directors remuneration.
The Committee has given full consideration to the Combined Code in establishing the remuneration policy and packages for directors.
POLICY ON EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The Companys policy is to reward directors competitively and on the broad principle that their remuneration should be comparable with remuneration in other similar public companies.
The total remuneration package is appropriate and necessary to attract, retain and motivate directors of the calibre required to take the Company forward.
In order to align the interests of directors and shareholders, the Committee has structured the total remuneration package to provide a material performance-related element.
The structure of the directors remuneration package has been established subject to appropriate modifications for many years and has regard to pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group.
The remuneration package comprises:- Basic Salary The Committee obtains independent professional advice from Towers Perrin using published information for comparable public companies.
Salaries are reviewed annually on 1st January taking into account the experience, responsibility and performance of the individual.
Annual Bonus The Company operates an annual bonus scheme for executive directors.
The bonus is paid as a percentage of salary.
This percentage is the sum of:- i one third of the percentage increase in pre-tax profit for the year over the average pre-tax profit for the previous three years: ii two thirds of the percentage increase in earnings per share for the year over the average earnings per share for the previous three years: iii cash generation expressed as a percentage of profit for the financial year will carry a maximum of 20% bonus.
Where cash inflow, as determined from the Accounts, is less than 100% of profit, no bonus will be earned under this element: where cash generated equals or exceeds 160% of profit, the full 20% will accrue with proportionate bonus being earned between 100% and 160% of profit: and iv an amount derived from the change in gross margin percentage compared with that for the previous year.
Where the gross margin has deteriorated by 0.5 percentage points or more, no bonus will be earned under this element: where there has been an improvement of 1.5 percentage points or more, the full allocation of 20% will accrue with proportionate bonus being earned between these limits, provided always that the gross margin percentage is above a required minimum.
28 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc A R 2005 17 3 06 12:34 pm Page 31 There is a contractual maximum bonus payment equal to basic salary.
The bonus forms an integral and regular part of the executive directors remuneration.
The directors remuneration report in 2004 referred to the Committees continuing review, with professional advice, on the pension position of the executive directors including the pensionability of elements i and ii of the bonus.
The Committee can now report that an amendment to the calculation of pensionable pay has been agreed with each of the relevant executive directors.
Elements i and ii of any bonus earned after 31st December 2005 will not be pensionable.
From 1st January 2006 an appropriate, actuarially calculated, percentage increase to basic salary has been applied, reflecting the individual directors age and expected period of service to normal retirement date.
This increase will qualify as part of the directors pensionable pay.
However, the change does not apply to Mr. G. P. Marchand in view of his retirement on 30th June 2006.
Mr. A. J. Scrivin, who was appointed last year, has not earned pension on the bonus payments.
Additionally the Committee plans to offer to executive directors a cash alternative to pension contributions in respect of the directors pensionable service from 6th April 2006, i. e. A Day under the Inland Revenue tax regime for pensions.
This cash alternative will be confirmed by the Companys actuaries.
The cost of the alternative to the Company will be no greater than the cost of the pension contributions.
The Companys policy on directors remuneration and the structure of their remuneration package are kept under review to ensure the directors overall package remains properly competitive and shareholders will be informed of any resulting change.
Options Spirax-Sarco Engineering 1992 UK & Global Share Option Schemes and Spirax-Sarco Engineering Approved & Global Share Option Schemes The Company operates share option schemes which are administered by the Committee which determines the grant of options under the schemes usually once per year.
These are designed to align the longer term interests of participants with those of shareholders by giving an incentive linked to added shareholder value.
Following the introduction of the Performance Share Plan in 2005, it is intended that, ordinarily, executive directors will be granted awards under that plan rather than be granted options.
Executive directors, senior executives and management hold options granted in previous years and it is intended that options will continue to be granted to senior executives and management.
The policy is to phase options over the ten year life of the share option schemes.
Options granted to each director from 1995 are subject to a performance condition which is described below.
Performance Condition for Share Option Schemes In accordance with market practice, options granted are normally specified to be exercisable between three and ten years from the date of grant and, for grants from 1995, only if a specified performance condition is satisfied.
In line with the then established market practice, the performance condition for options granted from 1995 up to 2001 requires an increase in earnings per share of more than 6% greater than the increase in the UK retail prices index over a period of three consecutive years between grant and exercise.
For options granted from and including 2002 the performance condition requires an increase in earnings per share of more than 9% greater than the increase in the UK retail prices index over a period of three consecutive years between grant and exercise.
The same performance condition applies to each director.
The performance condition chosen was considered appropriate because it ensured increases in the earnings per share were achieved having taken account of UK inflation.
In assessing whether the chosen performance condition is met the Committee arranges for the auditors to confirm the calculations made.
This method of assessment is considered appropriate to confirm compliance with the condition.
The performance condition requires a comparison with a factor external to the Company, namely the growth in the UK retail prices index over the performance period.
For grants from and including 2005, the performance condition will, ordinarily, need to be met over the three year period from the 1st January prior to the date of grant in order for the option to become exercisable.
If the condition is not met at the end of the three year period, the option will lapse.
Details of total share options issued are set out in Note 24 on page 55.
The above performance conditions apply to other relevant options granted to all participants in the share option schemes.
Performance Share Plan A performance share plan for executive directors, senior executives and management was adopted at the 2005 annual general meeting.
Awards take the form of contingent rights to acquire shares, subject to the satisfaction of a performance target.
To the extent they vest, awards may be satisfied in cash or in shares.
The Committees current policy is that the maximum individual annual award will be of shares with a market value of not more than 150% of salary, although the intention is that in practice the market value of an individual award will be significantly below the maximum.
Ordinarily, an eligible person will not be granted options under the Companys share option schemes and awards under the performance share plan in the same year.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 29 A R 2005 17 3 06 12:34 pm Page 32 THE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued The vesting of an award will normally be subject to the satisfaction of a performance target.
The performance target applied to awards granted in 2005 is based on the Companys total shareholder return TSR relative to the TSR of other companies included in the FTSE All-Share Engineering and Machinery Index over the three year period commencing with effect from 1st January 2005.
Awards will vest on a sliding scale.
For full vesting the Companys TSR must be at or above the upper quartile.
25% of the shares subject to an award will vest if the Companys TSR is at the median.
Awards will vest on a pro-rata straight line basis between median and upper quartile performance.
The FTSE All-Share Engineering and Machinery Index has ceased to exist with effect from 2006.
For the awards granted in 2005, the comparator group will remain as those companies comprising that sector immediately before the start of the performance period.
Additionally, for an award to vest the Committee will also, normally, need to be satisfied that the Companys underlying financial performance has been satisfactory over the three year performance period.
The performance condition chosen was considered appropriate because it is dependent on the Companys relative long term performance based on total shareholder return, it compares the Companys performance with the performance of companies in a comparator group and was the basis described to shareholders when the plan was approved by shareholders at the 2005 annual general meeting.
In assessing whether the chosen performance condition is met the Committees professional advisers will be asked to perform the necessary calculations.
In calculating TSR, average share prices for the period before the beginning and end of the performance period will be used to avoid abnormal share price movements significantly affecting the calculation.
Since the FTSE All-Share Engineering and Machinery Index has ceased to exist with effect from January 2006, any awards made in 2006 will be subject to the same performance condition as described above save that the Companys TSR will be compared with the TSR of other companies included in the FTSE All-Share Industrial Engineering Index.
Since the Company is now included in this sector, the Committee believes that this is the appropriate comparator group.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Employee Share Ownership Plan The executive directors participate in the Employee Share Ownership Plan, as described on page 34.
Participation in the Employee Share Ownership Plan is open to all eligible UK employees.
No employees entitlement under the Employee Share Ownership Plan is subject to performance conditions.
This is because the aim is to encourage increased shareholding in the Company by all eligible UK employees.
There are no other long term incentives provided to directors.
Pensions The executive directors are members of an Inland Revenue approved non-contributory defined benefit pension scheme based on 1 60th of pensionable salary, for each year of pensionable service.
The maximum pension is two-thirds of pensionable salary.
The executive directors accrue pro-rata additional service at a rate which gives a further two and a half years of service at their normal 1 retirement age of 62 2.
This additional service does not apply to Mr. A. J. Scrivin, who has a normal retirement age of 65.
Additionally Mr. G. P. Marchand accrued pro-rata additional service at a rate which gives a further nine years of service at age 60.
The scheme provides lump sum death in service benefit of four times pensionable salary.
Spouses pensions are payable where death occurs in service or in retirement.
No executive director is affected by the Inland Revenue earnings cap and there are no unapproved pension arrangements in respect of directors.
Non-Executive Directors The remuneration of non-executive directors is approved by the full Board within the limits set out in the Companys articles of association.
Their remuneration reflects the amount of time spent on the Companys business.
The non-executive directors do not participate in the bonus, share option or share ownership schemes and do not participate in the new Performance Share Plan.
Non-executive directors appointments are non-pensionable.
Service Contracts The executive directors have service contracts which are subject to 12 months notice.
The service contracts provide for a normal 1 retirement age of 62 2 for each executive director, with the exception of Mr. A. J. Scrivin who has a normal retirement age of 65.
The executive directors have service contracts as follows:- Date of Contract Notice Period M. J. D. Steel 30.12.92 12 months A. D. H. Black 18.10.98 12 months N. H. Daws 28.05.03 12 months G. P. Marchand 30.12.92 12 months D. J. Meredith 30.12.92 12 months A. J. Scrivin 15.03.05 12 months P. A. Smith 24.12.92 12 months 30 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc A R 2005 17 3 06 12:34 pm Page 33 The non-executive directors, including the Chairman, Mr. M. Townsend, do not have service contracts.
They have appointment letters, normally for three year periods, and re-appointment is not automatic.
POLICY ON SENIOR EXECUTIVE REMUNERATION The Committee determines the philosophy, principles and policy of remuneration which shall apply to the Groups senior executives.
The responsibility for determining the precise package to meet local practice and performance lies with the Chief Executive and the responsible executive director.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN The performance graph illustrated shows the Companys total cumulative shareholder return for the five year period ended 31st December 2005 compared with the total cumulative shareholder return for the FTSE All-Share Engineering and Machinery Index.
This comparison is selected as being the most appropriate sector for the Companys operations as the comparison automatically takes account of the impact on the Companys shares of the markets view of the engineering industry generally.
"""##$%!&&& %& & INFORMATION SUBJECT TO AUDIT The auditors are required to report on the information contained in the remaining sections of the Report."
DETAILS OF INDIVIDUAL EMOLUMENTS Basic Benefits 1 Annual Total emoluments Salary performance excluding pension Fees related 2005 2004 bonus Total Total 2 3 T. B.
Fortune retired from the Board on 12th May 2005.
Ball retired from the Board on 29th April 2005.
5 Mr. A. J. Scrivin was appointed to the Board on 2nd May 2005 and his emoluments in the above table are calculated from this date.
Total emoluments for the full year 2005 were 178,410.
6 Mr. G. Bullock was appointed to the Board on 2nd May 2005 and his emoluments in the above table are calculated from this date.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 31 A R 2005 17 3 06 12:34 pm Page 34 THE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Long Term Incentives i Spirax-Sarco Engineering 1992 UK & Global Share Option Schemes and Spirax-Sarco Engineering Approved and Global Share Option Schemes The interests of directors are set out below:- 31.12.04 Granted Exercised 31.12.05 Average Date Expiry or date of during in year exercise from date appointment year to price per which if later 31.12.05 share exercisable 1 4 2 3 3 No.
Notes 1 Options shown on line A relate to options granted to members of the Board, whereas options shown on line B relate to options granted to individuals prior to their appointment to the Board.
The exercise prices for all options shown are lower than the middle market price of the Companys ordinary shares on 30th December 2005 being the last trading day of the financial year.
2 These are the weighted averages of the exercise prices for ordinary shares under option at 31st December 2005.
3 These are the ranges of dates between which all options which have been aggregated may be exercised.
32 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc A R 2005 17 3 06 12:34 pm Page 35 4 2005 Option Market 2005 2004 Options exercise price on Gain arising Gain arising exercised price the date on exercise on exercise options exercised No.
Following his retirement, but in accordance with the rules of the option schemes, Mr. C. J.
Ball exercised the options he held realising a gain of 325,229.17.
Ball exercised options in 2004 realising a gain of 24,000.00 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 33 A R 2005 17 3 06 12:34 pm Page 36 THE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued The market price of the ordinary shares on 30th December 2005 was 882.5p.
During the period from 1st January 2005 to 30th December 2005 the ordinary share price ranged between 906p and 640.5p.
The Register of Directors Interests which is open to inspection contains full details of directors shareholdings and options to subscribe.
There have been no changes in the number of share options granted as shown on pages 32 and 33 since 31st December 2005. ii Performance Share Plan Under the Performance Share Plan the following awards were granted during the year to executive directors.
This price is the mid market price on 20th May 2005.
The date of award was 23rd May 2005. iii Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Employee Share Ownership Plan The Company operates an Employee Share Ownership Plan in which all the executive directors are eligible to participate on the same basis as all other eligible UK employees.
For the Plan period the individual directors contributions are limited to a maximum of 1,500 per annum under Inland Revenue rules.
The Company provides a matching share for each share purchased under the Plan by the director which is the same basis as for other participating employees.
Interest at Vested Interest at Period of 31.12.04 31.12.05qualifying or date of or date of conditions appointment if retirement later if earlier M. J. D. Steel 2,452 577 3,029 3 years C. J.
34 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc A R 2005 17 3 06 12:34 pm Page 37 DIRECTORS PENSIONS The directors are members of defined benefit pension arrangements.
The information below is consistent with the presentation used last year and sets out the disclosures under the Stock Exchange Listing Rules and the Companies Act 1985.
Age Accrued Accrued Change in Change in Transfer Transfer Transfer Change in attained pension pension accrued accrued value of value of value of total at at at pension pension change in accrued accrued transfer 31.12.05 31.12.04 31.12.05 during during accrued pension at pension at value the year the year pension 31.12.04 31.12.05 pa pa pa pa M. J. D. Steel 60 192,727 227,651 34,924 29,801 488,000 2,883,000 3,677,000 794,000 1 C. J.
Ball and A. J. Scrivin for the part year they were directors.
Ball retired from the Board on 29th April 2005 - the transfer value at end of year relates to benefits on retirement on end of year assumptions.
2 Benefits shown net of pensions sharing order, currently worth 25,750 per annum.
3 Mr. A. J. Scrivin was appointed to the Board on 2nd May 2005 - the transfer value at start of year relates to the value at 2nd May 2005.
The following is additional information relating to directors' pensions: i Dependant's pensions On the death of a director in service, a spouses pension equal to one-half of the directors pension based on pensionable service to the date of death is payable.
On the death of a director after payment of the pension commences, a spouses pension of onehalf of the directors pension entitlement at the date of death, ignoring commutation and any early retirement actuarial reduction, is payable: in addition directors pensions are guaranteed to be paid for five years from retirement.
ii Early retirement rights After leaving the service of the Company, a director has the right to draw his accrued pension at any time after his 60th birthday with no reduction, with the exception of Mr. A. J. Scrivin who has a normal retirement age of 65. iii Pension increases Pensions are subject to annual increases in line with the annual rise in the RPI subject to a maximum of 5% per annum.
The Trustees and the Company have the discretion to apply a greater increase.
iv Other discretionary benefits There are no discretionary practices which are taken into account in calculating transfer values on leaving service.
Signed by M. Townsend Chairman on behalf of the Board Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc 35
