20 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 Report on directors remuneration The Committee has developed remuneration packages that t this policy 1.
Introduction and compliance on an integrated and total reward basis.
This is achieved by providing This Report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee the base salary plus benets, pension benets, an annual short term incentive Committee and approved by the Board in compliance with statutory bonus and discretionary awards under the Companys share incentive requirements and the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the plans, the latter two elements of which are performance-related.
In normal Code issued in 2003. circumstances, it is the Committees policy that at least 50 per cent of an The Board considers that it has complied throughout the year under review executive directors target total annual remuneration package is based on with the requirements of the Code.
The Directors statement on corporate performance-related elements.
The recent history of the Companys share governance and this Report describe how the principles of corporate price volatility and its consequent impact on the value of the long term governance set out in the Code have been applied within the Group.
incentive component of the total remuneration package means in practice that the actual balance of performance versus non-performance elements 2.
Role and remit of the Remuneration Committee can vary from year to year.
In designing the performance-related elements The composition of the Committee, made up wholly of independent of remuneration, the Committee has followed the provisions set out in non-executive directors, is given on page 12.
The Committee makes Schedule A to the Code.
recommendations to the Board on the Companys policy and framework The Committee continues to monitor and review the level and constituent of executive remuneration and its cost.
The Committee also determines elements of remuneration packages and will consult with its major the remuneration of each executive director and certain other senior institutional shareholders as appropriate with regards to any significant executives.
In addition, the Committee is responsible on behalf of the Board proposed changes.
for monitoring and managing shareholder dilution arising from share incentive plans.
Executive directors remuneration In order to assist the Committee in carrying out its duties, during the year a Base salary and benets the Committee consulted on a regular basis with its independent external The level of base salary is reviewed and established annually by reference remuneration advisers.
During the year the Committee retained Watson to both the performance and responsibilities of the individual and prevailing Wyatt who are also consultant actuaries to the Company on pension market rates for executives of similar status in comparable companies.
Other advisers during the year were as follows reviewing salaries, the Committee is mindful of and sensitive to the wider additional services provided, all by appointment of the Company, are shown scene, especially regarding employees pay and employment conditions alongside in brackets : elsewhere in the Group.
Following review, in respect of 2005, Anders Gustafsson and Eric Hutchinson were awarded increases in annual base JPMorgan Cazenove Limited who are one of the Companys brokers : salary of 20,000 and 13,500, respectively, bringing their total annual base Kepler Associates: and salary to 460,000 and 283,500, respectively.
Linklaters who are one of the Companys legal advisers.
Pension and other benefits have regard to competitor practice.
Benefits include a car allowance, healthcare and life insurance coverage.
Pension The Committee also consulted with the Companys Senior Vice President details are given in paragraphs 4 c, 6 b and 6 c. of Human Resources, Head of Compensation and Benets and the Company Secretary regarding remuneration and related corporate governance issues.
As noted above, the Companys remuneration policy applies to senior In addition, with respect to the remuneration of senior executives for whom executives below Board level.
In respect of 2005, the total remuneration ie the Companys remuneration policy also applies, see below, the Committee base salary, bonus and taxable benets for the lowest paid and highest also consulted with the Chief Executive.
paid senior executive was 132,913 and 426,646, respectively.
Average pay for these individuals was 202,661.
Remuneration policy The Companys remuneration policy, which has not changed during the year b Annual and other incentive bonus schemes and will apply for the following financial year, is to: The Committee reviews annual incentive bonus scheme targets and performance conditions each year to incentivise the executive to meet the attract, retain and motivate the high calibre professional, managerial and short term strategic objectives of the Company.
technological expertise necessary to realise the Groups business objectives without paying excessively: In respect of 2005, Anders Gustafsson and Eric Hutchinson participated in an annual cash bonus scheme which, consistent with UK market practice ensure that the remuneration framework and its constituent reward and levels, was structured around a formula providing for an on-target elements are competitive and, where appropriate, reect the international performance bonus of 50 per cent of base salary with a maximum of 100 nature of the Groups business and the markets within which it operates: per cent of base salary for exceptional performance.
Performance was and measured against targets in the Companys adjusted earnings per share maintain the correct balance and linkage between individual and business EPS and cash ow, accounting for 80 per cent and 20 per cent of any performance so as to align the interests of the executive with those of bonus, respectively.
As the threshold targets for 2005 were not achieved, shareholders, particularly that of enhancing shareholder value.
neither executive director earned a bonus under the annual scheme.
Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 21 In order to facilitate the Groups stated strategy of focusing on growing its and grant amounts vary in accordance with the individuals potential to Communications group whilst maximising the value of its other businesses, add value to the business over the medium to long term.
both executive directors were also eligible to receive a cash bonus which was The executives are also eligible to participate in the Companys all employee payable dependent upon the disposal price of the HellermannTyton Division.
share plans further details of which are provided in note 32 to the The bonus was structured around a formula providing for an award of up to consolidated financial statements and note 17 to the parent Company 25 per cent of base salary.
The disposal was completed on 15 February 2006 financial statements.
for a consideration of approximately 288.9 million, at a cash free debt free equivalent value, which exceeded the maximum bonus target set by the Executive Share Option Scheme Committee.
Anders Gustafsson and Eric Hutchinson therefore received The Executive Share Option Scheme expired during 2005 and no grants bonuses of 115,000 and 70,875 respectively, equivalent to 25 per cent were made to directors under this scheme during the year.
Further details of their base salary.
in respect of this scheme are provided in note 32 to the consolidated financial statements and note 17 to the parent Company financial statements.
c Directors pensions Both executive directors participate in pension plans operated by the Employee Incentive Plan Company.
Eric Hutchinson participates in the non-contributory funded During the early part of 2005, a detailed international review was carried senior executive level of the Spirent Group Staff Pension and Life Assurance out by Kepler Associates of long term incentive arrangements in similar Plan the Staff Plan.
This dened benefit arrangement will provide him companies.
As a result of the review and also following discussion with the at normal retirement age of 60, and dependent on length of service, with Companys major institutional shareholders, the EIP was designed.
a pension of up to two-thirds of salary, subject to HM Revenue & Customs limits and other statutory conditions.
It also provides for dependants Details of the EIP, including the proposed grant levels, performance criteria pensions and a cash lump sum on death.
Pensionable salary is the directors and vesting schedules, were explained in a circular to shareholders in April base salary only.
The EIP was approved by shareholders in May 2005 and both executive directors participated in this plan during the year.
Anders Gustafsson receives from the Company, a pension contribution of Under the EIP, the Company is able to grant options and share settled stock 30 per cent of basic salary.
Subject to statutory limits, the Company makes appreciation rights SARs, the exercise of which will be subject to approved contributions into the executive section of the Spirent Retirement challenging earnings per share EPS criteria.
Performance shares may also Cash and Life Assurance Plan the Cash Plan.
The Executive section of be granted, the vesting of which will be subject to challenging total the Cash Plan is non-contributory and provides benefits on a defined shareholder return TSR criteria.
This combination reects UK market contribution basis.
Contributions to the Cash Plan are held in an individual trends in the use of long term incentives and creates a more balanced account and invested in accordance with member elections.
The Cash Plan incentive package for executive directors.
provides for a dependants pension and a cash lump sum on death in service.
In respect of those contributions which are outside of the statutory limits In normal circumstances, SARs options under the EIP will vest three years the Company has established an unfunded unapproved retirement benefit following grant provided the Companys EPS growth targets after excluding UURB on a dened contribution basis and the UURB balance is credited ination have been met over a three year performance period.
targets in respect of the initial award to executive directors during the year require that the Companys EPS increases within a range of 6 per cent per In 2004, the Committee conducted a review of UK executive pension annum for 25 per cent vesting and 15 per cent per annum for 100 per cent provisions in the light of the Governments tax simplication changes, which vesting over the performance period, with a sliding scale between these points.
are expected to come into effect in April 2006.
The Committee concluded that, in principle, it would not be appropriate for the Company to provide In normal circumstances, performance shares under the EIP will vest three additional compensation to executives who would be adversely affected years following grant provided the Companys TSR targets have been met by the change.
In respect of existing members of the Companys dened over a three year performance period.
TSR is the growth in the value of a benefit arrangements which includes Eric Hutchinson, the Committee share or index, assuming dividends and other distributions are reinvested.
concluded that no material changes will be made to existing arrangements.
The performance conditions require Spirents TSR to be between the median In determining arrangements for Anders Gustafsson, the implications of the of a comparator group for 30 per cent vesting and in the upper quartile tax simplification changes were taken into account as part of the of a comparator group for 100 per cent vesting over the performance Committees deliberations on an appropriate remuneration package when period, with a sliding scale between these points.
The comparator group he joined the Company in 2004. consists of the 30 largest companies by market capitalisation in the FTSE TechMARK 100 index, excluding those TechMARK companies who are also Further details of pension contributions and payments are given in constituents of the FTSE 100 at the commencement of the performance paragraphs 6 b and 6 c. period.
The Committee considers the selected comparator group provides a suitable benchmark for Spirents TSR.
d Medium and long term incentive plans The Committee approves the grant of all awards under the Employee All EIP awards will be tested once on or shortly following the third Incentive Plan EIP in which executive directors participate see below.
Any part of an award which does not vest will lapse All grants are subject to the prior satisfactory performance of the individual and there will be no opportunity for retesting.
22 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 Report on directors remuneration continued The executive directors receive a mix of SARs options and performance Anders Gustafsson entered into a service contract on 1 August 2004 which shares, utilising a ratio of two SARs options to one performance share.
currently has an unexpired term of 172 months and is terminable by the At least 25 per cent of each grant is delivered in SARs options and at least Company on 12 months notice and by him on six months notice.
Eric 25 per cent in performance shares, with the balance of the grant delivered Hutchinson entered into a service contract on 13 December 1999 which through a mix of SARs options and performance shares as determined by currently has an unexpired term of 111 months and is terminable at any the Committee.
In normal circumstances, the maximum combined award time by either party on 12 months notice.
under the EIP will be limited to 250 per cent of salary face value in SARs All contracts contain provisions for the Company to make payment in lieu options.
As explained above, grants normally consist partly of SARs options of notice and for removal of the director for poor performance or misconduct and partly of performance shares, with the proviso that the performance without compensation.
The Company will seek to apply practical mitigation share element may not exceed a face value of 100 per cent of salary ie measures to any payment of compensation on termination, taking into using the ratio of two SARs options to one performance share, the account all relevant circumstances.
All service contracts contain appropriate maximum performance share award would be equivalent to 200 per cent provisions to protect the legitimate interests of the Company with respect in SARs options.
In determining any award, the Committee will of course to preventing any terminated director from working in a business which have regard to all relevant circumstances.
Service contracts do not contain any The Committee is mindful of the need to continue to manage shareholder compensation rights which could be increased on a change of control in dilution in a responsible manner.
As explained in the 2005 Circular, the the Company.
current shareholder approved mandate includes an aggregated annual allowance of up to 3.1 per cent of the issued share capital under the EIP and f External appointments the Spirent Stock Incentive Plan SSIP.
As part of the Committees Spirent recognises the mutual benefit for executive directors to serve as sustainable dilution strategy, SARs will, wherever possible, be used in lieu non-executive directors of companies in other industries outside the Group.
of options in the operation of the EIP and SSIP.
This SARs approach will help Such appointments are subject to prior Board approval and any related fee the Company manage its actual dilution more efficiently as only the entitlements are for the account of the executive director concerned.
During appreciation value and not the entire share value needs to be funded when 2005, Eric Hutchinson served on the board of Trifast plc as a non-executive an award is exercised.
director and received fees of 27,500 arising from this appointment.
Further information on the SARs approach, the operation of other share 5.
Non-executive directors remuneration schemes and shareholder dilution is provided in note 32 to the consolidated The remuneration of the Chairman is determined by the Committee and the financial statements and note 17 to the parent Company financial statements.
remuneration of the other non-executive directors is determined by the The Committee believes that the grant structure, performance conditions Board.
The remuneration of all non-executive directors is reviewed following and grant levels under the EIP represent the most appropriate medium to a recommendation by the Chief Executive and after consultation with long term incentive arrangements enabling Spirent to compete for, motivate independent external advisers concerning competitive market practice.
The and retain the highest calibre executives which it needs to drive the business Companys remuneration policy which has not changed during the year and forward and increase shareholder value.
As explained in the 2005 Circular, will apply for the following financial year with regards to non-executive the Committee proposed that the performance conditions and award directors is to pay fees which are in line with market practice.
criteria in respect of the EIP will operate for two annual award cycles ie for For 2005, the non-executive directors apart from John Weston were 2005 and 2006 and that the Company will revert to shareholders in 2007 awarded increases in basic fees of 3,000, bringing their basic fees to if it wishes to propose any material changes.
No remuneration increase was awarded to John Weston In order to assist further in aligning the interests of executives and shareholders, in respect his duties as Chairman.
shareholding guidelines are in place which encourage executive directors Non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in bonus or share and certain senior executives to build up a meaningful level of shareholding incentive arrangements and their service does not qualify for pension of up to two times salary through the retention of shares following exercise.
No element of their fees is performance-related.
Attainment of these guidelines will be taken into account by the Committee Non-executive directors do not have service contracts and are normally in determining future awards for executive directors and senior executives.
appointed, subject to the Companys Articles of Association, for an initial As a result of the transition to International Financial Reporting Standards three year term.
Any subsequent extension to the term by the Board is not and the disposal of the HellermannTyton Division, the Committee has resolved automatic and is subject to prior recommendation of the Nomination that it will adjust as necessary EPS performance condition measurements Committee.
in respect of outstanding SARs options to ensure that performance is Further information on non-executive directors fees is provided in measured on a consistent basis.
e Service contracts The Committees policy is to offer service contracts which provide for no more than 12 months notice from the Company in normal circumstances.
2 Eric Hutchinson earned these fees in respect of his services to the Board and its Committees.
The non-executive directors receive a basic annual fee of 33,000 in respect of their services.
John Weston receives an annual fee of 150,000 which covers both his basic annual fee and his additional duties as Chairman.
Andrew Given and Marcus Beresford each received an additional 7,000 per annum in recognition of their extra responsibilities as Chairmen of the Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee, respectively.
An additional annual fee, equivalent to that paid to the Chairman of the Audit or Remuneration Committee, is paid to the senior independent director currently James Wyness.
Frederick DAlessio and Richard Moley received an additional 5,000 per annum in recognition of the extensive international travelling commitment required to perform their duties.
3 Taxable benets include a car allowance, healthcare, personal tax advice, personal pensions advice and premiums for life assurance.
In accordance with the Companys normal policy it was agreed to meet the costs, subject to a cap, of Anders Gustafsson relocating from the US to the UK in order to commence his appointment in 2004 and applicable costs are included in his taxable benets.
4 Further details of the annual bonuses earned by the executive directors are provided in paragraph 4 b above.
5 The gures relate to the period of each directors Board membership.
Frederick DAlessio, Anders Gustafsson and Kurt Hellstrm were appointed to the Board in January 2004, August 2004 and December 2004, respectively.
Nicholas Brookes, My Chung and Richard Moley ceased being directors of the Company in June 2004, September 2004 and May 2005 respectively.
6 Remuneration as shown above excludes fees received as a result of external appointments see paragraph 4 f above.
b Directors pensions The pensions earned from the non-contributory dened benefit arrangements in place for the participating executive directors during 2005 were as follows: Increase, Accumulated total accrued pension Increase in before ination, At At Age at Years of accrued pension in accrued pension 31 December 31 December 1 31 December pensionable during the year during the year 2005 2004 2005 service 000 000 000 000 E Hutchinson 50 20 9.0 5.0 189.0 180.0 Increase, before 2 Transfer value, Total transfer value of pension Increase in total ination, in total Transfer value before ination, At At transfer value transfer value of the increase in of the increase in 31 December 1 January of pension of pension 2 2 accrued pension accrued pension 2005 2005 during the year during the year 000 000 000 000 000 000 E Hutchinson 125.5 70.0 2,635 2,213 422 373 Notes 1 The pension entitlements shown are those which would be paid annually from normal retirement age of 60 based on service to 31 December 2005.
Eric Hutchinsons total accrued pension is restricted to 20 years service.
2 The transfer value has been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11 and represents a liability of the Company in respect of unfunded arrangements and of the Staff Plan in respect of funded arrangements, not a sum paid or due to the individual.
The transfer value cannot therefore be meaningfully added to annual remuneration.
3 No additional voluntary contributions have been included in the above table.
24 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 Report on directors remuneration continued c Directors remuneration and payments to former directors summary 1 1 2005 2004 000 000 Total emoluments of all directors 1,442 2,269 2 Gains made on exercise of share options 8 2 Company contribution to 401 k Retirement and profit Share Plan 11 3 Company contribution to the Cash Plan in respect of pensions 23 11 4 Ex gratia pension to former director 5 5 1,470 2,304 Notes 1 Figures relate to the period of each directors Board membership.
2 An average conversion rate of 1 $1.83 was used for 2004.
3 These payments relate to approved contributions made by the Company in respect of Anders Gustafssons participation in the Cash Plan.
In respect of those contributions which are outside of the statutory limits, the Company has established an unfunded unapproved retirement benefit UURB, which had a transfer value of approximately 166,500 at 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 approximately 44,400.
The transfer value represents a notional accumulation of the Companys contributions.
See paragraph 4 c above for further information on directors pensions.
4 This relates to an annual ex gratia pension to Geoff Bastians, who retired from the Board in 1984.
Directors interests a Summary of interests in Ordinary share capital The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the directors and their immediate families and any connected persons in the Ordinary share capital of the Company at the beginning and end of the year are set out below.
The Companys statutory register of directors interests contains full details of directors shareholdings and options over shares and is available for inspection at the registered ofce during normal business hours on any business day.
At 31 December 2005 At 1 January 2005 Ordinary Ordinary Options and Ordinary Ordinary Options and shares shares rights to acquire shares shares rights to acquire 2 3 2 3 beneficial non-beneficial Ordinary shares beneficial non-beneficial Ordinary shares 4 Executive directors 5 5 A Gustafsson 50,000 180,180 3,232,000 180,180 1,800,000 E Hutchinson 753,707 4,091,733 738,381 3,282,447 Non-executive directors M Beresford 65,225 65,225 F DAlessio 28,000 28,000 6 G Ennerfelt 120,000,000 119,000,000 A Given K Hellstrm J Weston 1,662,000 1,600,000 J Wyness 346,037 346,037 Notes 1 Information relating to directors interests in 7 a and 7 b has been audited by the Companys auditors.
2 Directors beneficial holdings do not form part of the remuneration provided by the Company.
3 Options and other rights to acquire shares in respect of the executive directors include share options, share appreciation rights and performance shares.
4 The Companys executive directors, along with other employees of the Group, are potential beneciaries of certain Ordinary shares held in the Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT.
UK executive directors, with other employees of the Group, are also potential beneciaries of the Spirent Sharesave Trust SST.
As potential beneciaries of the ESOT and the SST, the respective directors are deemed by the Companies Act 1985 to be interested in some of the Ordinary shares held by those Trusts.
At 31 December 2005, the deemed beneficial interests in the ESOT and the SST were 180,180 Ordinary shares and 3,231,940 Ordinary shares, respectively 31 December 2004 259,066 and 3,508,136, respectively.
Further details on the Companys share plans are provided in note 32 to the consolidated financial statements and note 17 to the parent Company financial statements.
5 The non-beneficial interests of Anders Gustafsson arises from a conditional award over shares to a value of 100,000.
The award was made in 2004 in recognition of his appointment to the Board and the shares which were purchased are held in the ESOT.
In normal circumstances, the shares will be released beneficially to him on the third anniversary of his appointment, subject to him still being in the Companys employment at that time.
6 Gran Ennerfelt has a connected notiable interest in the Spirent Ordinary shares held by Lexa BV see the Report of the directors on pages 15 and 16, which for statutory purposes, is also deemed to be an interest of the director.
An explanation of each plan and its operation is given in note 32 to the consolidated financial statements and note 17 to the parent Company financial statements.
2 This relates to an award of performance shares under the EIP.
There is no exercise price payable for a performance share upon vesting.
Further details on performance shares are provided in paragraph 4 d above.
3 This award of options lapsed unexercised during the year.
The middle market price of an Ordinary share on 4 January 2005 being the first day the London Stock Exchange was open for trading in 2005 and 31 December 2005 was 51.5 pence and 49.5 pence, respectively, and during that period ranged between a high of 73.5 pence and a low of 41.25 pence.
Save as disclosed, there have been no changes between the year end and 23 February 2006 the date on which the financial statements have been signed in the directors beneficial or non-beneficial interests in the Ordinary share or loan capital of the Company or any subsidiary.
26 Spirent plc Annual Report 2005 Report on directors remuneration continued 8.
Total Shareholder Return performance The graph below shows Total Shareholder Return TSR performance ie growth in the value of a share or index, assuming dividends and other distributions are reinvested for the last five financial years of Spirent plc as shown against the FTSE 350 Index FTSE 350 and the FTSE Information Technology Index FTSE IT.
The Committee believes that both the FTSE 350 and the FTSE IT provide broad equity market indices against which the performance of Spirent can be fairly compared, and that the FTSE IT provides a particularly representative collection of comparator companies.
Shareholder advisory resolution in respect of the report on directors remuneration In accordance with statutory requirements, an ordinary resolution to approve this Remuneration Report will be proposed at the forthcoming 2006 Annual General Meeting.
Signed on behalf of the Board Marcus Beresford CBE Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 23 February 2006 Rebased Index
