SSL International plc Annual Report 2005 29 Remuneration Report Remuneration Report This report sets out the Companys policy in Remuneration policy Annual Bonus Plan: The annual bonus for relation to Directors remuneration.
The report, The Groups remuneration policy is designed to Executive Directors has been specifically which will be submitted to the forthcoming attract, motivate and retain key executives with designed in order to reward achievement of AGM for approval, explains how the Company the relevant skills to help achieve the Groups key milestones in the recovery of the business.
has applied the Combined Code on Corporate objectives.
It is also designed to achieve an Governance that relates to Directors effective link between pay and performance The annual bonus is payable in cash.
No Director is involved in the and alignment between executives and 2005 06, the maximum potential is 100 per cent determination of, or votes on any matter shareholders interests.
During the year, the of base salary for the Chief Executive and 75 per relating to, his or her own remuneration.
Committee undertook a comprehensive cent of base salary for the Executive Directors.
benchmarking exercise, plus a review of senior The bonus will be based on the achievement Remuneration Committee executive remuneration and as a result devised of even more stretching business performance The Remuneration Committee the Committee a new approach to remuneration packages for targets than in previous years.
Management is established by the Board and comprises the the Executive Directors, certain senior executives Operating Profit and Brand Contribution are Chairman and all of the Non-Executive Directors, collectively the Executive Team and other key measures and bonus payments are also all of whom the Board considers to be key executives.
As a part of the process, the conditional upon the Group achieving target EPS.
The Remuneration Committee Committee consulted with major shareholders The maximum bonus will be paid for achieving determines on behalf of the Board the and their representative bodies.
This reduces in a remuneration packages for the Executive straight line to 50 per cent of the maximum Directors, the Chairman and certain other senior The Committee believes that the new incentive payable for the achievement of the target.
The Committees terms of reference arrangements achieve the Groups remuneration The bonus further reduces in a straight line to can be viewed at the Companys website policy by: 10 per cent of the maximum for reaching 95 per www.
Peter Read was cent of the target.
There is no annual bonus for appointed Chairman of the Committee upon the Providing a truly motivational incentive reaching less than 95 per cent of the target.
resignation of Tim Howden as a Non-Executive scheme which drives individuals to strive Director on 20 July 2004.
Bernd Beetz was also a to outperform against targets: Annual bonus payments for 2004 05 will be paid Committee member until he stepped down from Stating that the primary reward mechanism in June 2005.
The bonus for the Chief Executive the Board on 20 July 2004.
Anna Catalano and for the Executive Team will be through equated to 60 per cent of his salary, while the Susan Murray joined the Committee when they variable pay linked to the achievement other Executive Directors will receive 50 per cent joined the Board on 11 November 2004 and of stretching financial targets.
Bonus targets were set for Brand 1 January 2005 respectively.
Ian Martin will cease increases, as a consequence, will be kept Contribution, Management Operating Profit and to be a member of the Committee when he steps to a minimum, thus complementing SSLs personal performance.
All targets were exceeded down from the Board following the Annual performance-driven culture: and, consequently, maximum bonus payments General Meeting on 20 July 2005.
Providing more effective rewards directly were awarded.
Under a deferred bonus scheme, linked to the achievement of relevant and which was established last year as a one-off The Committee has access to advice provided challenging financial growth targets: arrangement, the Executive Directors will in by the Chief Executive Garry Watts, the Group Restructuring senior executives packages December 2005 receive a further cash amount Legal Director and Company Secretary Antony so that an appropriate balance is achieved equal to the 2004 05 bonus, subject to their Mannion and the Group Human Resources between short-, mediumand long-term remaining in employment with the Group.
During the year, the targets, with a significant proportion of following consultants, who have been appointed remuneration subject to the achievement of Deferred Share Bonus Plan: This plan which by the Committee, provided advice: stretching long-term performance conditions: is subject to the discretion of the Committee is Introducing shareholding guidelines for intended to operate for the 2005 06 financial New Bridge Street Consultants LLP, who senior managers: and year only, and aims to provide a focused incentive assisted in the development of a new annual Using more efficiently the Companys equity based around the achievement of short-term bonus scheme, special bonus plan, deferred for the purposes of reward and retention.
Therefore, this plan will share bonus plan and performance share provide greater immediacy to the share-based plan PSP, all of which are explained For 2005 06, the proportion of performanceincentive programme as any award under this below: and related remuneration through the bonus plan would vest in 2007, whilst the first cycle of Ernst & Young LLP, who advised on the schemes and the PSP if the maximum target award under the PSP explained below would Groups share schemes: implementation of is achieved is expected to be approximately be expected to vest only in 2008. the deferred share bonus plan and PSP and 55 per cent of the total remuneration of the checking the Companys calculation for the Chief Executive and 50 per cent of the total The bonus is capped at 100 per cent of salary rebasing of earnings per share EPS to be remuneration of the other Executive Directors.
for the Chief Executive and 75 per cent of salary used for the Companys share schemes for the Executive Directors.
A bonus will only be following the disposal of the wound Remuneration components paid upon the achievement of very stretching EPS management, Regent Infection Control Base salary: Base salaries are determined by targets.
Any bonus earned will be invested in and Hibi businesses.
individual performance and by reference to shares either notionally or actually and deferred market salary levels obtained from independent until 30 March 2007.
Receipt of the bonus will In addition to the above, Ernst & Young LLP have sources.
This is the only element of remuneration be conditional upon continued employment and provided limited corporate finance advice to the which is pensionable.
be subject to the Committees discretion.
These consultants provide no other bonus will have been earned, it would vest in services to the Group.
full on a change of control.
The Committee believes this plan to be an important element in incentivising senior executives, because, with the exception of awards granted in the year to certain senior executives for recruitment purposes, no long-term share-based incentives were awarded over the 2004 05 financial year.
SSL International plc Annual Report 2005 30 Remuneration Report Remuneration Report continued At the end of the financial year, the basis on The Committee has determined that EPS will Pension which any bonus has been payable in relation be calculated by reference to operating profit The Company operates a contracted-in defined to targets set under the Annual Bonus Plan and before exceptional items and goodwill contribution scheme, the SSL UK Pension Scheme the Deferred Share Bonus Plan will be disclosed amortisation less interest and tax divided by the SSL Scheme, for UK employees.
It is in that years Remuneration Report.
the weighted average number of issued shares Company policy to contribute 25 per cent over the relevant financial period.
A consistent of base salary into the SSL Scheme for Executive Special Bonus Plan: In the event of a bid for the approach will be taken to measuring EPS over the Directors, subject to Inland Revenue limits.
Company, which is recommended by the Board transition to International Accounting Standards.
The level of contributions was determined in and approved by shareholders, the Committee The calculation of EPS will be independently 2002 based upon advice from Mercer Human has determined that it will consider awarding a verified by the Committee.
Resource Consulting on market practice and special bonus to the Chief Executive and to the taking account of the difference between Finance Director which would replace their The EPS target has been selected because the defined contribution and defined benefit other bonus arrangements for the year ending Committee considers it measures improvement schemes.
Executive Directors who participate 31 March 2006.
This bonus would reflect their in underlying financial performance and it is in the SSL Scheme contribute 5 per cent of their contribution to the bid process and the successful closely aligned to the creation of shareholder base salary.
During the year, the contribution conclusion of a transaction favourable to value.
Due to recent share price volatility, a levels were reviewed by the Committee and it shareholders.
Eligibility for the special bonus is market-based performance condition is not was decided to leave the levels unchanged.
effective immediately and its requirement will considered suitable at the current time.
The Current legislation in the UK restricts the amount be reviewed next on 1 April 2006 to coincide Committee will review the targets each year to of benefits that can be provided from approved with the Companys annual salary review.
Any ensure they remain appropriately demanding.
Consequently contributions to extension of the special bonus will be subject On the basis that share price volatility will return the SSL Scheme may have to be restricted if it is to shareholder approval.
to more predictable levels in the future, it is calculated that the maximum permitted benefits currently intended that for awards to be made will be exceeded.
In such circumstances the New Performance Share Plan PSP : A in 2006, two-thirds of the shares under such balance is paid as a cash sum less tax.
resolution to approve the PSP will be put to awards will be subject to challenging EPS growth shareholders at the AGM on 20 July 2005 targets no less challenging in the then Garry Watts is not a member of the SSL Scheme, and further details are enclosed in the Notice circumstances than those described above for but operates a personal pension plan, to which of Annual General Meeting, a copy of which can 2005 awards and the remaining one-third of the the Company contributes 25 per cent of his basic be viewed at www.
It is shares under such awards will vest in accordance salary.
Contributions that cannot be paid into his intended that the PSP will be the sole long-term with a measure of relative Total Shareholder personal pension plan as a result of current incentive plan and that eligibility will be restricted Return TSR performance.
legislation are paid as a cash sum less tax.
to the Executive Team and senior executives currently the top 35 employees.
No further Shareholding guidelines Executive Share Option Schemes share options would be granted other than in Executive Directors will be expected to retain As previously stated, no long-term share-based exceptional circumstances such as recruitment.
at least 50 per cent of the shares net of tax incentives were awarded during 2004 05 other which vest to them under the PSP until a than to Mark Moran details of which appear in Other than in exceptional circumstances, annual shareholding equivalent to 100 per cent the table on page 34 and to certain other senior grants will not exceed 100 per cent of base salary.
of base salary is achieved.
executives, all of whom joined the Group during Subject to the satisfaction of performance the year.
conditions, awards will vest after three years.
Other benefits Performance conditions will be determined The Company provides other benefits to the Service contracts annually by the Committee.
Subject to the Executive Team and senior executives, namely It is Company policy that the notice period in PSP being approved by shareholders, the a company car or allowance, life assurance, Executive Directors service contracts should performance conditions attaching to the permanent health insurance and private not exceed one year.
However, the Committee initial award will be as set out below: medical insurance.
retains the discretion to offer service contracts to a new Executive Director that contain an initial notice period in excess of one year, should market conditions require this.
Average annual growth in EPS 20052008 % of award exercisable The Executive Directors contracts have no fixed term but provide that either the Director or the RPI 15% None Company may terminate the employment by RPI 15% ie 45% over three years 15% giving one years written notice.
RPI 30% or more ie 90% over three years 100% Between the above points Pro rata between 15% and 100% There is no provision for retesting.
SSL International plc Annual Report 2005 31 Remuneration Report Director Date of contract Notice period G. Watts 5 February 2001 One year rolling I. Adamson 17 June 1996 One year rolling M. Pilkington 11 January 2002 One year rolling M. Moran 28 May 2004 One year rolling There are no express provisions for compensation Peter Read was appointed pursuant to a letter to be payable in the event of termination and dated 28 February 2002, with the appointment none of the contracts provides for different taking effect on 21 March 2002.
The or enhanced terms in the event of a change of appointment was for an initial period of one year control, except that Mr Watts contract provides but has been renewed for subsequent periods that, if the Company terminates Mr Watts of one year.
His current appointment expires appointment with immediate effect, in addition on 21 March 2006. to his contractual notice period Mr Watts shall be entitled to the Special Bonus or, if higher or Richard Adam was initially appointed pursuant to in a year when the Special Bonus is not payable, a letter dated 21 October 2003.
His appointment a payment equivalent to the average of any was effective from 13 November 2003 for an awards or bonus paid within the three-year initial period of three years.
period prior to the date of termination.
Anna Catalano was appointed pursuant to a If the employment of an Executive Director letter dated 29 October 2004.
Her appointment, is terminated, the Committees policy is to which is for an initial term of three years, was apply mitigation to compensation payments effective from 11 November 2004. at a level determined by reference to the individual circumstances of the Executive Susan Murray was appointed pursuant to a letter Director.
Appropriate external legal and dated 10 November 2004.
Her appointment, human resource advice would be obtained which is for an initial term of three years, was in each case.
Non-Executive Directors External appointments Save as disclosed below, none of the NonThe Company recognises that Executive Directors Executive Directors has a service contract.
may be invited to become Non-Executive Directors of other companies, but the Companys Ian Martin was appointed as Non-Executive consent is required before an executive can Chairman on 1 September 2001 for a term of accept such an appointment.
These three years, terminable by 12 months notice appointments can be beneficial to both the from the Company and six months notice individual and the Company in providing further by himself.
The Nomination Committee experience and knowledge.
Fees are normally subsequently recommended to the Board that retained by the individual director.
Currently the term of appointment be extended firstly Garry Watts is the only Executive Director to 28 February 2005 and then to the end of holding such directorships.
the Annual General Meeting on 20 July 2005 upon the same terms as the original letter of appointment, with the exception that the fee payable to Mr Martin was increased to 200,000 p. a. with effect from 20 July 2004.
In addition, Mr Martin is entitled to a company car and the services of a driver to which he contributes 50 per cent of the cost.
Fees for other Non-Executive Directors are reviewed annually.
The basic fee is 30,000 p. a. with an additional 5,000 p. a. for Committee Chairmen.
With effect from 18 May 2005, the Senior Independent Director currently Peter Read will receive an additional fee of 5,000 p. a. SSL International plc Annual Report 2005 32 Remuneration Report Remuneration Report continued Directors emoluments audited information Salaries and fees Bonus Benefits 2005 total 2004 total 000 000 000 000 000 Non-Executive Chairman I. Martin 193 42 235 222 Executive G. Watts 480 300 120 900 575 I. Adamson 225 115 56 396 M. Moran from 7.6.
Remuneration shown above relates to the period for which each Director served during the year.
Benefits include all taxable benefits arising from employment with the Company.
Under a deferred bonus scheme which was established last year as a one-off arrangement, the Executive Directors will in December 2005 receive a further cash amount equal to the 2004 05 bonus, subject to their remaining in employment with the Group.
The Executive Directors are subject to the Inland Revenue pension earnings cap 102,000 at 31 March 2005 which is reviewed by the Government from time to time.
As a result they also receive a cash supplement.
The amounts paid in the year were as follows: Garry Watts 94,512.00 Ian Adamson 37,192.88 Mark Moran 38,664.63 Mike Pilkington 41,304.25 SSL International plc Annual Report 2005 33 Remuneration Report Directors pensions audited information The following Directors received contributions as detailed below: 2005 2004 Company Company contribution contribution 000 000 G. Watts 26 25 I. Adamson 18 M. Moran 7 M. Pilkington 14 2 Notes: Pension contributions were paid as follows: 1.
Garry Watts into a personal pension plan.
Ian Adamson into the SSL UK Pension Scheme and an executive pension plan.
Mark Moran and Mike Pilkington into the SSL UK Pension Scheme.
Directors interests in shares audited information Shareholdings The following table shows the beneficial interests of the Directors who held office at the end of the year in the ordinary shares of the Company: Shareholdings as at Shareholdings 31 March 2004 as at or date of 31 March 2005 appointment Directors as at 31 March 2005 R. Adam 1,500 I. Adamson 15,626 15,626 A. Catalano I. Martin 8,000 8,000 M. Moran S. Murray M. Pilkington P. Read 3,200 3,200 G. Watts 40,000 40,000 Note: No Director held a non-beneficial interest in any shares.
Under the 1996 Scheme, for those options marked 1.1 exercise is subject to not less than three consecutive years of growth in normalised earnings per share exceeding the growth in the retail price index by at least an average 2 per cent per annum.
For those marked 1.2 exercise is subject to growth in normalised earnings per share for three years commencing on 1 April 2002 exceeding the growth in the retail price index by no less than 2 per cent per annum.
This condition has been met.
For those marked 1.3 exercise is subject to growth in normalised earnings per share for three years commencing on 1 April 2004 exceeding the growth in the retail price index by no less than 3 per cent per annum.
For those marked 1.4 exercise is subject to performance conditions that must be satisfied over initially a three-year period although this may be extended up to five years.
The exercise is subject to growth in normalised earnings per share exceeding the growth in the retail price index by at least an average of 3 per cent per annum and Total Shareholder Return of the Company, when compared to Total Shareholder Return of companies of the FTSE 250 reaching sixth decile for 50 per cent of the option to become exercisable, between sixth and eighth for a pro-rate between 50 per cent and 100 per cent of the option to become exercisable and eighth decile and above for 100 per cent of the option to become exercisable.
For those marked 1.5 exercise is not subject to performance conditions.
Following the disposal of the Groups medical business and the resultant reduction in earnings, the Committee reviewed the performance conditions attaching to options granted under the SSL 1990 Share Option Scheme and 1996 Executive Share Option Scheme.
It was agreed that the performance criteria should be rebased, to fairly compare historical earnings with those in the ongoing business, but that the rebased figures should be no less stretching than the previous targets.
Given the share price at the times of grants which was in excess of 4.80, the Committee determined that only earnings since the financial year ended 31 March 2002 would be reviewed.
Consequently the earnings per share figures for the financial years ended 2002, 2003 and 2004 were rebased.
The calculations to determine the new figures have been independently checked by Ernst & Young LLP, although Ernst & Young LLP express no opinion on the accuracy of the base data and the appropriateness of the underlying assumptions.
Indicates the number of options at date of appointment to the Board 14 April 2004 in the case of Mr Adamson and 7 June 2004 in the case of Mr Moran.
No options were exercised in the period or the previous period.
There are no performance criteria for exercise of options under the SAYE schemes.
The market price of the Companys shares was 302.75 pence on 31 March 2005 and ranged from 334 pence to 258 pence during the year.
These grants are exercisable subject to the performance conditions being met.
SSL International plc Annual Report 2005 35 Remuneration Report Directors interests in shares continued LTIP audited information Outstanding awards under The SSL International Long-Term Incentive Plan as at 31 March 2005 are as follows: Performance Performance Performance Performance Deferred Deferred shares Deferred shares Deferred shares as at shares awarded shares lapsed shares as at shares as at awarded in vesting in shares as at 31.03.04 in the period in the period 31.03.05 31.03.04 the period the period 31.03.05 M. Pilkington 6,250 6,250 6,250 6,250 Notes: 1.
These awards were made in June 2002.
The vesting of the performance shares is subject to the Companys earnings per share increasing by inflation plus 2 per cent per annum over a continuous period of three years.
The performance shares and deferred shares will vest on 17 June 2005.
The market price on date of award was 370.0 pence.
There has been no change in interests of Directors between 31 March 2005 and 23 May 2005.
Performance graph The graph shows the Companys total shareholder return performance compared with that of the FTSE 350 Index.
This index was selected as an appropriate comparator index because it is a broad equity market index of which SSL is a constituent.
120 100 80 60 40 20 0 Mar 00 Mar 01 Mar 02 Mar 03 Mar 04 Mar 05 FTSE 350 SSL International plc Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Peter Read Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 23 May 2005
