Remuneration Committee report Remuneration Committee Report Performance graph The Board supports the principles of good corporate governance relating The graph below charts the performance of the Stagecoach Group Total to Directors remuneration and has applied them as described below.
Shareholder Return TSR share value movement plus reinvested dividends over the 5 years to 30 April 2005 compared with that of the In accordance with Schedule 7A Directors Remuneration Report of the FTSE Transport All-Share Index, the FTSE Mid 250 Index and the Companies Act 1985, those paragraphs that have been audited have been FTSE All-Share Index.
We have included a further graph to highlight the highlighted as such.
Companys more recent performance, charting TSR for the 12 months up to 30 April 2005.
In assessing the performance of the Companys TSR the Board believes Composition of the Remuneration Committee the comparator groups it has chosen represent a fair benchmark both in During the year ended 30 April 2005, Iain Duffin chaired the terms of the nature of the business activity and size of company.
Remuneration Committee and the other members were Russell Walls and Janet Morgan, all three of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors.
Remuneration Policy The Committee, which was established in December 1992, has delegated responsibility for approving the remuneration and terms of employment The Remuneration Policy is consistent with our prior year policy, which was approved by the shareholders at the 2004 Annual General Meeting.
However, for the Executive Directors and the Chairman, including pensions rights and any compensation payments.
The Remuneration Committee also the Committee has, with the assistance of the Groups advisers, KPMG LLP UK, been reviewing the structure of remuneration for Executive Directors monitors and makes appropriate recommendations with respect to the remuneration of other senior management.
Proposals will be submitted to shareholders at the 2005 Annual General Meeting to make changes to the various elements of The Board of Directors as a whole, having given due regard to the remuneration in the context of the overall objectives of the Remuneration required time commitment and responsibilities, sets the fees and expenses Policy.
The Remuneration Committee follows Schedule A of the Combined payable to the Non-Executive Directors.
Non-Executive Directors do not Code in designing performance-related remuneration schemes.
hold any share options, nor do they participate in any incentive plans or In determining appropriate levels of remuneration for the Executive pension schemes with the exception of Ann Gloag who receives a pension Directors, the Remuneration Committee aims to provide overall packages accrued when she was an executive director.
The members of the of terms and conditions that are competitive in the UK and will attract, Remuneration Committee have no personal interest in the matters to be retain and motivate high quality executives capable of achieving the decided other than as shareholders, no potential conflicts of interest Stagecoach Groups objectives and to ensure that they are fairly rewarded arising from cross-directorships and no day-to-day involvement in running for their individual responsibilities and contributions to the Groups overall the businesses of the Stagecoach Group.
The Remuneration Committee believes that such packages should contain significant performance-related elements and that these Both the constitution and operation of the Remuneration Committee performance-related elements should be designed to align the interests of comply with the principles incorporated in the Combined Code, with the the Executive Directors and other senior managers with the interests of prior consent of shareholders where necessary.
Performance targets are established to achieve consistency Remuneration Report, the Remuneration Committee has followed the with the interests of shareholders, with an appropriate balance between provisions of the Combined Code.
Performance targets include traditional The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are available on financial indicators and personal targets, successful investment, innovation, staff development, customer satisfaction and achievement of regulatory the Groups website at http: www.
requirements, including health and safety and environmental targets.
Stagecoach TSR Comparative Performance since 30 April 2000 Stagecoach 1 Year TSR Comparative Performance to 30 April 2005 Stagecoach Group plc page 23 Remuneration Committee report To this end, the Remuneration Committee reviews the existing there are also a number of performance-related bonus schemes within remuneration of the Executive Directors, in consultation with the group companies, in addition to the UK-only SAYE scheme.
Chief Executive, making comparisons with peer companies of similar size and complexity and with other companies in the public transport industry Remuneration of Executive Directors and Other Executives in the UK and overseas.
Proposals for the forthcoming year are then audited discussed in the light of the prospects for the Group.
The Remuneration The remuneration of the Executive Directors and other executives may Committee is also kept informed of the salary levels of other senior comprise a number of elements from the following: executives employed by the Stagecoach Group and of average earnings for all employees.
With regard to pensions, the Remuneration Committee has.
Basic Salary: access to reports from the trustees and scheme actuaries regarding the.
Performance-related annual cash bonuses: cost of pension obligations.. Benefits in kind and other allowances: The Committee has taken advice during the financial year from a firm of independent executive remuneration consultants, Inbucon Consulting.
Pension arrangements: KPMG LLP UK provided guidance on the implementation of the proposed changes to the remuneration arrangements as described later in.
Inbucon has no other relationship with the Group.
Long Term Bonus Scheme LTBS : UK has from time to time provided other consultancy services to the Group and is the auditor of the Stagecoach Group Pension Scheme.
Executive Participation Programme EPP proposed: SGPS.. Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP proposed.
Shareholders are invited to specifically approve all new long-term The participation of the three Executive Directors in the above remuneration plans whether share-settled or cash-settled plans and any arrangements is summarised in Table 1. significant changes to existing plans, except where otherwise permitted by the Listing Rules.
Each Executive Directors remuneration package is tailored to the individual to ensure an appropriate balance of reward for responsibilities, motivation, The Remuneration Committee believes that remuneration packages should retention and share participation, whilst ensuring the overall packages are reward the efforts of all staff since a motivated workforce is a key element appropriate to recruit and retain high quality executives capable of of Group performance.
The Committee recognises that Executive Directors achieving the Groups objectives.
bear the greatest responsibility for delivering corporate strategy that underpins long-term sustainable performance.
While the Remuneration Directors remuneration for the year ended 30 April 2005 is shown in Committees report focuses on incentive schemes for senior executives, Table 2 and Directors pension benefits are shown in Table 3.
Basic TABLE 1 DIRECTORS Salary Annual Benefits Share EPP LTIP PARTICIPATION Bonus in kind Pension Options LTBS proposed proposed Brian Souter YES YES YES YES NO YES YES Graham Eccles YES YES YES YES YES NO` NO` Martin Griffiths YES YES YES YES YES YES YES The Executive Directors are not expected to receive further awards of executive share options, following and subject to the approval of the proposed EPP and LTIP.
The existing LTBS will be unwound subject to the approval of the proposed EPP and LTIP.
`Graham Eccles will not participate in the EPP nor the LTIP because he intends to retire as a Director in April 2006.
TABLE 2 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Performance Benefits in Non-pensionable amounts in 000 Salary fees related bonus kind allowances Total 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 Executive Directors Brian Souter 484 470 339 329 17 18 n a n a 840 817 Graham Eccles 261 250 183 175 24 21 46 44 514 490 Martin Griffiths 220 205 154 143 20 20 33 29 427 397 Non-Executive Directors Ewan Brown 32 30 Nil Nil Nil Nil n a n a 32 30 Ann Gloag 32 30 Nil Nil Nil Nil n a n a 32 30 Robert Speirs 90 90 Nil Nil Nil Nil n a n a 90 90 Russell Walls 32 30 Nil Nil Nil Nil n a n a 32 30 Janet Morgan 32 30 Nil Nil Nil Nil n a n a 32 30 Iain Duffin 32 30 Nil Nil Nil Nil n a n a 32 30 Total 1,215 1,165 676 647 61 59 79 73 2,031 1,944 Non-pensionable allowances represent additional taxable remuneration paid to provide pension benefits.
page 24 Stagecoach Group plc Remuneration of Executive Directors and Other Executives audited continued Increase in TABLE 3 DIRECTORS PENSION BENEFITS Additional Transfer value transfer value amounts in 000 accrued benefits Accrued Accrued lump of increase less Directors in the year pension sum excluding inflation contributions Excluding Including Executive Directors inflation inflation 2005 2004 2005 2004 2005 2004 Brian Souter 47 66 244 226 439 391 146 127 116 Graham Eccles 10 14 21 18 64 53 33 29 33 Martin Griffiths 11 13 26 23 78 68 12 10 12 Graham Eccles and Martin Griffiths were not members of the Group for meeting financial objectives and 30% for meeting personal non-financial pension schemes before the introduction of the pensionable salary cap in objectives.
The change in potential bonus is part of the wider proposals to June 1989.
They are each paid a non-pensionable allowance, which is update remuneration arrangements, including the new proposed EPP and equivalent to the cost of a money purchase contribution of 20% of their LTIP.
As Graham Eccles is expected to retire in April 2006 and is therefore salary in excess of the pensionable salary cap.
not participating in the new remuneration arrangements, his maximum potential bonus for the year ending 30 April 2006 will be up to 70% of During the year ended 30 April 2002, the remaining proceeds of a small selfbasic salary, 40% for meeting financial objectives and 30% for meeting administered money purchase scheme SSAS established for Brian Souter personal non-financial objectives.
and Ann Gloag in 1992 were transferred into the Stagecoach Group Pension Scheme to secure additional final salary type benefits equivalent in actuarial Benefits in kind and other allowances value to the proceeds transferred.
The additional benefits are reflected in the disclosure of Brian Souters accrued benefits above.
In Ann Gloags case, her Certain Executive Directors receive car, fuel, telephone and healthcare taxable benefits.
Other allowances may be provided as an additional cash share of the SSAS assets was used to secure additional money purchase benefits equivalent in actuarial value to the proceeds transferred.
This payment: for example, an Executive Director may receive a cash allowance in lieu of a company car.
The value of such benefits is included within provided her with an initial annual pension of 90,000, reduced to 81,000 from 1 March 2004.
Employer contributions to the SSAS ceased in 2000 for Table 2 on page 24 of this report.
Ann Gloag and in 2001 for Brian Souter.
Pension arrangements Directors who are members of the Stagecoach Group Pension Scheme Under the terms of their service agreements, Executive Directors are have the option to pay additional voluntary contributions AVCs.
entitled to become members of one of the Stagecoach Groups defined Neither the contributions nor the resulting benefits of any AVCs are benefit pension schemes or, if preferred, to receive payment of a included in the table above.
proportion of salary for personal pension schemes.
The Stagecoach Group Each of the elements of remuneration is discussed further below.
pension schemes are designed to provide a pension for Executives of up to two-thirds of final pensionable salary completed up to normal Basic salary retirement age, subject to Inland Revenue limits.
The salary of individual Executive Directors is reviewed at 1 May each year.
Martin Griffiths and Graham Eccles are subject to the pensionable earnings Account is taken of individual achievements, together with any changes in cap so the Company makes cash contributions to them for the part of responsibilities that may have occurred and, as stated above, the salaries their salary that exceeds the cap.
Only basic salary is pensionable.
Life for similar roles in comparable companies.
assurance of four times basic annual salary is provided under the Group pension scheme.
Performance-related annual cash bonuses The Remuneration Committee is reviewing the implications of the new An annual discretionary bonus scheme for the Executive Directors was first pensions regime introduced by the Pensions Act 2004.
No changes have introduced in 1993.
been made to date and where possible the Committee will look to work to At the start of each financial year, the Board agrees specific objectives for the general principle of not increasing the rate of accrual of pensions benefit each Executive Director.
Following the end of each financial year, the nor to increase the annual cost to the Group as a result of the new regime.
Remuneration Committee determines the performance-related annual cash bonus for each Executive Director for the year just ended.
This is based on Share options audited the Directors performance in achieving the objectives agreed.
These The Executive Directors are not expected to receive further awards of comprise both financial and non-financial objectives.
For Executive executive share options, following and subject to the approval of the Directors, the financial objectives for the year ending 30 April 2006 are to proposed EPP and LTIP.
However, the Executive Directors continue to hold better the Groups financial targets for the financial year with respect to executive share options that were previously awarded.
measures of earnings before interest and taxation, earnings per share, and net debt.
The non-financial objectives are specific to each Executive Two Directors exercised Executive share options during the year.
Details Director and cover matters such as safety targets, environmental targets, are shown in Table 4 on page 26. successful investment, innovation, staff development, customer satisfaction, The interests of Directors who have options to subscribe for ordinary successful business acquisitions disposals and regulatory requirements.
shares of the Company, together with movements during the year, are In making its judgement of performance for the last financial year the shown in Table 5 on page 26.
All of the share options were granted for Remuneration Committee had particular regard to the results as recorded nil consideration.
The exercise price of the share options reflects the elsewhere in the Annual Report, and relative total return to shareholders mid-market price immediately preceding the time of the award: the over the year, as well as other strategic developments and operating Groups policy is not to offer executive share options at a discount to the improvements.
Bonuses awarded to Executive Directors in respect of the mid-market price.
The mid-market price of the underlying ordinary shares year ended 30 April 2005 were: at 30 April 2005 was 1.03 per share 30 April 2004: 0.82 per share.
The Companys ordinary shares traded in the range 0.76 to 1.23 year Maximum potential ended 30 April 2004: 0.44 to 0.93 during the year to that date.
Actual bonus as a bonus as a Share options are subject to certain performance criteria as discussed on percentage of percentage of Director basic salary basic salary page 27.
In addition to the share options shown in Table 5 on page 26, one Brian Souter 70% 70% Director has been granted and two Directors have exercised options during Graham Eccles 70% 70% the year under the Groups Save As You Earn scheme.
Details are shown Martin Griffiths 70% 70% in Table 7 on page 27.
For the year ending 30 April 2006, Brian Souter and Martin Griffiths will Further information on these options is detailed in note 23 to the each have a maximum potential bonus of up to 100% of basic salary, 70% accounts on page 58.
The financial years by 4% per annum, or earnings per share outperforming executive shares options shown in Table 5 that were awarded on 23 July inflation over five consecutive financial years by 5% per annum.
2002 are expected to vest on 23 July 2005.
Awards were made to three Directors under this scheme in the financial All of the outstanding executive share options shown in Table 5 were year ended 30 April 2005, and are shown in Table 6. issued under The Stagecoach Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme the Scheme.
The Scheme was established in September 1997, when it Under the rules of the Companys share option schemes, and consistent was approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The scheme with guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers ABI, there was amended by shareholder approval at an Extraordinary General Meeting are limits on the number of share options that can be granted that are to in January 2002.
This scheme is also used to reward senior executives be satisfied with the issue of new shares.
Following the consolidation of throughout the Group, at the Boards discretion.
ordinary shares related to the return of capital in September 2004, the number of executive share options that had been granted in the previous In December 2004, the Board and the Remuneration Committee agreed 10 years exceeded 5% of the issued number of ordinary shares to remove from the Scheme, the ability to award Super Options.
therefore, it is not possible to satisfy any new grants of share options Therefore, all executive share options awarded on or after 4 December under the executive share option schemes with newly issued shares since 2004, are Ordinary Options which are exercisable between three and to do so would exceed the limits under the share schemes.
Accordingly, seven years after the date of award.
The maximum level of executive the Board and the Remuneration Committee has determined that all share options that can now be issued to a given individual in any financial future grants of share options under the executive share option schemes year is two times that individuals salary, calculated by comparing the will be satisfied with existing shares until such time as there is sufficient salary to the total number of shares covered by the options multiplied by headroom available under the new issue share limits.
The Board and the Remuneration Committee also agreed to remove from the Scheme, the facility for the performance The Groups Employee Share Ownership Trusts are used to acquire and condition to be re-tested.
Re-testing is now prohibited for all executive finance shares to meet contingent obligations under share-based incentive share options awarded on or after 4 December 2004.
Accordingly, the schemes that are not expected to be satisfied through the issue of new exercise of executive share options awarded on or after 4 December 2004 th shares.
At 30 April 2005, these trusts held 6,501,545 12 19 Ordinary is subject to earnings per share outperforming inflation over Shares in the Company, representing 0.6% of the total issued Ordinary three consecutive financial years by 3% per annum cumulatively the Shares.
The Company follows the ABI guideline that the shares held by base year is the latest financial year ended prior to the award of the Employee Share Ownership Trusts should not exceed 5% of the total option and the performance condition may not be re-tested.
The Employee Share Ownership Trusts have waived the For ordinary options awarded up until June 2001, exercise of the options right to receive dividends on the shares held by them.
is subject to earnings per share outperforming inflation over three consecutive financial years by 2% per annum cumulatively.
For In determining the amounts shown above, issues of new shares and the ordinary options awarded after June 2001 but prior to 4 December 2004, re-issuing of shares from Treasury are both treated as being dilutive.
The exercise of the options is subject to earnings per share outperforming Group do not, however, treat shares released from Employee Share inflation over three consecutive financial years by 3% per annum, or Ownership Trusts as being dilutive.
At 1 May 2004 Granted Exercised At 30 April 2005 TABLE 7 No of ordinary No of ordinary No of ordinary No of ordinary SAYE OPTIONS shares shares shares see Table 4 shares Martin Griffiths 9,500 9,174 9,500 9,174 Graham Eccles 15,833 Nil 15,833 Nil Stagecoach Group plc page 27 Remuneration Committee report Under the proposed LTIP, executives would be awarded notional units with Long Term Bonus Scheme a value equal to one of the Companys ordinary shares, at the discretion of The Long Term Bonus Scheme is intended to motivate and retain certain the Remuneration Committee.
The maximum award in any year to an key executives at the Boards discretion.
individual would be limited to 150% of the individuals basic salary.
Graham Eccles and Martin Griffiths are presently the only participants in The individual would need to remain with the Company for three years in The Stagecoach Executive Directors Long Term Bonus Scheme.
Under this order to receive full entitlement to the deferred shares.
The number of Scheme, Graham Eccles may be awarded an additional annual bonus of shares that would be released after the three years would be calculated as 100,000 per financial year for each of the three years commencing follows: 1 May 2003 and Martin Griffiths may be awarded an additional annual bonus of 50,000 for each of the five years commencing 1 May 2003..
If TSR is negative, irrespective of the TSR of the comparator group, no The performance condition of the Scheme is such that the bonuses are shares would be released: payable if the growth in earnings per share each financial year outperforms inflation by at least 5%.
The performance conditions in respect of the.
If TSR is positive but is less than the median TSR of the comparator group, no shares would be released: years ended 30 April 2004 and 30 April 2005 were satisfied and therefore subject to the relevant individual remaining a full-time employee of the.
If TSR exceeds the median of the comparator group, 33% of the shares Group, the bonus in respect of those years will be paid at the end of the would be released: three or five year period..
If TSR is in the top quartile of the comparator group, 100% of the In conjunction with the proposals set out below to introduce new longshares would be released: term remuneration schemes, it is proposed that Martin Griffiths waives his entitlement to any current or future amounts under the existing Long.
If TSR is higher than the median but less than the top quartile, the Term Bonus Scheme and, subject to shareholder approval for the new proportion of shares to be released would be between 33% and 100% schemes being obtained, the Remuneration Committee proposes to make depending on the exact ranking against the comparator group.
a cash payment to buy out any amounts of the earned bonus accrued up Accordingly, the awards are closely tied to the rewards to shareholders as until 30 April 2005.
As Graham Eccles is expected to retire in April 2006 a whole.
The participants will only benefit if TSR is positive and TSR is his existing arrangement under the Long Term Bonus Scheme will remain above the median of FTSE 250 companies.
An independent third party will calculate the TSR measures for the Executive Participation Programme purposes of determining the extent to which the performance condition is satisfied.
A new Executive Participation Programme EPP is proposed and shareholder approval will be sought at the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
There would be no re-testing of performance conditions.
Subject to shareholder approval, the first awards under the EPP will be for the financial year ending 30 April 2006, with deferred shares expected to Further details are provided in the circular sent to shareholders.
Directors service agreements The intention of the EPP is to further align the interests of senior executives with shareholders by giving senior executives a greater direct The details of the Executive Directors service contracts are summarised in interest in the performance of the Companys shares.
The EPP is such that the table below: the executives can benefit from both capital growth i. e. increases in share price and dividend yield.
This avoids one of the issues with the executive Name of director Date of contract Notice period share option scheme that could be seen as discouraging management Brian Souter 2 April 1993 12 months from increasing dividends at the expense of capital growth.
The EPP is amended also designed to provide an incentive for senior executives to remain with the Group and would form a core part of the Groups succession and 26 January 1996 management development plans.
Graham Eccles 27 October 2000 12 months Martin Griffiths 8 August 2000 12 months Awards under the EPP can be to Executive Directors and other senior executives.
Participants would be required to sacrifice 50% of their actual annual bonus award and would be awarded deferred shares with an initial It is the Companys policy that Executive Directors should have 12-month market value approximately equal to the amount of the actual cash bonus rolling service contracts providing for a maximum of one years notice.
Due to the nature of the Groups businesses, the service contracts contain restrictive covenants that will be rigorously applied.
Absolute and full entitlement to the shares would be deferred for three years.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed by a letter, which makes no specific provision for notice periods.
Non-Executive Directors are subject to There would be no specific performance conditions attaching to the election and re-election by shareholders as described on page 18. release of deferred shares because the annual bonus is already subject to performance conditions and there will be no awards of matching shares in respect of annual bonuses the EPP is to encourage executives to invest Early termination an element of their annual bonus in the Companys shares.
The EPP If the Company terminates an Executive Directors contract, the costs for would be an effective retention programme in that a participant would which the Company is liable will vary depending on length of service and lose his or her entitlement to the deferred shares if he she left of his her are subject to mitigation.
The costs will include a termination payment of own volition during the three-year deferral period.
up to one times annual salary only and certain benefits and retirement benefits funded under the Companys pension schemes.
Further details are provided in the circular sent to shareholders.
It is intended that where an individual receives an award under the EPP, Change of control he or she would not also receive an award of executive share options in The following apply where there is a change in control of the Company: the same financial year.. Executive Directors are entitled to normal termination benefits as outlined above, except where the director is offered and has refused Long Term Incentive Plan employment on terms and conditions that were no less favourable to For a small number of senior executives, including Executive Directors, a those in place prior to the change of control: new long-term incentive plan LTIP is proposed.
The LTIP would introduce stringent performance criteria related to total shareholder return.
With respect to Executive Share Options, options can be exercised TSR.
TSR is calculated as the movement in share value after taking within six months of the change of control.
For options granted prior account of re-invested dividends.
TSR would be measured against a to 14 January 2002, the performance condition will not apply.
For comparator group, which would be the list of FTSE 250 companies.
options granted on or after 14 January 2002, the extent to which the Subject to shareholder approval, the first awards under the LTIP will be in performance condition is applied shall be determined by the August 2005.
Remuneration Committee: page 28 Stagecoach Group plc.
Under the proposed EPP, shares deferred would automatically vest on a b Alexander Dennis Limited change of control.
With effect from 21 May 2004, Brian Souter Chief Executive of Stagecoach and Ann Gloag a Non-Executive Director of Stagecoach.
Under the proposed LTIP, LTIP units would vest on a pro-rata basis together control 40.0% of the shares and voting rights in taking account of the proportion of the vesting period that had expired Alexander Dennis Limited.
Noble Grossart Investments Limited and the TSR performance condition.
see a above controls a further 30.0% of the shares and voting rights of Alexander Dennis Limited.
None of Brian Souter, Ann Gloag or Outside appointments Ewan Brown is a director of Alexander Dennis Limited nor do they have Under the terms of their service agreements, Executive Directors require any involvement in the management of Alexander Dennis Limited.
Board approval before accepting any external appointment.
Details of Furthermore, they do not participate in deciding on and negotiating the remuneration earned where an Executive Director serves as a terms and conditions of transactions between the Group and Alexander Non-Executive Director elsewhere are disclosed in note 27 to the accounts Dennis Limited.
Such earnings are paid to the Group and not to individual In the period from 21 May 2004 to 30 April 2005, the Group purchased Directors.
25.5m of vehicles from Alexander Dennis Limited and 2.4m of spare parts and other services.
Of the 25.5m worth of vehicles, 20.4m was Transition to International Financial Reporting Standards ordered from Transbus prior to its administration and Alexander Dennis The Finance Directors Review summarises the status of the Groups Limited inherited the orders from Transbus.
Transbus was not a related transition from UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles UK GAAP party of the Group.
to International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
For new orders placed with Alexander Dennis Limited for vehicles, the The Remuneration Committee has introduced measures to ensure a Group has consulted with the UK Listing Authority and taken the consistent measurement of financial performance during the transition to appropriate measures to ensure that the transactions with Alexander IFRS.
The Group will report IFRS financial information for the year ending Dennis Limited comply with the Listing Rules.
In the period from 21 May 30 April 2006, with comparative information for the year ending 30 April 2004 to 30 April 2005, the Group has placed orders totalling 49.3m 2005.
Where financial performance is being assessed with reference to a with Alexander Dennis for the purchase of new vehicles.
Of this 49.3m, base year ending on or after 30 April 2005, the Remuneration Committee vehicles accounting for 5.1m were delivered prior to 30 April 2005 and will assess performance based on IFRS financial information.
Where are included in the total purchases of 25.5m referred to above.
financial performance is being assessed with reference to an earlier c ScotAirways Group Ltd financial year, the Remuneration Committee will assess performance based Brian Souter is Chairman of ScotAirways Group Ltd. During the year the on UK GAAP financial information.
To enable this, the Group will continue Group purchased flights from ScotAirways Group Ltd totalling 74,905 to produce key UK GAAP financial measures for the Remuneration 2004: 99,123.
Similarly, adjustments will be made for any other changes in accounting policies to ensure financial performance is measured consistently.
Remuneration policy approval An ordinary resolution to receive and approve this Remuneration Report Transactions in which Directors have had a material will be proposed at the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
interest audited On behalf of the Board a Noble Grossart Limited Ewan Brown a Non-Executive Director of Stagecoach is a former executive director and current non-executive director of Noble Grossart Limited that provided advisory services to the Group during the year.
Total fees payable to Noble Grossart Limited in respect of the year amounted to 145,950 2004: 20,000, including 125,500 2004: Nil in respect of Noble Grossarts role as financial advisor in connection with the return of capital in September 2004.
Noble Grossart Investments Limited, a subsidiary of Noble Grossart Limited, held at 30 April 2005 6,354,443 IAIN DUFFIN 2004: 8,026,665 ordinary shares in the Company, representing 0.6% Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 2004: 0.6% of the ordinary shares in issue and 8,026,665 B shares in the Company, representing 10.4% of the B shares in issue.
22 June 2005 Stagecoach Group plc page 29
