Directors remuneration report This report has been prepared in accordance on the remuneration of executive directors No change is proposed to the existing base with the requirements of Schedule 7A of and certain other senior executives shall salary policy but some changes are proposed the Companies Act 1985 the Act and the not also advise general management on the to the structure of the performance-related Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
remuneration of any other executives in the elements of the reward package.
As a result, a  LLP have audited Group.
In accordance with this policy, the greater proportion of the total reward package the contents of the report to the extent Committee appointed Leslie Moss of Hewitt will be performance-related.
Reward levels will required by the Act the tabular information Bacon & Woodrow Limited Hewitt to act as remain dependent on stretching corporate on pages 52 to 56. its principal adviser on executive remuneration performance targets ensuring a continued A resolution to approve this report will be arrangements and, during the year, this close alignment between executive reward proposed at the Annual General Meeting included advice on the design of the proposed and enhanced shareholder value.
Deferred Bonus Share Plan DBSP.
The Committee is also provided with market Remuneration package Remuneration Committee remuneration data from a survey published Composition The Remuneration Committee the Committee by Towers Perrin and has appointed Kepler The current remuneration package for comprises all the independent non-executive Associates to provide Total Shareholder executive directors consists of base salary, directors of the Company.
The current Return performance data and ranking annual bonus, long-term incentives, pensions members are: Allen Yurko Chairman, Richard information for the Performance Share Plan.
The Companys policy is to Delbridge, Evert Henkes, Kai Nargolwala During the year, Hewitt provided the Group ensure that a significant proportion of the total appointed 1 December 2004 and Dr Barry with consulting services in relation to remuneration package is performance-related, Zoumas appointed after the end of the retirement and other benefits, and also general even at target levels.
For stretch performance, financial year on 31 May 2005. compensation advice and payroll administration the proportion of total remuneration that is The Committee met seven times during for the new plant in Singapore.
Towers Perrin performance-related is higher, as is the total the year.
Individual members attendance and Kepler Associates provided no other amount of remuneration payable.
record at meetings during the year is given in services to the Group.
Subject to shareholders approval of the the table on page 44.
The terms of reference proposed changes to the executive of the Committee, a copy of which can be Remuneration policy remuneration arrangements detailed in the found on the Companys website at The Remuneration Committee is responsible report below, in the year ending 31 March www.
com, are reviewed for setting the remuneration of the executive 2006, the relative proportions of an executive annually to ensure they meet best practice.
directors in accordance with a policy directors remuneration, when valued at both The Committee also conducts a review of its determined by the Committee and agreed on-target and stretch performance levels on work and effectiveness each year and any with the Board.
the basis of the expected value of the longrecommendations from this review are The remuneration policy for executive term incentives but excluding post-retirement reported to the Board.
The 2005 review directors and senior executives is to provide benefits and allowances paid in lieu of concluded that the Committee had fulfilled remuneration packages which attract, retain pensions, are shown in the charts below.
its role and responsibilities appropriately.
and motivate high-calibre individuals The Committee determines the individual to ensure that the Group is managed Composition of remuneration package remuneration packages of each executive successfully to the benefit of shareholders.
for executive directors average as % director and other members of the Group To achieve this, the remuneration package of total remuneration Management Committee.
This includes base is designed: salary, bonus, long-term incentives, benefits, Target performance and terms of employment including those to be competitive and commensurate with upon which their service may be terminated.
other international businesses of similar size, Additionally, the Committee approves the particularly those in the food processing base salary, long-term incentives and benefits industry: 49% of members of the Group Operational to align the interests of executives and Committee.
In consultation with the Chief shareholders by rewarding the creation 51% Executive, the Committee also determines of sustained growth in shareholder value: the remuneration of the Chairman.
to reward above average performance: The Chairman Sir David Lees, Chief to ensure that performance-related Executive Iain Ferguson, Group Human elements form a significant proportion Resources Director Corry Wille and Company of the total remuneration package: and Stretch performance Secretary Robert Gibber, who acts as to take into account local country practice.
Secretary to the Committee, are normally invited to attend meetings, although not when During the year, together with its independent 24% their own remuneration arrangements are remuneration adviser, the Committee discussed.
In addition, non-executive directors undertook a review of the Companys who are not members of the Committee are executive remuneration arrangements to 76% invited to attend meetings to provide advice ensure that they remain appropriate in light of as required Carole Piwnica and, until the Companys business needs and strategic 31 December 2004, Larry Pillard.
objectives, are market competitive and take To ensure that the Groups remuneration account of external developments in executive practices remain market competitive, the pay.
Following this review, the Committee is Committee receives advice from independent proposing some changes to the executive Non performance-related pay remuneration consultants.
The Committee remuneration arrangements within the context Performance-related pay operates a policy whereby an individual of the existing remuneration policy.
These consultant appointed to advise the Committee changes are detailed in the report below.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005 47 Directors remuneration report continued Base salary Accordingly, for the year ending 31 March i 2003 Performance Share Plan The Groups policy is for base salaries 2006, the bonus award at target for the Chief Shareholders approved the Tate & Lyle 2003 to take account of the median relative to Executive will increase to 50% of base salary.
Performance Share Plan PSP at the AGM in similar companies and also to reflect job For the other three executive directors, the July 2003.
Executive directors and other responsibilities and the sustained level of target award will increase to 45% of base selected senior executives are eligible to individual performance.
The Committee salary and the maximum award will increase participate in the PSP at the discretion of the reviews the base salary of each executive to 90% of base salary.
Participants are awarded annually director annually.
maximum bonus will remain capped at a conditional right to receive a number of Tate The most recent annual review of executive 100% of base salary in accordance with the & Lyle PLC ordinary shares in value up to a directors base salaries occurred on 1 April Companys policy.
maximum of 100% of base salary and 2005.
When undertaking this review, the The performance criteria for the annual calculated by reference to the average of the Committee considered external market data bonus scheme are set by the Committee at daily closing prices of Tate & Lyle PLC ordinary supplied by its independent remuneration the beginning of each financial year.
For the shares during the six months preceding the adviser, individual performance and also the year ended 31 March 2005, the performance beginning of the measurement period.
The level of pay awards made to other employees criteria consisted of a target award payable number of shares that a participant receives and executives throughout the Group.
on the achievement of a predetermined level depends on the Groups performance during the The annual base salaries for each executive of Group profit before tax, exceptional items measurement period which is the three years director are shown in the table below: and amortisation PBTEA, and a maximum commencing on 1 April in the year of the award.
award payable for the achievement of a Performance is measured by comparing As at As at PBTEA level significantly in excess of target the Total Shareholder Return, or TSR share Director 1 April 2005 1 April 2004 performance.
The level of PBTEA for target price growth plus reinvested dividends, from performance set by the Committee at the Tate & Lyle PLC relative to a comparator Iain Ferguson 628,000 590,000 beginning of the financial year was in line with group of companies.
For awards made Simon Gifford 447,000 422,500 the markets expectations at that time as in 2003 and 2004, the comparator group Stanley Musesengwa 447,000 422,500 provided by brokers forecasts.
The actual consisted of the FTSE 100 Index at the Stuart Strathdee 305,000 280,000 PBTEA achieved by the Group for the year start of the measurement period excluding ended 31 March 2005 was 12% above the companies in the telecommunications, media, Benefits previous year and significantly exceeded the technology and financial services sectors.
Benefits comprise principally a company car, predetermined level of target performance, The Committee chose relative TSR for the or a cash allowance in lieu, health insurance reflecting in particular the exceptional growth PSP as it closely aligns executives and and premiums paid on life assurance policies of the SPLENDA Sucralose ingredients shareholders interests and is an objective in relation to pension arrangements.
These business of which the Group took control at measure of the value created for shareholders.
benefits do not form part of pensionable the beginning of the financial year.
As a result, If, at the end of the measurement period, earnings.
each executive director received the maximum Tate & Lyle ranks in the upper quartile of the bonus payable under the scheme as set out in comparator group, participants in the Plan will Annual bonus scheme the table on page 52. receive all of the shares conditionally awarded The Group operates an annual cash bonus Subject to approval of the proposed DBSP to them.
If the ranking is at the median scheme for executive directors and senior by shareholders at the AGM on 28 July 2005, level, 25% of the shares will be received.
executives which is determined by reference executive directors will have the opportunity to No shares will be received for below median to the performance of the Group, or invest through the DBSP up to 50% of their performance.
For intermediate rankings appropriate division or subsidiary, primarily cash bonus for the year ended 31 March between upper quartile and median, against financial objectives.
The Groups policy 2005 in Tate & Lyle shares.
A summary of the participants will receive a proportionate is that annual bonuses payable under the proposed DBSP can be found on page 49. number of shares reducing on a straight-line scheme are capped at 100% of base salary basis.
This vesting scale is illustrated in the or lower, dependent on the executives Current long-term incentive arrangements graph below.
There is a threshold level The Committee believes that performancebelow which no bonus is paid.
The Committee PSP vesting schedule based long-term incentive plans LTIPs reviews the attainment of the financial targets provide executive directors and senior and agrees the bonus payments.
Bonuses executives with long-term rewards that closely paid to executive directors do not form part 100% align with shareholders interests and are an of pensionable earnings.
important component of the overall executive For the year ended 31 March 2005, the remuneration package.
target award level for each executive director The Company currently operates two LTIPs was 40% of base salary.
The maximum award being the Tate & Lyle 2003 Performance Share level was 100% of base salary for the Chief 25% Plan and the 2000 Executive Share Option Executive, 80% of base salary for both the Scheme.
The Remuneration Committee is Group Finance Director and Chief Operating 75th Median responsible for the operation of both the Officer, and 70% of base salary for the Tate & Lyle relative TSR performance LTIPs.
When considering the level of awards Corporate Development Director.
to be made under the LTIPs, the Following the Committees review of the Remuneration Committee takes into account Irrespective of Tate & Lyles TSR, before any Companys executive remuneration the value of any combined award and would shares become eligible for release the arrangements, and based upon the advice not expect to make a maximum award under Committee must be satisfied that this is of its independent remuneration adviser, the both plans in any one year except in special justified by the underlying financial Committee has decided to increase the bonus circumstances.
In the year ended 31 March performance of the Group over the award levels for executive directors in order to 2005, no individual director received a measurement period.
bring them more into line with the market maximum award under both LTIPs.
At the end of the three-year measurement median for similar sized companies.
48 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005 Award as % of maximum period the conditional award is converted into since June 2004 have no rolling re-test overall value of annual long-term incentive a deferred right to acquire the appropriate and, accordingly, if they do not meet the awards to be maintained through the number of shares which will not be released to performance condition at the end of the threeextension of performance shares to replace the participant for one further year other than year performance period they will lapse.
share options: and in the specific circumstances set out in the Options granted prior to June 2004 which to introduce a new DBSP details given rules of the PSP or in the applicable do not meet the performance condition in the below to promote share ownership and aid performance condition.
third year may be exercised in subsequent retention for selected senior employees.
The Committee reviews the continued years up to ten years after the date the options validity of the comparator group annually.
were granted but only if the appropriate Shareholders will be invited to approve Following its latest review, with assistance compound performance condition is met.
these changes at the AGM on 28 July 2005. of its independent remuneration adviser, the The achievement or otherwise of the A change will also be proposed to the rules of Committee is proposing to use a different performance condition is assessed by the the PSP to allow dividends to be received on comparator group for awards in 2005.
The EPS calculation in respect of shares which have already vested but are The new comparator group will consist of the performance condition is also reviewed by subject to a retention period.
companies at positions 50 to 130 of the FTSE the Companys external auditors.
Index at the start of the measurement period.
The Committee will ensure that, during the Deferred Bonus Share Plan The Committee considers this to be a more transition to International Financial Reporting Details of the DBSP can be found in appendix appropriate comparator group for Tate & Lyle Standards, the determination of EPS figures 4 attached to the letter from the Chairman of given the Companys position in the FTSE needed to carry out the calculation for the the Company which accompanies this Annual 100, the wide range of market capitalisation performance condition will be calculated on a Report.
A summary of the main features of the between the lower and upper ends of the fair and consistent basis and will be reviewed DBSP are: FTSE 100 Index, and the fact that the by the Companys external auditors.
Company is expected to remain within Executives will have the opportunity to the proposed peer group for the Proposed changes to the long-term defer up to 50% of their annual cash bonus foreseeable future.
incentive arrangements and invest the amount deferred in the Following a review of the Companys executive Companys shares.
ii 2000 Executive Share Option Scheme remuneration arrangements undertaken during If the shares are held throughout a threeShareholders approved the discretionary the year, the Committee is proposing to make year performance period, and the executive Executive Share Option Scheme 2000 some changes to the structure of the longcontinues to be employed by the Company, Scheme in July 2000.
Under the 2000 term incentive elements of the executive matching shares will be awarded on the Scheme, executive directors and other senior remuneration package.
These changes are basis of one matching share for every three executives and employees may be granted designed to make the remuneration package shares deferred.
The one for three matching options over the Companys ordinary shares at more effective, promote executive share element will only give rise to a relatively the discretion of the Committee.
Grants of ownership, aid executive retention and better small number of shares and is considered options, which are made annually, do not align the interests of executives and by the Committee to be an important normally exceed 200% of base salary for the shareholders by making a greater proportion executive retention incentive.
Chief Executive and 150% of base salary for of the remuneration package dependent on Or, if Tate & Lyles relative TSR during the executive directors.
During the year, options the success of management in delivering three-year performance period is between granted to the executive directors were below superior shareholder returns.
median and upper quartile of the these limits.
The size of option grants is based The Committee continues to support the comparator group of companies, one on individual performance and also the operation of the PSP and the use of relative matching share will be awarded for each potential impact of the individual on the TSR as a performance measure which it share deferred.
considers to be the most objective measure Or, if Tate & Lyles relative TSR during the Earnings per share EPS performance of the value created for shareholders.
The three-year performance period reaches the criteria need to be met before options can be Committee, however, has become concerned upper quartile of the comparator group, two exercised.
EPS is used as the Committee about the efficiency and effectiveness of share matching shares will be awarded for each considered it to be an appropriate measure of options granted under the 2000 Scheme.
the Groups underlying financial performance.
The value of share options to an individual, The comparator group against which the The performance condition attached to the assuming the performance conditions are Tate & Lyles relative TSR performance will exercise of options is scaled such that, if over met, is wholly dependent on the movement be measured for the DBSP will be the same the first three consecutive years, the growth in of the stock market and can generate a wide as for the PSP, being companies at the Companys normalised EPS has exceeded range of rewards with variable retention or positions 50 to 130 of the FTSE Index the growth in the UK Retail Price Index motivational value.
For this reason, the at the start of the performance period.
excluding mortgage interest payments RPIX Committee is proposing to make the following There will be no re-testing of the by an average of: changes to the structure of the long-term performance target and no apportionment incentive arrangements: for intermediate rankings in the comparator at least 3% per year 9.3% over three group between median and upper quartile.
years, then 50% of options granted may to suspend granting options under the During the performance period, dividends be exercised: 2000 Scheme.
The Committee will retain will be paid on the deferred shares since at least 4% per year 12.5% over three the discretion to make option grants in the the shares in effect already belong to the years, then 100% of options granted may future in exceptional circumstances, for executive but not on matching shares.
There is no current intention, however, to make use The Committee will be responsible for the There is no straight-line apportionment of this discretionary power: operation of the DBSP and will review the between the two fixed vesting points.
to increase the maximum annual award limit continued appropriateness of the main In accordance with current best practice, under the PSP from 100% of base salary features of the DBSP annually.
options granted under the 2000 Scheme to 175% of base salary.
This will enable the Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005 49 Directors remuneration report continued Closed long-term incentive scheme allowance calculated as a percentage of event of early termination of an executive Prior to the approval of the 2000 Scheme, base salary from which they make their own directors contract, the Companys policy options were granted under UK and pension arrangements.
is to take legally appropriate mitigation International Executive Share Option Schemes Details of the accrued pension benefits factors into account in determining the which were approved by shareholders in 1992 for those executive directors who participate amount of compensation payable to an the 1992 Schemes.
The exercise of executive in the Group Scheme are given on page 55. executive director.
share options granted since November 1995 Details of allowances paid in lieu of pensions under the 1992 Schemes is subject to the are given in the table on page 52.
Executive directors Group achieving an increase in fully diluted The Committee is in the process of Iain Ferguson and Stanley Musesengwa, who EPS of 6% more than the increase in the UK reviewing the likely impact on employees, were appointed to the Board in 2003, both Retail Price Index during any period of three including executive directors, of changes in have contracts which are terminable by the consecutive financial years over the life of the pension legislation announced by the UK Company on not more than one years notice option.
Since the approval of the 2000 government.
This review is still ongoing but it and by the individual director on six months Scheme, no option grants have been made is the Committees intention to seek solutions notice.
Simon Gifford and Stuart Strathdee, under the 1992 Schemes which are now which are broadly similar in cost to the who were appointed to the Board before closed.
Company and which do not provide additional 1999, each had service contracts at the compensation for changes in tax legislation.
beginning of the financial year which were Sharesave Scheme terminable by the Company on not less than The Company has a Sharesave Scheme that External appointments two years notice and by the individual director is open to all employees in the UK including The Board believes that the Company can on six months notice.
However, as stated in executive directors.
No performance conditions benefit from its executive directors holding last years Annual Report, in accordance with are attached to options granted under the a non-executive directorship.
Such best practice, the notice period of both scheme as it is an all-employee scheme.
appointments are subject to the approval of contracts was reduced progressively after Options granted to scheme participants are the Board and are normally restricted to one 31 March 2004 so that by 31 March 2005 normally set at a discount of 10% to the for each executive director.
Fees may be the notice period was 52 weeks.
market value of the shares at grant.
retained by the executive director concerned.
No compensation was paid in relation Iain Ferguson is a non-executive director of to this reduction.
Pensions Sygen International plc and Stuart Strathdee As regards mitigation, in a case where the The Companys policy is to provide retirement is a non-executive director of James Finlay Company seeks early termination of the and other benefits which reflect local market Limited.
They each retain the fees payable contract other than where summary dismissal practice at median levels.
Retirement benefits, for these appointments which are currently is appropriate, the service contracts for Iain in the form of pension and or lump sums, 30,000 and 15,000 per annum respectively.
Ferguson and Stanley Musesengwa, both are provided through tax-approved schemes signed in 2003, give the Company the right, where possible covering executives in the Executive shareholding policy but not the obligation, to pay in lieu of notice country and business sector in which they To align the interests of executive directors the salary and contractual benefits which the perform their principal duties.
with those of shareholders, a policy is in place director would have received during the notice Simon Gifford and Stuart Strathdee are under which executive directors are expected period.
Accordingly, the Company may elect members of the Tate & Lyle Group Pension to build and maintain a shareholding in the to make a reduced payment under those Scheme Group Scheme and are eligible at Company equivalent to one times base salary.
service contracts, or require phased payment, age 60 for a pension equal to two-thirds of Executive directors who have not met their so as to ensure the relevant director fulfils his their basic salary in the highest of their last target shareholding are expected to retain obligation to mitigate his losses.
The benefit also a significant proportion of shares acquired In the case of the older contracts of Simon includes a widows pension payable on a through the Companys long-term incentive Gifford and Stuart Strathdee, if the Company directors death and a lump sum on death in plans in order to meet their target.
seeks early termination of the service contract service.
Once in payment to a director or his other than where summary dismissal is widow, the pension is increased each year in Service Contracts appropriate the Company is contractually line with the Retail Price Index RPI up to a Policy obliged to provide compensation to the maximum of 5%, with a minimum of 3%.
Since 1999, the Companys policy has been director equivalent to the value of the salary Bonuses are not pensionable.
that contracts for new executive directors and contractual benefits which he would have Stanley Musesengwa is also a member of should be terminable by the Company on received during the notice period.
the Group Scheme and is eligible at age 62 a maximum of one years notice, except in The details of the executive directors for a pension equal to 49.16% of his basic special circumstances, and by the individual service contracts as at 31 March 2005 are salary in the highest of his last five completed director on up to six months notice.
In the given in the table below: tax years but limited to the UK Inland Revenue Earnings Cap.
The benefit also Date of service Unexpired Notice Director Note contract term period includes a widows pension payable on his death and a lump sum on death in service.
Iain Ferguson 1 15 April 2003 52 weeks 52 weeks Once in payment to him or his widow, the Simon Gifford 2 26 February 1996 52 weeks 52 weeks pension is increased each year in line with the Stanley Musesengwa 1 4 June 2003 52 weeks 52 weeks RPI up to a maximum of 5%, with a minimum Stuart Strathdee 2 1 November 1995 52 weeks 52 weeks of 3%.
Iain Ferguson is not a member of the 1.
In the event of early termination of the directors service contract other than where summary dismissal is Group Scheme and accordingly accrues no appropriate, the Company has the right to pay, in lieu of notice, salary and contractual benefits which he or she pension benefits.
The Groups policy is that, would have received during the relevant notice period.
to the extent that executive directors receive 2.
In the event of early termination of the directors service contract other than where summary dismissal is salary which is not pensionable on a tax appropriate, the Company is liable to provide compensation to the director equivalent to the value of the salary and contractual benefits which he or she would have received during the relevant notice period.
approved basis, they are paid a cash 50 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005 Former executive director Larry Pillard, who retired as a non-executive TSR Performance Graph John Walker retired as an executive director director on 31 December 2004, was in The graph below, as required under Schedule on 2 April 2003.
Following his retirement from receipt of a pension from the Tate & Lyle 7A of the Act, illustrates the cumulative total the Board, he remained an employee of the North America retirement plan following shareholder return performance share price Company and continued to assist the Groups his retirement from executive service on growth plus reinvested dividends of European sugar businesses until he reached 31 December 2002 having elected to draw Tate & Lyle PLC against a broad equity his contractual retirement age of 60 in August his pension early in accordance with the market index over the past five years.
In the period between his leaving the terms of the plans rules.
FTSE 100 Index is considered to be the most Board and his retirement, he was provided The non-executive directors do not have appropriate benchmark for this purpose as the with a company car and health insurance but service contracts or notice periods, but under Company is currently a constituent of this was not eligible to participate in the annual the terms of their appointment they are usually Index and during the relevant period it has bonus scheme or the Companys long-term expected to serve on the Board for between remained in or just outside the UKs top 100 incentive plans.
The salary paid to Mr Walker three and nine years, with a review every companies by market capitalisation.
The graph during the year up to the date of his retirement three years, subject to their election and shows the TSR for the FTSE 100 Index and was 79,167. re-election by shareholders in general meeting.
Non-executive directors have no right to Chairman and non-executive directors compensation on the early termination Tate & Lyle 5-year Cumulative Chairman of their appointment.
Total Shareholder return Sir David Lees was appointed non-executive The fees received by the non-executive Chairman on 1 October 1998 for an initial directors are determined by the Board.
During 250% Tate & Lyle PLC period of three years.
This appointment the year, the basic fee for serving as a nonwas extended by the Board upon the executive director was 38,000 per annum 200% recommendation of the Nominations and for serving as the Senior Independent Committee until 30 September 2002, and Director was 45,000 per annum.
150% continues thereafter terminable by the Additional fees are paid to the Chairmen of Company or Sir David on not less than one the Audit and Remuneration Committees 100% years notice.
His fees, which are reviewed to reflect the extra responsibilities attached annually, are determined by the Remuneration to these positions which, during the year, were 50% Committee in consultation with the Chief 6,500 per annum and 4,250 per annum FTSE 100 Executive.
Following the most recent review respectively.
0% on 1 October 2004, the Remuneration Following a review by the Board, on 1 April Committee approved an increase in the 2005, the basic fee was increased for a non- -50% Chairmans fee to 272,500 2004 executive director to 41,000 per annum and March 01 02 03 04 05 255,000. for the Senior Independent Director to Source: Bloomberg 47,500 per annum.
Also, the additional fee Non-executive directors paid to the Chairman of the Audit Committee The Companys policy is that the fees of nonwas increased to 10,000 per annum and to executive directors, which are determined by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee the Board, are set at a level which will attract to 5,500 per annum.
individuals with the necessary experience As referred to on page 42, Carole Piwnica and ability to make a substantial contribution has a consultancy agreement with the Group to the Groups affairs.
The fees paid are which was entered into on 14 August 2000. commensurate with those paid by other This agreement was for an initial three-year UK listed companies.
period and thereafter until terminated by either The non-executive directors do not party giving not less than 12 months written participate in the Groups incentive or pension notice.
In recognition of her consultancy schemes, nor do they receive other benefits services, she holds the position of Nonexcept as described below.
Executive Vice-Chairman, Government Affairs for Tate & Lyle and is paid a fee of 321,000 218,894 per annum.
On the recommendation of the Nominations Committee, and following a rigorous performance review, the Board decided to extend the term of appointment of Carole Piwnica until the 2006 AGM.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005 51 Directors remuneration report continued Directors emoluments The following table shows the emoluments of the directors of Tate & Lyle PLC for the year ended 31 March 2005.
Total Total Payment year to year to Salary in lieu of Annual 31 March 31 March 1 2 3 and fees Benefits pension bonus 2005 2004 000 000 000 000 000 000 Chairman Sir David Lees 264 19 283 263 Executive directors Iain Ferguson 590 18 236 590 1 434 933 Simon Gifford 423 13 338 774 621 Stanley Musesengwa 423 15 160 338 936 713 Stuart Strathdee 280 10 196 486 374 Non-executive directors Richard Delbridge 52 52 40 Evert Henkes 38 38 12 4 Kai Nargolwala 13 13 5 Carole Piwnica 257 257 233 Allen Yurko 42 42 38 Former non-executive directors 6 David Fish 19 19 12 7 Keith Hopkins 13 13 35 7 Mary Jo Jacobi 13 13 34 8 Larry Pillard 29 29 35 Directors who retired before 31 March 2004 2 Totals 2 456 75 396 1 462 4 389 3 345 1.
Benefits include the provision of a car or cash allowance in lieu, health insurance and premiums paid on life assurance policies where not provided by pension benefit plans.
Benefits for the Chairman include, for part of the year, the use of a car, the running and associated costs of which were borne partially by the Company.
Payments made to Iain Ferguson and Stanley Musesengwa in lieu of pension, calculated as a percentage of base salary, from which they make their own pension arrangements.
Further details are set out in the section on Directors Pension Provision on page 55.
The total remuneration figures for the year to 31 March 2004 of Iain Ferguson and Stanley Musesengwa have been restated to include payments made in lieu of pension during that year of 201,666 and 145,083 respectively reported in the section on Directors Pension Provision in last years Annual Report.
Kai Nargolwala was appointed to the Board from 1 December 2004.
Carole Piwnicas total salary is made up of her fee of 38,000 2004 36,922 for serving as a non-executive director of Tate & Lyle, and 321,000 2005 218,894 2004 282,750: 196,545 paid to her under her consultancy agreement with the Group, the details of which are given on page 51.
David Fish stepped down from the Board on 30 September 2004.
Keith Hopkins and Mary Jo Jacobi retired from the Board on 29 July 2004.
Larry Pillard retired from the Board on 31 December 2004.
No remuneration was paid to former directors in the year to 31 March 2005 other than to John Walker who retired from the Board on 2 April 2003 but remained an employee of the Group until 30 August 2004 details of his remuneration are given on page 51.
52 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005 Directors long-term incentives i Performance Share Plan The table below shows the awards over Tate & Lyle PLC ordinary shares made to, and held by, directors during the year under the Performance Share Plan PSP.
The PSP was approved by shareholders at the AGM in July 2003.
The awards shown in the table below are less than three years old and, accordingly, no directors currently hold any deferred rights over Tate & Lyle PLC ordinary shares under the PSP.
No shares vested, lapsed or were released during the year.
Awards take the form of nil cost options.
For the awards made during the year, the closing mid-market price on the date of award was 323.5p.
Granted under the 1992 Scheme with no performance condition attached.
Granted under the 1992 Scheme with an EPS growth performance condition attached described on page 50.
These options are exercisable as the performance condition has been met.
Granted in 2000 under the 2000 Scheme with an EPS growth performance condition attached described on page 49.
The performance condition attached to 50% of these options was met following the retest in 2005 from a fixed base.
Accordingly, 50% of these options are now exercisable.
The performance condition attached to the remaining 50% of the options has not yet been met and will be retested in 2006 from a fixed base.
Granted in 2001 under the 2000 Scheme with an EPS growth performance condition attached described on page 49.
Granted in 2002 under the 2000 Scheme with an EPS growth performance condition attached described on page 49.
These options will be exercisable from 17 June 2005 as the performance condition attached to these options was met on its first test.
Granted under the 2000 Scheme with an EPS growth performance condition attached described on page 49.
These options are not exercisable as they are less than three years old.
Options held, granted or exercised under the Sharesave Scheme.
As the Sharesave Scheme is an all-employee share scheme, no performance conditions are attached.
The aggregate of the theoretical gain made by directors on the exercise of all options during the year was 513,118 2004 4,332.
This is calculated by reference to the difference between the closing mid-market price of the shares on the date of the exercise and the exercise price of the options, disregarding whether such shares were sold or retained on exercise, and is stated before tax.
The market price of the Companys ordinary shares at the close of business on 31 March 2005 was 531.50p and the range during the year to 31 March 2005 was 290.25p to 549.50p.
54 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005 Directors pension provision Iain Ferguson is not a member of the Tate & Lyle Group Pension Scheme and accordingly accrues no pension benefit.
Stanley Musesengwa is a member of the Tate & Lyle Group Pension Scheme but his pension benefit, as detailed in the table below, only relates to that part of his salary up to the UK Inland Revenue Earnings Cap 102,000 per annum for the 2004 05 tax year.
In accordance with the Companys policy, because they receive salary which is not pensionable on a tax approved basis, Iain Ferguson and Stanley Musesengwa are paid cash allowances in lieu of pension calculated as a percentage of base salary from which they make their own pension arrangements the amounts paid during the year are given in the table on page 52.
The information below sets out the disclosures required under both the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985.
Defined Benefit Schemes Accumulated Increase in Transfer value Transfer value total accrued Increase in accrued pension of increase in of accrued Transfer value of Increase in pension at accrued pension during the year accrued pension pension at accrued pension transfer value 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 year-end during the year net of inflation net of inflation start of year at year-end for the year Director Age 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 8 Simon Gifford 58 147 12 3 68 4 690 3 034 691 Stanley Musesengwa 52 18 4 3 49 161 260 99 Stuart Strathdee 53 171 24 19 308 1 867 2 730 863 1.
The figure shown represents the amount of pension benefits, based on service, pensionable earnings and, where appropriate, transferred pension rights, which would have been preserved for each director had he left service on 31 March 2005.
For each director, the figure represents the difference between the total accrued pension at 31 March 2005 and the corresponding pension a year earlier.
No allowance is made for inflation.
For each director, the figure represents the difference between the accrued pension at 31 March 2005 and the corresponding pension a year earlier.
The figures quoted include an adjustment for inflation in accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The figures shown represent the transfer value, calculated in accordance with Guidance Note 11 issued by the Faculty and Institute of Actuaries, of the inflation adjusted increase in the total accrued pension for the year.
The figures shown represent the transfer value, calculated in accordance with Guidance Note 11 issued by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, of the accumulated total accrued pension at 1 April 2004.
The figures shown represent the transfer value, calculated in accordance with Guidance Note 11 issued by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, of the accumulated total accrued pension at 31 March 2005.
The figures shown represent the increase in the transfer values from 1 April 2004 to 31 March 2005.
In the course of the year the actuarial basis used within the Tate & Lyle Group Pension Scheme for the purpose of determining transfer values in accordance with Guidance Note 11 was amended by the Trustee, generally resulting in an increase in transfer value amounts.
The transfer values quoted have been calculated using the actuarial bases which applied at each reporting date.
Part of the increase in the transfer values over the year is attributable to the change in actuarial basis.
During the year, Mr Giffords benefits were reduced in accordance with the Pension Sharing Pension Credit Benefit Regulations 2000 the Regulations.
This resulted in a reduction in his accrued pension of 135,000 per annum as at the effective date of the pension sharing order of 27 May 2004, with a reduction in the cash equivalent transfer value of 2,347,000, this being the amount paid from the Tate & Lyle Group Pension Scheme the Scheme in accordance with the pension sharing order.
As a result of the application of the pension debit, in the figures shown in the table above: the accumulated total accrued pension at the year-end is shown after application of the reduction in Mr Giffords accrued pension in accordance with the Regulations: the increase in accrued pension during the year gross and net of inflation and the corresponding transfer value of the increase have been shown before allowing for the reduction made to his pension in accordance with the Regulations: the transfer value of the accrued pension at year-end is calculated by reference to the pension reduced in accordance with the Regulations: and the increase in transfer value for the year includes the amount of the transfer value paid from the Scheme in respect of the pension sharing order.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005 55 Directors remuneration report continued Directors interests in Tate & Lyle shares Ordinary shares 2005 2004 Richard Delbridge 30 000 30 000 Iain Ferguson 5 000 5 000 Simon Gifford 76 589 161 321 Evert Henkes Sir David Lees 35 000 35 000 Stanley Musesengwa 39 051 1 000 Kai Nargolwala Carole Piwnica 6 612 6 612 Stuart Strathdee 73 086 41 109 Allen Yurko 5 000 5 000 All the above interests are beneficially held.
There were no changes in directors interests in the period from 1 April 2005 to 1 June 2005.
No director had interests in any class of shares other than ordinary shares.
The Register of Directors Interests, which is open to inspection, contains full details of directors shareholdings and options to subscribe for shares.
Dilution In order to satisfy options granted under the 1992 Executive Share Option Scheme which was closed in July 2000 and the UK all-employee Sharesave Scheme, the Company issues new shares.
In the ten-year period to 31 March 2005, awards made under the Companys share schemes represented 2.9% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital, leaving an available dilution headroom of 7.1%.
Employee Benefit Trust The Group has an employee benefit trust which is administered by an independent trustee and which holds ordinary shares in the Company to meet the various obligations under the Groups long-term incentive plans granted since August 2000.
The trust held 11,439,153 ordinary shares as at 1 April 2004 and 11,533,914 ordinary shares at 31 March 2005.
By virtue of their interests in the Groups long-term incentive plans, Iain Ferguson, Simon Gifford, Stanley Musesengwa and Stuart Strathdee, together with all employees, are potential beneficiaries of the trust and therefore are deemed to have a beneficial interest in the shares held in the trust.
On behalf of the Board Robert Gibber Company Secretary 1 June 2005 56 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2005
