In addition to the Board discussion of the retail and distribution business.
The Group has established, work of the Committee that takes place at least annually, over many years, a comprehensive due diligence process the Chair of the Committee reports regularly to the Executive supported by technical and product development standards Committee on corporate responsibility matters.
This assurance covers staff training, and providing guidance for, and auditing of, suppliers to ensure Other specialist functions, notably the Corporate and Legal they supply quality products in a safe and ethical way.
Affairs department and the Trading Law and Technical The Group has conducted a comprehensive risk analysis department provide assurance and advice on health and of products, suppliers and factories upon which the audit safety, legal compliance and social, ethical and environmental programme is based.
Auditing is carried out on both a matters.
These functions report their findings on a regular routine and unannounced basis.
Supply chain risks can basis to the relevant committees and escalate matters as include, for example, a failure of standards relating to appropriate.
Subsidiary businesses also maintain key risk product safety, quality, labour standards and animal registers and confirm their compliance with Group policies welfare.
Technical, due diligence and crisis management annually.
These statements confirm that the Boards procedures are regularly reviewed in the light of the latest governance policies have been adopted in practice and in scientific research and expert opinion, to ensure that spirit.
For certain joint ventures, the Board places reliance these risks are managed effectively.
In-house experts are upon the systems of internal control operating within our used as well as external advisors to look for and analyse partners infrastructure and the obligations upon partners emerging issues so that appropriate action can be taken.
Boards relating to the effectiveness of their own systems.
We recognise that some investors and other stakeholders Non-financial risks We manage a broad range of financial and take a specific interest in how companies are managing non-financial risks, including social, ethical and environmental non-financial risks.
We report further detail on our approach, responsibilities.
The construction of the Key Risk Register takes policies and KPIs in this area in our Annual Corporate into account all these matters.
The risk management policies, Responsibility CR Review and on our website, procedures and monitoring methods described in this report www.
com corporate apply equally to corporate responsibility activities.
Relations with stakeholders We recognise the importance In addition, in accordance with ABI guidelines on social of understanding stakeholder views and the need to balance responsibility, the Group has dedicated specific time and their opinions in order to achieve a sustainable business resource to this area.
In our view, there are appropriate controls model.
Customers need to be able to trust our business in place to manage both financial and non-financial risks.
and they will only trust us if we do the right thing by all our Customer focus is fundamental to delivering the overall stakeholders.
Our programme of engaging with stakeholders, strategy and is key to the way risk is managed.
Business including customers, staff, suppliers, investors, nonpractices centre on serving the customer and in meeting governmental organisations and others, is set out in more those challenges the Group recognises its responsibility detail in the CR Review and on our website.
We carry out to deliver safe, quality products at the right price.
external research to help us understand how well we are We recognise that our people may have to face ethical communicating with these groups.
dilemmas in the normal course of business and our We are committed to maintaining a good dialogue with guidance to them stems from the Tesco Values.
The Values shareholders through proactively organising meetings and set out the standards that the Board wish to uphold in presentations, as well as responding to a wide range of enquiries.
These are supported by Codes We want to understand shareholder views on a range of issues of Ethics and govern the relationships between the Group from strategy to corporate governance, and we recognise the and employees, suppliers and contractors.
The Compliance importance of communicating appropriately any significant Committee regularly monitors adherence to these codes.
This shareholder communication is are a founder member of the Ethical Trading Initiative and a mainly co-ordinated by the Investor Relations department.
signatory to the UK Governments Supplier Code of Practice.
During the year, the Group met with 75 of the leading Excellent health and safety standards are a high priority.
shareholders, representing over 42% of the issued shares We are committed to providing a safe shopping and of the company.
Inevitably institutional shareholders, may be working environment for customers, staff and contractors.
in more regular contact with the Group than others, but care The company has established policies, procedures and is exercised to ensure that any price-sensitive information is training to identify and minimise the risks inherent in a Tesco PLC 15 Corporate governance continued released to all shareholders, institutional and private, at the same time in accordance with the Financial Services Authority requirements.
The Board is kept informed of the views of shareholders either through direct meetings or through updates from the Investor Relations department.
Since appointment, the Chairman has conducted a number of meetings with major shareholders independently from the Executive team.
Shareholders have also been offered the opportunity to meet with the Senior Independent Nonexecutive Director, although none have requested a meeting.
We regard the Annual General Meeting as an opportunity to communicate directly with all shareholders.
The whole Board attends the meeting and is available to answer questions from shareholders present.
All resolutions will be voted on a poll so that the views of shareholders are reflected proportionately.
Every shareholder may choose to receive a full Annual Report and Financial Statements or the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement.
At the half year, all shareholders receive an Interim Report.
These reports, together with publicly-made trading statements, are available on the Groups website, www.
com corporate Pension funds The Tesco PLC Pension Scheme is a defined benefit scheme with nearly 137,000 members and about 14,000 pensioners.
Note 27 in the Report and Financial Statements sets out the Groups pension arrangements in detail.
During the year ended 26 February 2005, the Trustee board comprised nine directors including three nominated by the members.
Mr V Benjamin retired as the Chairman of the Trustees and was replaced by Mr R S Ager.
Management of the assets is delegated to a number of independent fund managers.
These fund managers have discretion to invest in shares of Tesco PLC providing they do not exceed the proportion of the shares in the total market.
Details of pension commitments are set out in note 27 to the financial statements on pages 58 to 60.
Compliance In April 2004, Mr D E Reid, previously an Executive Director and Deputy Chairman having resigned in December 2003, re-joined the Board as Non-executive Chairman following a rigorous nomination process that began in 2001 and culminating in over 93% of shareholders voting in favour of his appointment at the AGM in June 2004.
Subject to the above paragraph, Tesco complied in all respects with the Revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance throughout the year ended 26 February 2005.
16 Tesco PLC Directors remuneration report For the year ended 26 February 2005 Remuneration Committee ensure the level and structure of remuneration is designed The Remuneration Committee the Committee is governed to attract, retain, and motivate the Executive Directors by formal Terms of Reference, which were reviewed and needed to run the company.
updated by the Board this year.
Activities of the Committee: Composition of the Committee The Committee normally meets four times a year and circulates The Committee is now composed entirely of independent minutes of its meetings to the Board.
The rolling schedule Non-executive Directors.
The members of the Committee are for the Committee includes: a review of overall remuneration Mr C L Allen Chairman of the Committee, Mr E M Davies arrangements: an overview of best practice: Executive and appointed to the Committee in October 2004, Dr H Einsmann, Non-executive Directors salary benchmarking: consideration and Mr R F Chase.
During the year Mr G F Pimlott resigned of the relationship of reward between Executive Directors and from the Committee, prior to retiring from the Board.
No senior managers: determining the level of awards and grants member of the Remuneration Committee has any personal to be made under the Companys incentive plans: agreeing financial interest in the matters being decided, other than as targets for next year: considering feedback from shareholders, a shareholder, and no day-to-day involvement in running the and an annual review of its own effectiveness.
In addition to business of Tesco.
the routine business this year, the Committee also started a review of pension provisions and share options in the light Ms L Neville-Rolfe is Secretary to the Committee and attends of recent legislative developments and accounting changes.
Mr D E Reid, Non-executive Chairman, and Sir Terry Leahy, Chief Executive of the Group, both attend the meetings Executive Directors remuneration policy We have a at the invitation of the Committee except when their own long-standing policy of rewarding achievement, talent and remuneration is being discussed.
The Committee is supported experience.
We also seek to provide incentives for delivering by Mrs C M Chapman, Personnel Director of Tesco Stores Ltd high growth and high returns for shareholders.
The Committee and has continued to use the services of Deloitte & Touche LLP believes that a significant proportion of total remuneration as an external, independent advisor.
Deloitte & Touche LLP should be performance-related and at risk of forfeiture.
In also provided advisory services in respect of corporate tax addition, performance-related reward should be delivered planning, share schemes, pensions and international taxation largely in shares to closely align the interests of shareholders to the Group during the year.
Members attendance at and all Executive Directors.
In determining the balance committee meetings is listed in the Directors Corporate between the fixed and variable elements of the Executive Governance report on page 13.
Directors remuneration packages, the Committee has regard to policy and also market practice.
Our policy is for The role of the Committee performance related elements to form a major part of the total The Remuneration Committees key objectives are to: remuneration opportunity for all Executive Directors.
The table determine and recommend to the Board the remuneration below shows the current balance of fixed and performance policy for the Chairman and Executive Directors: related elements, for levels of performance, on target and monitor the level and structure of remuneration for senior above target.
management, and Fix Fixed element ed element P Pe erf rformanc ormance r e relat elated elements ed elements appr appro oximat ximate ely ly 20%-40% 20%-40% appr appro ox ximat imately ely 60%-80% 60%-80% Base salary Short-term performance Long-term performance Deferred Performance Cash bonus Share options share bonus share plan Tesco PLC 17 Directors remuneration report continued In our last Annual Report and Financial Statements, we long-term performance share plan based on a stretching explained that the Remuneration Committee had conducted three-year Return On Capital Employed ROCE target.
a review of executive remuneration arrangements.
Following Shares must be held for a further 12 months after vesting: extensive consultation with shareholders and their performance-related share option awards via the representative organisations we introduced a number of Share Option Scheme open to all senior managers: important changes.
The revised remuneration strategy for benefits which comprise car benefits, disability and Executive Directors and other key executives is clearly tailored health insurance and staff discount : to emphasise the delivery of strong year-on-year earnings pension, and growth as well as sustained performance in the longer term including an element of compulsory deferred shares.
This Executive Directors are also eligible to participate in the ensures continued emphasis on strong annual performance companys all-employee savings related share option combined with long-term executive share ownership, with a scheme SAYE, Shares in Success and Buy As You Earn better link between the incentives received and shareholder value scheme on the same terms as all other UK employees.
We remain committed to the focus on driving strong This year the Executive Directors received the maximum level financial performance and will actively monitor the level of of bonus reflecting the high level of business performance as reward and performance emphasis to retain the close links to described in the Operating and Financial Review.
the business strategy and the appropriate market positioning.
Basic Pay Tesco operates in a highly competitive retail environment.
Basic pay must be appropriate to attract and retain talented Business success depends on the talents of the key team, individuals.
It must reflect individual capability and any changes but outstanding business performance comes from teamwork.
in responsibilities as the Group faces new opportunities and Building and retaining that team at senior levels within Tesco challenges both in the UK and internationally.
The Committee is vital to success, particularly with a world-class executive takes into account pay conditions throughout the Group team and high churn in executives in our marketplace.
The in deciding annual salary increases.
The Committee seeks Committee also ensures that the remuneration relationship to set a level of pay that reflects changes in individual between the Executive Directors and senior executives of the responsibility and market conditions.
We seek to reflect salary company below this level is appropriate.
In particular, any levels at the top performing retailers and the leading FTSE exceptional remuneration arrangements for senior executives companies in order to attract the best people and maintain are advised to the Committee.
Total remuneration Annual Bonus and Deferred Annual Bonus The total remuneration levels of Executive Directors are Tesco operates an annual bonus scheme simplified and reviewed annually by the Committee.
The Committee considers updated last year and the targets and amount which can be external independent remuneration surveys to ensure it has earned are set each year in line with market practice.
It is based proper regard to competitive market practice.
We are conscious on achievement of stretching earnings per share EPS targets, of the risks involved in paying unjustified amounts and assessment of total shareholder returns TSR and specific therefore monitor carefully the basic salary and total corporate objectives.
The Committee sets performance targets remuneration that each Director receives.
annually and confirms achievement of performance and The Board has reduced the number of Executive Directors awards to be made.
Policy has been for Executive Directors to whilst increasing the existing Executive Directors levels earn a bonus equivalent to up to 100% of salary paid in cash of responsibility.
at the end of the year and a maximum of 75% of salary paid in shares with compulsory deferral for three years.
The cash The Executive Directors total remuneration package comprises element is earned through achievement of previously agreed the following elements: EPS growth targets and progress on specific corporate base salary determined by the responsibilities, skills objectives.
The share element has an additional measure, and experience of the individual against a benchmark based on an assessment of comparative shareholder returns.
determined by reference to other large retailers, major Total shareholder return has been chosen as it is a clear FTSE 100 companies and certain major consumer indicator of the value created for shareholders.
The Committee companies operating internationally: considers a comparator group comprising large international annual bonus paid part in cash and part in shares with food retailers as the most appropriate basis for assessing relative a compulsory deferral of the share element for three years: performance.
This comparator group includes Ahold, Carrefour, Metro, Morrisons, Safeway Inc.
18 Tesco PLC Performance Share Plan years.
It is practice that the value of options granted to The Performance Share Plan PSP provides the opportunity Executive Directors each year does not exceed 200% of salary to earn greater rewards for superior long-term performance.
other than in exceptional circumstances.
There is no re-testing By assuring a focus on long-term business success and helping of performance.
the Executive Directors to build up a shareholding in Tesco, Share options are an important part of the incentive the plan further aligns the interests of shareholders and framework for hundreds of senior managers within the Group.
The Committee has considered fully the current accounting Awards can be made up to 150% of salary.
No award in changes and concluded that share option plans remain in the year exceeded 75% of salary.
Awards will be made the best interests of shareholders.
over shares and will vest, according to the achievement of the Share ownership guidelines ROCE targets.
Awards will vest on a straight-line basis: 25% of Executive Directors are normally expected to build and the award will vest for baseline performance with the maximum maintain a shareholding with a value at least equal to their award vesting for maximum performance.
The vested shares base salary.
New appointees will typically be allowed around must then be retained for a further 12 months.
The Board set three years to establish this shareholding.
Full participation out objectives for profitable deployment of capital in a Placing in the Performance Share Plan is conditional upon this.
The 2004 05 award will vest based on the achievement of 11.5% derived from profit Summary of remuneration elements before interest less tax at the end of the three year All awards made to Executive Directors under the Annual performance period.
This reflects the five-year objective of Bonus, Performance Share Plan and all options granted raising post tax ROCE by up to 200 basis points from the base under the Executive Share Option Scheme are subject to the point of 10.2% achieved in the financial year ended February satisfaction of performance conditions, which are explained 2003. above.
If performance is unsatisfactory the cash bonus and long-term incentives will reduce accordingly.
The Committee Share options regularly reviews these performance conditions and considers Share options with a value of up to 200% of salary are granted that the proposed mix of performance conditions best to the Executive Directors under the same conditions as for supports the Groups business strategy and provides a set of senior managers.
The first 100% is subject to the achievement comprehensive and robust measures of managements effort of EPS growth of at least RPI plus 9% over three years, with and success in creating shareholder value.
A summary of the the balance vesting for achieving RPI plus 15% over three elements of the package is set out in the table below.
Part of remuneration Performance measure Purpose Base salary Individual contribution to the business success To attract and retain talented people Annual cash bonus Earnings per share and specified Motivates year on year earnings growth corporate objectives and delivery of business priorities Annual deferred share element Total shareholder return, Earnings per share Generates focus on medium-term targets and specified corporate objectives and by incentivising share price and dividend growth ensures alignment with shareholder interests Performance Share Plan Return on capital employed over a three Assures a focus on long-term business success year period Share options Earnings per share relative to retail price index Incentivises earnings growth and Executive with more stretching performance targets for Director shareholding the balance of awards over 100% of salary Tesco PLC 19 Directors remuneration report continued Other elements Performance graph Shares In Success.
Since March 2002 the Group has The graph below highlights the Groups total shareholder operated a UK profit sharing scheme Shares in Success return performance over the last five financial years, relative for the benefit of employees, including Executive Directors.
to the FTSE 100 index of companies.
The scheme is available to employees with at least one years service at the Groups year end and is recognised as a powerful incentive and retention tool for all employees.
Tesco 200 Shares in the company are allocated to participants in the scheme on a pro-rata basis to base salary earned, up to Inland Revenue approved limits currently 3,000 per 150 annum.
The amount of profit allocated to the scheme is determined by the Board, taking account of company 100 performance.
Since 1981, the Group has operated an Inland Revenue approved savings-related share option 50 scheme SAYE for the benefit of employees including Feb 00 Feb 01 Feb 02 Feb 03 Feb 04 Feb 05 TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN TSR Executive Directors.
Under this scheme, employees TSR is the notional return from a stock or index based save up to a limit of 250 on a four-weekly basis via a on share price movements and declared dividends bank building society with an option to buy shares in Tesco PLC at the end of a three or five-year period at In addition, there has been a very strong performance in TSR a discount of up to 20% of the market value.
There are over the last one year, three years and five years against a no performance conditions attached to SAYE options.
comparator group of our major retail competitors in the UK, Buy as You Earn.
Since January 2002, the Group has Europe and the US.
operated the partnership shares element of an Inland Service agreements Revenue approved share investment plan for the benefit The Executive Directors all have service agreements, dated of employees, including Executive Directors.
Under this 14 June 2004, with entitlement to notice of 12 months by scheme, employees save up to a limit of 110 on a fourthe company and 6 months notice by the Executive.
Each weekly basis, to buy shares at market value in Tesco PLC.
agreement automatically terminates when the Director reaches Pensions the retirement age of 60.
Executive Directors are members of the Tesco PLC Pension If an Executive Directors employment is terminated other Scheme which provides a pension of up to two-thirds of base than pursuant to the notice provisions in the service agreement salary on retirement, normally at the age of 60, dependent or by reason of resignation or unacceptable performance or upon service.
The scheme also provides for dependants conduct the company will pay, by way of liquidated damages, pensions and lump sums on death in service.
The scheme a sum calculated on the basis of basic salary and the average is a defined benefit pension scheme, which is approved by annual bonus paid for the last two years.
No account will be the Inland Revenue.
An internal working group has been taken of pension arrangements in these payments.
established to understand the implications of Government proposals in relation to pensions and to advise the Termination payments will be subject to mitigation.
This means Remuneration Committee on future pension provisions and that liquidated damages amounts will be paid in instalments to contributions.
The Final Salary Scheme is now closed to new permit mitigation and earlier payment will be made based on entrants but has been replaced by a different defined benefit long service in line with Tesco policy which respects and rewards pension scheme which accumulates each year and is based loyalty.
If the termination occurs within one year of retirement, on career average earnings.
the termination payment would be reduced accordingly.
Further details of the pension benefits earned by the directors The Committee has agreed that, in future, new appointments can be found on page 23. of Executive Directors will normally be on a notice period of 12 months.
The Committee reserves the right to vary this period to 24 months for the initial period of appointment and for the notice period to then revert to 12 months.
The service agreements are available for inspection at the AGM and Registered Office.
20 Tesco PLC Outside appointments Compliance Tesco recognises that its Executive Directors are likely to be In carrying out its duties, the Committee gives full invited to become Non-executive Directors of other companies.
The Committee is constituted Such Non-executive duties can broaden experience and and operated throughout the period in accordance with the knowledge which can benefit Tesco.
Subject to approval by the principles outlined in the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Board, Executive Directors are allowed to accept Non-executive Authority derived from Schedule A and B of the Combined appointments and retain the fees received, provided that these Code.
The auditors report set out on page 33, covers the appointments are not likely to lead to conflicts of interest.
disclosures referred to in this report that are specified for audit Executive Directors biographies can be found in the Annual by the Financial Services Authority.
This report also complies Review and Summary Financial Statement, and fees retained with disclosures required by the Directors Remuneration for any Non-executive Directorships are set out below.
Details of Directors emoluments and interests, including executive and savings-related share Company in which Fee retained by the options, are set out on pages 22 to 31.
Non-executive Directorin 2004 05 Director Directorship held s Mr C L Allen Mr A T Higginson B Sky B 22,800 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee C&J Clark 41,725 Mr T J R Mason Capital Radio 32,000 Non-executive Directors The remuneration of the Non-executive Directors is determined by the Board as a whole on the recommendation of the Chairman and the Executive Committee after considering external market research and individual contribution.
The Remuneration Committee determines the Chairmans remuneration, having regard to packages awarded to Chairmen of other companies of a similar size, complexity and international reach.
Non-executive Directors have letters of appointment setting out their duties and the time commitment expected.
These letters are available for inspection at the AGM and Registered Office.
The Chairman meets with each Non-executive Director separately to review individual performance.
All Non-executive Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders every three years at the Annual General Meeting and their appointment can be terminated by either party without notice.
Nonexecutive Directors receive a basic fee of 50,000 plus a fee of 5,000 per Committee for membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committee.
The chair of the Remuneration Committee and chair of the Audit Committee receive a further 3,000 for their additional responsibilities.
Mr R F Chase, receives a total fee of 100,000 for his role as Senior Independent Non-executive Director and Deputy Chairman.
Mr D E Reid, Non-executive Chairman receives an annual fee of 500,000 and has the benefit of the use of a company car.
Tesco PLC 21 Directors remuneration report continued Tables 1 to 7 are audited information.
The Long-Term Bonus awarded on 28 July 2004 under the Performance Share Plan was awarded in the form of nil-cost options.
Details of this award are shown in Table 6. a Mr R S Ager and Mr J Gildersleeve retired from the Tesco Group on 15 March 2004.
On their retirement Mr R S Ager and Mr J Gildersleeve were permitted to retain their company cars, which had a value of 58,745 and 95,566, respectively, for nil consideration.
b Mr R Brasher was appointed during the year.
The figures in Table1 are calculated from Mr R Brashers date of appointment.
In 2001, as Non-food Director, Mr R Brasher was set challenging three-year targets to deliver a step change in the Groups clothing business.
These performance targets ran from July 2001 to July 2004.
Progress was above expectations so a performance-related payment was paid on 8 October 2004 following an internal audit confirmation of the performance against target.
This was a contractual obligation that was agreed by the Remuneration Committee at the start of 2001, and is included within Performace-related emoluments - Short-term cash.
In respect of the period from Mr R Brashers appointment to the end of the three-year performance period, Mr R Brasher received 141,452. c Mrs K R Cook was appointed during the year.
The figures in Table 1 are calculated from the date of Mrs K R Cooks appointment.
d Mr J A Gardiner retired from the Board on 2 April 2004. e Ms V Morali retired from the Board on 26 February 2005. f Mr D E Reid was appointed a Non-Executive Director on 2 April 2004, having retired as an Executive Director on 31 December 2003.
22 Tesco PLC Table 2 Pension details of the Directors Increase Transfer Transfer Transfer Age at Increase decrease Transfer value value value 26 February Total decrease in accrued value of total of total of total Increase 2005 accrued in accrued pension of previous accrued accrued accrued in transfer Years of pension at pension during the column at pension at pension at pension at value less company 26 February during the year net of 26 February 28 Feb 2004 28 Feb 2004 26 February Directors service 2005 a year inflation 2005 old basis b new basis b 2005 contributions 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Sir Terry Leahy c 49 26 479 46 33 409 3,801 4,204 5,117 913 Mr R S Ager d 59 19 274 13 14 n a 4,844 5,191 5,898 707 Mr R Brasher e 43 18 135 23 19 146 775 806 1,025 219 Mr P A Clarke 44 30 228 28 22 180 1,447 1,517 1,874 357 Mr J Gildersleeve d 60 40 405 1 n a 7,273 7,717 8,537 820 Mr A T Higginson f 47 7 140 28 24 227 908 974 1,318 344 Mr T J R Mason 47 23 250 27 20 191 1,802 1,921 2,341 420 Mr D T Potts 47 32 253 31 24 227 1,833 1,965 2,425 460 a The accrued pension is that which would be paid annually on retirement at 60, based on service to 26 February 2005. b The method used for calculating transfer values was revised during the year to bring it in line with latest actuarial professional guidance.
Changes in financial conditions and improving mortality rates have meant that the previous basis for calculating transfer values, used since 1997, is not considered to produce suitable values.
Transfer values at 28 February 2004 have been restated using the new method for comparative purposes.
c Sir Terry Leahy is entitled to retire at any age from 57 to 60 inclusive, with an immediate pension of two-thirds of base salary.
Part of his pension may be provided on an unfunded basis within a separate unapproved arrangement.
d As disclosed in Table 1, Mr R S Ager and Mr J Gildersleeve both retired in March 2004.
The total accrued pension shown is the pension immediately after retirement.
Transfer values do not apply in retirement and the transfer values at 26 February 2005 have been calculated on a basis consistent with transfer values for non-retired directors.
e Mr R Brasher was appointed during the year.
The increase in accrued pension shown is based on the increase since appointment.
Similarly, the transfer value as at 28 February 2004 is based on the value of his pension as at the date of appointment to the Board.
f Part of Mr A T Higginsons benefits, in respect of pensionable earnings in excess of the earnings limit imposed by the Finance Act 1989, are provided on an unfunded basis within a separate unapproved arrangement.
All transfer values have been calculated in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11.
The share price at 26 February 2005 was 308.5p.
The share price during the 52 weeks to 26 February 2005 ranged from 241.0p to 323.25p.
No options lapsed in the year except options over 45,727 shares granted to Mrs F Mason.
b These options are subject to performance conditions which are set out on page 19.
The market price at exercise is shown in Table 3.
Mr R S Ager and Mr J Gildersleeve no longer have any options under the Executive Share Option Schemes 1984, 1994 and 1996.
Mr R S Agers and Mr J Gildersleeves remaining options as at 28 February 2004 were exercised during the year.
a The market price at which Mr R S Ager and Mr J Gildersleeve exercised options was 261.25p.
The market price at which Mr D E Reid exercised options was 260.5p.
c Options were exercised on 2 February 2005 at a market price of 309.0p, except for Mr R S Ager, Mr J Gildersleeve and Mr D E Reid.
The share price on award was 253.45p.
These options are subject to performance conditions set out on page 19.
No options lapsed in the year under this scheme.
