Remuneration Report Compliance The constitution and operation of the Remuneration Committee is in compliance with the principles of Section 1 of the Combined Code.
UNAUDITED REMUNERATION INFORMATION Members of the Remuneration Committee The members of the Remuneration Committee are Messrs. Ariko and McMonigall.
The chairman of the committee is Mr. Ariko.
Governing Principles The Remuneration Committee is primarily responsible for reviewing and approving general compensation policies and setting compensation levels for executive officers.
The committee also administers incentive compensation plans.
Consistent with the policies of the Combined Code, the companys policy for directors' remuneration for 2005 and subsequent financial years is that packages are intended to attract, motivate and retain directors of the calibre needed to achieve the companys growth program but not detract from the goals of good corporate governance.
Remuneration elsewhere within the company is taken into account when determining executive compensation.
The companys highest paid employee earns a base salary approximately four times the base salary of the average employee.
The main elements of executive pay packages historically and for the expected future are: Base salary and benefits.
Each senior executive's basic salary is determined by the Committee, taking into account the performance of the individual and the companys strategies.
Employment related benefits principally the provision of a company car are also provided where appropriate.
In accordance with common practice amongst the companys peers, the company has performance related bonus plans for certain executive directors, discussed below.
Bonuses are paid based on achievement of pre-agreed targets.
The Board believes that share ownership by directors and staff aligns their personal interests with those of shareholders.
Options form the core element of the companys performance program, and are granted in small amounts from time-to-time based on an individual's exceptional performance and significant and continuing contribution to performance of the company.
These share option awards are then subject to vesting periods, with initial vesting generally after six or 12 months with the remainder vesting quarterly over a total of 2.5 to 3.5 years.
The requirement for individuals to perform prior to granting options has been very effective in motivating performance.
It enables the company to specifically tailor share option grants to an individuals role in an efficient manner.
For example, a programmer might be awarded a small share option grant for completion of a project ahead of schedule, or the Chief Operating Officer might be awarded a small share option grant for effective integration of an acquired company.
This method also keeps individuals continuously incentivized as a grantee must remain employed in good standing to achieve full vesting of the options.
Finally, this method is also designed to ensure that individuals are not unjustly rewarded, which the Board believes is more likely if large option grants are made with broad performance targets.
Under that method, an individual who was personally underperforming might nonetheless be enriched if the company met its own broader performance targets.
Share options are always issued at market value.
The maximum number of share options the company is permitted to grant is up to 10% of the outstanding shares.
There has been no departure from this policy during 2005.
The committee has access to professional advice from outside advisors should it require assistance.
During 2005 the Directors relied on information contained in generally available reports from Deloitte & Touche LLP but did not engage any firm.
Directors' remuneration is considered to be highly incentive-based given the executive directors' significant equity holdings in the company and the performance-based bonus plans.
The committee met once during 2005 with full attendance, and acted once by unanimous written consent.
Service Contracts All executive directors have service contracts and all non-executive directors have appointment letters.
All agreements provide for notice of six months or less, although do not have a specified fixed term, and all permit garden leave up to the length of the notice period.
No other amounts are payable on termination.
All terms of appointment are subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 1985 and the requirement to retire by rotation on the third anniversary of the previous election.
13 Autonomy Corporation plc Remuneration Report Details of Directors service contracts are available on the companys website.
No Director is entitled to any automatic payment by virtue of a change in control of the company or for other termination.
Directors remuneration is not linked to share price performance.
Dr. Lynch's employment agreement, dated 9 July 1998, provides for his employment as Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, at a salary of 150,000 per annum.
Mr. Gaunt's employment agreement, dated 9 July 1998, provides for his employment as an executive Director, at a salary of 54,000 per annum.
Mr. Hussain's employment agreement, dated 27 June 2001, provides for his employment as Chief Financial Officer, at a salary of 150,000 per annum.
In accordance with common practice amongst the companys peers, each of Dr. Lynch and Mr. Hussain were entitled to a performance bonus for 2005 of up to 75,000 based on organic revenue and earnings targets for 2005.
The targets were selected as objective, challenging growth targets designed to meet the growth objectives of the company.
In selecting the targets and levels of compensation the committee reviewed the plans of similarly situated technology companies.
The bonus targets are entirely performance based.
Each executive director is entitled to current benefits generally made available to all employees and any fees or remuneration he is entitled to as a director of Autonomy.
Each of these agreements has no fixed term and can be terminated by either party on six months notice, or payment of six months salary in lieu of notice.
For a fixed period following the termination of employment, each of Dr. Lynch and Messrs. Gaunt and Hussain are prohibited from soliciting the companys clients, customers and employees and from competing with us in a similar geographic area.
Messrs. Ariko, McMonigall and Perle serve as directors under appointment letters dated 7 January 2000, 2 July 1998 and 23 February 2000, respectively.
Under these letters as updated, Messrs. Ariko, McMonigall and Perle are each entitled to an annual fee of $50,000.
Either party to each of these letters may terminate the appointment upon three months notice or payment in lieu of notice.
Performance Graph The accompanying graph sets forth the 40 change in the total shareholder return 20 for the last five years of a holding of the companys shares against the 0 corresponding change in a hypothetical holding of shares in the FTSE350 20 Index, rebased to zero.
This index was selected as it represents a broad equity 40 market index in which similar companies are constituent members.
60 Following the end of the internet bubble Autonomys shares have 80 performed well, with Autonomys share price up 163% during 2005 as the best 100 performing stock in the FTSE250.
120 Jan-01 Jul-01 Jan-02 Jul-02 Jan-03 Jul-03 Jan-04 Jul-04 Jan-05 Jul-05 Autonomy FTSE 350 Autonomy Corporation plc 14
