Directors Remuneration Report year ended 31 December 2005 Introduction Remuneration Policy This report has been prepared in accordance with the The Groups policy is to maintain levels of remuneration requirements of the Directors Remuneration Report so as to attract, motivate and retain Executive Directors Regulations 2002, which set out requirements for and senior executives of the highest calibre who can the disclosure of Directors remuneration and also in contribute their experience to the Groups operations.
accordance with the requirements of the Listing Rules The elements of the remuneration package for Executive of the Financial Services Authority.
Directors and senior management are base salary, annual bonus, benefits, pension payments and participation The Regulations require the auditors to report to the in the Companys share based incentive arrangements.
Companys Members on the auditable part of the A significant element of the potential remuneration Remuneration Report and to state whether, in their package is performance-linked.
opinion, that part of the report that has been subject to audit has been properly prepared in accordance with When determining the total remuneration of the Executive the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Directors Directors and senior management, the Committee takes Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The report into account the remuneration practices adopted both is therefore divided into separate sections to disclose by Oil & Gas companies and in the market generally the audited and unaudited information.
while also having regard to pay practices elsewhere in the Group.
A resolution to approve the entire report will be proposed at the AGM of the Company.
A thorough review of the remuneration policy was undertaken by the Committee in 2005.
This resulted Unaudited Information in a new incentive structure being introduced from 2005 Remuneration Committee including a revised annual bonus plan and, following The members of the Remuneration Committee are approval by shareholders at the 2005 AGM, new long term Pat Plunkett Chairman, David Bamford, Rohan Courtney, share incentive arrangements for Executive Directors and Steven McTiernan and Clare Spottiswoode.
The top ten institutional shareholders met six times during the year.
were consulted on the proposals, as were the Association of British Insurers and the National Association of The main responsibilities of the Committee include: Pension Funds.
Determining and agreeing with the Board the Executive Directors Remuneration remuneration policy for the Chief Executive, Base salary Executive Directors and senior executives: The base salaries of the Executive Directors are reviewed Approving the design of, and determining targets annually with regard given to personal performance, for, an annual performance-related pay scheme for Company performance, changes in responsibilities and the Executive Directors and senior executives: competitive market practices.
Following the most recent review, the base salary of each Executive Director with Reviewing the design of share incentive plans for effect from January 2006 is: approval by the Board and shareholders and determining the annual award policy to Executive Directors and Aidan Heavey 510,000 senior executives under existing plans: and Tom Hickey 325,000 Graham Martin 300,000 Within the terms of the agreed policy, determining Matthew ODonoghue 250,000 the remainder of the remuneration packages Adrian Nel 275,000 principally comprising salary and pension for Paul McDade 275,000 each Executive Director and senior executive.
Appointment to the Board effective 29 March 2006 The full terms of reference for the Committee are available When making the most recent base salary increases, on the Companys website.
the Committee took account of remuneration practices in both oil & gas companies of a similar size and of a The Chief Executive and other relevant executives are group of FTSE 250 companies with a median market invited to attend meetings of the Committee but do capitalisation somewhat less than that of the Company not take part in any decision affecting their own whilst also taking into account the excellent performance remuneration.
The Committee has appointed New Bridge of the Company over the last few years and the Street Consultants LLP as its independent remuneration contribution of the Directors towards that success.
advisers who also provide technical advice to the Company The Committees aim when setting base salaries was to in connection with the operation of its share incentive ensure that the aggregate value of the fixed remuneration arrangements.
A statement outlining the business of each Executive Director i. e. the aggregate of base relationship with New Bridge Street Consultants can be salary, benefits and pension payments was broadly based viewed on the Investor Relations section of the Companys around the market median.
The Committee also consults with the Companys major investors and investor representative groups as appropriate.
Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 35 Directors Remuneration Report continued Annual bonus this Plan in respect of the bonus award for 2005 will be Each Executive Director is entitled to participate in made in the period following the announcement of the the Executive Annual Bonus Scheme in respect of each Companys 2005 results on 29 March 2006.
Shares financial year of the Company.
As previously mentioned, awarded under this Plan will normally vest following the the Executive Annual Bonus Scheme was restructured as end of the period of three financial years commencing part of the overall changes to the incentive structure with with that in which the award is granted.
For 2006, the bonus arrangements for Aidan Heavey, Under the revised Scheme, target performance will trigger Tom Hickey and Graham Martin remain structured as in a bonus of up to 40% of salary for all Executive Directors.
2005 although the specific key performance indicators For exceptional performance Executive Directors will be referred to above have been slightly modified.
For able to earn a bonus of up to 100% of salary.
Matthew ODonoghue and Paul McDade, the maximum percentage of salary that can be earned for each of the For 2005 the bonus arrangements for Aidan Heavey, Tom two measures i. e. key performance indicators and Hickey and Graham Martin were structured as follows: individual achievement have been adjusted to 50% each.
As Adrian Nel is retiring at the conclusion of the Annual Up to 33.33% of salary could be earned subject to the General Meeting on 31 May 2006 he will not be achievement of relative Total Shareholder Return TSR participating in the Scheme for 2006. performance targets against a comparator group, with upper quartile performance required for this part of the Pension and other benefits bonus to be earned in full.
The Executive Directors do not participate in the A further 33.33% of salary could be earned for the Company pension plan.
Each Executive Director is entitled achievement of absolute TSR targets, with a 15% to receive a payment of 10% of his base salary into his improvement in TSR objective required for this part private pension scheme which increases to 15% at age of the bonus to be earned in full.
50, as well as 30 days annual leave, permanent health insurance, private medical insurance and life assurance The final 33.34% of salary could be earned based on benefits.
Aidan Heavey is provided with a car.
The Group how the Committee considered that the Company had also reimburses the Executive Directors in respect of all performed over the year as against certain Company expenses reasonably incurred by them in the proper key specific performance indicators such as production performance of their duties.
performance, reserve replacement, exploration success, health & safety and overall financial stability.
Share Incentive Plans The bonus arrangements of Matthew ODonoghue and As mentioned above, as part of its overall review of Adrian Nel were structured as follows: remuneration policy, the Committee reviewed the structure of the Companys long-term incentive arrangements 25% of salary could be earned based on how the for senior executives and, in June 2005, shareholders Committee considered that the Company had performed approved the adoption of the Tullow Oil 2005 Performance over the year as against the key performance indicators Share Plan the PSP.
75% of salary could be earned based upon the Under the PSP, senior executives can be granted achievement of individual financial and non-financial conditional awards of rights over whole shares worth targets relating to their specific discipline or field of up to 150% of salary each year 200% in exceptional responsibility, with this element of the bonus only payable circumstances.
Awards will vest under the PSP subject in full for exceptional performance against these targets.
to a TSR based performance condition under which the Companys TSR performance will be measured over a Based upon performance in 2005 against the fixed three year period i. e. with no opportunity to re-test.
targets explained above, and in particular reflecting Half of the award is subject to performance against the the Companys excellent performance in the year, Aidan constituents of the FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Heavey, Tom Hickey and Graham Martin received bonus Trusts as at the start of the performance period and the amounts for 2005 equating to 77% of base salary.
In other half is subject to performance against a comparator the cases of Matt ODonoghue and Adrian Nel, where group of international Oil & Gas companies.
The Oil & Gas a greater proportion of bonus entitlement relates to comparator group for awards made under the PSP in 2005 individual targets, the Committee determined their consisted of twelve companies.
To recognise that two respective bonus awards for 2005 as 80% and 55% companies in the 2005 Oil & Gas comparator group ceased of salary respectively.
to be separately listed entities during the year, the Committee has reviewed and expanded the composition of the group to To align the interests of Executive Directors and fifteen companies for awards to be made in 2006 as follows: shareholders, the portion of any bonus amount above 60% of base salary is required to be deferred into shares under the terms of the related Deferred Share Bonus Plan adopted by the Board in 2005.
The first awards under 36 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Addax Petroleum Newfield Exploration Company Executive Directors may also participate, on the same ATP Oil & Gas Nexen Inc terms as other employees, in the Tullow Oil UK and Irish Burren Energy Noble Energy Inc Share Incentive Plans, which were launched at the Cairn Energy Pioneer Natural Resources beginning of 2004.
These are all-employee plans that Dana Petroleum Pogo Producing Company have been set up in both the UK and Ireland which enable Forest Oil Premier Oil employees to make contributions out of salary up to Lundin Petroleum AB Santos prescribed limits each month, which each quarter are Venture Production used by the Plan trustees to acquire Tullow Oil shares New companies added for 2006 Partnership shares.
The Company makes a matching contribution to the trustees to acquire a matching number In line with best practice, a common currency approach of shares Matching shares on a one-for-one basis.
is adopted for calculating TSR in respect of the above international group of companies.
Non-Executive Directors Fees A Committee of the Board comprising the Chairman and For each portion of the award, vesting will be as follows: Executive Directors sets the remuneration of non-executive Companys ranking in Vesting Directors.
The fees paid are set at a level to attract the comparator group Percentage persons with the necessary experience and ability to make Below median 0% a significant contribution to the Companys activities, while Median 30% also reflecting the time commitment and responsibility Upper quartile 100% of the role.
Each non-executive Director currently receives Intermediate performance Pro rata between 30% and 100% an annual fee of 40,000 and, other than the Chairman of the Company, an allowance of 7,000 for acting as However, no award will vest unless the Committee Chairman of any committee.
Each non-executive Director considers that both the Companys underlying financial is also entitled to reimbursement of necessary travel and performance and its performance against other key other expenses.
factors e. g. health and safety over the relevant period is satisfactory.
Non-executive Directors do not participate in any operational share scheme or annual bonus scheme and The Committee believes that this performance condition are not eligible to join the Companys Pension Scheme.
is appropriate as it encourages the Executive Directors to generate returns to shareholders in excess of both the A Committee of the Board comprising all the directors market generally and a group of sector peers.
except the Chairman, sets the remuneration of the Chairman, whose annual fee is currently 125,000.
To further align their interests with shareholders, the Executive Directors are required to retain at least 50% Performance Graph of the shares that vest under the PSP after selling The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 sufficient shares to pay tax liabilities until they have built require the presentation of a graph of TSR compared up a shareholding worth at least 100% of base salary to an appropriate comparator index over a five-year period.
with existing holdings taken into account.
For Tullow, TSR is primarily represented by share price performance as, up to November 2003, no dividends Before the introduction of the PSP, Executive Directors had been declared or paid.
Tullow has been a member were eligible for grants of options under the 2000 of the FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts Executive Share Option Scheme the 2000 Scheme.
since September 2001 and, as this index is also used The Committee does not intend to grant further options as a comparator for certain share plans, the Directors to Executive Directors under the 2000 Scheme.
During the believe it represents the most appropriate benchmark.
year, options were granted to substantially all employees of the Group other than those senior executives who were granted awards under the PSP.
The performance conditions applying to options granted under the 2000 Scheme since May 2005 no longer contain any re-testing facility.
Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 37 Directors Remuneration Report continued Total Shareholder Return 450 This graph shows the value, 400 by the end of 2005, of 100 invested in Tullow Oil 350 on 31 December 2000 compared 300 with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 Index excluding 250 Investment Trusts.
The other 200 points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
150 100 Tullow Oil plc FTSE 250 50 0 Source: Datastream 31 Dec 01 31 Dec 02 31 Dec 03 31 Dec 04 31 Dec 05 The graph above shows Tullows TSR over the five-year Committee will take account of the departing Directors period from 1 January 2001 to 31 December 2005. duty to mitigate his loss when determining the amount The relevant indices are set to 100 at the beginning of any compensation that is paid.
Each of the non-executive Directors is engaged by the Service Contracts and Letters of Appointment Company under the terms of a letter of appointment Each of the Executive Directors, other than Adrian Nel dated 8 December 2005 in the case of Pat Plunkett entered into a service agreement with the Company on and Rohan Courtney: dated 17 June 2004 in the case 2 September 2002.
Each service agreement is on similar of David Bamford and dated 28 February 2005 in the case terms.
Aidan Heavey and Matthew ODonoghue also entered of Clare Spottiswoode and Steven McTiernan.
Subject into a service agreement with Tullow Oil International to retirement, for example by rotation under the Articles Limited on 16 September 2002 on similar terms to their of Association, the appointments are for the period to service agreements with the Company.
Adrian Nel, who 31 December 2008 in respect of Pat Plunkett and is retiring at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting Rohan Courtney, to 7 July 2007 in the case of on 31 May 2006, entered into a service agreement David Bamford and to 29 February 2008 in the case with the Company on 21 April 2005 effective from of Clare Spottiswoode and Steven McTiernan.
In each 13 September 2004 on similar terms to the other case, the appointment is renewable thereafter if agreed Executive Directors.
Paul McDade will enter into a service by the Director and the Board.
The appointments for agreement on similar terms to the other executive directors.
Pat Plunkett, Rohan Courtney, Clare Spottiswoode and Steven McTiernan may be terminated by either party on The terms of each of these service contracts is not three months notice.
There are no notice provisions for fixed, although each Executive Director is required David Bamford.
There are no arrangements under which any under his service agreement to retire from service upon non-executive Director is entitled to receive compensation attaining the age of 65.
Each agreement is terminable upon the early termination of his or her appointment.
by the Director on six months notice and by the Company on twelve months notice.
There are no specific Material Contracts provisions under which any Executive Director is entitled There have been no other contracts or arrangements to receive compensation upon the early termination of his during the financial year in which a Director of the service agreement other than in accordance with these Company was materially interested and or which were notice periods.
significant in relation to the Groups business.
Each service agreement sets out restrictions on the ability External Appointments of the Director to participate in businesses competing with The Board has not introduced a formal policy in relation those of the Group or to entice or solicit away from the to the number of external directorships that an Executive Group any senior employees of the Group in the six month Director may hold.
Currently, the only Executive Director period after the termination of his employment.
who holds external directorships is Tom Hickey.
Tom has been nominated by Tullow as its representative on the The above reflects the Committees policy that service board of Ikon Science Limited, a company in which contracts should be structured to reflect the interests of Tullow has a small equity stake.
Any fees payable for the Company and the individuals concerned, while also his services have been waived by Tullow.
In addition, reflecting market and best practice.
Furthermore, it is on 21 November 2005, Tom was appointed as a nonalso the Committees policy that, in the event of early executive director of Petroneft Resources Plc for which termination of a Directors service contract, the he receives an annual fee of e20,000.
2 Adrian Nel was appointed on 13 September 2004.
3 David Bamford was appointed on 8 July 2004.
Directors Interests in the Share Capital of the Company The interests all of which were beneficial of the Directors who held office at 31 December 2005 were: Shares Shares 31 December 1 January Ordinary 10p Shares 2005 2005 Aidan Heavey 6,000,000 6,000,000 Tom Hickey 100,000 100,000 Graham Martin 436,005 436,005 Adrian Nel Matthew ODonoghue 1,590,857 1,590,857 Pat Plunkett 1,229,326 1,229,326 Rohan Courtney David Bamford 9,588 4,004 Steven McTiernan Clare Spottiswoode Note: Other than as set out in the table below there have been no other changes in the interests of any Director between 1 January 2006 and the date of this report.
Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 39 Directors Remuneration Report continued Tullow Oil UK Share Incentive Plan and Tullow Oil Irish Share Incentive Plan Details of shares purchased and awarded to Executive Directors in accordance with the terms of the Irish SIP and the UK SIP.
A brief description of the SIPs is set out on page 37.
Shares Partnership Matching Shares Shares held shares shares held held 1 Jan acquired awarded 31 Dec 28 March Director Plan 2005 in year in year 2005 2006 Tom Hickey Irish SIP 3,120 950 950 5,020 5,020 Graham Martin UK SIP 2,348 917 917 4,182 4,470 Note: Graham Martin acquired 144 Partnership shares and was awarded 144 Matching shares on 3 January 2006.
Performance Share Plan 2005 PSP Details of conditional awards over ordinary shares granted to Executive Directors for nil consideration under the PSP.
The award equated to shares worth 150% of salary for each Executive Director based on the average share price for the 5 dealing days preceding the date of grant.
2 Under the PSP, 50% of awards are subject to a TSR condition compared to the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts and the other 50% of the award is subject to a TSR condition compared to a specific comparator group.
Full details are set out on pages 36 and 37.
The performance condition that attaches to options granted under the 2000 Scheme, requires Tullows TSR to exceed that of the median company of the FTSE 250 excluding Investment Trusts over a three year period during the options life.
3 Options shown with an exercise price denominated in Euro were granted on or before 30 April 1999 with an exercise price in IR.
On conversion of IR to Euro effective 1 January 2002, the exercise price for each such option was converted from IR into Euro by dividing the original IR exercise price per share by the fixed Irish Pound Euro conversion rate.
All options granted after 30 April 1999 were granted with an exercise price denominated in sterling.
Options are granted for nil consideration.
Options must be exercised in the currency in which the grants were made.
4 During 2005, the highest mid market price of the Companys shares was 275.75p and the lowest was 152.25p.
Pat Plunkett Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 28 March 2006 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 41
