Remuneration Committee Report Part 1 Unaudited Information This report was prepared by the Remuneration Committee and has been approved by the Board of Directors.
At the beginning of 2005 the Committee comprised John Morgan Chairman, Laurence Kinch, David Morrison and Mark Nicholls.
Alan Jones joined the Committee following his Board appointment April 2005, Messrs. Kinch and Morrison left the Committee June 2005 and chairmanship was transferred to Mr Jones by the close of the year.
Thus at year end the Committee comprised the chairman Mr Jones, the independent director Mr Nicholls and the independent Company Chairman Mr Morgan.
It is intended that Mr Thomas Blades will join the Committee following the Annual General Meeting in 2006.
The Committee met twice during 2005.
Messrs Morgan and Nicholls attended both meetings and Messrs Kinch, Morrison and Jones one meeting.
These meetings were supplemented as necessary by minuted conference calls.
Terms of Reference The Terms of Reference of the Committee were reviewed in 2003 to ensure compliance with the Combined Code.
This review ensured that the Committees terms were focused on developing and managing a remuneration policy which would attract and retain high quality executive directors and motivate them through aligning their interests with those of the shareholders, by linking a significant proportion of their reward to individual and corporate performance objectives.
The Committee also reviews and determines the level and structure of remuneration provided to the senior management group as well as the overall remuneration policy for all employees.
These Terms of Reference were re-examined by the Committee in 2004 and again in 2005: no material changes were deemed necessary.
Advice to the Committee During 2005 the Committee has continued to receive information and advice from the consulting firm MM&K Limited MM&K.
In particular, advice has been received concerning the following: Remuneration for executive directors in broadly similar companies, In the design and implementation of an Employee Annual Bonus Plan, to supplement the Annual Deferred Share Bonus Plan adopted in 2005, In the design and implementation of a new Long Term Share Incentive Plan to further the same objectives that gave rise to the current LTIP, and On the preparation of this report.
MM&K is not retained to provide advice to any other part of the Company.
The Committee has also consulted the executive directors on matters related to the performance of other executives and senior managers within the Company.
Remuneration Policy for Executive Directors, Management and General Staff The underlying remuneration policy applicable to all employees is to position base salaries at or around the median level for comparable positions within the industry.
This has been the case for a number of years and has again been endorsed by the Committee.
This base salary policy is supplemented by a number of additional non-pensionable schemes designed to reward executives, managers and employees alike for their performance against challenging individual and corporate targets supporting longer-term growth and focussing strongly on long-term value creation.
All employees are entitled to join a Share Incentive Plan SIP, which was introduced after approval at the AGM in 2003.
Additionally, executive directors and a small number of key senior managers had been invited to participate in the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP, which was also approved by shareholders in 2003.
34 VENTURE PRODUCTION PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2005
