DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT This report has been prepared to comply with the Directors Remuneration Policy Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 although compliance is The Companys policy on executive directors remuneration for the not required under Northern Ireland legislation.
year ended 31 March 2005 was that the overall package should be sufficiently competitive to attract, retain and motivate high quality executives capable of achieving the Groups objectives and thereby Remuneration Committee and Advisers enhancing shareholder value.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee consists solely of independent non-executive directors and was chaired throughout The package consists of basic salary, benefits, performance-related the year by Duncan Lewis.
Its other members were Dipesh Shah, bonus, a performance share plan and pension benefits, with a Mike Toms and, until his retirement on 28 February 2005, Desmond significant proportion based on performance and dependent upon Smyth.
Dipesh Shah stood down from the Committee on his the achievement of corporate and individual targets.
In setting appointment as Chairman of the Board on 1 May 2005.
The performance-related remuneration the Committee has regard to the Chairman of the Board and the Group Chief Executive attend certain provisions set out in Schedule A to the Code.
Consideration is also meetings by invitation.
given to pay and employment policies elsewhere in the Group.
The Committee operates within terms of reference agreed by the This report sets out the Companys policy on executive directors Board.
The Committees function is to determine remuneration remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2005 and, so far as policy and specific remuneration packages, including pension practicable, for subsequent years.
It is proposed to implement new arrangements and service contracts, for executive directors, the long-term incentive arrangements during 2005 06, details of which Chairman and the Company Secretary.
The Committees role also are provided below.
includes recommending and monitoring the level and structure of remuneration for senior management below Board level.
The Pension arrangements for executive directors are being reviewed Committees terms of reference are available on the Groups website ahead of 6 April 2006 to determine what action may be necessary to www.
respond to, and where necessary to ensure compliance with, the Pensions Act 2004 and the Finance Act 2004, in particular with the Towers Perrin have been independent remuneration consultants introduction of individual lifetime allowances.
since their appointment by the Committee in October 2003, advising on all aspects of directors remuneration except pensions.
Towers There are no plans to change any other elements of remuneration.
Perrin also provide advice on senior management remuneration and However, the Committee considers that a successful remuneration non-executive directors fees.
Hewitt formerly Hewitt, Bacon & policy needs to be sufficiently flexible to take account of future Woodrow, the Companys pensions advisers and actuaries to changes in the Companys business environment and in VGPS, advise the Committee on pensions.
The Committee also remuneration practice.
Any changes in policy for years after consults with the Group Chief Executive on aspects of the other 2005 06 will be described in future Directors Remuneration executive directors, and the Company Secretarys, remuneration Reports, which will continue to be put to shareholders for approval.
and with the Chairman of the Board on aspects of the Group Chief Executives remuneration.
Proposed long-term incentive arrangements During the year, the Committee reviewed the long-term incentive arrangements for executive directors and senior management in the light of current best practice and the need to ensure continuing alignment with the interests of shareholders.
Executive directors have participated in the Performance Share Plan PSP since its implementation in 2000 while senior management participate in an Executive Share Option Scheme.
Executive directors and senior management can also participate in the all employee Sharesave Scheme and SIP.
In the light of the Committees review, shareholder approval will be sought at the forthcoming AGM for some proposed changes to the PSP arrangements and for the introduction of the Co-investment Plan CIP which would cover executive directors and certain senior managers.
The existing Executive Share Option Scheme will continue in use for executives who are not participants in the PSP or CIP.
28 Directors Remuneration Report Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005 The proposed changes to contingent share awards under the PSP Maximum awards would be for shares with a value equal to one and the basis for the proposed new CIP are as follows: years salary at the date of the conditional award, as under the current arrangements.
At present the PSP is based wholly on the Companys total shareholder return TSR, being dividends paid and assumed to be Under the proposed CIP, executive directors and participating senior reinvested and change in share price, relative to a group of 22 managers would normally be allowed to invest in the Companys comparator companies.
As the number of quoted utilities of a size shares for a period of six weeks following the date on which annual comparable to the Companys has reduced significantly over recent performance bonuses are paid.
The maximum number of shares years it has been increasingly difficult to maintain a comparator that could be acquired under the proposed CIP would be a number group of companies of appropriate size and scope.
It is also equal in value to the greater of 20% of gross annual salary or 100% considered that, as the PSP is extended to certain senior managers of gross performance bonus received.
below Board level, it is appropriate to include an element of performance which is more transparently within the participants Provided that these shares are retained for a further three years and control and aligned to shareholders interests.
provided also that participants remain in employment, they would be eligible for a matching share award: there would be a minimum Under the new arrangements, 50% of a PSP award would be based award of one share for every two the participants acquired i. e. a on the average return on capital employed ROCE achieved by the 50% match: the level of match could increase by up to one further Group over a three year performance period.
ROCE would be share for every one the participants acquired using the same calculated as operating profit based on regulated entitlement performance conditions as those applying under the PSP.
Therefore, pre exceptional items and goodwill amortisation as a percentage if the maximum level of ROCE was achieved and the Companys of average capital employed.
relative TSR was at or above the upper quartile, there would be a maximum award of three shares for every two the participants The Committee has selected ROCE as it believes that this measure acquired i. e. a 150% match: there would be a sliding scale of captures both the Groups business efficiency and its underlying matching awards to the extent that actual ROCE and TSR ability to provide returns to shareholders.
The Committee will review performance was between minimum and maximum levels.
the appropriate ROCE performance range to be set for each annual grant of awards to be made under the PSP, taking account of the In order to ensure that the assessment of performance is future plans and prospects of the business.
Having considered independent, remuneration consultants will report to the Committee these factors in respect of awards to be made in 2005, the as to whether the TSR performance criteria have been met.
It is Committee believes that an appropriate range for the three year intended that the Committee will determine whether the ROCE performance period 1 April 2005 to 31 March 2008 would be performance criteria have been met based on the Companys 13.5% to 14.3%.
In the first three year cycle the minimum level of audited accounts for the three year performance period.
ROCE would be 13.5%: at this level the minimum number of shares would vest: all of the shares would vest if the Companys ROCE These proposed long-term incentive arrangements would result in up equals or exceeds 14.3% over the performance period: there would to approximately 70% of the total value of each executive directors be a sliding scale of vesting for performance between the minimum remuneration package excluding pension and benefits being and maximum.
This level of performance-related reward would however only arise in the event that maximum annual The other 50% of a PSP award would be based on the Companys performance bonus and maximum awards under the PSP and CIP TSR relative to the FTSE mid-250 Index excluding investment are achieved.
trusts over a three year period.
As with the current arrangements, the minimum level of award would vest if the Companys The remainder of this section sets out the Companys policy on performance is at the median level, all of the shares would vest if the executive director remuneration for the year ended 31 March 2005. upper quartile is achieved and there would be a sliding scale of vesting if the Companys TSR performance was between the median Basic salary and benefits and the upper quartile of companies within that Index.
Salaries for executive directors are reviewed annually taking account of mid-market levels amongst FTSE mid-250 companies generally, For achieving the threshold level of performance, under both the with a focus on a group of companies of a similar size in the ROCE and the TSR elements, the percentage of the maximum award electricity, utilities, transport and support services sectors.
that would vest would be reduced from its current 50% level to Non-cash benefits include a company car and fuel and private 25%.
In this way the PSP would be more highly performance health insurance.
linked: awards would be at the same level as the current arrangements for superior performance but significantly lower than the current arrangements if the Companys performance was only around, or just above, threshold levels.
Directors Remuneration Report 29 Annual performance bonus At the end of the performance period, for subsisting contingent The annual performance bonus is a non-pensionable cash payment share awards, actual awards will be determined as follows.
No for achieving targets set by the Committee.
The maximum bonus award will vest if TSR performance is below that of the median opportunity for each executive director is 50% of basic salary, with ranking company in the Comparator Group.
If TSR performance is the level of bonus awarded depending on performance against equal to that of the median ranking company in the Comparator challenging corporate and individual targets.
35% is dependent Group, the participant will receive 50% of the award.
If TSR upon achieving a target pro-forma earnings per share and the performance is equal to or greater than that of the upper quartile remaining 15% of the maximum bonus is linked to individual targets ranking company in the Comparator Group, the participant will agreed for each executive director by the Committee.
These relate receive 100% of the award.
The proportion of the award which the to the achievement of key business objectives, both short-term and participant may receive for TSR ranking between the median and long-term, derived from corporate strategy including the upper quartile of the Comparator Group will be calculated on a development of new business opportunities and improvements in straight-line basis.
The Committee reviews targets and criteria annually to ensure appropriate measurement of The Committee will satisfy itself that the recorded TSR, which is performance.
For the year ended 31 March 2005, the pro-forma calculated independently by Towers Perrin, is consistent with the earnings per share target for maximum bonus was exceeded and, as achievement of commensurate underlying financial performance their individual targets were also achieved, each executive director before any shares are received by participants.
was awarded the maximum bonus.
Contingent share awards made in 2002, for the three year Current long-term incentive arrangements - PSP performance period ended 31 December 2004, had the potential to As in previous years, awards under the PSP during the year ended vest during the year.
The Companys TSR was higher than the 31 March 2005 were linked wholly to TSR.
Contingent share awards median ranking TSR performance in the Comparator Group.
In were based on the market value of the Companys shares at the date accordance with the terms of the contingent share award the of award, with a maximum value of 100% of basic salary.
The Committee also considered the Companys underlying financial shares will not normally be released to the participant until the performance over the performance period and was satisfied that no completion of a three year performance period.
Vesting of awards material discrepancy existed.
As a result, 55.1% of the 2002 depends on the performance of the Companys TSR compared to contingent share awards vested.
that of a group of utility and industrial and service sector companies the Comparator Group over a three year performance period.
All employee share schemes Executive directors are eligible to participate in the Companys all For contingent share awards made during the year ended 31 March employee share schemes on the same terms as other employees.
2005, the Comparator Group companies were: These schemes comprise the Sharesave Scheme, a savings related share option scheme, and the SIP, under which employees allocate ARRIVA Kelda part of their pre-tax salary to purchase shares.
Both schemes Associated British Ports Mersey Docks operate within specific tax legislation and, as is normal practice, AWG National Express there are no performance conditions.
BAA National Grid Transco Bristol Water Pennon Pensions Centrica Scottish and Southern Energy Executive directors have a normal pension age of 60 and participate East Surrey Scottish Power in the Companys defined benefit pension scheme.
For executive FirstGroup Severn Trent directors whose pensionable earnings are capped by HM Revenue & Forth Ports South Staffordshire Customs earnings cap on pensionable salary imposed in 1989, the Go Ahead Group Stagecoach Complementary Pension Plan CPP provides alternative pension International Power United Utilities arrangements.
CPP benefits are paid in the form of a lump sum on retirement.
Annual performance bonuses, incentive scheme If during the three year performance period a Comparator Group benefits and benefits in kind for which executive directors are company is no longer appropriate e. g. due to fide-listing or takeover eligible are not pensionable.
to be included in the Comparator Group, the Committee has discretion to adjust the Comparator Group.
30 Directors Remuneration Report Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005 Service contracts Chairman and non-executive directors All the executive directors have service contracts, dated 3 July 2003, The Chairmans remuneration is determined by the Committee.
The which expire at age 60 and are terminable on 12 months notice by remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the the Company and six months notice by the director.
Board within the limits set out in the Articles of Association, with the non-executive directors not participating in this process.
During Where the Company relieves the director of his duties before the end 2004 05 it took the form of a combined fee for attending meetings of the notice period, the Company is required to continue to pay the and chairing committees as required.
The Chairmans and nondirectors salary and benefits including pension for the whole executive directors fees are reviewed annually with advice from period.
In the event of contract termination by the employer or the Towers Perrin.
From 2005 06, non-executive directors fees director within 12 months of a change in control, the director will be comprise a basic fee and an additional single fee for the Senior entitled to a compensation payment of 12 months basic salary and Independent Director and for directors who chair Board committees.
benefits, bonus payments and employers pension contributions.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors are not eligible for These arrangements exclude any awards that may become due pension scheme membership and do not participate in any of the under the long-term incentive arrangements.
Groups bonus or incentive schemes.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors do not have service contracts, notice periods or entitlements to compensation on early Performance Graph termination of their appointment.
They are appointed for fixed terms The graph below compares the value of an investment of 100 in the of three years and will normally serve no more than three terms.
Companys ordinary shares with an investment in the FTSE 350 Index Their details as at 31 March 2005 are as follows: including investment trusts over the five years starting 1 April 2000 assuming that all dividend income is reinvested.
Director Letter of Unexpired term appointment dated The FTSE 350 Index was selected as it represents a broad equity D Lewis 1 February 2005 34 months market index in which the Company is a constituent member.
P Rogerson 1 July 2004 27 months D Shah 1 November 2003 19 months D Smyth 1 March 2002 - 160 M Toms 1 November 2003 19 months 150 replaces an earlier letter of appointment 140 130 120 Desmond Smyth retired on 28 February 2005 following completion of 110 his third term of office.
Philip Rogerson retired on 30 April 2005.
100 90 Duncan Lewis will retire at the AGM and, being eligible, offers himself 80 for re-appointment.
Biographical details of all directors can be found 70 on page 6.
60 50 External appointments April April April April April April 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 The Company recognises the benefits of its directors accepting appointments as non-executive directors of other companies.
Viridian Group PLC FTSE-350 Executive directors are permitted to accept one such appointment and the director concerned will retain the fees.
Patrick Haren is a non-executive director of the economic development agency, Invest Northern Ireland, and received fees of 10,690 for the year ended 31 March 2005 2004 - 10,480.
Directors Remuneration Report 31 value of hypothetical 100 holding Tables 1, 2, 3, 4a and 4b, and related footnotes, contain audited information.
Desmond Smyths term of office ended on 28 February 2005.
The benefits in kind for each executive director comprise the provision of a company car and fuel, private health insurance and the value of matching shares provided by the Company under the SIP.
Benefits in kind for Patrick Haren and Patrick Bourke also include a discretionary bonus in respect of the benefit in kind tax liability arising from the CPP.
At the end of the performance period actual awards will be determined as follows.
No award will vest if TSR performance is below that of the median ranking company in the Comparator Group.
If TSR performance is equal to that of the median ranking company in the Comparator Group, the participant will receive 50% of the award.
If TSR performance is equal to or greater than that of the upper quartile ranking company in the Comparator Group, the participant will receive 100% of the award.
The proportion of the award which the participant may receive for TSR ranking between the median and upper quartile of the Comparator Group will be calculated on a straight-line basis.
32 Directors Remuneration Report Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005 Table 3: Share Options Directors interests in share options held under the all employee Sharesave Scheme were as follows: As at As at Option Normally 1 April 31 March price exercisable 2004 2005 pence P Bourke 2,350 2,350 402 1 February 2006 - 31 July 2006 P Haren 2,350 2,350 402 1 February 2006 - 31 July 2006 H McCracken 2,350 2,350 402 1 February 2006 - 31 July 2006 No options were granted, exercised or lapsed during the year.
No performance conditions attach to these options.
The aggregate gain on the exercise of share options during the year was nil 2004 - 8,067.
The closing market price of the Companys ordinary shares on 31 March 2005 was 758 pence and the range during the year was 545 pence to 792.5 pence.
Table 4a: Pensions Age at Increase in Increase in Total accrued 31 March accrued pension accrued pension pension at 2005 net of inflation including inflation 31 March 2005 000 pa 000 pa 000 pa P Bourke 48 7 8 32 P Haren 54 12 16 116 H McCracken 55 1 5 140 The pension figures in the above table include, in the case of Patrick Bourke and Patrick Haren, the target accrued pensions under the CPP.
At 31 March 2005 16,491 p. a. of Patrick Bourkes pension is due from the CPP and this would be paid in the form of a tax-free lump sum at retirement of 167,624 2004 - 124,964.
At 31 March 2005 71,310 p. a. of Patrick Harens pension is due from the CPP and this would be paid in the form of a tax-free lump sum at retirement of 878,225 2004 - 743,973.
Table 4b Directors Transfer value of Increase in transfer Transfer value contributions for accrued pension value over year less of accrued pension the year at 1 April 2004 directors contributions at 31 March 2005 000 000 000 000 P Bourke 13 215 97 325 P Haren 15 1,295 315 1,625 H McCracken - 2,013 297 2,310 Transfer values represent a liability in respect of directors pensions entitlement, not an amount paid or due to the individual.
Following the 1997 and 2000 actuarial valuations of the VGPS, part of the designated surplus was set aside for distribution to Focus defined benefits section members.
On retirement these funds would be used to provide benefits in addition to those ordinarily provided by VGPS, subject to HM Revenue & Customs limits not being exceeded.
The final payment into these funds was made in May 2003.
As Focus members, each of the executive directors has designated funds allocated to him by the VGPS trustees for his benefit.
The values of these amounts as at 31 March 2005 were: Patrick Bourke 19,160, Patrick Haren 27,287 and Harry McCracken 48,375.
These amounts are not included in the accrued benefits and transfer values quoted above.
Due to the impact of HM Revenue & Customs limits, there may be limited scope to utilise these funds.
Any unused funds would be returned to the general assets of the VGPS.
Directors Remuneration Report 33 Target pension benefits are based on 1 30 of final salary for each year of pensionable service after 1 April 1998, 1 45 of final salary for service between 1 April 1994 31 March 1992 for Patrick Haren and 1 April 1998 and 1 60 of final salary for service prior to 1 April 1994, with aggregate benefits subject to a maximum pension of 2 3 of final salary less retained benefits from previous UK employments.
Harry McCracken reached this maximum limit in August 2003 and pensionable service accrual and member contributions ceased from that date.
Pension increases are in line with inflation, with increases above 5% at the Companys discretion.
If a director takes early retirement without Board consent a pension with actuarial reduction would be payable from age 50.
A pension on illhealth retirement would be based on potential service to normal pension age.
If the executive dies whilst in service, a lump sum of four times final salary and a contingent spouses pension of 2 3 of the directors pension based on service to normal pension age would be payable.
In the event of a change in control of the Company resulting in early retirement, there would be no actuarial reduction for early payment of pension over the age of 50.
Directors Share Interests The directors beneficial interests in ordinary shares of the Company which includes those of their families are shown below.
Shares 31 March 31 March 2005 2004 P Bourke 14,828 2,000 P Haren 68,132 78,112 D Lewis - - H McCracken 42,825 62,802 P Rogerson 9,189 9,189 D Shah - - M Toms 2,000 2,000 The beneficial interests include ordinary shares purchased under the monthly operation of the SIP.
Further ordinary shares were purchased in April and May on behalf of Patrick Bourke 45 shares, Patrick Haren 45 shares and Harry McCracken 45 shares.
By order of the Board Ian Thom Company Secretary 17 May 2005 34 Directors Remuneration Report
