Remuneration Committee Report Committee membership In addition, to ensure the interests of management remain aligned The chairman of the Remuneration Committee is Michael with those of shareholders, executive directors are encouraged to Dearden who took over from James Cox on 11 May 2005. build up a meaningful shareholding in the Company by both the The other members of the Committee are Christopher Clarke purchase of shares and or the retention of a proportion of their and Professor Ian Percy, who was appointed to the Committee on share awards.
In addition, executive directors are obliged to convert 11 May 2005.
The secretary to the Committee is Alan Mitchelson.
part of their bonus into shares under the Group incentive plan so The Committee consists exclusively of non-executive directors that over a five year period they build up a meaningful shareholding.
who are independent of management and free from any business Executive directors remuneration comprises the following: or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
No member of the a a basic salary, which is set by the Committee for each Committee has any personal financial interest, other than as a executive director by reference to companies of a similar size shareholder, in the matters decided by the Committee.
With effect from 1 April 2006, following Bridge Street Consultants LLP NBSC continued to provide a review undertaken with the assistance of NBSC, the packages external advice in formulating remuneration policy and its of Mark Selway and Alan Mitchelson have been adjusted implementation during 2005.
NBSCs appointment was renewed to bring them into line with the appropriate current industry by the Committee in 2006.
NBSC do not undertake any other bench-marks.
This review has resulted in their salaries increasing work for the Group other than remuneration work.
In carrying by 10% in the case of Mark Selway and 15% in the case of out its business, the Committee consults with the chairman Alan Mitchelson: and the chief executive as appropriate.
Bonus payments Committee responsibilities are intended to reflect the achievement of agreed business The responsibilities of the Committee are as follows: objectives and positive contribution to stretching the performance of the Group.
The targets used are based to determine the policy on the remuneration and performance primarily on normalised pre-tax profits and are set at the of executive directors of the Company: beginning of the financial year.
In 2005, the maximum to determine the conditions of employment, including levels potential bonus receivable by the chief executive was 85% of salary, pension arrangements, bonuses, incentives and share of salary and for the other executive directors 75% of salary.
options of executive directors of the Company: In 2006, the maximum bonus potential remains unchanged.
The chief executive is required to invest compulsorily 25% to determine targets for any performance-related pay schemes: of the portion of bonus earned which relates to Group to recommend to the Board the remuneration of the chairman performance structured as a conditional award of investment of the Board.
shares as part of the Long-Term Incentive Plan L-TIP approved by shareholders in 2004.
The other executive The Committee met three times in 2005.
The Committee is directors are required to invest 20% of the portion of their constituted, and operated throughout the year, in accordance bonuses relating to Group performance in the same manner.
with the relevant provisions of the Combined Code.
This report Compulsorily invested awards are subject to forfeiture if the complies with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations director leaves the Group within three years.
The Committees terms of reference are available from reviews the bonuses on an annual basis.
Bonuses are nonthe company secretary on request and can also be found on the contractual and non-pensionable: Companys website.
NBSCs terms of appointment are available on request from the company secretary.
c participation in the L-TIP, details of which are set out on the following pages: Executive directors remuneration policy The Committee has adopted the following policy for the d participation in the Companys pension plan by Alan remuneration of executive directors throughout 2005.
It is Mitchelson, details of which are set out below: and intended that this policy will apply in 2006 and future years.
e other benefits-in-kind, which are the provision of a car The objective of the Companys remuneration policy is to attract, allowance, participation in a Group health care scheme, motivate and retain executive directors with the necessary abilities travel allowance, death in service insurance and permanent to manage and develop the Groups activities successfully for the health insurance.
The Committee believes that the level and benefit of shareholders.
provision of benefits-in-kind is consistent with that provided by other comparable companies.
Accordingly, the Committee sets remuneration packages for the executive directors to reflect both the size and complexity Pensions of the business and individual responsibilities.
It also takes into Alan Mitchelson is a member of the Companys 1972 pension and consideration the remuneration practices adopted by other life assurance plan.
The plan is a defined benefit contributory plan companies of similar size and international spread of operations.
with the members contributing 8% of basic salary, the balance of For all senior executives, the Group policy is to provide a the funding of the plan being met by the Company having taken significant part of their total potential reward through account of the funding recommendations of the plans independent performance based incentive plans annual bonus and actuary.
After 20 years service with the Group, there is a maximum long-term incentives as described below.
pension entitlement equal to two thirds of final basic salary payable 28 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2005 on normal retirement date, currently 60 years of age.
This is subject Halma, IMI, Kidde, Meggitt, Mitie Group, Morgan Crucible to a capping limit of pensionable salary, currently 105,600.
Company, Rolls-Royce, Rotork, Senior, Smiths Group, Spirax-Sarco Engineering, Tomkins, Wood Group and WS Atkins.
For awards The plan provides for a surviving spouses pension of one half granted in 2006, the comparator group will comprise the same of the members pension and, in certain circumstances, for a companies save that, as Kidde and Domnick Hunter are now no dependent childs pension until the child attains the age of 18 longer listed on the London Stock Exchange, the Remuneration years or 25 years if in full time further education.
Pensions in Committee are looking to substitute other companies.
Only if the payment and deferred pensions increase by an amount equal to Companys TSR ranks in the upper quintile of this group will the retail price inflation up to 5% per annum.
This reduces on a sliding scale so that Life assurance cover of five times salary is provided separately for median performance, 25% of the awards will be receivable.
for each of the executive directors.
For below median performance, none of the awards will be receivable.
Mark Selway and Chris Rickard are responsible for their own pension arrangements.
TSR has been selected as the appropriate performance criteria by the Committee as it is felt that such a measure clearly aligns Long-Term Incentive Plan L-TIP the interests of the senior executives with those of shareholders.
During 2005, senior executives were invited to participate in the The TSR calculation will be performed independently for the Group L-TIP.
Under the plan, awards of Performance Shares, Committee, at the time of vesting.
Matching Shares and Investment Shares may be made: In addition to TSR performance, for any of the performance and i Performance Shares Performance shares are conditional matching shares to vest, the growth in the Companys earnings awards to acquire free shares subject to company performance per share over the performance period must be equal to or see below.
In 2005, conditional awards of performance shares greater than the growth in the UK Retail Prices Index over were made worth 70% of salary to the chief executive and the same period.
45% of salary to other executive directors.
It is the Committees intention in 2006 to make awards of the same value.
Share option schemes The Company operated a discretionary executive share option ii Matching and Investment Shares - Matching shares are scheme the Executive Scheme under which options were conditional awards to acquire free shares, subject to Company granted to those senior executives of the Group whose skills performance see below granted in connection with an and experience the Committee believes to be important to the individuals investment from annual bonus.
Under the L-TIP, success of the Group.
The Executive Scheme operated worldwide.
executive directors are required to compulsorily defer an The Executive Scheme, which was approved in 1994, expired element of any bonus earned in respect of Group performance in May 2004.
Under the rules of the Executive Scheme, share for the financial year, structured as a conditional award of options were granted up to a maximum value of four times a investment shares under the L-TIP.
Executive directors are participants earnings.
Options were granted at the mid market also allowed to voluntarily invest the balance of that portion price of a share at the date of grant.
The right to exercise an of the bonus relating to Group performance subject to any Executive Scheme option is subject to performance conditions cap imposed by the Committee, currently 10% to be further as determined by the Committee at the date of grant.
eligible for an award of matching shares.
In return, the executive directors are eligible to receive a conditional The performance criteria applicable in 2004 were for the growth award of matching shares worth a maximum of 2.5 times in the Companys normalised earnings per share over a three year the pre-tax value of the bonus invested under the L-TIP.
period to either exceed by nine per cent the growth in the retail price index of the UK over that three year period or exceed the As the executive directors did not qualify for a bonus for weighted average growth during that three year period of the the 2004 financial year, no matching shares were awarded normalised earnings per share of those companies in the FTSE All to executive directors in 2005.
Share Engineering and Machinery Sector.
Under the terms of the The awards are based on the Group's share price, using the Scheme, this is re-tested every year from the third anniversary of average published closing price for the three dealing days the grant of the option to the date the option lapses.
immediately preceding the date of award.
In addition, the Company operated a Savings Related Share The conditional awards of performance and matching shares are Option Scheme in the UK, which the executive directors were only receivable if a highly demanding performance condition is eligible to participate in on the same terms as all other employees achieved.
For the performance share awards granted in 2005, and which was not subject to performance criteria.
This scheme the performance condition will be based on the growth in was closed in 2004. the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR over a single Details of the options outstanding as at 30 December 2005 are three-year performance period three consecutive financial years, set out in Note 16 to the Group financial statements on page 68. beginning with the year in which the award is made relative to the growth in the TSR of a comparator group, to comprise the following 20 companies: AGA Foodservice Group, Bodycote International, Cookson Group, Domnick Hunter, Enodis, FKI, The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2005 29 Remuneration Committee Report Continued Performance graph Executive directors external appointments The graph below compares the Companys total shareholder The executive directors are permitted, with Board agreement, return performance over a five year period against the FTSE All to take up one non-executive appointment provided that there is Share Engineering & Machinery Sector Index.
The Committee no conflict of interest and that the time spent would not impinge considers this index to be appropriate because its major on their work for the Group.
None of the executive directors has constituents are, like Weir, moderately diversified engineering at the date of this report any such non-executive appointment.
groups with a significant presence outside the UK.
Remuneration from any external appointments will be passed to the Company.
200 Letters of appointment 180 The chairman and each of the non-executive directors have 160 140 letters of appointment.
The letters of appointment do not contain 120 any contractual entitlement to a termination payment and the 100 directors can be removed in accordance with the Companys 80 Articles of Association.
The chairman and all non-executive 60 directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at least every 40 20 three years, with the exception of any director whose appointment 0 exceeds nine years, in which case there is a requirement for 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 annual re-election.
Remuneration of the chairman & non-executive directors The Weir Group PLC The remuneration of the chairman of the Board is determined FTSE Engineering & Machinery Sector by the Board on the recommendation of the Committee, the chairman taking no part in that determination.
The remuneration This chart shows the value, at the end of the 2005 financial year, of 100 invested in The Weir of the non-executive directors is determined by the Board, the Group PLC over the last five financial years compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE All Share Engineering and Machinery Sector Index.
The other points plotted are values at non-executive directors taking no part in that determination.
The current remuneration of the chairman was last set in 2004.
Directors contracts terms of appointment The chairmans remuneration has been reviewed by the Board, The details of the service contracts in relation to the executive following advice from NBSC and adjusted to bring him into line directors and letters of appointment in relation to the nonwith current industry bench-marks.
With effect from 1 April 2006, executive directors who served during the year are: the chairmans remuneration will be increased to 150,000.
In future, his remuneration will be reviewed by the Board annually.
Director Date of current Unexpired Notice Period Contract Letter Term Next re-election by company The fees for non-executive directors are determined by the Board within the limits stipulated in the Articles of Association.
The fees Sir Robert Smith 18 August 2003 May 2007 6 months Christopher Clarke 18 August 2003 10 May 2006 6 months comprise a basic fee together with a further fee for chairmanship James Cox 18 August 2003 retired 11 May 2005 of a committee.
Fees are reviewed by the Board, with a view to Michael Dearden 6 February 2003 10 May 2006 6 months setting them in line with general market practice, as identified Stephen King 3 February 2005 May 2007 6 months in available market surveys.
The non-executive directors do not Professor Ian Percy 18 August 2003 10 May 2006 6 months participate in any of the Companys incentive plans and receive Lord Robertson 1 February 2005 10 May 2006 6 months no pension or other benefits.
The non-executive directors Mark Selway 6 January 2003 12 months 12 months are not involved in any discussions or decisions about their Alan Mitchelson 6 January 2003 12 months 12 months own remuneration.
Chris Rickard 24 September 2003 12 months 12 months The current fees for non-executive directors were last set in Date contract revised 2004 at 32,000 per annum.
In addition, each of the chairmen Executive directors service contracts of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee are To recruit the best executives, the Committee has in the past and paid an additional fee of 5,000.
Professor Percy also receives may in the future, agree contractual notice periods which initially an additional fee for his roles as deputy chairman, senior nonexceed 12 months particularly as it is often necessary for executives executive director and chairman of the Audit Committee, to relocate their families.
The current executive directors, Mark until 11 October 2005, which amounted to 10,000.
Selway, Alan Mitchelson and Chris Rickard all have service contracts The non-executive directors fees have been reviewed by the Board with the Company that provide for a minimum period of notice of following advice from NBSC, and adjusted to bring them into line six months by the individual and 12 months by the Company.
In the with current industry bench-marks.
With effect from 1 April 2006, event that the Company terminated an executive directors service the basic fee will be increased to 36,000.
There are no changes to contract other than in accordance with its terms, the Committee, the fees for committee chairmen or the combined role of deputy when determining what compensation, if any, should properly be chairman and senior non-executive director.
In future, nonpaid by the Company to the departing director, will give full executive directors fees will be reviewed by the Board annually.
consideration to the obligation of that director to mitigate any loss which he may suffer as a result of the termination of his contract.
His fees include 2,500 for services as chairman of the Remuneration Committee for the period 2004: 5,000. ii The fees for Michael Dearden include 3,201 for services as chairman of the Remuneration Committee from 11 May 2005 2004: nil.
iii The fees for Stephen King include 1,250 for services as chairman of the Audit Committee from 11 October 2005 2004: nil.
iv The fees for Professor Ian Percy include 10,000 for services as deputy chairman, his role as senior non-executive director and as chairman of the Audit Committee until 11 October 2005 2004: 9,167. v Benefits include, as appropriate, participation in a Group health care scheme, travel allowance and death in service insurance.
Compulsory investment awards are not subject to performance conditions.
No matching or compulsory investment awards were awarded in 2005 to the individuals above as no bonus was awarded.
The figures shown above are maximum entitlements and the actual number of shares which vest will depend on the performance conditions being achieved as set out on page 29.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2005 31 Remuneration Committee Report Continued # Directors pension benefits Alan Mitchelson was a member of a defined benefit plan provided by the Group during the year.
Chris Rickard and Mark Selway are responsible for their own pension provision.
Pension entitlements and corresponding transfer values were as follows during the year: Disclosures under Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 Listing Rules Accrued pension Transfer value of accrued pension Change during Increase the year net in accrued Transfer value Increase of directors Directors pension during of increase Name of At year during At year At year ordinary ordinary At year the year net net of Director Notes start the year end start contributions contributions end of inflation inflation Contributing member: note 1 note 3 note 2 Alan Mitchelson 4, 5, 6 15,158 3,469 18,627 238,527 81,263 8,376 328,166 3,089 46,053 # Audited 1.
The pension entitlement shown is that which would be paid The change in the amount of the transfer value over the year annually on normal retirement, prior to any cash commutation, includes the effect of fluctuations in the transfer value due based on pensionable service to the end of the year.
to factors beyond the control of the Group and directors, such as stockmarket movement which will be reflected 2.
The transfer value of the increase in accrued pension has been within d. above.
calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11 and includes an allowance for 4.
Directors have the option to pay voluntary contributions.
the risk cost of death in service benefits less the directors Neither the contributions nor the resulting benefits are ordinary contributions over the year.
included in the above table.
The change in the amount of the transfer value over the year 5.
The figures allow for the impact of the earnings cap.
Alan is made up of the following elements: Mitchelson does not have an entitlement to an unapproved a. transfer value of the increase in accrued pension pension from the Group.
Payments of actual transfer values from the defined benefit b. transfer value of the increase in accrued pension scheme are currently reduced below 100% of their value.
due to inflation : The figures above do not reflect this reduction.
c. increase in the transfer value of accrued pension at year start due to ageing: d. impact of any change in the economic or mortality assumptions underlying the transfer value basis: e. less the directors ordinary contributions.
Directors interests The interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the Company as at 30 December 2005 and at the end of the preceding financial year were as follows: iii As at 30 December 2005 As at 31 December 2004 shares shares under option L-TIP awards shares shares under option L-TIP awards Sir Robert Smith 50,000 - - 50,000 - - Christopher Clarke 10,000 - - 10,000 - - Michael Dearden 10,000 -- 10,000 -- Stephen King -- - -- - Alan Mitchelson 66,385 - 80,091 42,392 91,344 47,166 Professor Ian Percy -- - -- - Chris Rickard - 180,000 79,585 - 180,000 40,132 Lord Robertson 2,637 - - -- - Mark Selway 122,929 3,497 248,325 30,049 603,497 142,801 i At the date of this report the interests of the directors in the shares of the Company remain as stated above.
ii No director had, during or at the end of the year, any material interest in any contract of any significance in relation to the Companys business or in the share capital of any subsidiary.
iii In the case of Stephen King, the comparative figure is as at the date of his appointment to the Board.
The market price on the date of exercise was 363.75p.
After payment of costs and tax, the total balance was used to acquire 15,449 Weir Group shares.
On 18 November 2005, Mark Selway exercised options over 150,000 shares at a price of 282.5p and 450,000 shares at a price of 262.5p under the Executive Share Option Scheme.
After payment of costs and tax, the total balance was used to acquire 92,880 Weir Group shares.
On 1 July 2005, Alan Mitchelson exercised options over 8,544 shares at a price of 197.5p under the Savings-related Share Option Scheme, all of which were retained.
The market price on the date of exercise was 328.5p.
The aggregate gains made on all option exercises by directors during the year total 676,136 2004: 64,200. ii The closing market price of the shares at 30 December 2005 was 378.5p and the range for the year was 298.75p to 388p.
iii Since 2000, the exercise of options granted under the Executive Share Option Scheme is subject to the growth of the Companys normalised earnings per share over a three year period, either exceeding by nine per cent the growth in the retail price index of the UK over that three year period, or exceeding the weighted average growth during that three year period of the normalised earnings per share of those companies in the FTSE All Share Engineering and Machinery Sector.
Between 1994 and 1999, the growth in the retail price index was required to be exceeded by six per cent.
iv The number of awards shown under the L-TIP is subject to achieving the performance conditions referred to on page 29 under both the Performance and Matching Plan.
These figures shown are maximum entitlements and the actual number of shares if any will depend on these performance conditions being achieved.
Awards take the form of nil cost options and have no performance retesting facility.
The market price for awards granted on 1 April 2005 was 322p.
No shares have vested as at 30 December 2005.
# Audited Michael Dearden Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Signed and approved for and on behalf of the Board 21 March 2006 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2005 33
