Remuneration report This report of the Remuneration Committee, which has been approved by the Board, states Whitbreads remuneration policy and details the remuneration of the directors for 2004 5.
This remuneration report will be the subject of a shareholder resolution to be proposed at the AGM.
Part 3 of Schedule 7a of the Companies Act 1985 requires that certain parts of the remuneration report are audited.
Throughout this report those sections that have been audited are marked clearly as audited information for the sake of clarity.
Contents of this Report Introduction from Charles Gurassa Remuneration Committee and its advisers Remuneration policy Directors service contracts Non-executive directors Fees from external directorships Directors remuneration in 2004 5 various tables Charles Gurassa Chairman, Remuneration Committee Introduction Whitbreads continued success is My colleagues and I on the Remuneration The committee has appointed New dependent on the skills and enthusiasm Committee will continue to monitor the Bridge Street Consultants LLP and of the people who work in our businesses.
appropriateness of our remuneration Towers Perrin, who are independent This report focuses on directors packages, to ensure that they are t remuneration consultants, to provide remuneration, but the principles for purpose.
They provide no other which form the basis of the companys types of service to the Whitbread group.
remuneration policy apply to all the Remuneration Committee New Bridge Street Consultants LLP, managers of Whitbreads businesses.
and its advisers together with Slaughter and May, advise the company on the implementation of The committee recommends to the In 2004 we introduced the Whitbread the committees policy decisions.
Board the specic remuneration Leadership Group Incentive Scheme, packages for the Chairman, the which was successfully implemented The committee receives internal advice executive directors and other members during the year.
This is described in more from Sir John Banham, Chairman of of the Executive Council.
In addition detail in this report.
I am pleased to Whitbread, and Angie Risley, Human it reviews the remuneration structure report that the scheme has been well Resources Director.
The secretary to for all other senior executives.
During received by its participants.
the committee is Simon Barratt.
2004 5 the committee met nine times: Where appropriate, the committee also In view of the proposed changes by details of the directors attendance receives input from the Chief Executive, the Treasury to pensions legislation can be found on page 31.
All of its Finance Director and Pensions Director.
we are reviewing the status of senior recommendations to the Board management pensions to ensure that were accepted.
there will be appropriate choices for The terms of reference of the committee our executives going forward at no are available on the companys website additional cost to the company.
A copy may By ensuring that our employees are also be requested by writing to the fairly and appropriately incentivised Company Secretary.
and rewarded we believe that they will continue to deliver outstanding service to our customers and value to our shareholders.
PAGE 38 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 5 REMUNERATION REPORT Performance graph Benets The Remuneration Committee Life assurance and private health The graph on the right shows the comprises: cover are core benets provided to percentage change in total shareholder all executives.
Non-core benets, for return TSR with dividends reinvested Charles Gurassa Chairman which cash alternatives are available, in the holdings of the companys shares Rod Kent are family health cover and a fully against a hypothetical holding of shares expensed company car.
Limited in the FTSE Leisure and Hotels Sector Prue Leith discounts on company products Index over a five year period.
David Turner are also provided in line with those The FTSE Leisure and Hotels Sector Index given to all Whitbread employees.
Lord Williamson has been chosen because it represents Pensions an appropriate market index in which All of the above individuals are the company is a constituent member.
During 2004 5 all of the executive independent non-executive directors.
directors were entitled to a pension Remuneration Policy from the Whitbread Group Pension The companys policy for directors Fund, which is a dened benefit pension Remuneration policy remuneration for 2005 6 and subsequent scheme.
A summary of this scheme is financial years is that the overall given on page 43 below the pension The following chart shows the package will be sufciently competitive entitlements table.
weightings attached to xed to attract, retain and motivate and variable pay and the balance The final salary section of this pension high calibre executives.
They will be between short-term and long-term scheme was closed to new entrants, expected to have the skills, expertise rewards at on target performance.
including directors on 31 December and enthusiasm to achieve the groups 2001.
All new recruits after that date objectives and to enhance shareholder variable xed base are oered participation in the dened value.
Such remuneration packages long-term salary 42% contribution section of the scheme.
LTIP 27% will reect their personal contribution For executive directors, the first being and the companys overall success.
The Christopher Rogers, the company will committee recognises the importance contribute at the rate of 25% of the of having a significant proportion of directors base salary.
an executives remuneration being linked to performance.
Further, in order In response to the Treasurys proposals to to promote retention and sustained reform pension provision in April 2006, corporate performance, the balance the Remuneration Committee is in the between short-term and long-term process of reviewing its policy on future rewards is important.
A full explanation variable of its conclusions will be given in next The following comprised the variable long-term years report, but the principles that have short-term cash deferred components of the remuneration been the foundation for this review are: bonus 10% equity 21% of executive directors: the company will not be meeting any Base salary increased tax burden of the executives Historical TSR Performance Base salaries are reviewed annually arising as a result of these reforms: against similar positions within UK no advance payments will be 250 leisure, hotel and retail companies of made to pension funds prior to the a similar market prole and against a 200 introduction of these reforms: pan-sectoral group of companies with a limited number of choices will be 150 a similar capitalisation and turnover to oered to executives on how they the business for which the director is 100 wish to provide for their retirement.
Before awarding any base These choices will be oered to all salary increase to directors, careful 50 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 executives: consideration is given to trading Whitbread FTSE Leisure and Hotels sector circumstances across the whole group any change in arrangements will be and to average salary increases for at worst cost-neutral for Whitbread: Growth in the value of a hypothetical Whitbread employees as a whole.
100 holding over five years between where possible, Whitbread should The policy is to pay appropriate market March 2000 and March 2005 compared mitigate its balance sheet risk on to the FTSE Leisure and Hotels sector rates but the Remuneration Committee existing pension obligations and based on 30 trading day average values.
acknowledges that exibility is required limit its exposure on any future in order to recruit and retain key executives.
Value of hypothetical 100 holding PAGE 39 Remuneration report Whitbread Leadership Group Levels of award Performance conditions Incentive Scheme The normal levels of cash bonus, The performance condition for the The Whitbread Leadership Group deferred equity and LTIP awards payable annual cash and deferred equity payable Incentive Scheme was implemented under the Plan to executive directors at under the Leadership Group Incentive during 2004 5. dierent levels of performance are: Scheme is economic profit.
Economic profit is operating profit less a cost of The policy objectives of this scheme are: Below Nil capital charge.
threshold to provide a clear link between Each year the Board sets a series 10% cash performance and reward, in order to of economic profit targets for the group Threshold 20% deferred equity motivate key executives: and for each brand within the group.
25% LTIP award For executive directors with group-wide to place a greater emphasis on equity 22.5% cash responsibility, the economic profit target rewards promoting alignment with On target 50% deferred equity 62.5% LTIP award will relate to the group as a whole.
For shareholders interests: directors with divisional responsibility, 55% cash to promote retention by deferring a Stretch 100% deferred equity a minimum of 20% of their rewards significant part of the rewards.
125% LTIP award will be based on a group economic profit target and the balance on an economic The Whitbread Leadership Group the bonus amounts shown are the maximum amounts, even where the profit target relating to their division.
Incentive Scheme applies to performance exceeds stretch.
The profit targets are set according approximately 90 executives.
This to the commercial strategy of the reects the Remuneration Committees The percentages in the table are company at the start of the financial desire to have a coherent and universal expressed as a percentage of the base year under review.
A straight-line will operate levels of rewards are graduated to reect between the above levels At the end of the financial year, the levels of responsibility.
economic profit results are calculated and the Remuneration Committee Structure Threshold will be the minimum target assesses each director against the at which rewards will be earned.
Three types of awards can be made pre-determined targets.
The value of the Targeted level of performance will be under the scheme following the end rewards is calculated and independently consistent with budgeted performance, of the financial year, all of which are veried for the committee by New and stretch will be signicantly beyond performance related.
These are: Bridge Street Consultants LLP.
a cash bonus that is immediately For 2004 5, the economic profit results In addition, a maximum of 20% of salary payable: for the group and the brands compared cash bonus will be payable for meeting an award over Whitbread shares to the performance levels were such that personal objectives.
In 2005 6 the known as deferred equity, which will six brands were below threshold, two objectives will be based on the WINcard normally vest three years later provided brands achieved stretch and the group see page 9 for details with the that the executive remains employed was between threshold and on target.
measures being like-for-like sales growth, by the Whitbread Group: profit growth, brand standards, guest For LTIP awards, the Remuneration recommendations, employee retention an award over Whitbread shares Committee agreed to use a relative TSR and health and safety.
These personal under the Long Term Incentive Plan to determine pay-out levels because it objectives apply to all management LTIP, which will under normal closely aligns the interests of executives throughout the company, as well as the circumstances vest three years after to those of shareholders.
The targets are set the date of grant provided that the at the beginning of each financial year individual remains an employee and and, for directors, reviewed and a TSR performance target described approved by the Remuneration in more detail below is satisfied.
PAGE 40 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 5 REMUNERATION REPORT The comparator group comprises Directors service contracts Non-executive directors constituents of the FTSE All Share Leisure The dates of the letters of appointment The Remuneration Committees policy is and Hotels Sector Index, which are for non-executive directors are set out that all executive directors should have regarded as the most appropriate given below and are available for inspection at rolling contracts of employment with the business mix and strategy of the the companys registered ofce: notice periods of 12 months.
Performance will be measured over three financial years following the David Thomas retired from the company Prue Leith 14 September 1995 financial year for which the award is on 15 June 2004 and Bill Shannon Lord Williamson 11 May 1998 made.
Averaging will take place over stepped down from the Board by mutual Charles Gurassa 26 July 2000 a three month period before the start consent on the same day.
As disclosed and end of the performance period to David Turner 3 January 2001 in last years Annual Report Bill received reduce the impact of short-term share payments based on 12 months salary, Rod Kent 30 August 2002 price uctuations.
The vesting schedule for any grants Rod Kent, Charles Gurassa and David The commencement dates for the made after June 2004 is: Turner will retire by rotation at the 2005 contracts are as follows: AGM and oer themselves for re-election.
Position at Stewart Miller 1 May 1990 Anthony Habgood will stand for election which the at the meeting.
Vesting schedule Angie Risley 1 May 1990 company is ranked Alan Parker 1 September 1992 Prue Leith and Lord Williamson have decided to step down following the AGM.
Upper quartile David Full vesting 1 November 1993 and above Richardson Fees for non-executive directors are Pro rata on a Between Former directors reviewed annually by the Board.
The straight-line median and composition of annual fees agreed in between quarter Bill Shannon 1 December 1993 upper quartile April 2005 is as follows: and full vesting David Thomas 31 March 1993 Median Quarter vests Base fee 45,000 Below median None Chair of Audit or Chairmans agreement Remuneration The Chairman, Sir John Banham, has a Committee 10,000 For the LTIP awards that vested on letter of appointment which commenced 1 March 2005, i. e. those awards granted Senior on 21 June 2000 and has a one-year in 2002, the performance condition independent notice period.
This contract explicitly was met in full.
The comparator group director 10,000 states that any salary increase will not comprised 20 comparators at the time Rod Kent will also receive a fee of 20,000 exceed the average increase paid to the of measurement and Whitbread was per annum for acting as Chairman of UK employees of the Whitbread group.
ranked fourth, which is in the upper Whitbread Pension Trustees Limited.
This was the second year in a Sir John Banham will step down both row that the company was ranked in Fees from external directorships as Chairman and Board director on the upper quartile and the LTIP awards 1 August 2005.
His letter of appointment Subject to the Boards approval, vested in full.
is available for inspection at the executive directors may accept companys registered ofce.
non-executive directorships and other relevant appointments outside the company provided this will not adversely aect their ability to perform their duties.
Executive directors may retain up to half the fees received from external appointments.
The balance is donated to charity.
1 As explained in the Annual Report and Accounts 2003 4 the annual incentive arrangements which were put in place for senior executives for the 2004 5 financial year included a cash element, a deferred equity element and an LTIP element.
The performance related payment gures in the table include all three of these elements.
The LTIP element is conditional on the achievement of the TSR targets described on page 41.
2 Bill Shannon also received a payment of 587,300 for the early termination of his service agreement and 162,000 to enhance his pension as disclosed in the 2003 4 Annual Report.
3 Includes fees as chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
4 In addition to these fees Rod Kent received 12,500 as chairman of Whitbread Pension Trustees Limited.
5 Includes fees as chairman of the Audit Committee.
Remuneration of Christopher Rogers, Finance Director designate Christopher Rogers will succeed David Richardson on 1 May 2005 as Finance Director.
He will be standing for election as a director at the 2005 AGM, and accordingly, we are voluntarily disclosing details of his remuneration so that shareholders can make an informed decision.
Christopher will be entitled to a basic salary of 375,000 per annum, and an employer pension contribution to a tax-approved dened contribution pension scheme of 25% of basic salary up to the Inland Revenue earnings cap currently 105,600, together with a non-pensionable salary supplement subject to tax and National Insurance of 25% of basic salary in excess of that cap.
In addition he will be entitled to the same benets as the other executive directors as described on page 39.
It is intended that Christopher will receive a one-o grant of an option over 50,000 ordinary shares under the Executive Share Option Schemes.
Anthony Habgood, Chairman designate Anthony Habgood will join the Board on 1 May 2005 and will take over as Chairman on 1 August 2005.
He will be standing for election at the 2005 AGM and we are therefore making a voluntary disclosure of the terms of his appointment.
Anthony will be entitled to an annual payment of 250,000.
Executive directors pension entitlements audited information Transfer value of Increase, before increase, before Accumulated Increase in accrued ination, in accrued ination, less accrued benets benets during benets during any directors 3 March 2005 the year the year contributions Stewart Miller 149,016 11,013 6,597 79,719 Alan Parker 208,333 94,361 90,714 1,488,477 David Richardson 181,415 16,038 10,746 221,272 Angie Risley 88,137 24,259 22,215 218,453 Former directors Bill Shannon 161,240 31,365 37,529 N A David Thomas 311,125 65,949 78,015 N A PAGE 42 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 5 REMUNERATION REPORT The transfer value of each directors accrued benets at the end of the financial year is as follows: Movement less any directors 3 March 2005 4 March 2004 contributions Stewart Miller 1,798,348 1,458,650 339,698 Alan Parker 3,417,945 1,717,355 1,700,590 David Richardson 3,727,603 3,390,466 337,137 Angie Risley 866,853 549,576 315,571 Former directors Bill Shannon 3,558,903 3,853,762 294,859 David Thomas 5,952,246 6,820,822 868,576 Transfer values represent a liability of the pension fund, not a sum paid or due to the individual.
In addition to the above benefit, Alan Parker has an entitlement in respect of a transfer value received from a previous employers pension scheme.
The accrued entitlement at 3 March 2005 was 78,472 per annum 46,658 per annum at 4 March 2004 and the transfer value was 1,283,762 700,048 at 4 March 2004.
Bill Shannon and David Thomas both retired and commenced drawing their pensions during the year.
As both directors commuted part of their pension for tax free cash sums in accordance with the scheme rules, their accrued benets fell during the year.
As explained above, all of the present executive directors are entitled to a dened benefit pension under the Whitbread Pension Fund.
On retirement from service at the normal pension age of 60, directors will receive an annual pension of two-thirds of their last 12 months basic salary, subject to Inland Revenue approval limits.
As a result of Alan Parkers earnings being restricted by the earnings cap, he is also a member of the Whitbread Group Unapproved Pension Scheme, an unfunded, unapproved pension scheme.
His total pension from the Whitbread Group Pension Fund and the Whitbread Group Unapproved Pension Scheme combined on retirement at age 60 will be two-thirds of his last 12 months base salary.
A director retiring early between the ages of 50 and 60 may, with the companys consent, draw his or her accrued pension without any actuarial reduction.
In the event of death in service before normal pension age a lump sum benefit of four times base salary is paid, together with a spouses pension.
On death after retirement, the directors spouse will receive a pension of 60% of the directors pension.
In addition, if death occurs within five years after retirement a lump sum equal to the unpaid balance of five years pension will be payable.
All pensions are increased annually in line with RPI up to a maximum of 5%.
Executive directors do not contribute to the above pension schemes.
None of the executive directors are accruing benets under any other company pension arrangements.
No elements of executive directors pay packages are pensionable other than base salaries.
Neither the Chairman nor the non-executive directors are entitled to participate in any of these pension arrangements.
As explained on pages 39 and 40, the Remuneration Committee is reviewing pension provision and a full report will be given in next years remuneration report on any changes made during 2005 6.
Directors share interests The interests of directors in the ordinary shares of 50 pence each in the company are shown below.
All holdings are beneficial and include shares held in trust under the Whitbread Share Ownership Scheme.
Held at 3 3 2005 Held at 4 3 2004 Sir John Banham 28,500 28,500 Charles Gurassa 2,798 2,798 Rod Kent 3,000 3,000 Prue Leith 1,706 2,706 Stewart Miller 34,713 33,003 Alan Parker 49,676 30,028 David Richardson 22,928 29,557 1 Angie Risley 2,960 736 2 Bill Shannon 28,180 28,180 2 David Thomas 89,469 66,245 David Turner 2,000 2,000 Lord Williamson 1,500 1,500 1 2 at date of appointment at 15 June 2004 PAGE 43 Remuneration report Share options audited information It is not the Remuneration Committees policy to continue to make an annual grant of options under the Whitbread Executive Share Option Scheme.
Options may be granted in exceptional circumstances, for example, on a senior recruitment or following an acquisition of a business.
The last general grant of options was made on 17 May 2004.
The performance target for these options will require Whitbread to have an earnings per share growth of RPI plus 12% in 2006 7 compared to that for 2003 4.
To the extent that this performance condition is not met at this time, the options will lapse, i. e. there will be no opportunity to retest performance conditions.
The committee considered that earnings per share was the appropriate financial test for market value options because the option has an inherent share price growth target.
Options granted between 1996 and 2000 cannot be exercised unless either adjusted EPS growth exceeds RPI plus 2% per annum over any three consecutive years during the life of the option or TSR exceeds the average of the FTSE 100 Index over the same period.
For options granted between June 2000 and June 2003 the performance conditions require the companys adjusted earnings per share to exceed RPI plus 4% per annum measured over any three consecutive years out of the ten year performance period.
Executive directors may also participate in the companys savings related share option scheme which is open to all employees on the same terms.
The exercise periods shown below are the normal exercise periods at the date of grant.
Actual exercise periods are subject to change in accordance with the rules of the schemes when a director ceases to be employed by the company.
At 3 March 2005 or date of resignation where applicable the directors held the following share options under the executive share option schemes and the Savings-related Share Option Scheme.
The earliest date on which any of the executive options could have been exercised was June 1998, with the latest being May 2014.
Savings-related share options have a six-month exercise period.
The awards are not subject to performance conditions and will vest in full on the release date subject to the director remaining an employee of Whitbread at that date.
If the director ceases to be an employee of Whitbread prior to the release date by reason of redundancy, retirement, death, injury, ill health or disability the awards will be released in full.
If the director ceases to be an employee of Whitbread for any other reason 50% of the shares will be awarded and the remainder will lapse.
2 The shares awarded under the 2002 LTIP vested on 1 March 2005, at which point the directors nil-cost options over the shares became exercisable, subject to the end of the closed period.
These options may now be exercised at any time before 1 March 2012.
3 The market price at vesting is the mid-market price on 1 March 2005 or 1 March 2004 in the case of the 2001 awards.
4 The monetary value of the vested award is the value at the date of vesting.
This may be dierent from the value at the time the director chooses to exercise his nil-cost option.
Details of the value of the award on exercise will be reported in the year of exercise.
Bill Shannon had not exercised his nil-cost option at the date of his resignation from the Board and Stewart Millers nil-cost option had not been exercised at 3 March 2005.
6 This includes an award which vested in a prior year but has not yet been exercised.
7 This includes an award which vested in a prior year and had not been exercised at the time Bill Shannon stepped down from the Board.
The information below refers to any awards made up to the date of the 2004 AGM.
Please refer to page 40 for details of the Plan after that date.
Participation in the Plan is available to executive directors and a small number of other senior executives.
The Plan aligns the long-term interests of participants with those of the company and its shareholders and is designed to deliver superior performance from participants and to improve shareholder value.
The Plan rewards executives with shares rather than cash benets.
Awards are based on three-year performance periods and were calculated by taking half of the executives salary at the start of the period and dividing it by the Whitbread share price averaged over the five business days preceding the start of the performance period.
The measure of performance is TSR.
Awards made prior to the 2004 AGM vest in part if the company performs at median, increasing to full vesting for top quartile performance relative to the comparator group of companies.
This means that at the 50th percentile, 50% of the award will be paid and at the 75th percentile, 100% of the award will be paid, with a straight line operating in between.
For the 2002 award the comparator group of companies consisted of: Allied Domecq, BAA, Boots, Cadbury Schweppes, Compass, Dixons, Gallaher, Hilton Group, Imperial Tobacco, J Sainsbury, Marks & Spencer, Rank, Reckitt Benckiser, Scottish & Newcastle, Tate & Lyle, Tesco, Uniq and WHSmith.
Albert Fisher, Arcadia and Six Continents were originally part of this group but their shares are no longer traded.
Since the date of its demerger a weighted average of Mitchells and Butlers and Intercontinental Hotels Group has been used in place of Six Continents.
The comparator group for the 2003 and 2004 awards were constituents of the FTSE Hotels and Leisure index as at 1 March 2003 and 1 March 2004 respectively.
1 The gains on exercise shown above relate to exercises whilst directors were on the Board.
Since David Thomas and Bill Shannon stepped down from the Board on 15 June 2004, they made total gains of 751,670 and 698,391 respectively from the exercise of options.
2 The price on exercise is either the actual price attained, where the shares were sold on exercise, or the mid-market price on the day of exercise where the shares were retained.
The director retained some or all of the shares on exercise, but had all of the shares been sold this is the gain that would have been made.
Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT The company funds an ESOT to enable it to acquire and hold shares for the LTIP, executive share option schemes and Deferred Bonus Plan.
The ESOT currently holds 1,695,289 shares: the executive directors each have a technical interest in these shares as potential beneciaries of the trust.
All dividends on shares in the ESOT are waived by the Trustee.
During the period from 3 March 2005 to 25 April 2005 no director has exercised an option to call for the transfer of shares from the ESOT.
Share price information The mid-market price of Whitbread ordinary shares on 3 March 2005 was 889p 4 March 2004 740p.
The highest and lowest price paid between these dates was 934p and 693p respectively.
Changes since 3 March 2005 There have been no changes in directors interests in ordinary shares since 3 March 2005.
Signed and approved on behalf of the Board Charles Gurassa Chairman, Remuneration Committee 25 April 2005 PAGE 48 Whitbread PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004 5 Directors responsibility for the financial statements Audit report Statement of directors by law, we do not accept or assume part of the remuneration report and responsibilities responsibility to anyone other than the the directors report.
We consider the company and the companys members as implications for our report if we become The following statement, which should a body, for our audit work, for this report, aware of any apparent misstatements be read in conjunction with the auditors or for the opinions we have formed.
or material inconsistencies with the statement of their responsibilities below, financial statements.
Our responsibilities is made with a view to distinguishing Respective responsibilities of do not extend to any other information.
for shareholders the respective directors and auditors responsibilities of the directors and Basis of audit opinion The directors are responsible for of the auditors in relation to the preparing the Annual Report, including We conducted our audit in accordance financial statements.
the financial statements which are with United Kingdom Auditing Standards The directors are required by the required to be prepared in accordance issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
Companies Act 1985 to prepare financial with applicable United Kingdom law An audit includes examination, on a statements for each financial year which and accounting standards as set test basis, of evidence relevant to the give a true and fair view of the state of out in the statement of directors amounts and disclosures in the financial aairs of the company and the group as responsibilities in relation to the statements and the part of the directors at the end of the financial year and of the financial statements.
The directors remuneration report to be audited.
It also profit or loss for the financial year.
are also responsible for preparing the includes an assessment of the significant directors remuneration report.
estimates and judgements made by the The directors consider that in preparing directors in the preparation of the financial the financial statements on pages 50 Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements, and of whether the accounting to 78, the group has used appropriate statements and the part of the directors policies are appropriate to the groups accounting policies, consistently applied remuneration report to be audited in circumstances, consistently applied and and supported by reasonable and prudent accordance with relevant legal and adequately disclosed.
judgements and estimates, and that all regulatory requirements, United Kingdom applicable Accounting Standards have Auditing Standards and the Listing Rules We planned and performed our audit been followed.
of the Financial Services Authority.
so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered The directors have responsibility for We report to you our opinion as to necessary in order to provide us with ensuring that the group keeps accounting whether the financial statements give sufficient evidence to give reasonable records which disclose with reasonable a true and fair view and whether the assurance that the financial statements accuracy the financial position of the financial statements and the part of and the part of the directors group and which enable them to ensure the directors remuneration report to be remuneration report to be audited are free that the financial statements comply audited have been properly prepared in from material misstatement, whether with the Companies Act 1985. accordance with the Companies Act 1985. caused by fraud or other irregularity or We also report to you if, in our opinion, the The directors have general responsibility error.
In forming our opinion we also directors report is not consistent with the for taking such steps as are reasonably evaluated the overall adequacy of the financial statements, if the company has open to them to safeguard the assets of presentation of information in the not kept proper accounting records, if we the group and to prevent and detect fraud financial statements and the part of have not received all the information and and other irregularities.
the directors remuneration report explanations we require for our audit, or to be audited.
Independent auditors report to the if information specified by law or members of Whitbread PLC the Listing Rules regarding directors Opinion remuneration and transactions with We have audited the groups financial In our opinion: the group is not disclosed.
statements for the year ended 3 March t he financial statements give a true 2005 which comprise the accounting We review whether the corporate and fair view of the state of aairs of policies, group profit and loss account, governance statement reects the the company and of the group as at group statement of total recognised companys compliance with the nine 3 March 2005 and of the profit of the gains and losses, group note of historical provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined group for the year then ended: and cost profits and losses, balance sheets, Code specified for our review by the group cash ow statement and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services t he financial statements and the part related notes 1 to 36.
These financial of the directors remuneration report Authority, and we report if it does not.
statements have been prepared on We are not required to consider to be audited have been properly the basis of the accounting policies prepared in accordance with the whether the boards statements set out therein.
We have also audited on internal control cover all risks Companies Act 1985. the information in the directors and controls, or form an opinion Ernst & Young LLP remuneration report that is described as on the eectiveness of the groups having been audited.
Registered Auditor corporate governance procedures London or its risk and control procedures.
This report is made solely to the 25 April 2005 companys members, as a body, in We read other information contained in accordance with Section 235 of the the Annual Report and consider whether Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work it is consistent with the audited financial has been undertaken so that we might statements.
This other information state to the companys members those comprises the Chairmans statement, matters we are required to state to them the Chief Executives review, the in an auditors report and for no other Finance Directors review, the corporate purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted governance statement, the unaudited PAGE 49
