YELL GROUP PLC Audit Committee Remuneration Committee The Audit Committee is chaired by John Coghlan, who as The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Joachim Eberhardt.
Chief Financial Officer of Exel plc, is deemed by the Board to Charles Carey was the other member of the Committee during have recent and relevant financial experience.
The other the reporting period.
Both members of the Committee are nonmembers during the year were Bob Scott, Lord Powell of executive directors, independent of management and free from Bayswater and Joachim Eberhardt.
With effect from 1 March any business or other relationship which could materially 2005, Bob Scott resigned from the Committee and Lord interfere with the exercise of their independent judgment.
Powell of Bayswater was appointed, so that the Committee Save as to the suggested number of members, the Committee now consists entirely of independent non-executive directors.
complied with the requirements set out in the Combined Code It meets at least four times a year.
The external auditors and in carrying out its duties.
the internal Head of Risk attend all meetings.
The Committee, which meets at least four times a year has The Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its duties regarding responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the the reporting of financial and non-financial information to Companys policy on the remuneration of senior executives, for shareholders.
On behalf of the Board, the Committee examines reviewing the performance of executive directors and senior the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk management of the Company, and for determining, within management by reviewing evidence of risk assessment activity, agreed terms of reference, specific remuneration packages for agreeing the scope of internal audit reviews, reviews of the each of the directors of the Company and members of senior annual and interim financial statements and the nature and management including pension rights, any compensation scope of the external audit.
The Committee has also carried payments and the implementation of executive incentive out an evaluation of its own performance and that of the schemes.
In accordance with the Committees terms of external auditors.
reference, no director may participate in discussions relating to their own terms and conditions of service or remuneration.
Yell operates a whistleblowing policy whereby confidential matters can be brought to the attention of the General In the course of the reporting year, the Committee received Counsel.
Any investigations are jointly undertaken by the advice from the Chief Executive Officer and the Company General Counsel and the Head of Risk, and the Committee Secretary.
The Committee also appointed and received advice will have oversight of these investigations.
It was agreed, from Deloitte & Touche LLP in respect of remuneration policy, following the Committee evaluation that the whistleblowing market practice and corporate governance for senior policy would be reviewed to ensure it continues to comply with management and other employees.
Tax and risk management current best practice.
Any changes will be implemented with services were also received from Deloitte & Touche LLP by the the approval of the Committee in the forthcoming year.
The Committee also reviews the independence and objectivity The report of the Remuneration Committee appears on of our external auditors.
The nature of non-audit work which pages 3241. may be undertaken by our auditors has been defined and financial limits on the amount of this work have been established.
Regular updates are prepared for the Committee on the nature and extent of non-audit services provided by our auditors.
The auditors are also required to confirm their independence at least annually.
The Board formally reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of internal control during the last financial year.
28 ANNUAL REPORT 2004 05 Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is chaired by Lyndon Lea and its other members are Charles Carey, John Coghlan and John Condron.
The Committee, which meets at least once a year, has responsibility for considering the size, structure and composition of the Board, the retirement and or appointment of directors and ensuring that the Board has the right blend of skills and experience.
The Committee has recommended that in order to facilitate the smooth running of the Board Committees it would be advantageous to appoint an additional independent non-executive director.
This recommendation was approved by the Board, and a search process is underway.
During the reporting period, the Committee has also reviewed the succession planning process for senior management within the Company.
Relations with Shareholders The Company is committed to ongoing communications with its shareholder base.
This is achieved through: Regular dialogue and presentations throughout the year to the institutional investors, such as our Investors Seminar which took place on 15 November 2004 The issuing of press releases, regulatory announcements and annual and interim reports Our Annual General Meeting which gives all our shareholders the opportunity to hear first hand from our Board of Directors and to raise questions.
All proposed resolutions are put to a poll vote and electronic proxy voting is encouraged to enfranchise all shareholders 29 YELL GROUP PLC Directors Report The directors have pleasure in presenting the report and Review of Business and Future Developments accounts of Yell Group plc the Company for the year ended A review of the performance for the reporting period and the 31 March 2005. expected future developments is given in the CEOs and CFOs reviews on pages 513.
Overview and Principal Activities The Company is the leading provider of classified directory Results and Dividends advertising and associated products and services in the UK The Groups pre-tax profit for the year ended 31 March 2005 and the leading independent provider of classified telephone was 153.7 million 200444.1 million loss after charging directory advertising in the US.
Excluding the effect of the exceptional items, the pre-tax profit for the 2005 financial year Share Capital History would have been 190.2 million compared to a net profit of Full details of the movements in the authorised and issued 104.4 million in the 2004 financial year.
share capital of the Company during the reporting period are An interim dividend of 4.2p per ordinary share was paid on provided in note 19 to the financial statements.
The directors propose a final dividend of 8.4p to be paid on 19 August 2005 to shareholders on the Major Shareholders register at 22 July 2005, subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on 12 July 2005.
At 19 May 2005, the most recent practicable date, the Company had received notification from the following entities The Trustees of the Yell Employee Benefit Trust have waived under Part VI of the Companies Act 1985, showing a material their entitlement to previous and proposed dividends totalling interest of 3% or more in the Companys shares.
% of issued Directors and their Interests ordinary The directors of the Company are listed on page 42.
of sharessharecapital All directors will submit themselves for re-appointment at the FMR Corp and Fidelity 93,422,379 13.27 Annual General Meeting on 12 July 2005. International Limited and The directors emoluments are disclosed on page 38. their subsidiaries The beneficial interests of the directors and their immediate Franklin Resources Inc 49,499,804 7.03 family in the Companys issued share capital are given on Lloyds TSB Group Plc 41,705,374 5.92 page 41.
Barclays Plc 41,465,925 5.88 Charitable and Political Donations Aviva plc and its subsidiaries 29,973,015 4.25 During the past financial year the Company has made Legal & General Group plc 25,299,234 3.59 charitable donations totalling just over 500,000 2004 500,000, which support various community related charities MFS Investment Management 22,779,265 3.24 and projects.
No political donations were made during the year.
30 ANNUAL REPORT 2004 05 Applications for Employment by Disabled People Approach to Share Ownership Yell has a Recruitment and Selection Policy that states we are We actively encourage our people to share in the future of the committed to the employment of people with disabilities.
An employee ShareSave scheme operates in the guarantee an interview to people with disabilities who meet UK, and a Stock Purchase Plan operates for our people in the minimum selection criteria for any vacancy.
registered as a Two Tick employer as it satisfies the UK governments criteria on the employment of people Policy and Practice on Payment of Creditors with disabilities.
It is the Companys policy to use its purchasing power fairly and to pay promptly and as agreed.
Payment terms for Policy on Arrangements for Able Bodied People that purchases under major contracts are settled as part of the Develop Disabilities contract negotiations.
It is the Companys policy to make Our Equal Opportunities Policy contains a code of good payments for other purchases within 30 days following the end practice on disability which states that an individual who of the month in which a correct and valid invoice is received.
becomes disabled whilst in employment will receive support to At 31 March 2005 trade creditors represented 15 days ensure, wherever possible, they are able to continue in their 200418 days of purchases.
This will involve whatever reasonable adjustments that significant trade creditors.
can be made, in consultation with the individual.
Again, in consultation with the individual, other positions will be Auditors considered where the individuals skills and abilities match the requirements of the role, making reasonable adjustments A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as wherever possible.
auditors will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Policy on Training Career Development of Disabled People Annual General Meeting We ensure that training and career development is equally The Notice of the Annual General Meeting, to be held on available to people with disabilities, tailored where practicable 12 July 2005, together with explanatory notes appears on for their specific needs.
Information Provision By order of the Board We provide information to our people on many topics, including financial performance, through a number of different communication vehicles including our intranet, various printed publications and live briefings.
Where we have specific plans for change, a consultation Howard Rubenstein mechanism is built into the change process.
Company Secretary 31 YELL GROUP PLC Remuneration Report Remuneration Committee Members The Remuneration Committee The Committee is chaired by Joachim Eberhardt and its other Within agreed terms of reference the Remuneration Committee member is Charles Carey.
Both members of the Committee are has responsibility for making recommendations to the Board of independent non-executive directors of the Company.
It remains directors on the Companys policy on the remuneration of the Companys intention to appoint a third member of the executive directors and for reviewing the performance of Committee following the recruitment of an additional these individuals.
Save as to the suggested number of members, the Committee complied with the Performance Graph requirements set out in the Combined Code in carrying out its duties.
The graph below sets out the performance of the Company relative to the FTSE 100 index of which the Company is The Chief Executive Officer is invited to attend Committee a constituent.
meetings, except when his remuneration is being discussed.
The performance graph has been prepared in accordance The Committee met on five occasions during the year ended with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and 31 March 2005. is not an indication of the likely vesting of awards granted The Committee received advice from the Chief Executive under any of the Companys incentive plans.
Officer and the Company Secretary.
The Committee also appointed and received advice from Deloitte & Touche LLP in Yell Group Total Shareholder Return since IPO, 15 July 2003, respect of remuneration policy, market practice and corporate plotted against the FTSE100 governance for senior management and other employees.
180 Tax and risk management services were also received from 160 Deloitte & Touche LLP by the Company during the year.
140 120 Remuneration Policy 100 The Committee believes that a robust incentive and reward 80 framework is vital to the Companys continued success and is 60 therefore committed to the development of the Companys 40 remuneration policy over time, in consultation with shareholders 20 and institutional investors where appropriate.
0 The remuneration policy developed by the Committee since Jul Oct Jan Apr Jul Oct Dec Mar 03 03 04 04 04 04 04 05 flotation is designed to provide a cohesive framework which Source: Datastream maximises the achievement of individual and Company potential through targeted, results-driven reward and incentives Yell Group FTSE100 which pay for good performance at all levels throughout the organisation.
32 Rebased TSR: 1 Month 23 working day rolling average ANNUAL REPORT 2004 05 The remuneration policy continues to be based on the Development of Executive Remuneration Policy following key principles: As was disclosed last year, during the latter part of 2004 Simplicity and coherence the Committee conducted a detailed review of the total remuneration of the executive directors.
The Committee then Fairness of rewards against comparable companies carried out a full consultation with the major shareholders of Alignment of executive interests with the interests of the Company, in advance of implementation.
shareholders As part of the review, changes were made to certain elements Variable reward based on local profit and share price of the remuneration policy.
The Committee has continued to growth follow the tiered remuneration approach developed during 2003 which encompasses all employees within the same Encouraging all-employee share ownership policy framework.
This approach highlights the Committees determination to reward all employees fairly and consistently Incentivising exceptional performance with the potential for and to encourage and promote employee share ownership.
superior rewards Following the review, a number of one-off adjustments were The Committee is committed to enabling the Company to made to the total remuneration packages of the executive achieve its potential by attracting and retaining high quality directors.
people and providing them with a competitive overall remuneration package with clear targeted incentives.
During the course of the review, the Committee reaffirmed the This will enable them to be among the best paid people importance of executives having the opportunity to be highly in the marketplace if they and the Company deliver rewarded for outstanding personal and company performance, outstanding results.
and of basing incentives on a combination of performance conditions collectively geared to enhancing shareholder value.
Under the Companys remuneration policy, total remuneration is broadly based on market median for on target performance, The Committee therefore determined that now would be an with the potential for upper quartile or above remuneration for appropriate time to make use of the Long-Term Incentive Plan superior performance.
The vehicle for delivering medium and LTIP approved on flotation and to make changes to the long-term incentives at each level within the organisation differs Annual Bonus Plan.
to accommodate the specific issues, desired behaviours and performance drivers for the different groups of employees.
33 YELL GROUP PLC As discussed with our major shareholders, these changes Summary of Individual Elements of Executive Directors enable the executive directors to receive a highly competitive Remuneration package for delivering outstanding results.
Long-term incentives Executive directors total remuneration comprises short, medium will be offered in the form of Share Options and Performance and long-term incentives in the form of salary and benefits, Shares with performance conditions based on Earnings Per annual and deferred bonus, share options, performance shares Share and Total Shareholder Return respectively.
The tiered and pension benefits.
approach to remuneration now comprises five levels as set out below.
The aim of the Committee is to ensure that executive directors remuneration reflects the principles of the policy Target Population outlined previously.
The benefit derived from the various elements of remuneration, excluding salary, the sharesave plan and pension, is subject to the achievement of predetermined performance targets.
The Executive Directors LTIP Committee considers there to be an appropriate balance between fixed and variable remuneration with approximately Executive Directors & Executive one third of total remuneration deriving from fixed salary and Senior Executive Group Options approximately two thirds deriving from variable incentives.
Base Salary Management Capital a Group Accumulation Plan Base salaries are set taking account of the individual role, responsibility, experience and long-term contribution.
As a result of the remuneration review the Committee felt that it was All Employees UK ShareSave & US appropriate to increase the base salary of the executive Stock Purchase Plan directors to a more appropriate level given the fact that the Company is now listed and a constituent of the FTSE 100.
The All Employees b Annual Bonus Plan Committee reviewed comparable practice in media companies and other FTSE 100 companies before setting the level, and now consider that the salaries have been brought into line with the market.
a As discussed last year, this plan was adopted in 2004 for key members of the management group excluding executive directors.
The Committee now consider that this element of pay is in b For executive directors, the annual bonus is operated with an element of deferral.
accordance with the policy of paying competitive total rewards and represents a competitive position against other media and All the Companys share plans incorporate dilution limits FTSE 100 companies.
consistent with the guidelines provided by the Association of British Insurers the ABI, the National Association of Pension Funds and other shareholder representative bodies.
As a result of consultation with shareholders during the year, for options granted in FY04 FY05 and onwards there will no longer be the opportunity to retest performance conditions.
34 ANNUAL REPORT 2004 05 Annual Bonus and the Deferred Bonus Plan Options granted in FY05 will only be exercisable if the adjusted Earnings per Share EPS of the Company, taken over Each executive director is eligible to receive a bonus subject a three year period, is equal to or exceeds the cumulative to the achievement of performance targets.
The performance increase in the Retail Price Index RPI plus 3% per annum at targets are set by the Committee each year having regard to the end of such three year period.
If the performance condition the business plan.
is not met at the end of the third year the option lapses.
Details Executive directors are eligible to receive a maximum bonus of options granted to executive directors are provided on of 120% 100% for FY04 of salary with an on-target bonus page 40. of 65%.
However, under the new Deferred Bonus Plan, any The Committee continues to consider that the EPS condition bonus in excess of 100% of salary will be subject to a most appropriately focuses eligible employees on increasing compulsory deferral into shares for a period of three years.
the Companys earnings and therefore helps to align the These shares will be forfeited if the director leaves otherwise interests of the executive directors with both shareholders and than in pre-determined good leaver circumstances.
For the executive directors, the Committee have determined The committee has determined that if appropriate, it will that the targets for the annual bonus will be related to the exercise its judgement and discretion to make adjustments to Groups revenue, profit and cash generation targets 100% EPS in order to take into account the transition to International with the balance 20% based on non-financial metrics.
However, this would only apply where the adjustment was made for the purpose of ensuring that the The Annual Bonus Plans for sales and non-sales staff similarly performance condition remained equitable to both participants operate by reference to financial and non-financial metrics.
and shareholders and, in the opinion of the Committee, no less stretching to achieve.
Should the Committee exercise such Share Options discretion and judgement in the future it will outline the reason The executive directors and other key UK senior managers of and basis for its decision to shareholders in the Directors the Company participate in the Yell Group plc Executive Share Remuneration Report for the relevant year.
Key US senior managers participate in the Yell Group plc 2003 US Equity Incentive Plan.
Options are Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP granted under both plans with an exercise price at least The first awards under the LTIP were made in November equal to the market value of the underlying shares at the date 2004.
It is intended that going forward, awards to executive of grant.
directors will be made at a multiple of one times salary.
It is intended that going forward, options will be granted to executive directors at a multiple of two times base salary.
As previously noted, the Committee believe it is important for However for FY05 only, the Committee granted options to executives to be incentivised by reference to a combination of each executive director at a multiple of two and a half times different performance conditions.
Given the use of an EPS base salary.
Included in this grant was a one-off additional measure for the Option Scheme, it was felt that using TSR for grant of 50% of salary which recognised the decision by the the LTIP would provide an appropriate balance of financial Company to align the executive directors stock option grant and market based performance conditions for the long-term dates previously July with the Companys grant date for all incentive component of remuneration.
The extent to which the awards will vest will depend upon the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR performance relative 35 YELL GROUP PLC 1 to the TSR performance of the FTSE 100 constituents excluding Pensionable Service giving a total accrual of 30 each year.
He investment trusts over a three year period.
To the extent that is contractually entitled to a pension based on uncapped the performance condition is not satisfied, the award will lapse pensionable salary for each year of service under the Yell and there will be no opportunity to retest the condition further.
As he is subject to the Earnings Cap, the excess over the approved benefit conferred under the Chief Financial For an award to vest, the Companys TSR performance must Officers contractual arrangement is currently being provided not be less than that of the median company in the comparator on an unfunded basis.
This unfunded, unapproved pension group.
If the Company is ranked at the median level, 30% of promise was reviewed during the financial year.
The review the award will vest, rising to 100% vesting at the upper 1 highlighted that the CFOs then entitlement of 45 was below quartile level.
the median for comparable executive roles and a majority 62% of Chief Financial Officers in the FTSE 100 have an Pension 1 accrual rate of 30.
Accordingly the CFOs pension promise 1 1 Both the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial was amended to increase his overall entitlement to 30 45 Officer participate in the Yell Pension Plan which is an Inland previously of his Pension Scheme Salary for each complete Revenue approved plan.
Under the terms of the Yell Pension year of Pensionable Service and in proportion for a part year.
Plan applicable, both executive directors will receive retirement For the avoidance of doubt, it should be noted that the revised benefits on a defined benefit basis.
entitlement will be applied to all periods of Pensionable Service.
The Chief Executive Officer is a member of Section 2 of the Yell Pension Plan.
Under that Section, he accrues an annual Further details of the executive directors pension benefits can 1 pension of 80 of his Final Pensionable Earnings for each year be found on page 39. of Pensionable Service.
In addition, he accrues a one-off cash 3 sum of 80 of his Final Pensionable Earnings for each year of Other Remuneration Pensionable Service.
He is not subject to the Inland Revenues The executive directors also participate in the ShareSave plan.
Earnings cap for pension purposes due to his prior membership of the BT Pension Scheme and is entitled to an The executive directors receive a number of other benefits enhancement of his Pensionable Service under the Yell Pension including life assurance, private health cover, long-term Plan by reference to the BT Pension Scheme which will disability insurance, the provision of a car, telecommunications continue until 13 November 2009.
Under the terms of this services, health club membership and an allowance for enhancement, since 1 July 1996, the Chief Executive Officer personal tax and financial advice.
has been granted an additional 71 days of Pensionable In addition, the executive directors receive reimbursement from Service for each actual year of Pensionable Service in the BT the Company for reasonable expenses incurred in the carrying Pension Scheme or the Yell Pension Plan.
The effect of the out of their duties.
enhancement is that if he remains a member of the Yell Pension Plan until his normal retirement date.
The Chief Executive Officers forecasted total Pensionable Service at age 60 will be 40 years.
The Chief Financial Officer is a member of both Sections 1 and 3 of the Yell Pension Plan and under each Section accrues 1 an annual pension of 60 of his Final Pensionable Earnings up to the Inland Revenues Earnings Cap for each year of 36 ANNUAL REPORT 2004 05 Service contracts Executive Directors Letters of Appointment Non-Executive Directors The service contracts for both executive directors are for a Non-executive directors each have a letter of appointment rolling 12 month period, in line with the Companys policy on which sets out details of their appointments with a notice executive directors service contracts.
The key terms of the executive directors service contracts are The following table shows the date of appointment of as follows: individual non-executive directors: Aspect Policy Director Date of appointment Notice period Twelve calendar months Bob Scott 1 July 2003 on termination by the Charles Carey 1 July 2003 company or the director John Coghlan 1 July 2003 Termination payments if Payment if the notice period Joachim Eberhardt 1 July 2003 contract terminated is served: Pro-rata bonus Lyndon Lea 1 July 2003 without cause based on the greater of on Lord Powell of Bayswater 1 July 2003 target performance 65% and projected performance Non-Executive Directors Remuneration determined by the Board of Directors maximum 120%.
The Company endeavours to pay non-executive directors fees Payment if employment is that reflect a market competitive rate.
terminated by the company For the FY05 financial year, all the non-executive directors with without notice:95% of annual the exception of Bob Scott received fees for their services of salary, benefits, pension 50,000 per annum.
Bob Scott received fees for his services as a non-executive director and as the Companys Chairman of contributions and on target 150,000 per annum.
In addition, a further fee of 10,000 bonus 65% plus all per annum was payable to each non-executive director for conditional awards of shares chairing committees and 5,000 per annum was payable for and share options vest membership of committees.
Non-executive directors are not eligible to participate in the Companys share plans and the Company does not make any benefits available to them under other employee benefit arrangements or make any contributions to their personal pension plans.
