Corporate governance Remuneration report The Board has delegated authority to the Remuneration Committee for remuneration policy and determining the specific packages for the Chairman and executive directors, and has delegated authority to agree fees payable to the non-executive directors to the Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee.
The reports from both these Committees are incorporated into this Remuneration report, together with a report on the remuneration or fees paid to directors and the policy underpinning this.
The Remuneration report is structured as follows: Remuneration Committee report Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee report Remuneration reporting Executive remuneration review Remuneration policy and service contracts for executive directors Chairmans appointment, term and fees Non-executive directors appointment, term and fees Tabular information on directors shareholdings, emoluments, pensions and share-based incentives BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 57 Corporate governance Remuneration report continued Remuneration Committee report In 2005 the Committee met six times and the levels and structure of remuneration Members: details of attendance at these meetings are payable to senior executives: Professor Sue Birley Chairman provided in the Corporate Governance the discretionary elements Roberto Quarta Report on page 53. of the executive share plans: and Peter Weinberg During the year Dick Olver and Mike Turner, pension arrangements for senior Responsibilities in their respective capacities as Chairman executives in the light of forthcoming Agreeing a policy for the remuneration of and Chief Executive, provided advice that tax changes.
the Chairman and executive directors.
was of material assistance to the Committee.
The Committee also received In addition, the Committee has: Within the agreed policy, determining material assistance and advice on reviewed the remuneration report: and individual remuneration packages for remuneration policy from the Companys the Chairman and executive directors.
consulted with major shareholders Group Human Resources Director, Alastair over changes to remuneration policy.
Agreeing the terms and conditions to Imrie, and from the Human Resources be included in service agreements Director, Remuneration and Benefits, The Committees remuneration strategy for executive directors.
In addition, the is to provide a remuneration package that: Committee received advice and services Approving any employee share-based helps attract, retain and motivate the from  PwC in incentive schemes and any performance highest calibre executives: respect of the provision and interpretation conditions to be used for such schemes.
of comparative senior management is aligned to shareholders interests Determining any share scheme remuneration data and senior executives to create sustainable long-term performance targets.
pension arrangements, from New Bridge shareholder value: Street Consultants NBSC in respect of The full terms of reference of the is competitive against the appropriate the review and operation of share plans, Remuneration Committee can be found market, providing median reward for and from Linklaters in respect of legal on the Companys website or can be median performance and upper quartile advice.
NBSC was appointed by the obtained from the Company Secretary.
reward for upper quartile performance: Committee, whilst PwC and Linklaters were appointed by the Company, and, during the encourages and supports a high Governance year, provided consulting services PwC and performance culture whilst providing The Board has delegated to the legal advice Linklaters to the Company.
a balance between fixed and Remuneration Committee responsibility for The Committee is satisfied that the services variable reward: and remuneration policy and determining the provided to it by PwC and Linklaters were of specific packages for the Chairman and the is fair and transparent and can be applied a technical nature and did not create any executive directors: the Committee also consistently throughout the Group.
If a conflict of interest agrees the framework for the remuneration were to arise in the future, the Committee of certain other members of the executive Details of executive remuneration are set would appoint separate consultants or legal management team.
The Committees terms out on pages 59 to 74 of this Remuneration advisers from those used by the Company.
of reference conform with the requirements report and include on pages 59 and 60 of the Combined Code.
the outcome of consultations with major Activities shareholders in respect of changes During the year the Committee has The Committee is chaired by Professor to executive remuneration policy for 2006 discharged its responsibilities by Sue Birley and all of its members are and beyond.
reviewing and agreeing: independent non-executive directors.
performance targets for the year and During the year Dr Ulrich Cartellieri and Professor Sue Birley progress against those targets: Sir Peter Mason also served as members Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of the Remuneration Committee: they, too, policy for executive share scheme grants 22 February 2006 were independent non-executive directors.
including the level of individual grants The committee composition changed during and performance conditions: the year as part of the ongoing programme policy for the operation of the all-employee to refresh the Board and its committees.
share schemes: The Companys Chairman and Chief the award of bonuses based on the prior Executive attend committee meetings by years performance: invitation only.
They do not attend where the basis for the annual review of their individual remuneration is discussed executive directors remuneration, and no director is involved in deciding his including the composition of the own remuneration.
comparator groups: 58 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 Non-Executive Directors Fees Remuneration reporting As a result of this process, a number of Committee report Executive remuneration review changes have been made to remuneration Members: This section of the report explains the policy which are detailed below: Dick Olver Chairman outcome of the formal remuneration review Michael Lester undertaken in 2005 and the subsequent i Chief Executives remuneration Mark Ronald consultation with major shareholders, and The Committee concluded from the Mike Turner the changes to future remuneration policy remuneration review that the remuneration resulting from this process.
structure for the executive directors Responsibilities remained appropriate and generally in line Reviewing the fees payable to nonAs reported in last years Remuneration with the market, provided a good mix of executive directors excluding the Report, the Remuneration Committee the short and long-term incentives, cash and Chairman and making changes to Committee undertook a formal review of share-based rewards, and aligned the such fees as deemed appropriate.
executive remuneration policy in the second interests of the executive directors with half of 2005 and, having formulated its those of shareholders.
Governance proposals, subsequently undertook a The Non-Executive Directors Fees consultation with major shareholders The exception was the remuneration of the Committee was formed by the Board in at the beginning of 2006 in respect of: Chief Executive, whose salary was shown January 2005 with authority on its behalf an enhancement to the Chief Executives to be below market and for whom the bonus to agree fees payable to non-executive package reflecting his performance whilst potential and long-term incentives were directors.
This role was undertaken maintaining a median benchmark position: significantly below market.
Given the previously by the Board as a whole.
The Chief Executives time in the role, his the settling of share-based awards for full terms of reference of the Non-Executive performance and the performance of the senior US executives in shares rather Directors Fees Committee can be found on Group, the Committee agreed the following than cash, and introduction of a new cashthe Companys website or can be obtained improvements to the Chief Executives based long-term incentive plan for less from the Company Secretary.
package for 2006: senior executives globally to replace share options and performance shares Base salary: increased to 870,000 Activities and their cash equivalents in the US : with effect from 1 January 2006: The Board has approved the following guidelines to be used by the Committee the replacement of the Restricted Share Bonus potential: increased to 150% when discharging its responsibilities: Plan with a new Share Matching Plan of base salary but with one-third of his fees shall be sufficient to attract and subject to formal shareholder approval bonus to be compulsorily deferred into retain individuals with the necessary in May 2006, including the introduction the new Share Matching Plan: and skills, experience and knowledge of a performance condition on Long-term incentives: a 50% increase required to ensure that the Board is matching shares: in the annual awards of share options able to discharge its duties effectively: the replacement of the Performance and performance shares to 225% of in setting fees the Committee shall have Share Plan subject to formal shareholder base salary in share options and 150% regard to the amount of time individual approval in May 2006 with a similar plan of base salary in performance shares.
non-executive directors are required to which incorporates changes in relation to These increases in annual awards will devote to their duties and also the scale, the calculation of the maximum award, give a total combined expected value complexity and international nature of the flexibility to use new issue shares and, of long-term incentives including the business and the responsibility involved: for executives below Board level, the new Share Matching Plan of around flexibility to base part of the award on 150% of base salary.
fees payable to non-executive directors internal measures rather than on Total shall be paid in cash and shall not be These enhancements will position the Shareholder Return: and performance related: and Chief Executives overall reward package arrangements to provide senior executives in line with the market median.
non-executive directors shall not with choices to deal with the new tax rules participate in the Companys share-based on pensions being introduced in April incentive schemes or pension scheme.
2006, without increasing the Companys In 2005 the Committee held one meeting, costs and without compensating senior attended by all members, at which it agreed executives for any additional tax they may the structure of non-executive directors have to pay.
fees detailed on page 73 of this report.
Dick Olver Chairman of the Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee 22 February 2006 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 59 Corporate governance Remuneration report continued ii Share Matching Plan SMP the maximum award level is to be v UK Executive pension arrangements The current Restricted Share Plan changed from 100% of total remuneration In a separate exercise from the a description of which appears on page i. e. salary, bonus and other cash Remuneration Review, the Committee 63 of this report will be replaced by a allowances to 200% of base salary.
has concluded its review of UK executive new Share Matching Plan, subject to This will allow the Committee to make pension arrangements in view of the new shareholder approval at the 2006 AGM, the anticipated awards for the Chief tax rules which come into effect from April and will incorporate the following changes: Executive as set out on page 59 without 2006.
The new tax rules introduce the the SMP will be structured as a stand-alone having to take account of bonuses and concept of a Lifetime Allowance, i. e. the share investment plan with the maximum will also give the Committee flexibility to maximum amount of pension savings that investment linked to the amount of annual make in exceptional circumstances can benefit from tax relief.
The Lifetime bonus awarded: higher awards to other executives who Allowance threshold has initially been set currently receive awards of up to 100% at 1.5m for 2006.
As the Committees the Matching Shares will be subject to of base salary.
The Committee does not approach is not to compensate executives a performance condition which will be intend to change its grant policy at the for changes in taxation, the Committee aligned with the performance condition current time, other than for the Chief believes that it is appropriate to offer for share options which is based on the Executive, and would consult with executives choices which are broadly real growth in earnings per share the principal shareholders in the usual way cost neutral to the Company but which performance condition for share options if it considered this to be necessary: may better suit the needs of executives.
is described in more detail on pages As such, when an executives benefits reach 62 and 63 : the PSP performance measure is to the new Lifetime Allowance, it has decided continue to be based on Total Shareholder the maximum matching ratio of Matching to offer executives the following choices: Return for executive directors.
For other Shares to Bonus Shares i. e. shares remain in the pension scheme and pay executives, the Committee wishes to have purchased by the individual participant the additional tax charge: or the flexibility to agree that up to half of any will be retained at 1:1 but will be linked award could be based on appropriately opt out of the pension scheme and to the gross amount invested: stretching internal measures with the rest so earn no further pension benefits in the Matching Shares will attract dividends based on Total Shareholder Return as at respect of future service and instead during the three year deferral period which present to create improved incentive and receive a taxable salary supplement.
will be released at the same time as the alignment with the individuals own This supplement will be 30% of base Matching Shares: business performance: and salary and 20% of base salary for those senior executives with a two-thirds salary for executives who leave on grounds the flexibility to use new issue shares target after at least 20 and 30 years of retirement, redundancy or ill-health, within existing dilution limits is to be service respectively: or or where the Company is subject to a introduced, in addition to using shares change of control, the Matching Shares purchased in the market.
restrict pension scheme benefits to will be pro-rated for the length of time the value of the new Lifetime Allowance the individual has been employed during iv Share-based reward for senior with the remainder being provided the performance period and will remain US executives directly by the Company as an unfunded subject to the performance condition US executives participate in the same promise.
At retirement, the unfunded unless the Committee decide that that plans as the non-US executives but, with company pension can either be taken would be inappropriate: and the exception of Mark Ronald, the US as pension or can be commuted in full based Chief Operating Officer, the awards for a taxable lump sum.
The commutation the Committee will have the flexibility are currently settled in cash rather than rates have been calculated to be cost to use new issue shares within the shares due to US listing restrictions.
existing dilution limits as well as The Committee has now been advised market purchase shares to satisfy These arrangements, which the Committee that it can settle awards in shares for those the award of Matching Shares.
believes are consistent with current pension US senior executives who qualify as philosophy and in line with market practice, Accredited Investors which will enhance iii Performance Share Plan PSP will apply to all UK executives who reach the the alignment with shareholders interests.
The Performance Share Plan a description Lifetime Allowance, including the UK To operate within existing dilution limits, of which appears on page 63 of this report executive directors.
the remuneration strategy for senior was originally approved by shareholders managers globally below the senior in 1996.
A similar plan will be put to the With effect from 6 April 2006, the Company executive population has been reviewed shareholders for approval at the AGM in will accrue at each accounting period for the with share-based rewards being replaced 2006 to replace the current plan.
The new amount of unfunded promise earned in by a cash-based long-term incentive plan plan will retain a vesting level at 25% of the that accounting period.
The cumulative linked to earnings performance.
The initial award for median performance but unfunded balance will be recorded as Committee believes that this will promote a will incorporate the following changes: a liability at the balance sheet date.
consistent global approach and will derive enhanced value for money from the executive reward programmes.
60 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 Remuneration policy and service contracts have been 15bn.
The Committee also At upper quartile performance variable for executive directors remuneration represents significantly reviewed remuneration data for aerospace This section of the report explains the more than 50% of the total package.
and defence companies within the FTSE 100. ongoing remuneration policy for executive directors, the individual components of their The principles of the remuneration For the US Chief Operating Officer, remuneration and details of their service strategy are applied consistently across regression analysis was used on US contracts, as required by legislation.
the Group taking account of seniority aerospace, defence and general industry and local market practice.
sector data to produce appropriate The Remuneration Committees the market figures consistent with the size Committee executive remuneration policy Base salary and scale of the US business, adjusting continues to be to set base salaries at Executive directors base salaries are where necessary to reflect the extra median competitive levels whilst seeking reviewed each year by the Committee responsibility for the Board role.
to reward upper quartile performance with and adjusted to reflect performance potential upper quartile remuneration and the competitiveness of salaries There was no readily available market through the use of bonus schemes and relative to the market.
Information on data for the Group Legal Director so the share-based incentives.
The Committee the market for comparable management Committee used the data for the other intends to continue with the executive positions is obtained from independent executive director roles as a guide to remuneration policy as detailed in this sources and is provided to the Committee position his package.
report in 2006 and subsequent years, so that it can form a view as to where to and will continue to consult on material position basic salaries and benefits relative As a result of this review, the Committee changes with principal shareholders.
decided to increase the base salary of the executive directors with effect from Remuneration of executive directors The methodology used is to construct 1 January 2006 to the following: consists typically of basic salary, a bonus appropriate comparator groups for the Mike Turner based on annual performance, participation individual positions taking account of in employee share schemes and retirement company size, scale of operations and Chief Executive 870,000 George Rose benefits.
The Committee reviews the split breadth of role.
The median and upper between basic salary and the performance quartile positions are then analysed for Group Finance Director 530,000 Chris Geoghegan related elements of remuneration each year base salary, total cash reward base in order to incentivise properly executive salary plus annual bonus, total direct UK Chief Operating Officer 467,500 Steve Mogford directors, and believes that a significant reward total cash reward plus long-term proportion of remuneration should be incentives and total reward including UK Chief Operating Officer 467,500 1 Mark Ronald based on schemes that encourage them pension.
This gives the Committee a view to perform at the highest level.
Through on the competitiveness of the individual US Chief Operating Officer $1,000,000 Michael Lester this arrangement, it is possible for those elements of the package as well as the individuals who contribute to sustained high package as a whole.
The Committee also Group Legal Director 567,500 levels of company performance to receive at reviews the trends in the elements of 1 Mark Ronalds base salary was increased from least a similar level of reward from variable remuneration to ensure that the structure $850,000 to $950,000 with effect from 1 July 2005 compensation to that received from fixed of the package stays in line with market following the acquisition of United Defense and its compensation.
At median performance, practice, and also takes account of the subsequent integration into the Land & Armaments variable remuneration represents performance of the individual, the Company business group approximately 50% of the remuneration as a whole and the pay and conditions of package as shown in the chart below: Group employees.
Annual Bonus Plan The executive directors and other senior Target performance median For the Chief Executive, Group Finance executives participate in a cash bonus Director, and the UK Chief Operating plan that rewards those individuals if Salary 32% Officers, a comparator group was predetermined targets are met.
The targets Pension 20% constructed consisting of the 19 FTSE 100 are derived from the Integrated Business Bonus 16% companies excluding financial institutions Plan IBP, which is agreed by the Board Long-term with turnover closest to BAE Systems nine and which implements corporate strategy incentive rewards 32% larger and ten smaller.
The BAE Systems on a groupwide basis by ensuring that turnover figure chosen was 12bn, business plans which support the strategy representing the full year turnover of the are integrated across all businesses.
Groups wholly owned businesses had The IBP is used to set the objectives for The package of the Chief Executive is more United Defense and Insyte been wholly senior management including the base and highly geared with almost 60% of the owned throughout 2005.
If the Committee stretch targets for the financial measures remuneration being performance related.
had chosen to include the contribution to used for the executive directors in the turnover from the Groups equity accounted Annual Bonus Plan.
investments, the comparative figure would BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 61 Corporate governance Remuneration report continued Non-financial targets comprise key objectives The structure of the Annual Bonus Plan for executive directors in 2006 expressed as relevant to the individual and or business percentages of base salary is as follows: and also take account of behavioural performance.
The Executive Committee Corporate roles Group Finance Director which comprises the executive directors Chief Executive Group Legal Director and certain other senior executives, Base Stretch Base Stretch takes collective responsibility for the key Bonus element target target target target non-financial objectives for the group as a EPS targets 28.125% 56.25% 18.75% 37.5% whole, which support the delivery of the IBP Group cash targets 28.125% 56.25% 18.75% 37.5% and these are agreed by the Remuneration Non-financial objectives up to 37.5% up to 25% Committee.
These are then used to set the individual targets for the Executive Chief Operating Officers Committee members and are then UK US cascaded to the individual business units Base Stretch Base Stretch enabling detailed targets and milestones Bonus element target target target target to be set.
All the major business groups Non-financial objectives up to 25% up to 37.5% achieved their stretch targets on profit and cash and, as a result, all the financial EBITA Earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense Intermediate payments are payable for performance against these targets.
targets within the 2005 Annual Bonus The Chairman and the non-executive directors do not participate in the Annual Bonus Plan.
Plan for executive directors were met at the stretch level.
In addition, excellent progress was made against all the key In determining the performance measures Performance conditions for grants of for the Annual Bonus Plan, the Committee options or awards to be made under the non-financial objectives although more work still needs to be done on securing took the view that the Companys major Executive Share Option Plan and the investors believed earnings per share EPS Performance Share Plan in 2006 are set technology transfer from the US to the UK.
Accordingly, bonus payments for 2005 which and cash targets and, where appropriate, out below.
Performance conditions for EBITA, to be key indicators of long-term earlier grants under the Executive Share are set out in Table E on page 73 range from 95% to 99% of the maximum bonus.
financial performance and value creation.
Option Plan are shown as notes to Table C These, coupled with the non-financial on page 69.
Performance conditions for The Remuneration Committee has reviewed measures, align the executive directors grants of awards under the Performance objectives with corporate strategy and Share Plan made between 2003 and 2005 and agreed bonus targets for 2006 for the executive directors and believes that both targeted business performance.
are the same as for awards to be made in 2006 as detailed overleaf.
the financial and non-financial targets are stretching but achievable and are aligned The EPS figure used for the bonus plan and the Executive Share Option Plan is based Executive Share Option Plan to the Groups overall objectives.
on underlying EPS and may be adjusted if Options granted under the Executive Share necessary to ensure that the figures for Option Plan are normally exercisable As a result of its annual review of the performance related part of the individual years are broadly comparable.
between the third and tenth anniversary of their grant.
Options may only be exercised remuneration package, the Committee has determined that the maximum bonus Share option schemes and long-term during this period as follows: incentive schemes 33.33% of each option grant is potential for 2006 will remain unchanged from 2005 at 100% of base salary 150% The Committee seeks to align the interests exercisable if the Company achieves of executive directors with those of other on average real EPS growth per annum for the US-based executive director, Mark Ronald, with the exception of the maximum shareholders through the use of shareof 3% but less than 4% over the three based incentive schemes.
The Company year performance period: bonus potential for the Chief Executive which has increased to 150% of base operates a combination of option and 66.67% of each option grant is share-based awards for executive directors salary with at least one-third of the Chief exercisable if the Company achieves Executives bonus being compulsorily within the framework detailed below.
This on average real EPS growth per annum is broadly in line with similar plans operated deferred into the new Share Matching Plan.
of 4% but less than 5% over the three by other FTSE 100 companies.
year performance period: and 100% of each option grant is exercisable if the Company achieves on average real EPS growth per annum of 5% or more over the three year performance period.
62 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 A sectoral peer group will continue to be In determining the performance measure The matching award of shares has not in for the Executive Share Option Plan, the used in 2006 as the principal performance the past been subject to any performance Committee took the view that the measure due to its importance to the criteria as the RSP was designed to retain Companys major investors believed EPS Companys shareholders as an indication key staff and to encourage executives to to be a key indicator of long-term financial of both earnings and capital growth re-invest in company shares the cash performance and value creation.
relative to major global defence and bonuses that they had earned under the aerospace companies.
A relative measure bonus plan, which was itself based on Option grants under the Executive Share is considered important as it rewards performance criteria.
Option Plan in 2006 will be set at a maximum management if they outperform against of 1.5 x base salary 2.25 x base salary major companies in the sector rather The RSP will operate in the way set out for the Chief Executive.
There will be no than success possibly being determined above in 2006 in respect of 2005 bonuses retesting after the three year performance solely by growth in stock markets.
The but, subject to shareholder approval at the period for options to be granted in 2006. second measure was included to ensure 2006 AGM, will be replaced by a new Share that awards will only vest if there has been Matching Plan which will operate from 2007 Performance Share Plan a clear improvement in the Companys as a stand-alone investment plan with Conditional awards of shares are made underlying performance over the performance conditions attached to the under the Performance Share Plan which relevant period.
Further information on are contingent on meeting predetermined these changes are set out on page 60 of performance criteria.
Awards in 2006 to The composition of the TSR sectoral peer this report.
executive directors will be granted at a value group will not change for awards to be made equal to 1 x base salary 1.5 x base salary in 2006.
It comprises: Share Incentive Plan for the Chief Executive.
The proportion During 2005 the UK executive directors Boeing Cobham of the award which is capable of exercise were eligible to participate in the allis determined by the Companys Total Dassault Aviation EADS employee free shares element of the Embraer PN Finmeccanica Shareholder Return share price growth plus Share Incentive Plan.
As a result of the dividends ranking relative to a comparator General Dynamics GKN Companys performance in 2005, all Goodrich Honeywell International group of 18 other defence and aerospace eligible employees including the UK companies operating internationally, and Lockheed Martin Northrop Grumman executive directors will be entitled to Raytheon Rockwell Collins by a secondary financial measure.
A similar Rolls-Royce Smiths Group arrangement operates for eligible non-UK Thales United Technologies Performance for the 2006 award will be employees on a cash or shares basis measured as follows: depending on local tax and security laws.
Restricted Share Plan i Total shareholder return TSR The Restricted Share Plan RSP has In 2005 the Company introduced a 100% of the conditional shares are awarded historically acted as a share based share purchase arrangement Partnership to directors if the Companys TSR over a extension of the Annual Bonus Plan in that Shares under the Share Incentive Plan three year period is in the top 20% of TSRs executive directors who participate in the which replaced the SAYE Share Option achieved by the sectoral comparator group, annual bonus scheme may be given the Scheme.
Under this arrangement, UK with 25% vesting if the TSR is in the top option of taking any net cash bonus paid based employees including executive 50%.
Intermediate positions will be partly or wholly in shares through the RSP.
directors may purchase ordinary shares calculated on a straight-line pro-rata basis.
If an election is made to take shares through in BAE Systems by either monthly No awards will be made if the Companys the RSP, they are held in trust for a period investments of between 10 and 125 performance is outside the top 50%.
Awards of three years after which the Company a month, or lump sum investments of will be made in three equal instalments at awards the individual an equal number of between 10 and 1,500 in a tax year, the end of years three, four and five.
shares the Matching Shares provided both limited to 10% of salary if less.
the individual normally remains in the ii Underlying financial performance Companys employment at the vesting date.
Dividends paid in respect of the shares As a secondary measure the Committee Where executive directors have elected to in the Share Incentive Plan for UK will consider whether there has been a use such bonuses through the RSP, details based employees are reinvested as sustained improvement in the Companys of the shares held are set out in Table B on Dividend Shares.
underlying financial performance and page 69. whether it is appropriate to release some or all of the awards.
In taking a view of a sustained improvement in underlying financial performance, the Committee may consider but not exclusively the following financial metrics: net debt cash: EBITA: order book: turnover: risk and underlying project performance.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 63 Corporate governance Remuneration report continued Impact of International Financial Personal shareholding policy Dilution of share capital Reporting Standards IFRS The Committee has agreed that, in The Committee has agreed a policy The Committee has reviewed the impact of respect of new issue or treasury shares, whereby all executive directors are required the changes in the accounting standard shares representing no more than 1% of to establish and maintain a minimum from UK GAAP to IFRS on the performance the Companys issued share capital will personal shareholding equal to 200% targets and all bonus targets for 2005 were be used in any one financial year for the of base salary.
As a minimum a holding restated onto an IFRS basis.
grant of options under all employee share equal to 100% of base salary must be schemes.
The table below sets out the achieved as quickly as possible using The Committee has also reviewed the available dilution capacity for the Companys shares vesting or options exercised impact on EPS figures used for setting employee share schemes based on the through the executive share option the performance condition for the share limits set out in the rules of those schemes.
schemes or long-term incentive schemes, option plans to ensure that the EPS figures by using 50% of the shares that vest or 50% Dilution capacity for comparative years are measured on of the options which are exercised on each a consistent basis.
Thereafter executive directors Total issued share capital agreed to adjust the EPS figures for 2003 are required to increase their personal and before by increasing them by 2.3%, as at 31 December 2005 3,218.7m shareholding gradually, on each occasion All schemes: this being the impact of moving from UK using 25% of the shares that vest or 25% GAAP to IFRS on the 2004 EPS.
As a 10% in any consecutive 10 years 321.8m of the options exercised each year, until a Remaining headroom 163.3m result of this change, it is anticipated personal shareholding equal to 200% of that it will be no less difficult to achieve Executive schemes: annual salary is achieved and maintained.
5% in any consecutive 10 years 160.9m any of the performance conditions relating to outstanding options still subject to Remaining headroom 86.7m These limits are reviewed periodically.
Details of the directors personal The number of ordinary shares in issue at shareholdings are shown in Table A 31 December 2005 was 3,218,734,116 on page 68. and the number of shares granted under option during 2005 totalled 10,569,483 0.33% of the total shares in issue.
Value at 31 December 2005 of 100 investment at 31 December 2000 Value at 31 December 2005 of 100 investment 125 400 100 300 75 200 50 100 25 0 0 0 31 Dec 00 31 Dec 01 31 Dec 02 31 Dec 03 31 Dec 04 31 Dec 05 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Investment made 1 January BAE Systems plc BAE Systems plc Aerospace and Defence Comparator Group FTSE 100 Index FTSE 100 Index Executive Pay Review Comparator Group This graph shows the value, by 31 December 2005, of 100 invested in The graph above shows the value shareholders have achieved by their investment in BAE Systems over recent years as compared to i the BAE Systems on 31 December 2000 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index.
The other points plotted are the values at FTSE 100 Index, ii the companies forming the sectoral peer group for the BAE Systems Performance Share Plan, and iii the companies forming the intervening financial year ends.
comparator group for the 2005 executive pay review.
The graph depicts the value for BAE Systems and the comparators at the end of 2005 of a single The graph, which has been produced in accordance with the requirements of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985, shows the total shareholder return 100 investment made at the beginning of each of the last five years.
for a holding in the Companys ordinary shares for the period 2000-2005 relative to a holding of shares representing the FTSE 100.
The FTSE 100 is considered to be an appropriate comparator for this purpose as it is a broad equity market index.
As BAE Systems is a constituent member of the FTSE 100, it was deemed to be the most appropriate general UK equity index.
64 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 Under the rules of the relevant scheme, Post-retirement benefits affected individuals, the Company will then The executive directors of the Company are Michael Lester commenced his pension in cease to make any further contributions to members of Group pension schemes and 2002 having reached normal retirement the unapproved arrangement.
The have a normal retirement age of 60, except age.
He has not accrued further benefits individuals affected will be given the option, Michael Lester and Mark Ronald who had since retiring other than pension increases if they so wish, to transfer their unapproved normal retirement ages of 62 and are awarded to all pensioner members of his arrangement into the approved schemes already in receipt of their pensions.
after April 2006 so that the approved schemes provide the benefits in respect of all UK pension benefits UK pension benefits arrangements their service based on uncapped earnings.
current arrangements coming into force from 6 April 2006: The pension schemes for the UK based The Company has been in consultation US pension benefits directors are designed to produce a target with UK employee representatives and Mark Ronald is covered by the Companys pension of two-thirds of final pensionable National Trade Union Officials to address its US pension arrangements and the nonearnings if potential service is 20 or more UK pension scheme deficits and proposals qualified supplemental arrangements in years.
Final pensionable earnings is basic are being put to the trustees of the Main place under his contract.
He commenced salary averaged over the last 12 months Pension Scheme following the support his non-qualified pension in 2004 having prior to leaving service.
Pensions can be shown by a recent Trade Union Consultative reached his normal retirement age.
paid before normal retirement age, subject ballot and a survey carried out by the This forms the majority of his entitlement.
to the consent of the Company and the Company on measures to be taken in His remaining entitlement from the pension scheme trustees.
These schemes respect of the Main Pension Scheme.
qualified plan will commence when he also provide a lump sum death benefit equal These measures include changes to leaves service.
In line with the rules of the to four times basic salary at date of death, benefits in respect of future service US arrangements, it is not envisaged that and a spouses pension equal to two-thirds accrual.
All changes, which at the date of the pensions will be increased once in of the prospective pension at normal this report remain subject to approval by payment.
Death benefits under the plans retirement age or, once retired, of the actual the trustees of the Main Pension Scheme, are provided by a pension continuation to pension in payment before any lump sum will apply to the pension arrangements his spouse or dependants in accordance commutation.
Childrens allowances are of the executive directors who are active with specific payments from each scheme.
also payable, usually up to the age of 18, members of that scheme i. e. each of the upon death in service or death in retirement.
UK based executive directors except If directors leave the Companys Michael Lester.
Consultations with Details of post-retirement benefits for each employment with a deferred pension and die employee representatives and National of the executive directors are shown in after age 50 but before the pension has Trade Union Officials are continuing in Table F on page 74 and are calculated commenced, a lump sum benefit is paid respect of the resolution of deficit issues in accordance with the requirements of equal to five times the annual rate of in relation to the other UK pension schemes Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985. pension that would have been paid had the including that of which Michael Lester is a deferred pension commenced immediately pensioner member.
Other benefits before date of death.
If a director dies with a Other benefits provided to the executive deferred pension before age 50, a refund of As set out on page 60, the Committee directors include a car allowance, cash his contributions will be paid and a pension has agreed its approach to UK executive allowance for medical examination and, will be paid to his legal spouse in line with pension arrangements in the light of where appropriate, second residence the rules of the scheme for all employees.
the new tax rules which come into effect support allowance.
As previously reported, Pensions are increased annually by the from April 2006.
These arrangements having recognised the need for the Chief rise in the Retail Prices Index subject to a will apply to all UK executives who reach Executive to spend a substantial amount maximum increase of 5% per year.
Directors the Lifetime Allowance, including the of time in central London on Company pay contributions at the same rate as all UK executive directors.
business, the Committee agreed to make other employees participating in schemes.
a second residence support allowance As explained above and in the notes to to Mike Turner in line with group policy Of the executive directors, George Rose is Table F on page 74, George Roses and the final payment of 25,000 of affected by the HM Revenue and Customs unapproved pension arrangement is partly this allowance was made in 2005 HMRC earnings cap on approved pensions funded and partly unfunded.
As a result of 2004 25,000. and has an unapproved i. e. non-tax qualified the tax changes coming into force on 6 April pension arrangement to top up his benefits 2006, all benefits in respect of service after from the approved scheme.
This is designed April 2006 can be paid from the approved so that the total pension from all sources schemes without reference to an earnings will be broadly in line with the pension he cap.
The Companys treatment of individuals would have received from the Group pension in this position including George Rose will schemes had he not been subject to the be to make a one-off contribution where earnings cap.
Further information paid by the necessary to the unapproved arrangement Company in respect of these arrangements to fund it fully to a target level for service up is included in the notes to Table F on page 74. to April 2006.
By agreement with the BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 65 Corporate governance Remuneration report continued Executive directors service contracts Policy on external board appointments It is the Committees policy that executive directors should normally have service contracts The long-standing policy of allowing that provide for the Company to give the individual 12 months notice of termination.
This executive directors to hold external policy has been chosen because it provides a reasonable balance between the need to non-BAE Systems related non-executive retain the services of key individuals and the need to limit the liabilities of the Company in directorships with the prior approval of the the event of the termination of a contract.
The executive directors have service contracts Committee will continue.
The Committee with group companies: details of these contracts are as follows: considers that external directorships provide the Companys senior executives Date of contract Unexpired term Notice period with valuable experience that is of benefit Chris Geoghegan 10 July 2002 12 months 12 months either party to BAE Systems.
It is also considered amended 15 January 2004 appropriate for BAE Systems, as a FTSE 100 and 13 October 2005 company, to contribute to the pool of nonMichael Lester 26 November 1999 312 days 12 months either party executive expertise available for the benefit amended 28 March 2002, of the wider business community, thereby 8 January 2003, 8 December 2003, reciprocating the benefit which it in turn 15 January 2004, 9 August 2004, has received from other organisations 14 October 2005 and 5 December 2005 which have permitted members of their Steve Mogford 6 April 2000 12 months 12 months either party senior management teams to serve in a amended 15 January 2004 non-executive capacity on the BAE Systems and 28 October 2005 Board.
The Committee believes that it is Mark Ronald 17 April 2002 312 days 12 months either party reasonable for the individual executive amended 17 September 2003, director to retain any fees received from 27 January 2004, 1 August 2004, such non-executive appointments given the 5 September 2005 and 16 February 2006 additional personal responsibility that this George Rose 16 November 1998 12 months 12 months from the entails.
Such fees retained by the executive amended 3 December 1999, Company, 6 months directors in 2005 were as follows: 15 January 2004 and 17 October 2005 from the individual Michael Lester: 33,000: George Rose: Mike Turner 22 February 1994 12 months 12 months from the 63,125: and Mike Turner: 30,250. amended 30 May 1995, Company, 6 months 3 December 1999, 8 May 2002, from the individual 15 January 2004 and 14 October 2005 as at 22 February 2006 In the event of the termination of an a change of control of the Company and executive directors contract it is the neither does the Chairman nor the nonCommittees policy to seek to limit any executive directors in their respective payment made in lieu of notice to a letters of appointment.
Under the terms payment equal to the amount of one years of his contract Mark Ronald is entitled basic salary.
The service contracts for all to compensation of a lump sum equal to of the executive directors contain specific 12 months salary, and the continuance provisions to the effect that the Company of medical benefits for 18 months, if his has the right to pay a sum equivalent to contract is terminated by BAE Systems, Inc. 12 months salary in the event of the his directorship of the parent company Company terminating their contracts for ceases, or his contract is not renewed reasons other than gross misconduct.
at the end of its rolling one-year term.
No executive director has provisions in his service contract that relate to 66 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 Chairmans appointment, term and fees Non-executive directors appointment, terms and fees Dick Olver was appointed Chairman on The non-executive directors do not have service contracts but do have letters of appointment 1 July 2004.
His appointment is for an detailing the basis of their appointment.
The dates of their original appointment are shown in initial fixed three year term with effect the table below: from 17 May 2004 the date that he was appointed to the Board as a non-executive Non-executive director Date of appointment Expiry of current term Sue Birley 22.11.2000 21.11.2006 director and is documented in a letter of appointment which is not a contract of Ulrich Cartellieri 01.12.1999 31.12.2007 Phil Carroll 07.09.2005 06.09.2008 employment.
He is required to devote no fewer than two days a week to his duties Michael Hartnall 10.06.2003 09.06.2006 Sir Peter Mason 22.01.2003 21.01.2009 as Chairman, unless terminated earlier in accordance with the Companys Articles Michael Portillo 11.09.2002 10.09.2008 Roberto Quarta 07.09.2005 06.09.2008 of Association, or by either party giving the other not less than six months prior written Peter Weinberg 16.06.2005 15.06.2008 notice.
The Nominations Committee will subject to re-election at the AGM following their appointment and subsequently at intervals of no more than three review his appointment prior to the end of years in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association the three year term and will, if appropriate and subject to the agreement of Mr Olver, Non-executive directors are normally Fees payable to non-executive directors are appointed for two consecutive three year agreed by the Non-Executive Directors' Fees recommend to the Board that he be invited to serve for an additional period.
His terms subject to review after the end of the Committee.
Non-executive directors are first three year period and with any third paid a fee reflecting the time commitment appointment as Chairman will automatically terminate if he ceases to be a director of the term of three years being subject to rigorous required of the director.
The fee level for review and taking into account the need the chairmen of the Audit, Corporate Company.
His fee, which has been set by the Remuneration Committee at 500,000 per progressively to refresh the Board.
They do Responsibility and Remuneration not have periods of notice and the Company Committees, and for the Senior annum, will not be subject to review during the initial three year term.
has no obligation to pay compensation when Independent Director, reflects their their appointment terminates.
They are additional responsibilities and workload.
subject to re-election at the AGM following Details of the non-executive directors fees their appointment and subsequently at in 2005 are shown in Table E on page 73. intervals of no more than three years.
The fees payable to the non-executive Lord Hesketh retired from the Board directors were reviewed in January 2006 and at the conclusion of the 2005 AGM the following fee structure was agreed for on 4 May 2005, having originally been 2006 to reflect the various responsibilities appointed to the Board on 1 January 1994. of the individual directors: a fee of 70,000 for the chairman of the Audit Committee: a The letters of appointment for non-executive fee of 65,000 for each of the chairman of directors detail the amount of time it is the Remuneration Committee, the chairman anticipated that the individual will need of the Corporate Responsibility Committee, to devote to his or her duties as a director.
and the Senior Independent Director: and Non-executive directors are proposed by the a fee of 50,000 for each of the other Nominations Committee and are appointed non-executive directors.
In addition, a by the Board on the basis of their experience transatlantic meeting allowance of 4,000 to provide independent judgement on issues will continue to be payable to non-executive of strategy, performance, resources and directors: this takes into account the standards of conduct.
The level of their fees additional time commitment required by is set after reviewing practice in other the European based non-executive directors comparable companies.
to attend board meetings in the US and similarly the commitment of US based non-executive directors to attend board meetings in Europe.
By order of the Board Dick Olver Chairman 22 February 2006 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 67 Corporate governance Remuneration report continued Table A As at 31 December 2005, the directors of the Company and their families had the following beneficial and non-beneficial interests in the Companys securities.
There have been no changes in the interests of the directors between 31 December 2005 and 22 February 2006 with the exception of the interests of Steve Mogford who has acquired an additional 58 ordinary shares since 31 December 2005 under the partnership shares element of the Share Incentive Plan.
At the date of approval of this report, his total beneficial shareholding stood at 127,927 ordinary shares.
The executive directors, in common with all employees of the Company, have an interest in the unallocated shares held in employee share ownership trusts.
As at 31 December 2005, 702,481 2004 1,768,589 such shares were held in the ESOP trust, 80,111 2004 345,565 82,035 as at the date of this report shares in the Profit Sharing Scheme trust, and 103,158 2004 nil 109,274 as at the date of this report shares in the Share Incentive Plan trust.
It is the Companys policy not to seek to exercise voting rights on shares held in the employee trusts other than on the direction of the underlying beneficiaries.
68 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 Information subject to audit The auditors are required to report on the information contained in Tables B, C, D, E and F on pages 69 to 74.
The Companys register of directors interests which is open to inspection contains full details of directors share interests.
Details of directors interests in the share option schemes and long-term incentive plans are shown in Tables B, C and D. The figures in the tables that form part of this report have been calculated by reference to a mid-market price for the Companys ordinary shares at 31 December 2005 of 381.75p 2004 230.5p.
The 2005 awards were granted on 24 March 2005 and vest on 24 March 2008.
Awards made under the rules of the Restricted Share Plan are not subject to performance conditions.
The aggregate net value of assets received by directors in 2005 from long-term incentive plans, as calculated at the date of vesting, was 155,078 2004 210,296 as calculated at the date of vesting.
The performance conditions applying to the grants of options made in 2001-2004 are the same as for grants to be made in 2006, as set out on page 62 of this report, with the exception of the re-testing provision: for grants made between 2001-2003, where the original three year performance is not met, performance is re-tested at the end of years four and five against the full period from grant: for grants made in 2004, where the original performance target is not met, performance is re-tested at the end of year five against the full period from grant.
In all these cases the option will lapse in year five if the targets have not been achieved.
The performance conditions applying to the grants of options made in 2005 are the same as for grants to be made in 2006, as set out on page 62 of this report: there is no re-testing of performance for grants made in 2005 and beyond.
On completion of the BAE MES merger in 1999, options were granted to executive directors under the predecessor Executive Share Option Scheme.
Options granted to Michael Lester and Mark Ronald in 1999 can only be exercised if the pre-exceptional EPS for any three-year period exceeded the sum of inflation for that period and a real growth requirement of 9% is achieved.
Options granted to the other executive directors in 1999 which partially vested in 2004 as reported last year were conditional on the satisfaction of a special performance condition based on the achievement of cost savings of the merger integration process over the three-year performance period commencing on 1 January 2000.
A breakdown of options held by executive directors under the Executive Share Option Plan is given overleaf.
70 BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 SAYE Share Option Scheme 1 January Granted during Exercised during Lapsed during 31 December 2005 the year the year the year 2005 C V Geoghegan 3,325 860 2,465 M Lester 3,133 1,103 2,030 S L Mogford 3,501 860 1,429 1,212 G W Rose 1,295 860 435 M J Turner 4,133 604 3,529 The exercise of options under the SAYE Share Option Scheme is not subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions.
A breakdown of options held by executive directors under the Performance Share Plan is given overleaf.
The mid-market price for the Companys ordinary shares at 31 December 2005 was 381.75p 2004 230.5p.
The range during the year was 224.5p to 388p.
Where the individual was appointed during the year the amount shown is for the period from appointment.
The benefits received by the UK based executive directors were cash allowances for a medical and the provision of a car, the taxable benefit of any private use of a chauffeur, and support in relation to second residence where applicable.
The benefits received by Mark Ronald, the US based executive director, were a cash allowance for a car, medical examination and dental benefits, and insured life and disability benefits.
The benefit received by the Chairman, Dick Olver, was the taxable benefit relating to private use of a chauffeur.
The fees payable to the non-executive directors during 2005 comprised a fee of 65,000 for the chairman of the Audit Committee: a fee of 55,000 for the chairman of the Remuneration Committee, the chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee, and the Senior Independent Director: and a fee of 45,000 for each of the other non-executive directors.
In addition, a transatlantic meeting allowance of 4,000 per meeting was paid to European based non-executive directors attending board meetings in the US and to US based non-executive directors attending board meetings in Europe.
Sir Charles Masefield retired as a director on 28 February 2003 and remains employed by the Company on a part-time basis in an overseas representational role.
In 2005 his remuneration was 302,500 2004 290,500 and comprised salary and a cash allowance for a car.
Sir Richard Evans retired as director and chairman on 30 June 2004 and remains employed by the Company in a part-time customer relationship role.
In 2005 his remuneration was 303,000 2004 156,167 for the period 1 July 2004 to 31 December 2004 and comprised salary and a cash allowance for a car.
There were no other payments to former directors during the year other than the payment to Richard Lapthorne referred to in the notes to Table F on page 74.
BAE SYSTEMS Annual Report 2005 73 Remuneration report continued Table F Post-retirement benefits Change in Accrued accrued Transfer Transfer Increase in pension at Increase pension value at value at transfer value 31 December in accrued after allowing 1 January 31 December Directors less directors 1 2005 benefits for inflation 2005 2005 contributions contributions Age NRA per annum per annum per annum C V Geoghegan 51 60 241,043 19,124 12,311 2,720,566 2,947,733 39,750 187,417 S L Mogford 49 60 216,281 18,111 12,027 2,233,452 2,374,257 39,750 101,055 2 G W Rose 53 60 233,335 32,301 26,129 2,735,402 3,243,501 14,308 493,791 M J Turner 57 60 523,336 57,959 43,672 7,216,640 8,723,438 71,460 1,435,338 Normal Retirement Age 1 Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with GN11 issued by the actuarial profession.
For UK-based directors the assumptions are the same as those used in the calculation of cash equivalents from the Groups UK pension schemes.
With effective from 2005, the actuary has changed the assumptions used to calculate cash equivalents from the UK pension schemes and they are no longer subject to a minimum of the statutory Minimum Funding Requirement basis.
This change is in accordance with the latest GN11.
The amount of the increase in transfer value arising from the change in assumptions is: Chris Geoghegan 109,264: Steve Mogford 80,193: George Rose 132,674: Mike Turner 420,990.
2 George Roses unapproved retirement arrangement is partly funded and partly unfunded.
The Companys pension contribution to the funded unapproved retirement arrangement for George Rose in 2005 was 569,378 2004 515,089.
Of this amount, approximately 377,328 2004 339,000 relates to the cost of benefits accruing during the year and approximately 192,000 2004 176,000 relates to dealing with investment under-performance prior to 2003.
In 2003, the Company decided to deal with the underperformance of the underlying investments over a three-year period, 2003-2005: the third of these payments was made during 2005.
This treatment reflects company policy for employees with unapproved arrangements in the same position.
Actual pension in payment at 31 December Transfer Transfer Change in 2005 Increase in value at value at Change in transfer value excluding pension in 1 January 31 December transfer value less directors AVC pension payment 2005 2005 over the year contributions Age per annum per annum 3 M Lester 65 247,012 7,659 4,542,629 5,016,071 473,442 473,442 4 M H Ronald 64 410,013 46,756 3,287,430 3,623,981 336,551 336,551 3 Under the rules of the UK schemes, Michael Lester commenced his pension in 2002 having reached normal retirement age.
There has been no further benefit accrual since retiring other than pension increases awarded to all pensioner members of the relevant pension schemes.
4 Under the rules of his pension arrangements, the majority of Mark Ronalds pension commenced in January 2004 when he reached normal retirement age.
The pension in payment includes an accrued pension of $44,839 $42,104 at 31 December 2004 from the BAE Systems North America Qualified Plan that will commence when he leaves company service.
The Qualified Plan is a contributory arrangement.
Of the pension in payment, $406,322 is payable up to when he reaches age 72 and $253,242 has a contingent 50% spouses pension.
Mark Ronald continues to participate in a Section 401 k defined contribution arrangement set up for US employees in which the Company will match employee contributions up to a limit.
In 2005 the Company paid contributions of $5,465 2004 $5,036 into Mark Ronalds 401 k arrangement.
5 Mark Ronalds pension is paid in US dollars.
Of the change in pension 45,340 is due to currency movements, and 1,416 is due to increases in his accrued pension.
Richard Lapthorne, a former director, has an unfunded pension arrangement.
In 2005 the Company paid Richard Lapthorne 87,605 2004 84,969 in respect of this arrangement.
