50 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Corporate governance report continued failure to achieve business objectives entirely and can only of independence which determines compliance with the provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against Code and therefore no non-compliance on grounds of material misstatement or loss.
The audit committee is independence has been recorded.
delegated the task of reviewing all identified risks, with the Except as noted below, the board considers that it absolute key risks retained for full board review.
Risks and has complied with the Code during the year ended controls are reviewed to ensure effective management of 30 September 2005: appropriate strategic, financial, operational and compliance A.
1.3 No formal meetings were held by the chairman with issues.
The audit committee also reviews the half year and the non-executives, without the executives present.
full year financial statements and holds discussions with The board decided however at its September 2005 the groups auditors.
In addition, the group has an internal meeting that although not anticipated to be of audit function which performs relevant reviews as part of a significant value this could not be seen to be against programme approved by the audit committee.
The committee the best interests of the company and have resolved considers any issues or risks arising therefrom in order that to hold at least one such meeting during the next appropriate actions can be undertaken for their satisfactory financial year.
The Internal Audit Manager has a direct B.
1.6 As explained in detail in the Directors Remuneration reporting line to the chairman of the audit committee.
Report, Rupert Dickinson and Andrew Cunningham An annual budget is produced, together with longer term currently hold service contracts with notice periods projections, which are presented to the board for approval.
The notice periods are being At each meeting the board discusses progress against the reduced from two years to one year on a straight budget and monitors any variances.
Where applicable, line basis over a period of five years from 1 October revisions are made to expected outturn against which 2002.
At the date of this report the notice period further progress can be monitored.
outstanding stood at approximately 16 months.
The board also discusses in detail the projected financial Report of the Nomination Committee impact of major proposed acquisitions and disposals, The nomination committee consists of the chairman and including their financing.
All such proposed substantial two non-executive directors.
The committee last met in investments are considered by all directors.
Where September 2004 and the attendance of individual directors meetings are required between board meetings and together with their dates of service on the committee are a full complement of directors cannot be achieved, an shown below: executive committee of directors considers the necessary formalities.
The board is also responsible for the discussion Sep 04 and approval of the groups treasury strategy, including Robert Dickinson mitigation against changes in interest rates.
Chairman Going Concern Robert Hiscox After making enquiries, including the review of future Member anticipated cash flows and banking covenants, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group and company Robin Broadhurst n a have adequate resources to continue in existence for the Member appointed 24 Feb 2005 foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to adopt Robin Herbert the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Member resigned 24 Feb 2005 Compliance Statement Nichola Pease Independence of non-executive directors is explained in Member resigned 24 Feb 2005 detail above.
In the boards view it is their assessment 51 The terms of reference of the nomination committee are Nov Feb May Sep 04 05 05 05 available on the groups website and principally relate to filling vacancies on the board, whether arising through John Barnsley resignation, retirement or desired expansion and also Chairman consideration of succession planning.
Robin Broadhurst The committee has appointed Spencer Stuart, specialist Member search agents, in order to make any independent nonBill Tudor John n a n a executive appointments.
The nomination committee first Member appointed 24 Feb 2005 discuss with the board the desirable background and Robin Herbert n a n a experience of any new non-executive, and then approach Member resigned 24 Feb 2005 the agency with this information.
Due to unforeseen circumstances the meeting date had to be changed The nomination committee is also responsible for reviewing and Mr Broadhurst was unable to attend.
Mr Broadhurst received the the desirability of the continuation of service of directors committee papers as normal, and discussed his views with Mr Barnsley required to retire by rotation.
In this regard each of the prior to the meeting.
directors required to retire by rotation this year has The audit committee adheres to particularly strict and continued to demonstrate full, capable and committed detailed terms of reference, which are available for participation in setting and monitoring strategy for the inspection on the groups website.
In addition to the work group.
Details of those directors standing for re-election described within the Internal Control section of the main in the March 2006 annual general meeting are given in report above, the audit committee is also responsible for the Annual General Meeting circular to be sent out with reviewing the independence of the external auditor, which copies of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Biographies of includes the approval of any non-audit service fees above a directors are given on pages 44 and 45.
During the year, all relatively nominal level.
The audit committee is responsible matters relating to the work of the nomination committee for making recommendations to the board in connection were discussed by the full board and therefore no separate with the appointment of the external auditor and the level meetings were held.
Report of the Audit Committee The deputy chief executive finance director and external The audit committee meets four times each year, ahead of audit partner as well as other senior management are each board meeting, reporting any relevant matters to the invited to attend meetings of the committee.
Once each board where fit.
Attendance of the individual directors and year the audit committee meet with management without dates of service on the committee are shown below.
In the the auditors present and also with the auditors without opinion of the directors, the audit committee comprised management present.
three independent non-executive directors throughout the period, and Mr Barnsley has the particular recent, relevant financial experience required by the Code.
By order of the board Marie Glanville Company Secretary 20 December 2005 52 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Report of the remuneration committee This report meets the disclosure requirements of the shareholders in March 2002.
The committee continue to Companies Act and the Listing Rules and in accordance keep the terms of this scheme in particular under review with usual practice will be put to shareholders for approval given the seemingly constantly changing best practice at the Annual General Meeting.
The first award made under the current rules of this scheme will vest in January 2006.
 LLP have audited the directors remuneration, pensions, share option and long-term incentive The Committee has also received advice from the groups schemes sections of this report the auditable part.
HR Manager, who was invited to attend remuneration committee meetings when appropriate.
The Remuneration Committee The composition and attendance of the individual directors The committees terms of reference are available on the at the three remuneration committee meetings held during groups website.
the year were as follows: Remuneration Policy Graingers remuneration policy is designed to attract, Dec Jun Sep 04 05 05 motivate and retain high calibre individuals to enable the Robert Hiscox group to operate strategically for the continued benefit of Member shareholders, over the long term.
In order to operate this Chairman 24 Feb 2005 15 Sept 2005 n a policy, the Remuneration Committee receives information on remuneration packages awarded to directors in John Barnsley comparable organisations and aims to ensure that the Member rewards paid by Grainger are competitive.
Bill Tudor John The policy is also designed to align the directors interests Member appointed 24 Feb 2005 n a with those of shareholders.
This is principally achieved Chairman appointed 15 Sept 2005 n a n a n a through the use of share-based incentives and by Nichola Pease encouraging executive directors to maintain a reasonable Chairman resigned 24 Feb 2005 n a n a shareholding in the group.
Details of executive directors shareholdings are shown on page 59.
Share awards are In the opinion of the directors the committee therefore generally satisfied by the acquisition of shares in the comprised three independent non-executives throughout market, so are not dilutive to shareholders.
Certain shareholder pressure groups raised are satisfied by the issue of new share capital.
concerns that Mr Hiscox, as trustee of an estate containing a material shareholding, should not be regarded as Remuneration packages include salary, bonus and defined independent.
Although this is robustly not the view of contribution pension elements as well as long-term share Graingers board, it reluctantly accepted that Mr Hiscox incentive and option schemes.
Usual benefits are also afforded.
should remain as a member only.
The board appointed No executive director is involved in the determination Mr Tudor John as chairman of the committee, at the of their own remuneration.
Fees of the non-executive end of its 15 September meeting.
directors, which are set partly under consideration of The committee appointed and received advice during the their committee responsibilities, are determined by the year from New Bridge Street Consultants LLP NBSC Board as a whole.
regarding the competitiveness of overall packages for the The salaries and bonuses of Senior management are executive directors and on the groups incentive schemes.
determined by the executive directors and reviewed by NBSC also provided updates on Graingers performance the remuneration committee.
Senior management also in relation to the long-term incentive schemes.
participate in the long-term incentive scheme described Over the last three years, the committee has also received below and the level of their participation is included in advice from Mercers, in particular in relation to the design the tables on page 54.
Usual benefits are also afforded of the long-term incentive plan, which was approved by to these individuals.
53 Service Contracts Contract Unexpired Notice date term period Rupert Dickinson 19 July 1996 No fixed term 16 months Andrew Cunningham 26 July 2000 No fixed term 16 months Robert Dickinson 17 July 1998 10 months None Stephen Dickinson 28 February 2000 5 months None Robin Broadhurst 26 February 2004 5 months None John Barnsley 27 February 2003 5 months None Robert Hiscox 6 March 2002 5 months None Bill Tudor John 24 February 2005 5 months None Calculated as at 30 September 2005 and rounded to the nearest whole month.
As noted previously, Rupert Dickinson and Andrew received a fully expensed company car, or a car allowance.
Cunningham each hold service contracts with notice periods Along with all members of staff, executive directors also decreasing on a straight line basis from two years to one benefit from private medical and life insurances.
year, over a period of five years which began on 1 October The chairmans and non-executive directors fees are 2002.
At the date of this report therefore the notice periods reviewed on a biennial basis by the whole board.
have been reduced to approximately 16 months.
Their Pensions contracts were dated 19 July 1996 and 26 July 2000 The group contributes 15% of basic salary to the money respectively.
Sean Slade held a contract with a twelve purchase pension schemes of Rupert Dickinson and Andrew month notice period, which was dated 22 January 2002.
Cunningham, and contributed 10% to that of Sean Slade.
Apart from salary and benefits in relation to the notice No other elements of remuneration are pensionable.
period described above, there are no other terms in any Share schemes open to all Employees of the directors contracts which would give rise to Executive directors, and Stephen Dickinson, deputy compensation payable for early termination, or any other chairman, are eligible to participate in two share schemes liability of the company.
which are open to all employees with relevant service, No executive director holds a non-executive directorship subject to the rules of the schemes.
The first is a Save as you Earn scheme SAYE, and the Each non-executive director has specific terms of reference.
second a Share Incentive Plan SIP.
Both are Inland Revenue Their letters of appointment state an initial one-year period, approved and therefore subject to the limits prescribed.
with a continuation subject to review at that time.
The Amounts relating to directors participation in the SIP letters of appointment contain no entitlement to and share options under the SAYE scheme are shown compensation for early termination.
Non-Performance Related Remuneration Performance Related Remuneration Basic Salaries and Benefits A significant element of executive directors and senior Basic salaries are reviewed by the remuneration committee managements potential remuneration is performance annually.
Uplifts are by reference to cost of living, related.
The combination of short and long-term incentives responsibilities and market rates, as for all employees and attempt to align the interests of executives and senior are performed at the same time of year.
Executive directors management with the interests of shareholders, and to and the deputy chairman, Stephen Dickinson, who has partreward significant outperformance of budgeted expectations.
time executive responsibilities, specifically including land and Non-executive directors do not receive performance related regeneration, along with other senior members of staff, remuneration.
54 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Report of the remuneration committee continued Annual Discretionary Bonus Long-term Incentives Each year the remuneration committee considers the award Graingers policy in relation to long-term incentive schemes of a bonus to the executive directors, which is at their has evolved over time to more closely align the long-term ultimate discretion.
The chief and deputy chief executives, interests of executives and senior management with those Rupert Dickinson and Andrew Cunningham participate in of shareholders, to reward sustained performance over a an arrangement introduced in 2003 whereby the number of financial years and to encourage the executives provisional bonus is calculated over a three-year period, by to grow their shareholdings.
reference to the enhancement of the triple net asset value Executive directors and senior management are eligible to of Grainger, relative to a theoretical market comparator.
receive annual conditional awards of shares worth up to The comparator movement is calculated with regard to 50% of salary under the Long-Term Incentive Scheme and the Nationwide and Halifax house price indices and also of share options up to a maximum of 125% of salary interest rates using five-year swap rates.
Bonuses remain under the Executive Share Option Scheme.
The awards capped at 150% of salary which would only be achieved under both schemes become unconditional provided under exceptional performance conditions.
Subject always challenging performance criteria are satisfied over a single to the Committees discretion, one third of the calculated three-year performance period following grant.
The criteria amount is approved for payment and the provisional for all awards granted since March 2002 have been based balance is taken into account over the next two years.
on Total Shareholder Return TSR dependent upon where The award payable for the year ended 30 September Graingers TSR lies with respect to a pre-determined 2005 represents 63% of salary for that year 2004: 61%.
comparator group as follows: Comparator Companies: Performance Condition Vesting of Option Brixton plc Capital and Regional plc If Graingers TSR is equal to or greater than the CLS Holdings plc upper quartile TSR of the comparator companies 100% Daejan Holdings plc Derwent Valley Holdings plc If Graingers TSR is above the median but below the Freeport plc upper quartile TSR of the comparator companies Pro-rata vesting Great Portland Estates plc London Merchant Securities plc If Graingers TSR is equal to the median TSR of the Minerva plc comparator companies 40% Mountview Estates plc Pillar Property plc If Graingers TSR is below the median TSR of the until it was fide-listed on 29 July 2005 comparator companies 0% Quintain Estates and Development plc Shaftesbury plc The Unite Group plc As shown in the table above, no award vests unless Graingers TSR is higher than the median TSR of the comparator group.
55 Total shareholder return graph 00 01 02 03 04 05 500 400 300 200 100 0 GRAINGER TRUST COMPARATOR GROUP FTSE REAL ESTATE FTSE 250 INDEX These performance criteria are believed to be stretching, The original comparator group was established in 2002 but realistic and reward executives if Graingers return with fourteen companies, two of which have since been to shareholders outperforms this group of companies taken over.
To maintain a reasonable size for the group operating in broadly similar markets.
and to prevent it having to be regularly modified for such changes, the Remuneration Committee has decided that it The graph above shows TSR based upon share price should be expanded with effect from the awards to be made growth with dividends reinvested for Grainger, compared in January 2006 and that the following will be included: to the comparator group, the FTSE 250 and the FTSE Real Estate Index.
These comparators have been chosen on Workspace Group plc Warner Estate Holdings plc the basis that they are the markets within which Big Yellow Group plc A & J Mucklow Group plc Grainger operates.
Mapeley Limited St Modwen Properties plc Helical Bar plc 56 Grainger Trust plc Annual report and accounts 2005 Report of the remuneration committee continued The following parts of the remuneration committee report have been audited.
Directors Remuneration Andrew Robert Stephen Rupert CunningSean Chairman, deputy chairman Dickinson Dickinson Dickinson ham Slade Total and executive directors 000 000 000 000 000 000 Non-performance related remuneration Salary and fees 108 142 420 315 13 998 Taxable benefits 172116 2 56 Share incentive plan 6661 19 Compensation for loss of office 221 221 Ex-gratia payment 30 30 Total non-performance related remuneration 108 165 447 337 267 1,324 Performance related remuneration Annual discretionary bonus 267 198 465 Total Performance related remuneration 267 198 465 Total Remuneration for the year ended 30 September 2005 108 165 714 535 267 1,789 Total Remuneration for the year ended 30 September 2004 90 146 678 506 215 1,635 Pension contributions into money purchase schemes Year ended 30 September 2005 63 47 2 112 Year ended 30 September 2004 60 45 16 121 Bill Robin John Robert John Tudor Robin Nichola Total BroadhurstBarnsley Hiscox Ward John Herbert Pease Total 2005 Nonexecutive directors 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Non-performance related remuneration Salary and fees 34 38 34 18 15 15 154 1,152 Taxable benefits 56 Share incentive plan 19 Compensation for loss of office 221 Ex-gratia payment 30 Total non-performance related remuneration 34 38 34 18 15 15 154 1,478 Performance related remuneration Annual discretionary bonus 465 Total Performance related remuneration 465 Total Remuneration for the year ended 30 September 2005 34 38 34 18 15 15 154 1,943 Total Remuneration for the year ended 30 September 2004 15 28 25 12 30 30 140 1,775
