Minerva plc 27 Annual report and accounts 2005 Remuneration report The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee, as constituted by the Board, is responsible for the determination of the remuneration, including the grant of share-based incentives, of the executive Directors of Minerva plc.
The Remuneration Committee comprises the two non-executive Directors of the Company, Christopher Sheridan Chairman of the Committee and Clive Richards.
The composition of the Committee, which consists exclusively of independent Directors, has not altered during the year.
Members of the Committee have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the outcome of the decisions taken by the Committee.
The Remuneration Committee met twice during the year.
The Company Secretary has provided administrative support and information to the Remuneration Committee.
During the year, New Bridge Street Consultants LLP were appointed by the Committee to provide performance statistics required in relation to the Executive Share Option Scheme.
They also provided the Committee with advice and information on salary levels and the proposed long-term incentive plan which will be subject to shareholder approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Remuneration policy The remuneration policy is designed to motivate, reward and retain executives of the highest calibre in a way which is consistent with their contribution to the success of the Company, whilst aligning their rewards and incentives directly with the performance and growth of the Company.
The Remuneration Committee considers discretionary bonuses and equity based long-term incentives to be the most effective mechanism of aligning the interests of the executive Directors with shareholders.
The remuneration packages currently comprise: Basic salaries and benefits Basic salaries and benefits are reviewed by the Remuneration Committee having regard to a number of factors, including the responsibility and performance of the individual and competitive market practice.
Benefits to each Director principally include the provision of a company car, medical insurance and life assurance cover.
In addition, contributions to a defined contribution pension scheme were made in respect of one Director.
Performance-related bonus Bonuses are awarded by the Remuneration Committee having regard to a number of factors, including the share price performance of the Company, the Groups performance relative to the All Property Capital Value Index published by the Investment Property Databank, and the individuals performance.
Individual performance is measured by the achievement of strategic and personal objectives, including, but not limited to: preparation for and attainment of planning consent: delivery of development programmes: portfolio investment performance: and capital structure and funding.
Share options Awards of share options are considered by the Remuneration Committee annually.
The awards are based on the individuals performance, position and responsibilities.
The vesting and exercise of the options are subject to demanding performance conditions which include, where applicable, a comparison against a peer group of other comparable quoted companies in the FTSE Real Estate Sector.
The Remuneration Committee consults with the Chairman and Chief Executive, as appropriate, with regard to its proposals for the remuneration of the executive Directors.
The Remuneration Committee considers it appropriate to move the executive Directors equity incentives from share options to share awards.
Details of the proposed 2005 Executive Incentive Plan that shareholders are being asked to approve at the Annual General Meeting are set out in Appendix 1 to the Notice of Annual General Meeting enclosed with the Annual Report and Accounts.
In advance of the discretionary bonus award for 2005 by the Remuneration Committee, Andrew Rosenfeld requested that part of his award be waived in favour of charitable donations by the Company.
Pensions With the exception of Ivan Ezekiel, for whom the Company made a pension contribution of 4,400 during the period, no pension contributions were made by the Company on behalf of the Directors.
Directors interests The Directors interests, including immediate family interests, in the share capital of the Company were as follows: Ordinary Ordinary shares of shares of 25 pence each 25 pence each 30 June 2005 30 June 2004 Andrew Rosenfeld 17,343,098 23,476,941 Ivan Ezekiel Paul Coster 1,435,857 1,435,857 Clive Richards 211,110 211,110 Christopher Sheridan 16,666 16,666 Appointed on 31 March 2005.
Sir David Garrard, who retired from the Board on 31 March 2005, was interested in 5,387,726 ordinary shares in the Company at that date 30 June 2004: 27,588,781 ordinary shares.
Ivan Ezekiel, who was appointed to the Board on 31 March 2005, was not interested in any ordinary shares in the Company at that date.
There has been no change in the beneficial and non-beneficial shareholdings of the Directors between 30 June 2005 and the date of this report.
Minerva plc 29 Annual report and accounts 2005 Employee Share Option Schemes The Group currently operates two types of share option plans: Executive Share Option Schemes and a Sharesave Scheme.
Executive Share Option Schemes The Executive Share Option Schemes are available to executive Directors and senior management.
Until November 2001, executive Directors and senior management were granted share options under the Companys 1996 Share Option Schemes.
The 1996 Share Option Schemes were adopted in November 1996 and comprise an Approved Scheme which was the subject of Inland Revenue approval, and an Unapproved Scheme.
The performance criterion required under the 1996 Approved Scheme is that the increase in the share price of the Company is greater than or equal to the increase in the Retail Price Index at any time following the third anniversary of the grant of the option.
The performance criterion required under the 1996 Unapproved Scheme is that the growth in the share price of the Company at any time following the third anniversary of the grant of the option places the Company in the top quartile of a peer group of quoted property companies.
When these share price based performance conditions were set in 1996 the Remuneration Committee believed that they best aligned the Companys business strategy at that time with shareholders interests.
The 2001 Discretionary Share Option Scheme, which was approved by shareholders in November 2001, has two parts, an Inland Revenue approved part and an unapproved part.
The Discretionary Scheme is subject to a performance condition which ranks the Companys total shareholder return share price growth and reinvested dividends over a period of three years against a periodically reviewed peer group of quoted property companies and the following targets apply: Proportion of options Ranking in peer group exercisable Upper quartile All Median One-third Below median Nil For performance between median and upper quartile the number of shares under option will become exercisable on a pro-rated basis.
In respect of existing options, if the performance condition is not met in full after three years, it will be retested at the end of the fourth and fifth years and to the extent the condition has not been met by the end of the fifth year, the relevant options will lapse.
However, the Remuneration Committee has determined that, in respect of future option grants, no retesting will occur and therefore, to the extent that the performance condition is not met after three years, the option will lapse.
With the exception of the Sharesave Scheme, all share options granted under the Employee Share Option Schemes are granted at market value.
The Remuneration Committee believes that this performance condition is appropriate and demanding, as the measure is considered an effective way of aligning the interests of management and shareholders with share options only able to be exercised in full in return for upper quartile total shareholder return performance.
Under the Scheme Rules, the performance conditions, including the comparable quoted companies in the FTSE Real Estate Sector, may be amended by the Remuneration Committee to ensure they remain appropriate.
Since the peer group in respect of the 1996 Unapproved Scheme was established, a number of companies in the Group have ceased to be quoted and have therefore been removed.
In respect of the original peer group for options granted under the 2001 Discretionary Share Option Scheme, Grantchester Holdings PLC, Benchmark Group PLC, Chelsfield PLC and Pillar Property PLC have been acquired and are no longer quoted companies.
To ensure that the peer group continues to comprise an appropriate number of comparable companies, the Remuneration Committee has set up a reserve list of companies which can be substituted for companies in the original Group that are taken over and or cease to be quoted during the performance period.
Remuneration report continued Minerva plc 30 Annual report and accounts 2005 During the year no share options were granted to Directors or senior management over shares in the Company or other Group entities.
Scheme A: Approved 1996 Share Option Scheme.
Scheme B: Unapproved 1996 Share Option Scheme.
Scheme C: 2001 Discretionary Share Option Scheme.
The 2001 Discretionary Share Option Scheme provides for an individual limit on options granted to any participant of three times that participants annual basic salary other than in exceptional circumstances when this may be increased to four times in any financial year of the Company.
No grants were made during the year.
None of the terms and conditions of the share options were varied during the year.
No payment was made for the grant of any share options.
All options were granted in respect of qualifying services.
Minerva plc 31 Annual report and accounts 2005 All Employee Sharesave Scheme The Company has operated an Inland Revenue approved Sharesave Scheme since 2002.
All eligible employees of participating group companies may participate in the Sharesave Scheme.
The Scheme offers employees the opportunity to save up to a maximum of 250 each month with a selected bank or building society over a three or five year period.
At the end of three or five years, employees may use their savings, plus a tax-free bonus to exercise an option to buy a certain number of shares in the Company at up to a 20 per cent discount to the share price shortly before they started saving.
Options granted to executive Directors under the Sharesave Scheme are not subject to performance conditions.
The Sharesave Scheme is an Inland Revenue approved all-employee Scheme, the terms of approval for which do not allow the imposition of performance conditions on the exercise of options.
The mid-market price of the Companys shares on the London Stock Exchange at 30 June 2005 was 270 pence per share.
During the year the share price ranged from 240.25 pence to 323.5 pence.
Total shareholder return performance The total shareholder return to the members of the Company, calculated by reference to share price growth plus reinvested dividends, relative to the FTSE All-Share Real Estate Index for each of the last five financial years, is illustrated graphically by the following chart: 220 200 180 160 140 120 100 Minerva 80 FTSE All-Share Real Estate 60 30 06 00 30 06 01 30 06 02 30 06 03 30 06 04 30 06 05 Source: Datastream The Company is a constituent of the FTSE All-Share Real Estate Index and, therefore, the Remuneration Committee considers this to be the most appropriate broad market equity index for illustrating the Companys performance.
Non-executive remuneration Non-executive Directors receive a fee for their services to the Company, including in connection with Board and Board Committee meetings.
The current level of fees was approved by the Board in September 1999.
The non-executive Directors do not receive any pension or other benefits from the Company, nor do they participate in any bonus or employee share option schemes.
Service contracts, contracts of significance and notice periods The service contracts of Andrew Rosenfeld and Ivan Ezekiel whose appointment commenced on 31 March 2005 are dated 24 August 2005.
Mr Rosenfelds service contract replaced his previous service contract dated 21 November 1996.
The contracts have no fixed term and are terminable by the Company on 12 months notice and by Mr Rosenfeld and Mr Ezekiel on six months notice.
The service contract of Paul Coster is dated 21 November 1996.
The contract has no fixed term and is terminable by the Company on 364 days notice and by Mr Coster on six months notice.
Mr Coster will be retiring with effect from 30 September 2005 when his service contract will terminate.
The service contract of Sir David Garrard was dated 21 November 1996.
This contract terminated on 31 March 2005 on Sir Davids retirement.
The Remuneration Committee reviews the service contracts periodically.
The non-executive Directors do not have service contracts.
Their appointments are subject to the provisions of the Articles of Association and the Combined Code dealing with appointment and retirement by rotation.
Christopher Sheridan is engaged under an agreement dated 11 September 2003, and Clive Richards is engaged under an agreement with Tarrakarn Limited trading as Clive Richards & Co dated 11 September 2003.
The agreements have no fixed term and are terminable by either party on three months notice.
Mr Ezekiels service contract provides that, in the event that his employment is terminated without notice other than for cause, the Company will make a lump sum payment to him equivalent to 95 per cent of the salary and benefits he would have received had he remained in employment during the notice period in full and final settlement of any claims he may have.
No Director has contracted rights for compensation on early termination beyond payment of the contractual notice period.
Other than set out above, there were no other persons who served as a Director of the Company during the year ended 30 June 2005.
Apart from share options and service contracts or non-executive Director agreements, no contract subsisted during or at the end of the financial year in which a Director is or was materially interested and which is or was significant in relation to the Groups business during the period under review.
Auditable information The Remuneration report consists of non-auditable information with the exception of the sections entitled Directors remuneration, Pensions, and the details of share options held by Directors set out on page 30.
Approval At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 25 November 2005, an ordinary resolution will be proposed approving this report.
For and on behalf of the Board Christopher Sheridan Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 20 September 2005 TSR Rebased to Minerva
