22 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2005 Remuneration Report Remuneration Report The Committees objective is to ensure the Group continues to be able to attract and motivate individuals with the skills and experience required to operate its business competitively.
Introduction Remuneration policy The focus of this report is on directors and senior managers The Committees policy is to set remuneration at levels which remuneration.
It sets out the Groups remuneration policy attract, retain and motivate individuals of the high calibre required and also gives details of the salaries, incentives, shares and by the business.
A significant proportion of directors remuneration pensions received by all the directors for the year ended is related to the performance of the Group rather than fixed and 31 March 2005. consists of a base salary, pension, the bonus scheme, share rights and options and a long term incentive plan.
The Committee also This report has been prepared in accordance with the addresses the interests of the shareholders and takes into account requirements of the Companies Act 1985 as amended, the remuneration practices of other relevant companies.
the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations and associated legislation, together with The Group is committed to ensuring that linkage between the Listing Rules.
Under the provisions of Part III Schedule 7A performance and executive remuneration is maintained.
The Companies Act 1985, KPMG Audit Plc has audited the directors Committees intention is that increases in base salaries would emoluments, pensions, share option and long-term incentive normally be in line with salary inflation with periodic reviews schemes sections of this Report.
In order to link executive performance with shareholder returns, increasing emphasis The Remuneration Committee will be placed on performance related pay.
As a result, the Details of the Remuneration Committees role and membership Committee intends to carry out a comprehensive review of all are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on pages the executive incentive arrangements during the course of the 32 to 35.
The Committee met five times during the year.
coming year and will set out the details in the report for that year.
The Committee is directly responsible to shareholders and, Whilst the Committee strives to harmonise remuneration as in previous years, its chairman will be present at the AGM throughout the Group, it recognises that this is not always to answer any questions from shareholders.
For example, the formulae used for the calculation will be taking over from David Pangbourne as Chairman of of bonus payments differ between the Company and its this Committee and will be offering himself for election by wholly owned subsidiary, Wembley London Limited.
At the shareholders at the AGM.
Companys head office, staff bonus payments are linked to growth in net asset value, which is considered to be the most The Committees Terms of Reference are available on the appropriate measure of success for a company in the property Company website or on request from the Groups registered sector.
However, as Wembley operates in the leisure industry, office.
They are consistent with the recommendations of the its staff bonuses are linked to the achievement of targets based Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
on profitability which are believed to be a more relevant measure.
23 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2005 Remuneration Report No executive director plays any part in the determination Related party transactions of his her own remuneration package and the fees of the There were no related party transactions with directors in the year.
non-executive directors are set by the executive directors Service contracts to reflect the time commitment and levels of responsibility Neither the executive directors service contracts nor those of expected of them.
any other members of staff none of which has a notice period in In remuneration matters, the Committee has the authority excess of six months contain liquidated damages provisions for compensation for loss of office on early termination or change and funding to obtain independent advice.
During the year, it received advice from Nabarro Nathanson regarding the of control.
Any contract terminated at short notice, resulting in a right to compensation, would not be subject to mitigation.
operation of the 1996 Unapproved Share Option Scheme and the introduction of the 2004 Unapproved Share Plan.
Details of the executive directors service contracts Nabarro Nathanson also provided the Company with advice all rolling contracts are subject to six months notice : in respect of corporate matters and its property activities.
Additional information on remuneration issues was also obtained NG Ellis by the Committee from the Investment Property Databank IPD, Dated 20 March 1996 being the only property industry-wide benchmark, from Income Data Services, various other salary and benefit surveys and AR Wyatt industry comparisons.
The Group also held informal discussions Dated 15 July 1996 with comparator companies in the property and leisure sectors.
NSK Shattock Since the year end, advice has been sought from New Bridge Dated 12 July 1995 Street Consultants on various aspects of remuneration.
RJ Worthington Other directorships Dated 24 July 2001 As at 31 March 2005, the only executive director holding nonGroup related directorships was James Hamilton Stubber, who JR Hamilton Stubber Dated 8 September 2002 is a director of a family property trading company for which he receives no remuneration.
24 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2005 Remuneration Report Details of the non-executive directors letters of appointment: In considering remuneration levels, the Committee makes reference to the contribution each individual has made to the Lady Judge Group and also to its performance as a whole, measured in Dated 9 February 2000 renewed in February 2003 for a further terms of net asset value per share, both in absolute terms and three years.
relative to the property sector or, in the case of the Wembley bonus calculation, by reference to the increase in profitability, MR Meech as previously described.
Dated 4 July 2000 renewed in July 2003 for a further three years.
Base salaries are normally reviewed annually with any changes DG Pangbourne taking effect from the commencement of the accounting period.
Dated 24 August 2001 renewed in August 2004 for a further The audited base salaries and benefits for each director are set three years.
The base salary increases for the year under review included increases for AR Wyatt and for NSK Shattock of WJT Plender 40,000 pa and 80,000 pa respectively.
These increases reflect Dated 22 July 2002 due to be renewed in July 2005. the ongoing additional responsibilities and work load required J MacNaughton CB from these directors, in particular, arising from the special Dated 22 December 2003 unexpired term approximately projects and the significant growth of the Company.
Base salaries for directors in the current year are shown in T Cross Brown the table below and increases are in line with salary inflation, Dated 27 May 2005 unexpired term of approximately with the exception of RJ Worthington whose responsibilities three years.
have been widened and whose base salary has been increased accordingly.
Remuneration of directors and senior staff The directors remuneration and that of senior staff defined Discretionary bonus scheme in the Committees Terms of Reference as employees whose The Group operates a discretionary bonus scheme which annual salary and pension is 125,000 pa or above and the is designed to be a performance related incentive scheme terms of their employment are reviewed at least annually in to reward executive directors and all staff and provide relation to best practice and benchmarked against relevant motivation and identification with the success of the Group.
comparator industry data where available.
Base salary and benefits of the directors audited 2006 Year ended 31 March 2005 2004 2004 2005 2004 Base Base Discretionary Fees Benefits Total Base Total Pensions Pensions salary salary bonus salary 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive 125 NG Ellis 125 110 7 242 125 200 485 AR Wyatt 460 356 64 880 420 682 69 42 348 NSK Shattock 330 223 42 595 250 435 50 25 200 RJ Worthington 150 110 26 286 125 199 23 13 252 J Hamilton Stubber 240 198 23 461 225 298 36 23 Non-executive Lady Judge 48 48 40 MR Meech 40 40 35 DG Pangbourne 60 60 55 WJT Plender 40 40 35 J MacNaughton 23 23 P Alexander 13 1,410 Total year ended 31 March 2005 1,305 997 211 162 2,675 178 Total year ended 31 March 2004 553 178 116 1,145 1,992 103 Notes: 1 The value of benefits includes the provision of a car allowance, private medical insurance, income protection, life assurance and travel and subsistence where applicable.
2 Discretionary bonuses are based on the results of the previous financial year.
3 Fees include payments of 43,000 2004: 35,000 made to BT Consulting Inc Limited on behalf of Lady Judge and 5,000 2004: 5,000 made in respect of her expenses and 23,000 2004: nil to the DTI on behalf of Joan MacNaughton.
25 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2005 Remuneration Report In relation to head office, for the Committee to exercise its Executive Directors Performance Share Plan audited discretion and recommend the payment of a bonus, the Adopted at the 2003 Annual General Meeting, the Committee guidelines currently adopted by it are that the Group must not believes the Plan will assist in securing the long-term services of only outperform the average of the IPD index but also the real key directors, with the award of share rights being conditional rate of return year on year, must be in excess of 10%, calculated upon the achievement of challenging corporate performance by reference to the increase in shareholders funds as adjusted targets and subject to lock-in arrangements for participants for any capital variations and the annual dividend.
current and future shareholdings, which in the case of the awards made in 2003 to AR Wyatt and NSK Shattock, will be Under this scheme, executive directors are entitled to earn at least until 2012.
The exercise of share awards under this Plan up to 100% and senior staff up to 50% of base salary in cash.
is subject to the director continuing to be employed at vesting, to the Company achieving an increase in net asset value plus Any entitlement above this level would be received in shares dividends paid of at least 10% pa above the retail prices index purchased by Trustees of the Quintain Estates and Development and to the Company outperforming the average IPD return over PLC Deferred Bonus Plan and held for three years prior to the same period.
release to the relevant employee or director.
The Committee also has the discretion to recommend the payment of an additional Details of share rights granted under the Plan are set out below.
bonus to a director or other member of staff or to vary the terms No amount is payable on the exercise of these rights and no of the arrangements outlined above for exceptional performance rights were granted or exercised during the year.
over and above the already high standard required.
It is intended to award rights over 125,000 shares under the plan Pensions each to AR Wyatt, NSK Shattock and RJ Worthington.
These Defined contributions are made into personal pension plans awards would be on the basis of five tranches of 25,000 shares, arranged by the Group.
For executive directors, the employer on terms similar to the 2003 awards in respect of the length of contribution for the year to 31 March 2005 is at the rate of 15% of the vesting periods and performance conditions.
For other head office staff, the rate is 12.5%.
For staff employed by Wembley London Limited, the scheme inherited by the Company following its acquisition in 2002 has been continued under which employer contributions are made ranging from 4% to 6% of base salary depending upon seniority and length of service.
All executive directors and staff have access to the advice of an Independent Financial Advisor in relation to their pensions, which is offered at the Groups expense.
The highest and lowest share prices during the year were 587p on 21 January 2005 and 372.5p on 19 May 2004 respectively.
2 All share options and rights expire at the end of the exercise period.
27 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2005 Remuneration Report Share Options audited The principal terms of the CSOP may be summarised as follows: During the period, the Company continued to operate the Administration 1996 Executive Share Option Scheme, approved by the The Committee is responsible for administering the CSOP.
Inland Revenue on 17 July 1996, the 1996 Unapproved Share It is intended to seek the approval of the Inland Revenue for Option Scheme albeit with no further grants being made the CSOP.
and the 2004 Unapproved Share Plan.
Grant of options and eligibility The Committee has decided that for it to exercise its discretion The Committee may grant options to acquire ordinary to grant any share options or rights under either scheme, the shares in the Company to any employee and full time Groups performance over the previous three years must director of the Group.
Options are granted free of charge exceed the average of the rolling IPD index.
Options and rights and are non-transferable.
granted during the year are subject to the growth in share price exceeding 7.5% net of inflation over the three years following Period for the grant of options grant of the option.
Option and rights awards are subject to a The first grant of options may be made within 42 days following minimum three year vesting period and on exercise directors the Inland Revenues approval of the CSOP the Approval are encouraged to hold shares for a further period after vesting, Date.
Thereafter, options may be granted within 42 days subject to the need to finance the costs of acquisition and any following the announcement of the Companys interim and or tax liability.
final results for any period.
In exceptional circumstances, options may be granted at other times.
During the financial year, a total of 144,432 options and 294,682 share rights were granted, 9,787 options and 672 share rights Exercise price lapsed and 324,291 options were exercised at option prices The exercise price per ordinary share is determined by the of between 136p and 287p.
Details of options granted to, Committee but must be no less than its market value on the and exercised by, the executive directors are shown overleaf.
dealing day preceding the date of grant or, at the discretion of the Committee, the average of the three dealing days preceding Non-executive directors do not participate in any share option the date of grant or its nominal value, if higher.
Performance tests In its annual review of executive directors and senior staff The Committee has decided, as is the case with the existing remuneration policy and packages, the Committee considers discretionary share option schemes, that it will exercise its various guidelines on executive remuneration.
In relation to the discretion to grant options under the CSOP only if the Groups grant of options and awards and the design of share based performance over the previous three years has exceeded the incentive schemes, the Committee ensures the setting of suitably average of the rolling IPD Index.
stretching performance criteria and the recommended dilution limit for all Group schemes including all-employee schemes The Committee will also impose an objective condition of 10%.
the performance test on the exercise of options, requiring a sustained improvement in the Groups financial performance 2005 Executive Share Option Scheme over a continuous period.
The performance test to be applied The 1996 Executive Share Option Scheme is due to expire prior to the initial options to be granted will be that the share price has to the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
The Committee considers grown by 10% more than inflation over the three years following that an Inland Revenue approved discretionary share option the grant of the option.
scheme would continue to fulfil a significant part of the Groups remuneration policy for executive directors and senior staff, Individual limit providing a tax efficient mechanism under which such individuals An individuals overall participation under the CSOP is limited can acquire an equity interest in the Group subject to statutory so that the aggregate market value at the date of grant of the limits.
Accordingly, it is proposed to establish a new Inland ordinary shares comprised in subsisting options granted to him Revenue approved scheme, the Company Share Option Plan under all Inland Revenue approved schemes except savings the CSOP to replace the 1996 scheme.
The CSOP would related schemes cannot exceed 30,000. substantially replicate the terms of the 1996 scheme, differing only to reflect changes in legislation and market practice over CSOP limits the last ten years.
The number of ordinary shares issued or issuable or transferred or transferable out of treasury pursuant to options granted under Accordingly, at this years Annual General Meeting, the CSOP, when aggregated with the number of ordinary shares the Committee will seek the approval of shareholders issued or issuable or transferred or transferable out of treasury to the adoption of the CSOP.
A copy of the draft rules of pursuant to all rights granted under all Group share schemes the CSOP will be available for inspection from the date of within the previous period of ten years, may not exceed 10% of dispatch of this circular at the offices of Nabarro Nathanson, the Companys issued ordinary share capital at the date of grant.
Lacon House, 84 Theobalds Road, London WC1X 8RW, on the Companys website at www.
com Exercise and lapse of options and also at 16 Grosvenor Street, London W1 prior to and during the Annual General Meeting.
General position An option is normally exercisable between three and ten years The directors believe this proposal to be in the best interests from the date of grant, provided that the relevant performance of shareholders as a whole and unanimously recommend condition has been satisfied.
that the Members vote with them in favour of the resolution.
28 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2005 Remuneration Report Special circumstances The directors believe this proposal to be in the best interests Options will normally lapse on cessation of employment except of shareholders as a whole and unanimously recommend in particular situations such as death, ill health, redundancy, sale that the Members vote with them in favour of the resolution.
of the optionholders employing company out of the Group or The principal terms of the Sharesave Plan may be summarised retirement.
Exercise is also permitted in special circumstances as follows: such as a takeover.
In the event of a takeover, early exercise of options is only permitted subject to satisfaction of the Administration performance condition modified as appropriate to reflect The Committee is responsible for administering the Sharesave the period of time elapsed since the date of grant.
It is intended to seek the approval of the Inland Revenue for the Sharesave Plan.
Exchange of options on a takeover In the event of a takeover, participants may be permitted Eligibility to exchange his options for options over shares in the Employees and full-time directors of the Group are entitled to acquiring company.
participate if they are resident and ordinarily resident in the UK and have completed a minimum period of continuous service as Variation of share capital determined by the Committee.
Other employees and directors On certain variations of the ordinary share capital of the may participate at the Committees discretion.
Company, the Committee may, subject to the approval of the Companys auditors and the Inland Revenue, adjust the Period for the grant of options exercise price and the number of ordinary shares comprised The first invitations to apply for options may be issued within 14 in existing options.
days following the Inland Revenues approval of the Sharesave Plan the Approval Date.
Thereafter, invitations may be issued Pensionability of benefits within 21 days of the announcement of the Companys interim Benefits derived under the CSOP are not pensionable.
and or final results for any period.
In exceptional circumstances, invitations may be issued at other times.
Amendment The Committee may amend the CSOP to obtain and maintain Exercise price Inland Revenue approval.
The exercise price per ordinary share is determined by The Committee may also make any other amendment to the the Committee but must be no less than 80% of its market CSOP subject to the prior approval of the Inland Revenue if the value at the date of invitation or its nominal value, if higher.
amendment is to a key feature of the scheme, provided that Applications and savings contracts amendments to certain important rules including those relating To participate, an eligible employee must complete and return to the overall limit on the CSOP, the individual limits and eligibility an application form within a period of 14 days.
Eligible employees to participate in the CSOP to the advantage of participants must also take out either a three year or a five year save as may only be made with the sanction of the Company in general you earn contract, saving between 10 and 250 per month meeting except that such shareholder approval is not required or such other amounts as are determined by the Committee for minor amendments to benefit the administration of the CSOP and permitted by law.
or for amendments to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or Such a contract will entitle the participant, on the completion regulatory treatment for participants, future participants or of his savings contract, to receive a full repayment of his participating companies.
In the case of a five year savings contract, participants may elect at the outset either to take their Termination savings after five years or to leave their savings undrawn for an The CSOP will terminate ten years after the Approval Date additional two years.
or earlier, if the Committee so determines.
Grant of options The Committee will grant to participants options to acquire Save As You Earn ordinary shares in the Company the aggregate exercise price The Committee considers that an Inland Revenue savingsof which is, as nearly as possible, equal to the anticipated related share option scheme would provide a tax efficient savings repayment plus the relevant bonus.
Options are mechanism under which all employees of the Group can acquire non-transferable.
an equity interest in the Company subject to statutory limits.
Accordingly, it is proposed to establish a new all-employee Plan limits Inland Revenue approved scheme, the sharesave share option The number of ordinary shares issued or issuable or transferred plan the Sharesave Plan.
or transferable out of treasury pursuant to options granted Accordingly, at this years Annual General Meeting, the Committee under the Sharesave Plan, when aggregated with the number of ordinary shares issued or issuable or transferred or transferable will seek the approval of shareholders to the adoption of the Sharesave Plan.
A copy of the draft rules of the Sharesave Plan out of treasury pursuant to all rights granted under all Group share schemes within the previous period of ten years, may will be available for inspection from the date of dispatch of this circular at the offices of Nabarro Nathanson, Lacon House, not exceed 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at the date of grant.
84 Theobalds Road, London WC1X 8RW, on the Companys website at www.
com and also at 16 Grosvenor Street, London W1 prior to and during the Annual General Meeting.
29 Quintain Estates and Development PLC Annual Report 2005 Remuneration Report Exercise and lapse of options Termination The Sharesave Plan will terminate ten years after the Approval General position Date or earlier, if the Committee so determines.
An option is normally exercisable within six months following the relevant bonus date.
Total shareholder return The following graph charts the total cumulative shareholder Special circumstances return growth in value assuming reinvestment of dividends of Options may be exercised before the relevant bonus date the Company for the period from 31 March 2000 to 31 March in special circumstances such as a takeover and where a 2005, and then extended to 6 June 2005, compared with total participant ceases to be employed within the Group more than shareholder return relating to the FTSE 350 Index and the FTSE three years after the date of grant or in particular situations such Real Estate Index: as redundancy.
Where an option is exercised before the bonus date, the number of shares which may be acquired is restricted according to the amount accrued under the savings contract up 600 to the date of exercise.
500 Exchange of options on a takeover 400 In the event of a takeover, a participant may be permitted to exchange his options for options over shares in the acquiring 300 company.
200 Variation of share capital 100 On certain variations of the ordinary share capital of the Company, the Committee may, subject to the approval of 0 31 Mar 00 31 Mar 01 31 Mar 02 31 Mar 03 31 Mar 04 6 June 05 the Companys auditors and the Inland Revenue, adjust the exercise price and the number and description of shares Quintain Estates & Development PLC subject to existing options.
FTSE Real Estate Index FTSE 350 Index Source: Thompson Financial Pensionability of benefits Benefits derived under the Sharesave Plan are not pensionable.
By Order of the Board Amendment The Committee may amend the Sharesave Plan in any way necessary to obtain and maintain Inland Revenue approval.
The Committee may also make any other amendment to the Sharesave Plan subject to the prior approval of the Inland Revenue if the amendment is to a key feature of the plan, provided that amendments to certain important rules David Pangbourne including those relating to the overall limit on the Sharesave Chairman of Remuneration Committee Plan, the savings limits and eligibility to participate in the 7 June 2005 Sharesave Plan to the advantage of participants may only be made with the sanction of the Company in general meeting except that such shareholder approval is not required for minor amendments to benefit the administration of the Sharesave Plan or for amendments to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for participants, future participants or participating companies.
