8717 Unite Annual Report 29 3 06 9:35 am Page 28 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT for the year ended 31 December 2005 The Board reports to shareholders on Directors remuneration as set out below.
In preparing this report, the Remuneration Committee of the Board the Committee has complied with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations.
The Report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and describes how the Board has applied the Principles of Good Governance in relation to directors remuneration.
A resolution to approve the Report will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
sectors within which the Company operates.
The Regulations require the auditors to report to The Committee is able to obtain independent The results of that review indicated that the base the Companys members on the auditable part of professional advice from remuneration and other salaries of the Executive Directors were broadly the Remuneration Report and to state whether, in consultants in order to carry out its duties.
in line with the market median, with total their opinion, that part of the Report has been During the year, such advice was received remuneration at the level of the upper quartile.
properly prepared in accordance with the from  LLP.
The Committee confirmed its intentions to pay base Companies Act 1985 as amended by the  provided no other salaries at the median level and to provide the Regulations.
The Report has therefore been services to the Company during the course of the opportunity for executives to achieve total divided into separate sections for the unaudited year.
In addition, Dr A Lee, the Group HR Director, remuneration at the upper quartile level when and audited information.
Within the unaudited provided advice and services to the Committee justified by very strong performance against clearly section, the report deals with the remuneration during the course of the year.
The Committee also confirmed policy that is to be followed in 2006, summarises The members of the Committee attend the its intention to promote the retention of Executives the results of remuneration surveys that have been Companys Annual General Meeting and are by paying a greater proportion of total remuneration undertaken and describes arrangements which available to answer shareholders questions about in the form of long term awards, rather than in the applied during 2005. the Directors remuneration.
form of annual bonus arrangements.
The main components of the Directors Policy on remuneration of Remuneration committee remuneration packages are: executive directors and senior During the year, the Remuneration Committee of the Board consisted of the Chairman of the Board executives Mr G K Maddrell, and the Non-Executive Directors Basic salary The policy in respect of Directors remuneration for of the Company, namely Mr N P Hall, Mr S R H the following and subsequent years is to ensure The basic salary of each Director has been fixed Beevor and from 3 November 2005, that the remuneration packages it offers are taking account of advice received from independent Mr R Walker.
Mr N A Porter is invited to attend competitive and designed to attract, retain and sources on the rates of salary for similar roles in meetings of the Committee which, during the year, motivate executive Directors and senior executives selected groups of comparable companies and the were chaired by Mr Maddrell.
From 1 January of an appropriate calibre.
Performance related performance of the relevant individual.
As stated 2006, Mr Beevor became Chairman of the reward policies are operated which are designed to above, the Company has agreed the principle that Committee, although Mr Maddrell remains a provide a significant element of at risk pay, which base salaries should be set broadly in line with the member.
is only available when good results are achieved.
The Committee is required annually to consider During 2005, a review of executive remuneration and review all aspects of the Executive Directors was undertaken on behalf of the Committee by Performance related bonus employment, performance and remuneration and .
That review compared all the Groups policies on those matters.
Mr Porter The Group operates an annual performance related elements of remuneration against a group of 20 takes no part in the discussions concerning his bonus scheme which is designed to reward comparator companies, having regard, amongst own remuneration, nor does he attend those parts contributions and encourage the achievement of other things, to the size of the business and the of the meetings of the Committee which discuss targeted levels of performance over the short term.
In 2005 the maximum potential bonus payment for 28 8717 Unite Annual Report 29 3 06 9:35 am Page 29 each of the Executive Directors was equivalent to For 2006, the maximum bonus payment, for Options granted to Directors prior to 2004 under 100 per cent of his base salary.
However Executive Directors, will again be equivalent to the Unapproved Scheme are exercisable as to 50 achievement of any bonus payment is subject to 100% of base salary.
The achievement of any per cent provided the total shareholder return for stretching performance criteria, linked to both the bonus will be subject to the achievement of the Company is such that it is equal to or exceeds individual performance of the Director and that of stretching performance targets relating to the the median total shareholder return of companies the Group.
Individual performance targets which Group achieving profitability, increases in net asset included in the FTSE Small Companies Index account for 40 per cent of a Directors maximum value, customer satisfaction and employee excluding investment trusts over the three year potential bonus payment are set following the satisfaction.
For 2006, any bonus paid to M C period from the date of grant.
The remaining 50 per Performance Development Programme reviews Allan and A Lee will again be paid half in cash and cent are exercisable provided the Companys net that are carried out for all employees including the half in shares, with the share element being asset growth exceeds the average net asset growth Executive Directors at the beginning of each year.
held in an Employee Share Ownership Trust for of companies included in the FTSE Small The remaining 60 per cent of the maximum three years.
Companies Index excluding investment trusts over potential bonus payment, which is referable to the the three year period from the date of grant.
Such performance of the Group, involves the Group performance criteria were agreed with institutional achieving targets in relation to profitability, shareholders at the time the Unapproved Scheme Long term incentives increases in net asset value, customer satisfaction was adopted.
However, options granted under the In addition to the annual bonus referred to above, and employee satisfaction the latter two Unapproved Scheme after 1 January 2004 are the Group seeks to encourage and reward good components both being monitored by independent subject to revised performance criteria based solely long term performance by providing incentives organisations.
These performance conditions were on total shareholder return, such that options will linked to the performance of the Companys selected as the most appropriate measures to be exercisable only as to 50 per cent if the total shares.
These incentives have, prior to the achieve sustained financial performance.
This will shareholder return for the Company, over the three adoption of The UNITE Group plc Long Term occur by optimising our investment and operating year period from the date of grant, is such that it is Incentive Plan, been provided in the form of decisions, by developing strong relationships with equal to the median total shareholder return of ordinary share options and details of all options Universities and individual customers and by companies included in the FTSE Small Companies awarded to the Directors are set out in the creating an environment where employees will Index excluding investments trusts over that auditable part of this Report.
choose to remain and develop their careers.
"If the Companys performance would put it In August 1999 the Company adopted The UNITE The performance related bonus is not pensionable in the upper quartile upon the basis described Group plc Approved Company Share Option and Non-Executive Directors do not participate in above, 100 per cent of the options awarded will be Scheme the ""Approved Scheme"", being a the scheme."
Between median and upper quartile scheme approved by the Inland Revenue.
In April performance, the number of options which may be In respect of the year ended 31 December 2005, 2000 the Company also adopted The UNITE Group exercised will be calculated on a straight line basis.
each of the Executive Directors has been awarded plc Unapproved Share Option Scheme the a performance related bonus equivalent to On 8 December 2005, the Company, in general Unapproved Scheme.
Under the Approved approximately 81% of his base salary.
As a result, meeting, adopted The UNITE Group plc Long Term Scheme, the total market value of shares, at the the total remuneration of each of the Executive Incentive Plan the LTIP.
Participation in the LTIP date of grant, over which any participant may be Directors for the year, based on the results of the is intended to replace the grant of options to awarded options is 30,000, whilst under the surveys carried out by , is executive directors and senior managers, with the Unapproved Scheme, the total market value, at the likely to be at the upper quartile level of the number of shares vesting in a participant being date of grant, of all shares over which any comparator group of companies.
The bonus dependent on the extent to which performance participant may be awarded options including payments made to M C Allan and A Lee will be conditions selected by the Remuneration options granted under other schemes, must not paid as to 50% in cash and 50% in shares, held in Committee are satisfied over a three year exceed four times his total remuneration.
The Nonan Employee Share Trust for three years.
In respect of the initial LTIP Executive Directors do not participate in either the policy of the Remuneration Committee, whereby awards, the maximum amount of any award will be Approved Scheme or the Unapproved Scheme.
any Director who holds an amount of shares with a limited to 1 x base salary as was disclosed to value greater than a sum equivalent to three times Options granted under the Approved Scheme have shareholders at the time the LTIP was approved.
base salary will receive his bonus payment entirely not been made subject to performance conditions, The Committee will review the limit for future in cash, the bonus payable to N A Porter for 2005 which is considered appropriate in view of the awards, within the maximum annual limit of 100% will be paid entirely in cash.
relatively small number of options that may be of base salary.
granted to individuals under such schemes.
29 8717 Unite Annual Report 29 3 06 9:35 am Page 30 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT continued Each of the Non-Executive Directors have specific The two performance conditions that were selected Service contracts and letters of engagement, the original dates of which for the initial awards each applying to 50 per cent notice periods are set out below: of an award are referable to the net asset value In accordance with general market practice, each performance and total shareholder return of the of the Executive Directors has a rolling service Company.
For that element of an award referable G K Maddrell 13 August 1999 contract requiring twelve months notice of to net asset value performance, a target net asset termination on either side.
Such contracts contain value for the end of the three year measurement N P Hall 6 March 2003 no specific provision for compensation for loss of period will be set by the Remuneration Committee S R H Beevor 20 February 2004 office, other than an obligation to pay for any and lodged with the Companys auditors.
At the notice period waived by the Company.
end of the measurement period, if the actual net R Walker 3 November 2005 asset value is less than 80 per cent of the target The dates of the Executive Directors service value, none of the shares the subject of that contracts are as follows: Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial element of the award will vest.
If the actual net term of three years, subject to normal provisions as asset value is 116 per cent or more of the target to retirement by rotation.
Subsequent terms of value, then all the shares the subject of that N A Porter 14 January 1999 three years may be awarded.
Current appointments element of the award will vest.
If the actual net M C Allan 31 October 1999 will expire at the annual general meeting in 2008 in asset value is equal to or greater than 80 per cent the case of Mr G K Maddrell: on 5 March 2009 in of the target value, but less than 116 per cent, A Lee 21 November 2000 the case of Mr N P Hall: on 28 February 2007 in then the number of shares that will vest will be the case of Mr S R H Beevor: on 2 November 2008 calculated on a straight line basis, with 45 per in the case of Mr R Walker.
The appointment and cent of the total number of shares the subject of re-appointment and the remuneration of that element of the award vesting if the actual Non-Executive Directors are matters reserved for value is 80 per cent of the target value and 100 the full Board.
per cent of such shares vesting if the actual value is 116 per cent or more of the target value.
In relation to that element of an award referrable Total shareholder return to total shareholder return, the performance of the Company will be measured, over the three year The following graph charts the total cumulative shareholder return of the Company since 1 January 2001 measurement period, against the performance of to 31 December 2005. a comparator group of companies, being those Whilst there is no comparator index or group of companies which truly reflects the activities of the Group, companies in the FTSE 250 index excluding the FTSE Real Estate Index the constituent members of which are all property holding and or development investment trusts at the beginning of the companies within the UK, was chosen as it reflects trends within the UK property market generally and measurement period and which are still quoted at tends to be the index against which analysts judge the performance of the Company.
If the Company is ranked in the top 25 per cent of the comparator group, then all the shares the subject of that element of the award will vest, whilst no such shares will vest if it is in the lower half.
If the Company is ranked in the upper half, but not the top 25 per cent, then the number of shares that will vest will be calculated on a straight line basis.
In addition to the performance conditions outlined above, no shares will vest under either element of an award unless the Remuneration Committee considers that the underlying financial performance of the Company is satisfactory.
The fees paid in respect of Mr S R H Beevor were During the year both Mr M C Allan and Dr A Lee paid to Grosvenor Investments Limited, which participated in The UNITE Group Personal Pension Satisfied by an allocation of shares in the Company company made available the services of Mr Beevor.
Scheme, which is a money purchase scheme, in relation held in an employee share ownership trust.
to whom the Company contributed 15,563 and 11,569 Benefits receivable consist primarily of company car respectively in the year.
Mr Allans and Dr Lees or car allowance and private health care insurance.
participation in The UNITE Group plc Personal Pension Scheme is on the same terms as those available to other Share options senior management within the Group.
Those Companys shares ranged from 279.75p to 380p per 17,500 and 10,000 ordinary shares pursuant to the details should also be taken as forming part of the ordinary share.
All other options other than those auditable part of this Report.
Options granted By order of the Board granted pursuant to the SAYE Scheme, have been pursuant to the SAYE Scheme are not subject to S R H Beevor granted pursuant to Unapproved Scheme.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee other than those granted pursuant to the SAYE As at 30 December 2005 being the last business day 16 March 2006 Scheme, have been granted for no consideration.
of the year, the middle market price for ordinary Details of the performance criteria, by reference to shares in the Company was 380p per share.
During which options other than those granted pursuant to 31 8717 Unite Annual Report 29 3 06 9:35 am Page 32 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF THE UNITE GROUP PLC We have audited the group and parent company financial statements Basis of audit opinion the financial statements of The UNITE Group plc for the year ended 31 We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing December 2005 which comprise the group income statement, the group and UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes parent company balance sheets, the group and parent company statements of examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures cash flows, the group and parent company statements of changes in shareholder in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to equity and the related notes.
These financial statements have been prepared under be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the groups and This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility of the directors remuneration report to be audited are free from material to anyone other than the company and the companys members as a body, misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration Respective responsibilities of report to be audited.
directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report and accounts, the Opinion directors remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with In our opinion: applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with by the EU are set out in the statement of directors responsibilities on page 27.
IFRS as adopted by the EU, of the state of the groups affairs as at 31 Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the December 2005 and of its profit for the year then ended: directors remuneration report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU as applied in accordance with the We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true provisions of the Companies Act 1985, of the state of the parent companys and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the directors affairs as at 31 December 2005: and remuneration report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance the financial statements and the part of the directors remuneration report to be with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the group financial statements, audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the and, as regards the group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we KPMG Audit Plc report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the boards Chartered Accountants statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on Registered Auditor the effectiveness of the groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and London control procedures.
We read other information contained in the annual report and accounts 16 March 2006 and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
