Remuneration Report The Boards report to Shareholders on remuneration and details of the compensation and contractual arrangements for directors are set out below.
This report has been prepared in compliance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations, which impose certain statutory requirements for the disclosure of directors remuneration.
The Report also meets the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and describes how the Company has complied with the Combined Code throughout the year to 30 September 2005 as it relates to directors remuneration.
A resolution to approve the Report will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Regulations require the auditors to report to shareholders on the auditable part of the Remuneration Report and to state whether, in their opinion, that part of the Report has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Regulations.
The tables detailing directors emoluments and interests in share options on pages 32 and 33 have been audited.
The remainder of the report, which is unaudited, sets out the remuneration policy that applied during 2005 and describes arrangements which are intended to apply for 2006.
Remuneration Committee The current members of the Remuneration Committee are Sir Malcolm Rifkind Chairman, Mr R C Cornick and Mr C G H Weaver, all independent Non Executive Directors.
Biographical details of the current members of the Committee are shown on pages 10 to 11.
The Committee, which operates on the basis of detailed written terms of reference, has been established by the Board to: a determine and recommend to the Board the Companys policy on remuneration of Executive Directors and senior employees: b determine the specific remuneration levels of the Chairman, the Executive Directors and other senior employees: c ensure that appropriate performance targets are set and that any payments made to Executive Directors and senior employees reflect achievement against such targets: d consider individual awards to Executive Directors and senior employees under all incentive schemes: e consider the recruitment of any employee on a basic salary of 125,000 or more: f consider any redundancy or severance payment which exceeds the terms of the Companys standard policy: g ensure that the Company maintains contact with its principal shareholders on remuneration matters, and to demonstrate that decisions on executive remuneration are taken independently and are complementary to the financial and commercial well-being of the Company: and h report to shareholders in accordance with appropriate legal requirements and associated codes of practice.
The terms of reference of the Committee, which are reviewed annually, are available on request and are published on the Companys website.
The Committee is authorised to take external advice in order to properly fulfil its duties and appointed an external firm of consultants, DLA MCG Consulting, to advise on the levels of the salaries and benefits packages of the Executive Directors and other senior employees.
DLA MCG Consulting also advised the Group on the establishment of the long term incentive plan during the year.
The Committee also appointed an external firm of consultants, The Remuneration Partnership Limited, to review the level of remuneration of Non Executive Directors.
Following receipt of the results and a review of other publicly available research and survey results, the level of fees of the Chairman and the Non Executive Directors were increased with effect from 1 October 2005.
The Remuneration Partnership Limited did not provide any other services to the Group during the year.
Remuneration policy The Groups remuneration policy is designed to reflect the importance of recruiting, retaining and motivating senior executives of the calibre necessary to maintain and improve the Groups position in the asset management sector.
The policy seeks to reward performance in a manner which aligns the interests of clients, shareholders, executives and other employees.
The remuneration policy, which applies to Executive Directors and senior employees, will remain unchanged for 2006 and subsequent years.
The aim, within the overall policy design of retention and motivation, is to pay basic salaries and award benefit packages which are reasonable and competitive within the asset management sector.
In addition, the policy is designed, and will remain designed, to deliver additional rewards through appropriate incentive schemes, both annual and long term.
These are directly linked to performance at both a corporate and an individual level.
26 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC The Committee recognises that any remuneration policy must be sufficiently flexible to take account of any changes in the business environment.
In accordance with this need for flexibility, the Committee takes into account the overall competitiveness of the total remuneration packages of all senior executives.
When justified by performance, the at risk performance elements will form the most significant element of total remuneration for Executive Directors and senior employees.
The Committee has considered the levels of remuneration paid throughout the Group and has also consulted with Mr Irby and Mr Gilbert when considering the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors and senior employees.
Outlined below are the details of the individual reward components of the remuneration policy.
In providing details, the Report identifies those elements which are performance linked and the participation of the Executive Directors in them.
Executive remuneration Executive remuneration has a number of different elements: i Basic salary The salaries of all employees, including Executive Directors, are reviewed annually and are determined by reference to external market research.
The Groups policy is to pay salaries which, when taken together with other benefits, will provide a remuneration package that is reasonable and competitive in the asset management sector.
The Group participated in the McLagan Partners 2005 compensation survey which provided salary comparisons for a range of employees across the Aberdeen Group, including the Executive Directors.
In addition, DLA MCG Consulting also provided data on the salaries and benefits packages for the Executive Directors and other senior employees.
The Committee also considered information included in other publicly available research and survey results.
ii Annual bonus The policy is to recognise corporate and individual achievements each year through an appropriate annual bonus scheme.
The aggregate amount of cash bonus available in any year is dependent on the Groups overall performance and profitability.
Consideration will also be given to the levels of bonuses paid in the marketplace.
Individual awards, payable to all members of staff and which are non-pensionable, are determined by a rigorous assessment of achievement against defined objectives, and are reviewed and approved by the Committee.
A significant proportion of the Executive Directors remuneration is expected to be paid by annual bonus, such awards to be based on the achievement of defined objectives.
Objectives may vary each year, but for 2005 the principal objectives for the Executive Directors included cost reduction and operating efficiencies: disposal of non-core assets and debt reduction: improvement of profitibility and operating margins: and management of contingent liabilities and reputational issues.
During the year the successful acquisition of Deutsche and its integration into the Aberdeen business were added as additional objectives for the Executive Directors.
Mr Gilbert has been awarded a benefit of 710,000 from a discretionary Employee Benefit Trust set up for the purpose of providing benefits to staff.
This benefit was awarded, for meeting his defined objectives, instead of an annual bonus.
The Company will also make a special pension contribution of 840,000 for Mr Gilbert in 2006 under a bonus sacrifice arrangement.
Mr Gilberts objectives for the year were to achieve closure of regulatory issues surrounding split capital trusts, the disposal of non-core assets, delivery of improved profitability and reduced gearing, and the identification and conclusion of appropriate corporate transactions for the purposes of increasing shareholder value.
Mr Laing has been awarded a bonus of 254,000 for meeting his defined objectives for the year which included the achievement of further cost efficiencies, margin improvement in the property division, progression of the project to amalgamate the Groups offshore fund ranges and management of the DeAM integration programme.
85,000 of this award has been deferred and will be paid in December 2006.
Mr Rattray has been awarded a bonus of 291,000 for meeting his defined objectives for the year which included final implementation and financing of the Progressive Growth Uplift Plan, completion of the sale of the closed life assurance subsidiaries and other non-core assets and the reduction of net borrowings and increasing balance sheet strength.
70,000 of this award has been deferred and will be paid in December 2006.
In line with the Groups remuneration policy of retaining flexibility it has been agreed not to impose any maxima based on a relationship to basic salary.
iii Long Term Incentive Plan The Group introduced a share based long term incentive plan LTIP which was approved and adopted by Shareholders on 24 March 2005.
The LTIP is administered by an independent professional trustee based in the Channel Islands the Trustees who, when exercising its discretion, will have regard to the recommendations of the Remuneration Committee.
After taking into account the recommendations of the Remuneration Committee, the Trustee will make awards under the LTIP to selected Executive Directors and other senior executives.
Awards will be over a specified number of shares and take the form of the acquisition of shares by a participant at the time the award is made on terms which mean that the ownership of the shares remains conditional during the relevant measurement period.
The participant will not have absolute ownership of any of the shares over which such an award Aberdeen Asset Management PLC 27 Remuneration Report continued has been made until the end of the relevant measurement period and the participant will only acquire absolute ownership of any shares to the extent that the performance targets have been satisfied.
Participants will be entitled to receive any dividends paid on the shares during the measurement period, even though the shares held will not have vested completely, however, a deduction will be made from the annual bonus payments equivalent to the dividend received on shares which have not vested at the end of the measurement period.
The vesting of the shares over which an award has been made will be dependent upon the extent to which the performance targets have been satisfied.
The performance target which will determine the extent to which any award made under the LTIP will vest is to be based on the increase in the earnings per share over the relevant measurement period being greater than the average movement in the stock markets in which the funds managed by Aberdeen and its subsidiaries are invested.
The criteria have been chosen as being reflective of success in the industry sector within which the Group operates, and as being appropriate to the goal of delivering good returns to clients and shareholders alike.
For awards to be made in 2005 and 2006 the following targets will apply.
The Remuneration Committee will thereafter consider whether these targets remain appropriate and challenging.
Any amendments to these targets in respect of intended awards in later years will be included in the Remuneration Report for 2006. a if earnings per share figure over the measurement period has increased by a percentage that is at least 5 per cent.
per annum greater than the average movement in the stock markets over the same period then 30 per cent.
of the shares over which the award was initially made will vest and the participant will be entitled to acquire this number of shares at the end of the measurement period: b if earning per share over the measurement period has increased by a percentage that is at least 10 per cent.
per annum greater than the average movement in the stock markets over the same period then 100 per cent.
of the shares over which the award was initially made will vest and the participant will be entitled to acquire this number of shares at the end of the measurement period: c growth in earnings per share over the measurement period that falls between these limits will result in a pro rated vesting of the award occurring between 30 per cent.
depending upon the actual growth in earnings per share: d if growth in earnings per share over the measurement period is less than the lower limit set out in paragraph a above no part of the award made under the LTIP will vest, the award will lapse and the participant will cease to have any entitlement to any of the shares over which the Award was originally made.
The movement in the stock markets will be measured by indices appropriate to the funds managed by the Company and its subsidiaries and shall be determined by the Remuneration Committee.
The indices identified at the date of the first award included the FTSE All Share, the Russell 1000, the FTSE Europe ex UK, the FTSE Asia Pacific ex Japan, the FTSE Japan, the MSCI EMF and the FTSE A British Government All Stocks.
For the purposes of calculating earnings per share for any period, adjustments will be made to the earnings per share figure disclosed in the audited financial accounts.
The earnings per share figure will be amended to exclude the effects of i amortisation and impairment of goodwill and intangible assets, ii any charges arising from share options and awards, iii exceptional costs as defined by the Company and income, unless the Remuneration Committee consider this to be inappropriate, and iv any other adjustments deemed reasonable and appropriate by the Remuneration Committee.
To the extent that the award has not vested, shares will be re-acquired from relevant participants by the Trustees for a nominal consideration of 1.
In addition to the performance condition summarised above, no award will vest unless in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee the underlying financial performance of the Company has been satisfactory over the relevant measurement period.
The length of the measurement period for any award will be three years.
The life of the LTIP will be ten years commencing at its adoption and no awards may be made more than ten years after 24 March 2005.
As at the date of this document, there have been awards made in respect of 5,580,000 ordinary shares which have not vested.
This equates to approximately 0.9% of the current issued share capital.
Vesting of these awards will occur following the expiry of the relevant measurement period on 12 May 2008.
As at 30 September 2005, the following awards over ordinary shares have been made to Directors of the Company under the LTIP, the full vesting of which is conditional upon the satisfaction of the performance conditions stipulated in the LTIP rules and described above: 28 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Partial settlement Date Number Vesting of share awards Director of award Issue price 2004 of shares 2005 date in year M J Gilbert 12.05.05 116p 140,000 140,000 12.05.08 2,800 A A Laing 12.05.05 116p 110,000 110,000 12.05.08 2,200 W J Rattray 12.05.05 116p 110,000 110,000 12.05.08 2,200 The Remuneration Committee intends to recommend further awards to the Executive Directors as follows: Number of Director shares M J Gilbert 925,000 A A Laing 94,000 W J Rattray 82,000 The award to Mr Gilbert represents, on the assumption of full vesting at the end of the 3 year measurement period, approximately 300% of his annual salary.
The Committee believes that this level of award, which exceeds the normal maximum of 100% of salary in any year, is necessary to ensure the retention of Mr Gilbert, who is key to the continued development of the Group.
LTIP awards of approximately 200% of annual salary have also been recommended for two senior members of the investment team in order to encourage their continued retention.
iv Executive Share Option Scheme The Group has an Executive Share Option Scheme which is approved by the Inland Revenue and was approved by shareholders prior to its introduction.
Options are granted at the discretion of the Committee and are based on assessments of the individuals expected contribution to future Company performance.
Options are granted for no consideration, and grants are based on the principle that, apart from the need to recruit new executives, or in other exceptional circumstances, awards will be restricted to 100% of salary in any year.
Options granted to Executive Directors and senior employees under the Scheme may only be exercised if the Committee is satisfied that earnings per share, before goodwill amortisation, impairment provisions and exceptional items, have increased, over a period of 3 years or longer, by 5% per annum in excess of the average growth in the stock markets in which the Groups assets under management are invested.
This is determined by reference to a number of industry standard indices appropriate to the relevant asset classes managed by the Group.
One of these indices is the FTSE All Share Index, within which the Companys ordinary shares represent a 0.04% weighting.
An unapproved schedule was added to this scheme in 1999 to permit options to be granted within institutional guidelines but in excess of the reduced limits on approved options imposed by the Government.
Options granted under the unapproved schedule are subject to the same performance criteria as the approved schedule.
During the year the Board decided, in accordance with evolving best practice, to discontinue the practice of retesting where relevant performance criteria have not been satisfied on the first testing date.
As a consequence, options granted on 26 June 2000, 5 June 2001 and 10 June 2002, which have previously failed to satisfy the performance criteria, have now lapsed.
The Scheme was established in 1994 and, in accordance with its rules, options can only be issued within a 10 year period.
Accordingly, no further options can be issued under this Scheme.
Details of share options held by the Executive Directors are shown on page 33. v Share Incentive Plan The Share Incentive Plan SIP is intended to encourage share ownership by employees.
It is designed to be available to all Executive Directors and employees, subject to a minimum period of 12 months service, thus aligning their interests with those of the shareholders.
No provisions have been made for any profit related contribution to this scheme in 2005.
The SIP was approved by shareholders prior to its introduction.
vi Private medical cover Private health care is offered to all Executive Directors and employees who also have the option to cover their partners and unmarried dependent children.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC 29 Remuneration Report continued vii Pension Executives, including Executive Directors, are entitled to membership of the Groups money purchase pension scheme.
The employers contribution to this scheme on behalf of Executive Directors was increased from 15% to 20% with effect from 1 January 2005.
In addition, on becoming a member of the Group pension scheme, the Group will provide life insurance cover that provides death in service benefits, currently amounting to four times basic salary.
The life insurance cover will also provide for a further three times basic salary to provide a dependants pension.
The Remuneration Committee recognises that UK employees will wish to review their personal pension position in light of the changes which are to be introduced from 6 April 2006.
In the event that any member of staff elects for employer contributions to the Groups money purchase scheme to cease, the Committee will consider a request for a cash payment of an equivalent amount to be paid as an addition to salary.
No such request will be considered in respect of the Groups legacy defined benefit schemes, which are all closed to future accrual.
viii Deferred bonus During 2003 the Group implemented a specific deferred bonus scheme, designed to encourage the retention of certain key employees identified as critical to the Groups achievement of its longer term goals.
An employee benefit trust was established and funded for the purpose of paying potential awards under this scheme.
Deferred payments made in the form of cash bonuses were recommended by the Committee and will be paid to qualifying employees over a three year period with 15% having been paid in 2004, 35% paid in 2005 and the balance to be paid in 2006.
Payments will be made on a pro rata basis should any qualifying employee leave during the period of three years from the date of award by reason of death, ill health, injury, disability, retirement or redundancy.
The full remaining balance may, however, be paid to such a qualifying employee at the discretion of the Committee.
Qualifying employees will also receive the full amount of the deferred bonus on a change of control of the Group.
Mr Laing is the only executive director who participates in this deferred bonus scheme, having been identified as a key employee prior to his joining the Board.
During the financial year, Mr Laing received a payment of 36,750 from the employee benefit trust and may receive a further 52,500 in 2006.
During 2004, the Board, on the recommendation of the Committee, approved the award of deferred bonuses to key members of the Asia-Pacific investment team.
These bonuses, being paid in cash over a three year period commencing in December 2004, are subject to the same terms and conditions of payment as those which apply to the 2003 scheme described above.
Share price performance The Regulations require the inclusion of a graph which illustrates the total shareholder return for a holding in the Companys shares against a broad equity market index.
The FTSE All Share Index has been used on the basis that it includes all UK listed stocks, including the Companys ordinary shares.
The graph below also shows the total shareholder return against the FTSE Speciality and Other Finance Index for the five-year period to 30 September 2005.
The Board considers this to be an appropriate index against which to measure performance because it includes all other UK listed financial stocks and therefore represents the closest comparator for benchmark purposes.
Aberdeen Asset Management 40 FTSE All Share FTSE Speciality & Other Finance 20 0 -20 -40 -60 -80 -100 Sep-2000 Sep-2001 Sep-2002 Sep-2003 Sep-2004 Sep-2005 30 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Service contracts Mr M J Gilbert, Mr A A Laing and Mr W J Rattray, all of whom are Executive Directors, have current service contracts, details of which are summarised below.
Executive Directors are permitted to accept a limited number of directorships outwith the Group, recognising that this can assist in the development of a directors knowledge and capabilities.
All such appointments are approved in advance by the Board.
Where the appointment is accepted in furtherance of the Groups business any fees received are remitted to the Company.
If the appointment is not connected to the Groups business, the director is entitled to retain any fees received.
The Group earned fees of 117,000 for Mr Gilberts services as a non-executive director of several companies.
Mr Gilbert earned and retained fees of 105,000 for acting as Chairman of FirstGroup plc.
Following the year end, the Board has implemented a policy which requires Executive Directors to acquire and retain a beneficial shareholding in the Company equivalent of 100% of salary, to be acquired over a period of no more than five years.
The holdings of the Executive Directors currently meet this requirement.
Provision of Name Date of contract Notice period Unexpired term compensation for loss of office 1 2 M J Gilbert 30 August 1996 twelve six months Rolling twelve six months One years gross annual remuneration including bonuses 1 2 A A Laing 30 August 1996 twelve six months Rolling twelve six months One years gross annual remuneration including bonuses 1 2 W J Rattray 30 August 1996 twelve six months Rolling twelve six months One years gross annual remuneration including bonuses 1.
Amended by Deed of Variation dated 30 November 2001.
Twelve months notice given by the Company or six months notice given by the Director.
Non Executive Directors The remuneration of Non Executive Directors is determined by the Board.
Non Executive Directors are engaged under letters of appointment and they do not have contracts of service.
The letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal business hours and are available on the Companys website.
The appointment will normally terminate on: i a director choosing to resign voluntarily: or ii a director reaching his her 70th birthday: or iii a director being prohibited from serving by law, bankruptcy or illness: or iv the ninth anniversary of his her appointment: or v the third or sixth anniversaries of his her appointment if the Nominations Committee does not approve the extension of his her appointment: or vi a director being found guilty of misconduct: or vii a director not being re-elected by the shareholders following retirement by rotation at an Annual General Meeting.
The Non Executive Directors do not participate in the annual bonus scheme, the share incentive plan, the executive share option scheme or the deferred bonus scheme.
The Chairman, who also chairs the Nominations Committee, receives a fee of 110,000 per annum.
Payments due under the deferred bonus scheme were expensed in 2003.
Other benefits include the value of anticipated benefits from the Discretionary Benefits Trust set up by the Company for the purpose of providing benefits to staff.
32 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Directors interests in share options Number 1 Date Lapsed Exercise Earliest Latest Status of of grant 2004 during year 2005 price exercise exercise performance M M J J Gilber Gilbert t 9.7.
04 144,000 144,000 144,000 144,000 59p 59p J Jan an 2007 2007 J Jan an 2014 2014 Not Not y yet et tested tested 524,000 524,000 195,000 195,000 329,000 329,000 None of the Directors exercised options during the year ended 30 September 2005 Following the Rights Issue the exercise prices were amended in accordance with the rules of the scheme.
The number of shares under option did not change.
The middle market price of the Companys ordinary shares at 30 September 2005 was 114p and the range during the year was 56p to 114p.
1 As a result of the decision by the Remuneration Committee to discontinue retesting, those share options issued in 2000 and 2001 have lapsed.
The Remuneration Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 12 December 2005 and signed on its behalf by: Sir Malcolm Rifkind Non Executive Director Aberdeen Asset Management PLC 33
