A senior member of the Group Risk Department acts as the Secretary the external business and economic environment on their areas to the Group Risk Committee.
The Board also receives minutes and reports from the Chairmen of the Group Audit Committee and the Group Chairmans Committee Risk Committee.
These identify any significant issues relating to the The Chairmans Committee is empowered to take urgent decisions adequacy of the Groups risk management policies and procedures between Board meetings and comprises the Chairman or a nonacross the full range of risk to which the Group is exposed.
executive director, the Deputy Chairman or another non-executive director and the Group Chief Executive or one other Executive Director.
The Board has delegated oversight of the Groups Internal Control Policy to the Group Risk Committee.
Evaluation of the Group Board and Committees Each meeting of the Group Risk Committee and the Group Audit The Board is subject to rigorous annual evaluation of its own Committee receives a report identifying the effectiveness of internal performance.
Each director completes a detailed questionnaire controls together with specific reports on any major issues.
The identifying areas for improvement in the conduct and proceedings Board retains control over this area through the presentation of the Board and information provided to it.
of regular Group Audit Committee and Group Risk Committee The performance of each Board Committee was evaluated during activities reports to the Group Board, together with the minutes the year and the results of those evaluations were reported to the of the Committees meetings.
The key features of the system of business control and risk assessment The evaluation results are used to debate and constructively improve established by the Board are: the performance of the Board and each Board Committee.
A Group Internal Control Policy requiring all senior managers The Chairman and non-executive directors receive annual performance to identify major risks and monitor the effectiveness of internal evaluations, where directors score their performance according to a controls against key performance indicators applied throughout scale and give qualitative comments as appropriate.
The results enable the business.
The effectiveness of these controls is confirmed the Chairman to discuss with individual directors their contribution, and certified to the Board in February and July each year via commitment and any development areas.
The Nomination Committee the Group Risk Committee and the Group Audit Committee.
receives the results of the individual evaluations to assist in its The Groups Internal Audit Department carries out reviews of annual review of the performance and re-appointment of the self certification process operated by each department or non-executive directors.
business unit as part of the audit of that department or unit: The performance of the Chairman is reviewed by the senior A well defined management structure with clear accountabilities independent non-executive director and the other non-executive and delegations: directors, although as Sir Derek Higgs was appointed as Chairman The Group Audit Committee, the Group Risk Committee and a system on 28 October 2005, he did not receive an evaluation in 2005. of executive management committees, including the Executive The Chairman is responsible for appraising the Group Chief Executives Directors Meeting and the Group Executive Management Committee.
performance annually against objective criteria agreed by the These committees enhance and support the oversight role Remuneration Committee.
The Group Chief Executive in turn is of the Board: responsible for appraising the performance of the other executive A comprehensive planning and budgeting process that delivers directors and presents the results of those appraisals to the detailed annual financial forecasts and targets for Board approval: Remuneration Committee for consideration and determination of their remuneration.
Management information systems which enable the Board to receive comprehensive monthly analysis of financial and business Accountability and Audit performance including variance against budget: Internal Control A Group Risk Management function and Group Operational Risk The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal controls Committee with overarching responsibility for the monitoring and and for monitoring its effectiveness.
The directors are required by law reporting of all major risks to which the Group is exposed, to establish systems for the control of the conduct of the business supported by specialist risk functions: under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and to conduct the business with prudence and integrity, ensuring that there are adequate An Internal Audit function which reports to the Group Audit reserves and other capital resources and assets in liquid form for the Committee on the effectiveness of key internal controls in relation protection of depositors.
to these major risks: The Groups system of internal controls is designed to manage rather A Compliance function to manage relationships with the Groups key than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and regulators and to identify major compliance and regulatory risks: provide reasonable assurance as to the effectiveness of the safeguards A Financial Crime Steering Group, chaired by the Group Chief protecting the business against the risk of material error, loss or fraud.
Executive, which considers the potential exposure of the Group The Group Audit & Risk Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the to loss through financial crime and the controls in place to Groups system of internal control for the year to 31 December 2005 mitigate the risk of such loss: on behalf of the Board, and the Group Audit Committee and Group Risk Committee have reviewed the operation of the Groups controls A Group Money Laundering Reporting Officer and anti-money to identify any material developments occurring since the year end.
laundering procedures and controls including training programmes for all staff: and There has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of this report a process of identifying, evaluating and managing the Documented procedures and authority levels to ensure that risks involved in major projects are properly assessed and controlled.
significant risks faced by the Group.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull Guidance for Directors The activities of the Group, including the systems of business control, contained in the Combined Code.
are subject to supervision by the Financial Services Authority.
The Group The Board receives monthly reports from the key executives identifying is required on a regular basis to submit detailed prudential and performance against budget, major business issues and the impact of statistical returns covering all areas of its business and meets regularly Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2005 33 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Statement of Corporate Governance with its supervisors, conducting the relationship in an open and The Group website provides investors and potential investors with information about the Groups financial performance and results, constructive manner.
share price, announcements to the market, group policies, terms of reference for Board Committees and a number of frequently asked Going Concern The directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Group has questions and answers.
Shareholders may also contact the investor relations or shareholder services managers via the website.
adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings during 2005 preparing the accounts.
Group Board Remuneration Nomination Audit & Risk Relations with shareholders Total number of meetings held in 2005 11625 The Companys investor relations programme is tailored to meet Sir Derek Higgs, Chairman different shareholder requirements.
from 28.10.2005 2 1 Institutional shareholders may attend meetings, conference calls, Mr J R Windeler to 27.10.2005 9 1 Mr R A Pym 11 presentations and results briefings.
The Companys major institutional Mr M P S Barton 11625 shareholders have the opportunity to meet regularly with the Mr M R Aish from 20.5.
2005 6 2 Companys management and have the opportunity to request a Mr M J Allen 10 5 1 meeting with the Chairman or non-executive directors.
Representatives Mr R L Banks 11 from two institutional shareholders were invited to meetings of the Mrs J V Barker 11 5 Group Board in 2005 at which they presented their views on the Group.
Mr D J Bennett 11 The Chairman and non-executive directors attend results presentations The Hon.
2005 2 1 and the senior independent non-executive director is available to deal Mr R M McTighe 10 5 4 with any concerns raised by institutional shareholders, which cannot Mr C S Rhodes 11 be resolved through the normal channels of the Chairman or Group Mrs M Salmon 11 6 2 Mr E J Watts 11 2 4 Chief Executive.
Communications with private shareholders are primarily managed by During the year, apologies were received from Mr Aish, Mr McTighe the Group Secretary.
All shareholders have the opportunity to meet the and Mr Allen for one Board meeting, and for the Hon.
D Brougham directors at the Annual General Meeting which is held in the evening for two meetings, owing to unavoidable commitments outside Alliance at the Companys Leicestershire head office.
All directors receive the Board papers and have the unable to attend are encouraged to vote by proxy and may appoint opportunity to raise questions via the Chairman or Group Secretary their proxy by post, on the internet or via CREST.
if they are unable to attend.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific financial statements.
The directors are required to prepare financial requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions Reporting Standards IFRS and have also elected to prepare financial on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
statements for the Company in accordance with IFRS.
Company law The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records requires the directors to prepare such financial statements in which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial accordance with IFRS, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking of the IAS Regulation.
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors Report and present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, Directors Remuneration Report which comply with the requirements financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful of the Companies Act 1985. representation of the effects of transactions, other events and The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria Company website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and legislation in other jurisdictions.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and 34 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report For the Year Ended 31 December 2005 This report provides the Companys statement of how it has applied and Mercer Human Resource Consulting Mercer to advise specifically on pension related issues.
With the agreement of the Group Audit the principles of good governance set out in the Combined Code and the disclosures required by Schedule 7A to the Companies Act.
The Committee, the Companys external auditor, Deloitte & Touche LLP, continues to provide specialist advice on the Groups Share Schemes.
report of the auditors on the financial statements set out on page 42 confirms that the scope of their report covers, where required, Mercer also acts as actuaries and advisers to the Groups pension scheme and advises the Company on matters relating to its operation.
the disclosures contained in or referred to in this report that are specified for their audit by the UK Listing Authority and under the Companies Act.
It has been approved by the Board and will be put Remuneration Policy To deliver the strategic objective of increasing shareholder value to the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting inviting them to consider and approve the report.
the Group needs to attract and retain high calibre and committed people and create the reward opportunities for them.
The Boards Remuneration Committee remuneration policy for executive directors and senior managers is aligned with this objective and rewards both individual and company Role performance measured against performance criteria that are relevant The Remuneration Committee Committee is responsible for determining the pay and benefits and contractual arrangements and realistic but also challenging, so that good performance is encouraged.
Therefore, remuneration arrangements will continue for the Chairman, executive directors and the Group Secretary, and for overseeing the Groups Share Schemes.
The Committee also to focus on incentive plans that encourage delivery of operating plans and shareholder value.
recommends and monitors the structure and levels of remuneration for senior managers throughout the Group.
In fulfilling its role, the Also, under Committee guidelines, each executive director is required Committee develops and recommends to the Board remuneration to build up over a period of five years and retain, whilst a director, a strategies that drive performance and reward that performance minimum holding of shares in the Company with a value equivalent appropriately.
It operates under the delegated authority of the Board to his or her annual basic salary.
and its Terms of Reference are available to view on the Groups The Committee also monitors the bonus schemes and share awards website www.
co. uk for all senior managers in the Group.
During the year, the Committee, inter alia, a reviewed the For 2006 and beyond, annual salary will continue to be set at levels remuneration of the executive directors, Group Secretary and senior not normally exceeding market median, whilst bonuses and long term managers of the Group, b considered the impact of the Pensions incentive plans will reflect market upper quartile competitive levels, Simplification regime on executive directors, senior managers and subject to fulfilment of performance conditions based on Earnings the Groups pension schemes, c reviewed and considered changes per Share EPS and Total Shareholder Return TSR.
The Committee to the Groups share schemes prior to requesting renewal of reviews the elements of the reward package, benchmarking them shareholder approval, d monitored the performance of external against other banks and financial services organisations.
advisers to the Committee in relation to executive remuneration and human resource activities, e implemented the Long Term Incentive Performance Graph Plan approved at the 2005 Annual General Meeting and f monitored The performance graph below shows the Companys performance, the vesting of awards under the Executive Share Options schemes and measured by TSR, in comparison with the FTSE 100 Index over the the Deferred Bonus scheme.
The FTSE Index was chosen as it is a broad equity market index of which the Company forms Membership and Meetings a component.
The Committee comprises the following non-executive directors: Mr M P S Barton 200 TSR Total Shareholder Committee Chairman and Senior Independent non-executive Director Return, i. e. movement 180 in share price plus Mr M J Allen reinvested dividends Mr R M McTighe 160 Alliance & Leicester plc Mrs M Salmon 140 FTSE 100 120 The Hon.
David Brougham was a member of the Committee until 7 May 2005.
100 80 The Group Secretary, Mr S Lloyd, acted as secretary to the Committee throughout 2005 and provided professional assistance to the 60 Committee on governance issues.
40 The number of Committee meetings held during 2005 and directors 20 '01 '02 '03 '04 '05 attendance is set out on page 34.
At the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee, the Group Chairman, the Group Chief Executive Components of the Remuneration Package and the Director of Human Resources, Ms F Rodford, attend Committee Basic salary meetings to provide background and context on matters relating to Basic salaries of executive directors are set by reference to background the remuneration of the executive directors and senior managers, information from independent advisers on a specific financial services but do not attend when the Committee discusses matters relating comparator group and general market trends within companies in the to their personal remuneration.
Salary levels are reviewed annually unless The Committees performance is evaluated on an annual basis and the responsibilities change and may vary depending on each executive directors experience, responsibilities, and personal contribution.
results are reported to the Board.
The evaluation process is set out in Details of salaries payable for 2005 are set out on page 38. the Statement of Corporate Governance on pages 31 to 34.
Advisers Similarly, the senior managers salary levels are assessed annually against those of other major UK based financial institutions and The Committee used the services of Towers Perrin during the year to provide general remuneration advice and comparator information, FTSE 100 companies and pay levels set at market median.
Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2005 35 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report For the Year Ended 31 December 2005 At 31 December 2005, the average salary for the most senior managers participate in a Restricted Share Plan under which awards ranging was 166,100.
The salary banding for this group is as follows: between 0% and 15% of basic salary depending on individual performance ratings will be made.
For associate and divisional Salary band Number of managers directors it is intended that from 2006 option grants will be between 125,000-150,000 6 100% and 150% of basic salary, having previously been subject to a 150,000-175,000 8 maximum of 100%.
Grants are made in two tranches following the 175,000-200,000 2 final and interim results.
No options are awarded within two years 200,000-225,000 1 of an individuals 60th birthday, although from 2006 no options will 225,000-250,000 1 be awarded within six months of an individuals 60th birthday, to Grand total 18 ensure the scheme complies with age discrimination legislation.
Options normally vest after three years subject to attainment of the Annual Bonus relevant performance conditions.
Provisions previously existed for the For 2005, bonuses are contingent on achievement of performance re-testing of performance after year 4 and year 5, calculated from the targets set by the Committee.
These combine corporate pre-tax profit base grant year and based on percentage growth in EPS exceeding the and return on equity and individual performance targets.
The return increase in RPI by at least 12% year 4 or 15% year 5.
No re-testing on equity target is 17% to 23%.
The pre-tax profit target is considered of performance will take place for grants made in 2005 and thereafter.
The corporate targets are consistent across all Options granted prior to 2002 are subject to performance conditions senior managers and directors who are eligible to participate in the that may be measured over any three-year period, within the term bonus scheme.
Assessment of the executive directors individual of the option.
performance against their individual objectives is carried out by the Committee.
The individual performance objectives are directly linked Under the rules of the share option schemes, options are exercisable to achievement of the Groups strategic targets.
prior to the third anniversary of the date of grant where an option holder ceases to be employed by the Company by reason of death, The bonus for executive directors, for on-target performance, is 75% of injury, ill-health, disability, redundancy, retirement or transfer of the salary, with a maximum of 150% of salary for exceptional performance.
employing company outside the Group or at the discretion of the Committee in any other circumstances.
Also, in these circumstances, For 2006, it is intended that the same bonus scheme will operate.
any performance conditions attaching to the exercise of the options In line with the Committee guidelines to build up a shareholding awarded prior to 2006 cease to apply.
equivalent to his basic salary, each executive director will continue to take at least one quarter of his annual bonus in deferred shares until It is proposed that for future awards from 2006, if any of these events should take place, the number of shares over which the option can be he has achieved the appropriate shareholding.
There will be no match of the deferred shares by the Company.
The rights to deferred shares exercised will be pro-rated in line with the amount of time elapsed since the grant of the option, and performance conditions will also cannot normally be exercised for three years and will lapse if not exercised within seven years.
apply, subject to the Committees discretion.
Bonuses are discretionary and are non-pensionable.
Fair Value Volatility The Committee recognises that fair value accounting volatility arises Share Options from the requirement in IAS 39 to measure all derivatives at fair value, Share options allow a holder to buy shares at a future date, at the with changes in fair value recorded in the income statement unless share price prevailing at the time of grant.
All executive directors and designated as part of a hedging relationship.
The volatility from senior managers were eligible in 2005 for the grant of options under derivative fair value movements can be mitigated by hedging, but the Alliance & Leicester Approved and Unapproved Company Share in practice some accounting volatility will remain, even where hedges Option Schemes.
From 2006 options will be granted to executive are used to match the risk exposure on an economic basis.
Therefore, directors, associate directors and divisional directors only.
for grants made in 2006 and beyond, the Committee has agreed that calculation of the underlying EPS should exclude fair value accounting The options granted prior to 2006 are linked to the achievement volatility, which is consistent with the Groups primary strategic target of compound EPS growth over the three year performance period for return on equity, the calculation of which also excludes this.
This achievement results in full vesting.
However, for options granted from 2006, subject to receiving shareholder approval Long Term Incentive Schemes for renewal of the Plans and in accordance with best practice, it is Deferred Bonus Scheme intended to introduce a sliding scale.
Only 50% of the awards will The last grant to directors, under the deferred bonus scheme, was become exercisable at EPS growth of RPI 3% per annum and 100% made during the year, relating to the bonuses awarded for 2004. of awards will become exercisable if EPS growth exceeds RPI 5% Awards of matched shares only begin to vest when median TSR per annum over the three year performance period.
Straight line performance relative to the peer group is achieved, with linear interpolation will be used for achievement between those points.
progression from one matching share at median performance up The Committee considers this performance condition to be suitable to three matching shares for upper quartile performance.
and appropriate as a means of focusing executive directors on The constituents of the peer group, excluding the Company are: generating earnings growth and accords with current market practice.
From 2006, the aggregate value of new shares, for which options to Barclays Bank plc Northern Rock plc subscribe may be granted to each executive director in any year, cannot Bradford & Bingley plc HBOS plc exceed a maximum total annual award of two times basic salary.
The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Lloyds TSB Group plc The value of shares subject to option grants to executive directors has typically been up to one and half times basic salary two times for new The rights to matching shares cannot normally be exercised for three appointments, but from 2006 it is intended that the grants will be years, except in the circumstances set out below, and lapse if not between 150% and 200% of basic salary, although the Committee will exercised within seven years.
TSR is considered by the Committee to be keep the performance conditions under review.
Senior managers, other a suitable measure for this type of scheme, as it provides clear links than executive, associate and divisional directors, who previously with the creation of shareholder value.
Further details are set out on participated in the Companys share option schemes, will from 2006 page 40.
36 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Under the Deferred Bonus Scheme, options may be exercised prior to Service Contracts the third anniversary of the date of grant where the executive director Executive directors have service contracts that continue until terminated ceases to be employed by reason of death, injury, ill-health, disability, by twelve months notice but which in any event terminate on their retirement or at the discretion of the Trustees to the Scheme, based on 60th birthday.
the recommendations by the Committee in any other circumstances.
The contractual provisions state that, if the employment of an Performance conditions apply unless waived by the Committee and are executive director is terminated by the Company for any reason normally subject to a three-year performance period, without re-testing.
other than due cause without twelve months notice being given, For senior managers, other than executive, associate or divisional the director is entitled to receive payment of twelve months basic directors, a new deferred bonus plan is proposed to be introduced salary and pension benefits.
In addition, the Committee, having regard in 2006, subject to shareholders approval.
No performance conditions to the individual directors performance for the period worked, may will apply to this plan.
in its absolute discretion award a cash bonus in respect of the period worked.
Life insurance and medical insurance cover will be maintained Performance Share Plan for twelve months from the termination date.
On termination by the The first award under the Performance Share Plan Plan was made Company no such payments of salary and pensions benefits will to executive directors in 2005.
The annual award under the Plan will exceed a payment based on the number of months from the date normally be over shares to the value of 125% of salary, with the of termination of employment to the executive directors normal Committee retaining discretionary flexibility to adjust this level up retirement date.
There is no provision for receipt of additional or down, having regard to the performance of the business and the compensation in the event of a change of control.
Any adjustment is likely to be in the range of plus or minus 25% of salary, with an absolute maximum annual award of 200% of The executive directors may terminate their contracts of employment annual salary.
The award in 2005 was 125% of salary in each case.
at any time by giving six months prior notice.
The performance period is three years, with no re-testing.
Pensions The performance test is in two parts: Executive directors are members of the Defined Benefit Section of the The vesting of 50% of the award depends on the performance of the Alliance & Leicester Pension Scheme, which has a normal retirement Companys TSR relative to a peer group of retail banks which consists age of 60. of the following: The main features of the pension promise for executive directors, based on the standard terms of the Scheme, are: Allied Irish Banks plc Bank of Ireland plc a Pensions from age 60 of 1 60th of basic salary averaged over Barclays Bank plc Bradford & Bingley plc the last twelve months prior to retirement for each year of HBOS plc HSBC plc Lloyds TSB Group plc Northern Rock plc pensionable service.
Standard Chartered plc The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc b A cash benefit on death in service of 4x annual rate of basic salary at date of death.
30% of this part of the award is payable at median performance c Pensions payable in the event of ill-health.
and maximum vesting is for achieving upper quartile performance, with straight-line interpolation between these points.
d Pensions for dependants on a members death are generally equal to half the members prospective retirement pension at 60 on The vesting of the other 50% of the award depends on the Companys death in service, or half the members pension entitlement on adjusted EPS growth relative to inflation over each performance death in retirement.
30% of this part of the award will vest when the adjusted EPS growth equals RPI 3% per annum over the performance period, Member contributions are 5% of basic salary.
and with further vesting at a growth of RPI 8% per annum, with The following directors have special arrangements: straight-line interpolation between these points.
a Mr Pym and Mr Bennett are entitled to a pension of 2 3rds of In the event of a change of control of the Group taking place, the their final pensionable salary on retirement at age 60, inclusive Committee, in its absolute discretion, will determine the extent to of retirement benefits from service at other organisations.
which an award may vest, having regard to the length of time that it has been held and the extent to which the performance targets have b Mr Pym is not required to contribute.
Mr Bennett contributes been satisfied.
If an individual leaves the Group, an unvested award will normally c Mr Bankss pension entitlement reduced during the year due to the implementation of a pension sharing order.
However, in exceptional circumstances for example, as a result of retirement the rules of the Plan allow awards to vest early at the There is currently an unfunded, unapproved pension arrangement to discretion of the Committee.
increase the pension and lump sum life assurance benefit to the level promised, where, because of Inland Revenue limitations including The shares required in connection with the Plan are sourced from market purchase or, subject to the usual dilution limits, new issue those resulting from the Earnings Cap, these cannot be paid in total from the Scheme.
Such arrangements apply to Mr Pym and Mr Bennett.
Following its review of the impact of the Pension Simplification regime From 2006, it is intended that the associate and divisional directors coming into effect from 6 April 2006, the Committee has concluded will participate in the Plan.
that the total pension commitment to the executive directors will remain the same.
The allocation between the Alliance & Leicester None of these benefits is pensionable.
Pension Scheme and unfunded, unapproved arrangements will change Employee Share Schemes during the year in order that a pension can be provided in the most Executive directors also participate in the Companys existing tax efficient manner.
Employee Share Schemes, including the Savings Related Share Option Scheme and the Companys Share Incentive Plan, on the An executive director may, with the consent of the employer, draw an same basis as all other employees.
There are no performance accrued pension from the Alliance & Leicester Pension Scheme at any conditions attached to these schemes.
time after his 50th birthday 55th birthday from 2010.
The pension Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2005 37 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Directors Remuneration Report For the Year Ended 31 December 2005 will be reduced in accordance with the Rules of the Scheme to reflect Chairman payment before his 60th birthday.
Mr J R Windeler retired on 27 October 2005, after declaring his intention to do so at the Annual General Meeting in May 2005.
Pensions in payment are subject to contractual increases each April Sir Derek Higgs was appointed as Chairman on 28 October 2005. in line with the annual percentage rise in the RPI over the previous calendar year, subject to a maximum of 5%.
Audited information There are no discretionary practices that are taken into account in Directors Remuneration calculating transfer values on leaving service.
Year ended 31 December 2005 Salaries Other Total Total Other Benefits fees Bonus benefits 2005 i 2004 ii Executive directors are eligible for a range of benefits, which include 000 000 000 000 000 the provision of a company car, payment of car operating expenses Executive Directors including fuel, concessionary mortgage facilities, life assurance and R A Pym 619 575 23 1,217 1,027 membership of a private medical insurance scheme.
R L Banks 307 255 22 584 508 D J Bennett 382 300 2 684 555 Other Directorships C S Rhodes 346 290 1 637 500 The Group is supportive of executive directors who wish to take one Subtotal 1,654 1,420 48 3,122 2,590 non-executive directorship with a publicly quoted company in order to Chairman broaden their experience.
They are entitled to retain any fees they Sir Derek Higgs may receive.
Mr R A Pym is a non-executive director of Halfords plc from 28.10.05 61 61 and his fees for the year ended 31 December 2005 were 60,000.
J R Windeler Mr D J Bennett was appointed a non-executive director of easyJet plc to 27.10.05 333 333 394 on 1 October 2005 and his fees for the period from 1 October 2005 to 31 December 2005 were 12,500.
05 33 33 Remuneration for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors M J Allen 53 3 56 54 The fees of the Chairman and the non-executive directors are J V Barker 60 60 52 M P S Barton 136 136 135 determined by the Board as a whole in the light of recommendations The Hon D Brougham by the Group Chief Executive, based on comparator information, to 7.5.
05 21 7 28 62 and within the limits specified in the Articles of Association R M McTighe 53 3 56 52 of the Company.
These fees are reviewed annually.
M Salmon 57 57 26 E J Watts 53 2 55 54 No non-executive director has an employment contract with the F A Cairncross Company.
On joining the Board, non-executive directors are issued to 31.12.04 52 with an appointment letter.
New non-executive directors are appointed P J Stone for an initial period of two years, which may be renewed for one or to 30.9.
04 iii 46 more terms of two years.
There are no provisions for compensation Subtotal 860 15 875 927 being payable upon early termination of an appointment.
An example Total 2,514 1,420 63 3,997 3,517 of a non-executive directors letter of appointment can be found on the Groups website www.
co. uk Notes: Non-executive directors are encouraged to build up their shareholding i The total for 2005 does not include deductions made to basic salary for SMART pensions.
No options have been, or will be, granted to any ii Includes aggregate market value of deferred share options granted in respect non-executive directors in their capacity as non-executive directors of bonus related to 2004.
This scheme has been replaced by the Performance of the Company.
More details can be found on page 41. iii Mr Stones fees were paid to his company and include VAT.
Non-executive directors who are in full-time employment with a third party employer may elect to pay the whole or part of their fees to it.
Payments in respect of Mrs J V Barker are made to her employer.
Details of appointment periods appear below: Date of current appointment or Expiry Notice reappointment date period Sir Derek Higgs 28 October 2005 28 October 2007 None M R Aish 20 May 2005 20 May 2007 None M J Allen 1 January 2005 1 January 2007 None M P S Barton 13 May 2005 13 May 2007 None R J Duke 1 January 2006 1 January 2008 None R M McTighe 1 June 2005 1 June 2007 None E J Watts 8 May 2005 8 May 2007 None Mrs J V Barker 1 January 2006 1 January 2008 None Mrs M Salmon 1 July 2004 1 July 2006 None which may follow earlier renewals 38 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Pension Entitlements Details of terms and conditions associated with these pensions are shown on pages 37 and 38.
Executive Director J R Windeler i R L Banks D J Bennett R A Pym C S Rhodes Age attained at 31.12.05 62 54 43 56 42 Directors Interests in Ordinary Shares Normal retirement age 60 60 60 60 60 The beneficial interests of directors at the year end in shares in Alliance & Leicester plc were: Amount of accrued pension p. a. at 31.12.05 35,427 50,984 64,362 269,199 96,319 Fully Paid Shares of 50p each at 31.12.04 32,479 84,193 51,501 225,339 85,317 As at 1.1.
In addition member contributions B-A-C 74 375 197 1,146 225 to the beneficial interests in shares shown as at 31 December 2005, Mr R L Banks, Mr D J Bennett, Mr R A Pym and Mr C S Rhodes were each allocated Notes: 85 shares in the capital of the Company by the Share Incentive Plan Trustee i Mr J R Windeler was a non-executive director until 27 October 2005.
There were no other changes in the beneficial interests the Scheme on 20 March 2003 with entitlement to a deferred pension.
The of the directors in Company shares between 31 December 2005 and figures shown relate to the benefits that would be payable if he had chosen 10 February 2006. to retire on 27 October 2005, including increases for late payment.
ii Notional due to SMART pensions.
