The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2005 23 Directors Remuneration Report Introduction The Companys articles of association limit the fees payable to This report is submitted in accordance with the Directors the directors to 150,000 per annum.
In the year under review Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations in the directors fees were paid at the following annual rates: respect of the year ended 31 October 2005. the Chairman 27,000, Senior Independent Director and Audit Committee Chairman 20,000 and the other directors The Board as a whole considers the remuneration of directors 18,000 each.
The policy is to review these rates annually, rather than appointing a committee to consider such matters.
although such review will not necessarily result in any change The Board has not been provided with advice or services by to the rates.
any person in respect of its consideration of the directors remuneration although the directors from time to time review Directors and officers liability insurance cover is held by the the fees paid to the boards of directors of other investment Company in respect of the directors.
Performance Graph Remuneration Policy A line graph as required by the Regulations showing the The Board consists entirely of non-executive directors.
Companys share price total return compared to the FTSE AllDirectors are appointed for specified terms, subject to reShare Index is shown below.
election and to the provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
1200 Directors appointments are reviewed formally prior to the particular directors standing for re-election following his 1100 retirement by rotation.
None of the directors has a contract of service and a director may resign by notice in writing to 1000 the Board at any time: there are no set notice periods.
The 900 Companys policy is for the directors to be remunerated in the form of fees, payable quarterly in arrears, to the 800 director personally or to a third party specified by him or her.
There are no long term incentive schemes, share option 700 schemes or pension arrangements and the fees are not 600 specifically related to the directors performance, either 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 individually or collectively.
The Company's share price total return, assuming the investment of 1,000 on 31 October 2000 and the reinvestment of all dividends excluding dealing expenses.
The Companys policy is that the fees payable to the directors FTSE All-Share Index assuming the notional investment of should reflect the time spent by the Board on the Companys 1,000 into the Index on 31 October 2000 and the affairs and the responsibilities borne by the directors and should reinvestment of all income excluding dealing expenses.
be sufficient to enable candidates of high calibre to be The FTSE All-Share Index is selected because it was the recruited.
The Chairman of the Board, who is also the Companys benchmark throughout the period covered by Chairman of the Management Engagement Committee and the the graph.
Nomination Committee, is paid a higher fee than the other directors in recognition of his more onerous role and additional responsibility.
The Senior Independent Director and the Chairman of the Audit Committee are also paid a higher fee in recognition of their additional responsibility.
