Caledonia Investments plc 33 Annual report 2005 Directors remuneration report This report has been prepared to comply with the Directors Remuneration policy for executive directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee conducted a The tables included in the statements below on directors review of the companys long term incentive arrangements in the remuneration, pensions and share options have been audited.
light of the groups objectives, and in order to reect developments in best practice in this area.
As a result of this review, the The Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee has adopted a remuneration policy The Remuneration Committee is a standing committee of the with the following objectives: board whose members throughout the year were Mr M E T Davies chairman, Mr C M Allen-Jones and Mr J R H Loudon.
Performance related remuneration should seek to align the interests of the executive directors with those of the shareholders.
The Committee, whose written terms of reference are published on the companys website and are available on request from the A significant portion of the executive directors remuneration company secretary, has been established for the following purposes: packages should be linked to the performance of the company.
To determine and agree with the board the framework and Remuneration packages for the executive directors should broad policy for the remuneration of the executive directors be competitive in terms of market practice in order to attract, and such other members of the executive management as it is retain and motivate executive directors of the quality needed requested by the board to consider and to review the ongoing to manage and grow the company successfully.
appropriateness and relevance of the remuneration policy.
The Remuneration Committee has been guided by these To approve the design of, and determine targets for, any objectives in developing two new executive share plans a new performance related pay schemes operated by the company executive share option scheme which will replace the current and to approve the total annual payments made under executive share option scheme and a deferred bonus plan, such schemes.
shareholder approval for both of which will be sought, under separate ordinary resolutions, at the annual general meeting.
To review the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the board and shareholders and, for any such plans, to It is currently intended that the policy statement set out in this determine each year whether awards will be made and, if so, report shall apply for the year to 31 March 2006 and for subsequent the overall amount of such awards, the individual awards years.
However, the Remuneration Committee considers that to executive directors and other senior executives and the an effective remuneration policy needs to be sufciently exible performance targets to be used.
and kept under review in order to take account of future changes in the companys business environment and in remuneration Within the terms of the agreed policy, to determine the total practice.
Accordingly, the policy may be further amended in individual remuneration packages of each executive director future years.
Any changes in policy for financial years after and if requested by the board, other senior executives 31 March 2006 will be described in future directors remuneration including, where appropriate, bonuses, incentive payments, reports, which will continue to be subject to an advisory vote share options and other awards.
All statements in this report in relation to remuneration policy for years after 31 March 2006 should be To determine the policy for and scope of pension read in this light.
arrangements, service agreements, termination payments and compensation commitments for executive directors and, Policy on individual components of executive if requested by the board, other senior executives.
directors remuneration Basic salary and benets To review and assess annually the remuneration trends across Basic salary is determined by the Remuneration Committee by the company.
reference to the experience and responsibilities of the director concerned and taking into account external market research.
References to executive directors also include the chairman.
The companys policy is to pay salaries and other benets which are competitive, but not excessive, in relation to the marketplace.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee received advice The company provides a range of benets, such as company from independent remuneration consultants, Towers Perrin and cars or cash allowances, life insurance, permanent health Hay Group.
Towers Perrin was appointed by the Remuneration insurance, and private medical cover.
Company cars were Committee during the year and the Hay Group had been however phased out during the year and replaced entirely by previously appointed by the company.
At the request of the cash allowances.
Remuneration Committee, Towers Perrin conducted a thorough review of the companys remuneration policy.
Hay Group Bonus assessed the comparability of senior executive remuneration The company operates a discretionary annual bonus scheme packages with the market place for the purpose of setting for executive directors, which takes into account both the executive directors salaries for the year commencing 1 April 2004. performance of individual directors and the performance The Remuneration Committee also received advice from of the company over the short and medium term.
For the financial Freshelds Bruckhaus Deringer in relation to the companys year ended 31 March 2005, the bonuses will either be paid in executive share option schemes.
Hay Group and Towers Perrin cash or as an employer contribution to Inland Revenue approved only advised in relation to the remuneration of executive directors pension schemes.
The method of payment will be determined and senior management and Freshelds Bruckhaus Deringer by the Remuneration Committee.
are the companys main legal advisers.
The Remuneration Committee also consulted with the chairman, Mr P N Buckley, and the chief executive, Mr T C W Ingram, in relation to the remuneration of all of the executive directors other than their own.
Internal support was provided to the Remuneration Committee by the company secretary.
Caledonia Investments plc 34 Annual report 2005 Directors remuneration report continued For the financial year ending 31 March 2006, and for future years, In addition to the Compulsory Investment, the Remuneration the Remuneration Committee intends to change the existing Committee may invite executive directors and other senior arrangements in two respects first, by increasing the maximum executives to convert a proportion of their bonus into a potential bonus, and second, by satisfying a proportion of the conditional entitlement to shares the Voluntary Investment.
bonus in shares on a deferred basis.
It is proposed to increase For the year ending 31 March 2006, executives may elect to the maximum potential bonus that may be awarded from 70% convert up to half of the remaining cash annual bonus payable to 100% of basic salary.
The amount of bonus payable will to them.
At the end of a three year holding period, the Voluntary continue to be dependent on a combination of the level of the Investment will vest, together with an equal number of additional outperformance of Caledonias net asset value per share with shares the Matching Shares, if the performance conditions dividends added back NAV per share over the FTSE All-Share described below are met.
Total Return index, but measured over the financial year, and on the individual directors performance.
The Remuneration The number of shares comprised in the Compulsory Investment Committee will have the discretion to reduce the amount of and any Voluntary Investment will be determined by reference to bonus payable if Caledonias NAV per share growth in the the market value of a share at the time the award is made, which financial year is negative and or Caledonias NAV per share will occur shortly after the announcement of Caledonias results outperformance over the financial year is greater than that for the financial year to which the bonus relates or following the measured over the previous three financial years.
The payment occurrence of exceptional circumstances justifying the making of any such bonus also remains subject to the overriding of awards.
In both cases, the number of shares will be set on a discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
pre-tax basis as the shares will be subject to income tax and national insurance on release.
The number of Matching Shares The revised bonus arrangements are also designed to align the will be equal to the number of shares in the Voluntary Investment.
interests of directors with those of shareholders by requiring a proportion of any bonus paid to a director to be compulsorily No awards under the Plan will be made to executives within six invested in shares.
It is proposed that for any annual bonus months of their anticipated retirement.
Awards under the Plan are paid in the financial year ending 31 March 2006, that part of the not pensionable.
bonus, if any, which amounts to more than 50% of a directors basic salary will be invested in shares under the new deferred The shares comprised in a Compulsory Investment will normally bonus plan.
only vest together with an amount equal to the dividends that would have accrued on the shares if the executive remains In addition, for the financial year ending 31 March 2006, directors an employee of the Caledonia group for a three year period will be entitled to convert voluntarily up to half of any remaining following the award.
The number of shares in the Compulsory cash bonus to a conditional entitlement to shares under the Investment will be set by reference to annual bonus criteria, deferred bonus plan.
The shares so invested will be eligible for and the vesting of these shares will not be subject to a further matching, on a one for one basis, subject to the satisfaction of performance condition.
performance conditions over a period of three years.
Further information on the deferred bonus plan is set out below.
The shares comprised in the Voluntary Investment will not be subject to a performance condition and will vest together with The Remuneration Committee may also award bonuses outside an amount equal to the dividends that would have accrued the terms of the companys annual bonus scheme.
No bonus on the shares at the earlier of three years from the date of the payments are pensionable.
award or the date the executive ceases to be an employee of the Caledonia group for any reason.
Deferred bonus plan The Remuneration Committee regards participation in share The vesting of the Matching Shares will be dependent on the based incentives as a key element in the executive directors companys performance over a three year period, by reference remuneration packages.
To achieve this, the Remuneration to two separate performance conditions.
Both performance Committee is proposing to introduce a deferred bonus plan conditions relate to the performance of Caledonias net asset the Plan, for which shareholder approval will be sought at value per share over the three financial years starting with the the annual general meeting.
A detailed summary of the terms year in which the award is made the Prescribed Period.
of the Plan is set out in a separate circular to shareholders This performance of net asset value per share will be compared containing the notice of the annual general meeting, which against different indices as follows: explains the resolutions to be proposed at the annual general meeting and which accompanies this annual report.
50% of the Matching Shares will only vest if Caledonias net asset value per share over the Prescribed Period outperforms In developing the Plan, the Remuneration Committees primary the Retail Price Index by at least 9%.
intention has been to align the interests of the executive directors with those of the shareholders, to increase the degree of The remaining 50% of the Matching Shares will only vest if performance related reward in the directors remuneration Caledonias net asset value per share over the Prescribed packages and, further, to encourage retention by incentivising Period outperforms the FTSE All-Share index by at least 3%.
The main features of the Plan are as follows.
There will be no retesting of either performance condition.
In any financial year in which an executive director or other senior executive receives a bonus under the companys annual bonus The Remuneration Committee may amend the performance scheme, the Remuneration Committee may, in its absolute target if events occur that would make the amended target a fairer discretion, determine that a proportion of any such bonus shall measure of performance and provided that any amended target is take the form of an award of shares under the Plan the no more difficult to satisfy.
The Remuneration Committee will also Compulsory Investment.
For the year ending 31 March 2006, have the ability to impose different performance targets in the the Remuneration Committee has determined that any amount future, provided that any targets that are imposed are no less of bonus which is above 50% of an executives basic salary shall demanding than that described above.
Any such amended or normally comprise a Compulsory Investment under the Plan.
different performance targets will be described in the directors remuneration report for the relevant year.
Caledonia Investments plc 35 Annual report 2005 If an executive leaves employment during the three year period, In connection with its review of remuneration policy, the the shares comprised in his Compulsory Investment will normally Remuneration Committee wishes to obtain shareholder approval lapse.
However, if the executive ceases to be an employee to establish a new executive share option scheme to replace of the Caledonia group by reason of death, injury or disability the executive share option scheme currently operated by the as determined by the Remuneration Committee, retirement company.
The new share option scheme, to be known as the either at or after normal retirement date, the sale of the business Caledonia Investments 2005 Executive Share Option Scheme or subsidiary for which the executive works, the executives the 2005 Scheme, is based on the current executive share employing company ceasing to be a member of the Caledonia option scheme details of which are set out on pages 38 and 39 group or any other reason at the discretion of the Remuneration but has been updated to reect current best practice.
Committee a good leaver reason these shares will vest.
Options under the 2005 Scheme will be subject to a more If an executive leaves employment during the three year period demanding performance target than that which applies to for any reason, the shares comprised in his Voluntary Investment current option grants.
This will require that 50% of the shares will vest.
In these circumstances, his entitlement to the Matching comprised in the option will vest if Caledonias net asset value Shares will normally lapse.
However, if the executive ceases to per share outperforms the Retail Price Index by at least 9% over be an employee of the Caledonia group for a good leaver reason, the measurement period.
The other 50% of the shares comprised the performance conditions attaching to the Matching Shares in the option will vest if Caledonias net asset value per share will be measured to the date of leaving and the Matching Shares outperforms the FTSE All-Share index by at least 3% over the will vest on the basis of performance up to the date of leaving, measurement period.
The measurement period for these unless the Remuneration Committee determines otherwise.
purposes will be a period of three financial years measured at The Remuneration Committee will have the discretion to adjust the end of the third financial year following the date of grant of the vesting level if it considers that the performance conditions the options.
There will be no retesting of the performance targets.
would have been met to a greater or lesser extent at the end To the extent that the performance target is not met over this of the full three year performance period.
The Remuneration three year period, an option will lapse.
Committee will in normal circumstances scale down the vesting level having regard to the time that has elapsed between grant The Remuneration Committee may amend the performance target of the Matching Shares and the date of leaving.
if events occur that would make the amended target a fairer measure of performance and provided that any amended target Pensions is no more difficult to satisfy.
The Remuneration Committee will The companys policy on pension provision is to provide a also have the ability to impose different performance targets means whereby executive directors either receive a pension at in the future, provided that any targets that are imposed are no retirement age from the company, or are funded to operate their less demanding than described above.
Any such amended or own money purchase pension plans or other arrangements.
The different performance targets will be described in the directors executive directors, other than Mr T C W Ingram and Mr J M May, remuneration report for the relevant year.
participate in the Caledonia Pension Scheme, which is a dened benets scheme and is contributory for employees who joined To the extent that the performance target is met, options may be the company after 1 April 1988, but which is now closed to new exercised between the date of vesting and the tenth anniversary members.
The scheme provides a pension of up to two-thirds of the date of grant, except that only one-third of the shares of final pensionable salary on retirement dependent on length of comprised in an option may normally be exercised after three service and also provides for dependants pensions and lump sums years from grant, with the remaining two-thirds normally on death-in-service.
All of the executive directors participating in becoming exercisable six years after grant.
the scheme, other than Mr J H Cartwright, transferred into the scheme from The Union-Castle Line Superannuation Scheme In recognition of the more stringent performance targets attaching which was non-contributory, and this status has been preserved.
to options under the 2005 Scheme, the maximum value of options Mr Ingram and Mr May do not participate in any company that may be granted in any year to an executive will be increased pension scheme, but instead a xed percentage of basic salary to 150% of salary.
It is anticipated that the initial grants of options is paid into personal pension arrangements or, in the case of to executive directors, following shareholder approval of the 2005 Mr Ingram, as a cash supplement, which is inclusive of associated Scheme, will be at this level.
The Remuneration Committee may income tax and national insurance costs.
The percentage of basic exceed this limit for individual executive directors where it salary is 25% for Mr Ingram and 10% for Mr May.
considers it necessary to do so to secure their appointment, provided that the maximum value that may be granted in such It is the companys policy that any future executive directors circumstances shall not exceed 250% of salary.
recruited from outside the company will be funded to operate their own pension arrangements and that the company will not Unlike the current executive share option scheme, which offer participation in any dened benets arrangements.
imposes a limit of four times an executives total annual emoluments on the value of options that may be granted to Share options an executive, there will be no ceiling on the aggregate value A key objective of the companys remuneration policy is to of options that may be granted to an executive under the 2005 motivate executive directors to deliver long term shareholder Scheme.
However, as with the current scheme, there will be value.
The Remuneration Committee believes that this is best an overall limit on the number of options which may be granted achieved through the grant of share options, which are only under the 2005 Scheme.
To the extent that new shares are issued exercisable if a demanding performance condition is met.
or shares held in treasury are transferred to satisfy options, the The grant of options is considered to be a key element of the number of shares which may be issued or shares held in treasury remuneration package, alongside annual salary, annual bonus transferred over a ten year period under all of the companys and the proposed deferred bonus plan for which shareholder discretionary share schemes will be limited to 5% of the issued approval is being sought at the annual general meeting.
ordinary share capital and to 10% under all share schemes.
No options will be granted at a discount.
Caledonia Investments plc 36 Annual report 2005 Directors remuneration report continued In other respects, the terms of the 2005 Scheme are similar to Total shareholder return growth over five years those of the current executive share option scheme.
A detailed summary of the terms of the 2005 Scheme, for which shareholder approval will be sought at the annual general meeting, is set out % Caledonia total shareholder return in the circular to shareholders containing the notice of the annual FTSE All-Share Total Return general meeting, which explains the resolutions to be proposed 250 at the annual general meeting and which accompanies this annual report.
200 Policy on executive directors service contracts 150 It is the policy of the company that no executive director should be offered a service contract that cannot be terminated 100 within one year or which contains provision for predetermined compensation in excess of one years total emoluments.
50 All existing directors service contracts comply with this policy.
00 01 02 03 04 05 The Remuneration Committee has regard to compensation commitments and believes that these are best addressed by Source: Caledonia and FTSE Datastream restricting the term of the contract.
In the event of a termination, Statement on directors remuneration audited the Remuneration Committee would consider all the relevant Total emoluments of the directors were as follows: factors and circumstances and seek a just solution.
2005 2004 Policy on external non-executive directorships held by 000 000 executive directors Fees 157 145 It is the companys policy to allow executive directors to hold external non-executive directorships unrelated to the companys Salaries 1,317 1,436 business, provided that the time commitment required is not Benets 101 124 material.
Normally the company will retain any fees arising from 1 Performance related bonuses 914 921 such non-executive directorships, but may permit the executive director to retain fees in certain circumstances.
Details of any 2,489 2,626 such fees retained by executive directors are disclosed in the Gains on exercise of share options 448 100 statement on directors remuneration below.
The bonuses will either be paid in cash or as an employer contribution to Inland Policy on non-executive directors remuneration and terms Revenue approved pension schemes.
The method of payment will be determined of appointment by the Remuneration Committee.
It is the companys policy that non-executive directors should be appointed for xed periods of no more than three years from The emoluments of individual directors were as follows: the next general meeting following their initial appointment in the case of new non-executive directors and that re-appointment at Fees and Total Total 1 salaries Benets Bonuses 2005 2004 the end of such periods should not be automatic.
Non-executive 000 000 000 000 000 directors are paid an annual fee determined by the board as Executive a whole within the overall limit contained in the articles of association, but do not receive any other benets for their service P N Buckley 284 21 199 504 469 as non-executive directors from the company.
The basic fee for T C W Ingram 345 19 241 605 555 non-executive directors was 27,000 2004 26,000 and fees of 2 Sir David Kinloch 517 3,000 per annum 2004 3,000 were paid for the chairmanships of the Audit and Remuneration Committees, with a further 3,000 J H Cartwright 241 21 161 423 399 2004 nil paid to Mr C M Allen-Jones for his role as senior The Hon C W Cayzer 174 22 122 318 284 independent non-executive director and chairman of the 3 J M May 273 18 191 482 257 Governance Committee.
Non-executive directors may also be paid additional fees agreed by the board where they have Non-executive performed services that, in the opinion of the board, are over J R H Loudon 27 27 26 and above their normal duties.
C M Allen-Jones 33 33 34 The company is entitled to terminate a non-executive directors M E T Davies 30 30 29 appointment at any time without compensation.
4 R Goblet dAlviella 5 5 2 Sir David Kinloch 8 8 4 Performance graph The graph below shows the companys total shareholder return D G F Thompson 27 27 26 TSR against that of the FTSE All-Share Total Return index for M G Wyatt 27 27 26 the five financial periods ending on 31 March 2005 and has been 1,474 101 914 2,489 2,626 prepared in accordance with the Regulations.
See note 1 to the table above.
calculated assuming that all dividends are reinvested on their 2.
Became a non-executive director with effect from 1 February 2004 and retired on ex-dividend date.
The FTSE All-Share Total Return index has 14 July 2004. been chosen as it is the benchmark by which the company 3.
Appointed on 19 January 2005. measures its delivery of shareholder value over the longer term.
Benets mainly comprised company cars or cash allowances, and private medical cover.
In addition to the amounts shown above, Mr T C W Ingram was paid an amount of 44,758 2004 42,265, before tax, in lieu of contributions to his personal money purchase pension arrangements as described in the statement on directors Caledonia Investments plc 37 Annual report 2005 pensions below.
Certain executive directors also hold external the board of Sage Group before he joined Caledonia.
During the non-executive directorships unrelated to the companys year, Mr J M May was chairman of Covenant Healthcare, which business, where it has been agreed that they may retain the paid a fee of 20,000 2004 20,000 for his services to a private fees arising therefrom.
Mr T C W Ingram is a non-executive company owned by Mr May and his wife.
Mr May was appointed director of Sage Group, for which he received fees during the to this position prior to his joining Caledonia and resigned from year of 37,500 2004 30,000.
Mr Ingram was appointed to Covenant Healthcares board on 14 April 2005.
Statement on directors pensions audited Pension benets accrued by directors during the year under the companys dened benets scheme were as follows: Transfer value of increase in Change in Increase in accrued pension transfer value Accrued Increase in accrued pension over the year, Transfer value of Transfer value of over the year, pension accrued pension during the year, net of director accrued pension accrued pension net of director Name at 31.03.05 during the year net of ination contributions at 31.03.05 at 31.03.04 contributions 1 pa 2 pa 3 pa 4 5 6 7 P N Buckley 231,566 5,917 1,639 29,416 4,155,976 3,829,722 326,254 J H Cartwright 95,309 8,539 5,763 61,498 1,176,484 1,032,844 134,000 The Hon C W Cayzer 72,050 7,884 5,830 66,806 825,625 708,894 116,731 1.
Except for Mr P N Buckley, the accrued pensions were the amounts that would be paid at normal retirement age, ignoring any revaluation, if the director left service at the relevant date.
Mr P N Buckley reached normal retirement age on 23 September 2004 and his accrued pension has been calculated as at that date.
The increase in accrued pension, net of ination, in column 3 is calculated by subtracting the pension accrued to 31 March 2004, multiplied by the increase in the Retail Prices Index for the year to 31 March 2005, or earlier normal retirement date, from the accrued pension to 31 March 2005, or earlier normal retirement date.
The transfer value shown in column 4 represented the value of the increase in accrued pension during the year, as set out in column 3, minus directors contributions.
The change in transfer value over the year shown in column 7 calculated as column 5 less column 6 and any directors contributions reected the impact on transfer values of factors beyond the control of the company and the directors, such as movements in stock markets.
These can cause transfer values at different points in time to uctuate signicantly.
Disclosed changes in value may therefore be subject to a large degree of volatility and may even be negative.
The transfer values have been calculated in accordance with the guidance note GN11, published by the Institute of Actuaries and Faculty of Actuaries.
During the year, the company made contributions to a money Mr Ingram elected to receive the balance of his agreed pension purchase personal pension plan for the benefit of Mr T C W Ingram entitlement by way of a cash payment of 44,758 2004 42,265, of 35,700 2004 29,700, being the maximum amount before tax, in lieu of pension contribution.
The company also permitted for this tax year under Inland Revenue limits.
As made contributions during the year of 26,415 2004 15,606 described above, and in accordance with his service contract, to a money purchase pension plan for the benefit of Mr J M May.
There have been no changes in directors options to acquire Under the terms of both of the above schemes, options may be ordinary shares up to the date of this report.
exercised between three and ten years after the date of grant, although only one-third of the shares comprised in an option The company currently has two executive share option schemes may be exercised after three years from grant, with the remaining an original scheme established in 1988 and which expired in two-thirds becoming exercisable six years after grant.
Options April 1998 for the purposes of new option grants, and a 1998 may only be exercised if a performance target is met.
scheme approved by shareholders in July 1998, under which option grants commenced in September 1998.
Caledonia Investments plc 39 Annual report 2005 All targets for options granted under the original scheme, which The shares required to satisfy Mr Ingrams special options will be related to the companys earnings per share growth or the transferred from the Caledonia Investments plc Employee Share performance of its adjusted net asset value per share against Trust.
The remaining terms of the special options are based on external benchmarks, have now been achieved.
For options the rules of the 1998 scheme, and include provisions that any granted from 1998 to 2001 under the 1998 scheme, the target benets obtained from the special options will not be pensionable requires the companys adjusted net asset value per share to and that the terms of the special options will not normally be outperform either the Retail Price Index by 3% per annum, or the capable of amendment to the advantage of the option holder average of the increases in the FTSE 250 and the FT Investment without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
Companies indices, over any consecutive three financial years prior to expiry.
For options granted in 2002 and 2003, the Included in Mr Mays options granted on 20 November 2003 are performance target requires the companys adjusted net asset options over 28,000 shares granted outside the 1998 scheme.
value per share to outperform either the Retail Price Index by 3% The performance conditions and other terms of these options per annum, or the FTSE All-Share index, over any consecutive are the same as those set out above for Mr Ingram save that three financial years prior to expiry.
Mr Mays options are not subject to preservation on retirement in the manner described above for Mr Ingram.
For options granted in 2004, the performance target is such that 50% of the shares comprised in an option will vest if the At 31 March 2005, the market price of the companys shares was companys net asset value per share outperforms the Retail Price 1367p 2004 1017p and the range during the year was 1000p Index by 3% per annum over the relevant measurement period, to 1411p.
with the other 50% vesting if the companys net asset value per share outperforms the FTSE All-Share index over the relevant Statement on directors service contracts and non-executive measurement period.
The performance measure has to be directors letters of appointment achieved either over the first three years, or over the first four Executive directors have service contracts with Caledonia Group years, after the date of grant.
If the performance measure is not Services Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company, details achieved four years after the date of grant, the options will lapse.
of which are summarised below: Date of The performance targets have been met for all options granted Name contract Notice period Unexpired term under the 1998 scheme from 1998 to 2002.
The Remuneration P N Buckley 11.06.02 12 months Rolling 12 months Committee has selected the targets referred to above because it believed they provided an appropriate benchmark of the T C W Ingram 11.06.02 12 months Rolling 12 months companys longer term performance.
J H Cartwright 11.06.02 12 months Rolling 12 months The Hon C W Cayzer 11.06.02 12 months Rolling 12 months The company will prepare its accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS commencing with the J M May 01.09.03 12 months Rolling 12 months year ending 31 March 2006.
The principle differences between IFRS and UK GAAP have been identied and, whilst IFRS will Directors service contracts contain provisions whereby the result in some change to reported net asset values, these are company may in its discretion terminate the contract without not expected to vary materially from those which would have notice and make a payment in lieu of notice to the director and been reported under UK GAAP.
Accordingly, the Remuneration whereby a liquidated sum is payable by the company in the event Committee does not expect the adoption of IFRS to have a of termination within one year following a change of control.
Any material effect on the performance targets for options already such payment in lieu of notice or liquidated sum would be granted under the 1998 scheme but, if necessary, will make equivalent to no more than one years total emoluments.
adjustments to the extent considered appropriate to ensure that the basis of calculation of net asset value per share is consistent The service contracts of the directors, other than Mr Ingrams over the relevant performance measurement period.
and Mr Mays, also contain provisions whereby, in the event of a payment in lieu of notice or payment of a liquidated sum on Included in Mr Ingrams options granted on 5 July 2002 are termination, the director concerned would also be entitled to an options over 83,000 shares granted outside the 1998 scheme increase in his pensionable service equivalent to the unexpired and on the following special performance-related terms.
As in the period of notice under his contract.
case of options granted under the 1998 scheme, only one-third of the shares under these special options are exercisable three Non-executive directors do not have service contracts, but years after grant, with the remaining two-thirds becoming are appointed under letters of appointment which provide for exercisable six years after grant.
The special options are subject termination without notice or compensation.
to a stretching performance condition requiring Caledonias TSR to outperform the FTSE All-Share Total Return index Index over Executive directors service contracts and non-executive the measurement period, which commenced on the date of directors appointment letters are available for inspection grant.
A tranche will vest in full if Caledonias TSR exceeds that at the registered ofce of the company.
of the Index by an average of at least 2% per annum over the relevant measurement period.
If Caledonias TSR equals that of The directors remuneration report was approved by the board the Index, none of that tranche will be exercisable and there will on 19 May 2005 and signed on its behalf by: be proportionate vesting of a tranche if Caledonias TSR exceeds that of the Index by an average of between zero and 2% per annum.
For the one-third tranche, the performance measure M E T Davies will be first applied three years after grant, with two re-test Chairman of the Remuneration Committee opportunities four and five years after grant.
For the two-thirds tranche, the performance measure will be first applied five years after grant, with two re-test opportunities six and seven years after grant.
If Mr Ingram remains in service until retirement at age 62, the option will remain exercisable until ten years from grant if the performance conditions are met.
Otherwise, Mr Ingram must normally be in employment to be able to exercise the options.
