Directors Report EMPLOYMENT In the case of UK GAAP accounts, the Directors are required to prepare The Group recognises the value that can be added to its future financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair profitability and strength by the efforts of employees.
The commitment view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of of employees to excel is key to the Groups continued success.
the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, Through their attendance at, or participation in, production, safety and the Directors are required to: health meetings at site level, employees are kept up to date with the 1 select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: performance and progress of the Group, the contribution to the Group made by their site and are advised of safety and health issues.
During 2 make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and 2005 the Group published, via the Group extranet, two ten language 3 state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed.
editions of EveryBody Extra an electronic magazine for all staff detailing the Groups activities, performance and some of its personalities.
In the case of IFRS accounts, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year Approximately 1,600 Bodycote employees are connected to the the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash ows.
Bodycote extranet, which will improve knowledge of Group activities, This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, and assist greatly with technology exchange and co-ordination.
other events and conditions in accordance with the denitions and The winter 2005 edition of EveryBody Extra featured the Groups recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out open door policy under which employee concerns can be voiced on in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the a condential basis.
Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all It is the Groups policy to give full and fair consideration to applications circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with for employment from disabled persons, having regard to their particular all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also aptitudes and abilities, and to encourage the training and career required to: development of all personnel employed by the Group, including disabled 1 properly select and apply accounting policies: persons.
Should an employee become disabled the Group, where practicable, will seek to continue the employment and arrange appropriate 2 present information, including accounting policies, in a manner training.
An equal opportunities policy is in operation in the Group.
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 3 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic Product development and quality improvement at all Group companies requirements in International Financial Reporting Standards is is a continuous process.
The Group has a policy of deploying the best insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular technology available and actively seeking improvements.
It also conducts transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial research programmes with its customers.
DONATIONS The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records Charitable donations during the year net of income tax amounted which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial to 12,000 2004: 12,000.
There were no political contributions.
position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking CREDITORS POLICY reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other Group operating companies are responsible for agreeing the terms and irregularities and for the preparation of a Directors Report and Board conditions under which business transactions are conducted.
It is Group Report on Remuneration which comply with the requirements of the policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with the terms Companies Act 1985. agreed, provided that these suppliers have also complied with applicable The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the terms and conditions.
Creditor days at the year end for the Company Company website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the were 45 days 2004: 45 days.
preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from SHAREHOLDERS legislation in other jurisdictions.
An analysis of the Companys shareholders and the shares in issue at ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 19 February 2006 and details of major shareholders interests appearing The 2006 Annual General Meeting will be held on 23 May 2006 in in the register maintained pursuant to Section 211 of the Companies accordance with the notice being sent to shareholders with this report.
AUDITORS In accordance with the provisions of section 384 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution for the reappointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES Hulley Road The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Hurdseld financial statements.
The Directors are required to prepare accounts for J. R. Grime Maccleseld the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards Secretary Cheshire IFRS and have chosen to prepare company financial statements in 28 February 2006 SK10 2SG accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
16 Bodycote annual report 2005 Report of the Audit Committee The members of the Audit Committee during 2005 were Messrs R. T. The Committees areas of activity during 2005 included: Scholes appointed 1998: Chairman from 2002, J. Vogelsang 2003 Assessment of independence of auditors and L. P. Bermejo 2003.
Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board at the same time as appointment to the main Board of Approval of auditors re-appointment and fees Bodycote.
In the cases of Messrs Vogelsang and Bermejo, appointments Approval of scope of internal and external audits were made following a recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
All members of the Committee are independent for the purposes of Approval of accounting policies in adopting International Financial the 2003 Code.
Reporting Standards Mr Scholes is considered to have recent and relevant financial experience Approval of management representations and internal representations having been an investment banker, and also as a Chartered Accountant.
Review of financial statements and results announcements Greater detail on the qualications and experience of all Directors is given on page 24 and their remuneration on page 23.
The Committee Recommendation on policy on use of auditors for non-audit work Chairmans additional responsibilities are reected by fees of 5,000 Review of management improvement letters and audit process per annum for that role.
Review of arrangements for reporting and investigation The Committee met four times during 2005 and has the assistance of employee concerns of the Company Secretary, who serves as committee secretary.
100% attendance at committee meetings was achieved by all Review of internal audit findings and monitoring of effectiveness committee members who served in the year.
The Committee of internal audit and its chairman held meetings with both the external and internal Review of effectiveness of Boards internal controls and risk auditors without management in attendance.
The Head of Internal management process Audit has a direct reporting line to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Those attending meetings typically include the Finance Director and Assessment of internal and external audit effectiveness Head of Internal Audit.
Assessment of the Committees own effectiveness In reporting financial results to shareholders, the Committee depends Review of the terms of reference for committee and internal on the skill, objectivity and independence of the auditors.
In the year audit function ended 31 December 2005 the Committee obtained conrmation of the auditors independence.
Further it is the policy of the Company Approval of the appointment of a new Head of Internal Audit and not to use the auditor for non-audit services, save for tax compliance, plan for enlargement of the Internal Audit department matters where the fee is unlikely to exceed 20,000, or with the prior Having reviewed and expressed satisfaction with the level of fees, approval of the Audit Committee.
Details of amounts paid to the objectivity, independence, expertise, resources and general effectiveness external auditors for audit and non-audit services in 2005 is analysed of Deloitte & Touche LLP, the Committee recommends and the Board in note 3 on page 38. agrees to propose their re-appointment as auditors of the Company in accordance with resolution 7 of the notice of meeting being sent to shareholders with this report.
R. T. Scholes Audit Committee Chairman 28 February 2006 Bodycote annual report 2005 17 Board Report on Remuneration The members of the Remuneration Committee during 2005 were The Remuneration Committee believe that once properly benchmarked J. Vogelsang Chairman, R. T. Scholes, and L. P Bermejo.
All members against the market and in relation to the complexity, scale and size of are Non-Executive Directors of the Company and have no personal the responsibilities, increases in basic salary should be modest to financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the matters to be reect inationary elements with the aim that the proportion of xed decided, no potential conicts of interest arising from cross directorships remuneration is reduced and to provide for a growing element of and no day to day involvement in running the business.
The Committee met six times during 2005.
100% attendance was In order to ensure that a substantial proportion of the overall remuneration recorded at meetings.
The Committee operates under terms of reference package can be linked to performance, there is an annual cash bonus which can be viewed on the Groups website revised by the Board in scheme, executive share option schemes up to 2003, the 2005 November 2004 following an evaluation of the Committees performance stock bonus scheme and a proposal for a new long-term share-based in that year.
incentive and share matching plan for adoption at the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
Only basic salaries are pensionable.
This Board Report on Remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2005 and the recommendations of the Remuneration Committee have SALARY AND BENEFITS been approved in full by the Board for submission to shareholders.
The basic salary of each Executive Director and senior executive In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act, an ordinary is reviewed annually and is determined by taking into account the resolution seeking shareholders approval for the report will be proposed responsibilities and performance of the individual, having regard to at the Annual General Meeting.
The tables attached to this report current market practice.
Since 2002 the Committee has placed more disclosing Directors emoluments, pensions and share options and emphasis on the variable elements of Directors and senior executives incentives on pages 22 and 23 have been audited, together with the pay although modest market and inationary adjustments have been performance criteria and share price information.
made to basic salaries after benchmarking.
This resulted in increases in basic salary for Executive Directors both in 2005 and 2006.
At his ADVICE insistence there has been no increase in the Chief Executives basic The Committee has taken advice from Inbucon Consulting in relation to salary for 2006.
The basic salaries of the other Executive Directors Executive Directors salary levels, the stock bonus scheme implemented were increased on 1 January 2006 to the following amounts: for 2005 and measurement of total shareholder return TSR in accordance with the scheme rules, and in relation to the proposal to Mr D. F. Landless 226,000 seek approval for a new long-term share incentive and share matching Mr D. R. Sleight 168,000 plan as detailed below.
Benets in kind, which comprise the provision of a company car, The Company also received actuarial and other pensions advice from private medical insurance for the Director and family and long-term JLT benefit Consultants Limited appointed by the Company in 1995 disability insurance, are consistent with industry standards.
An analysis and are currently taking advice from KPMG LLP appointed by the of Directors emoluments is given on page 23.
Company in 2005 in relation to the management of risk arising from the UK final salary pension scheme of which currently two Executive ANNUAL BONUSES Directors are members, out of an active membership of 314.
Although For 2005 an annual bonus is payable to all Executive Directors and KPMG LLP may provide occasional ad hoc services to the Company as senior executives, based on the Group and individual performance.
a general consultant in relation to due diligence on selected acquisitions For those senior executives with Strategic Business Unit SBU and other projects, neither of the other organisations provides any responsibilities, part of the performance-related bonus is based on other services to, or has any other connection with, the Company.
their relevant sphere of responsibility.
POLICY FOR EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Payment of the maximum cash bonus for 2005 required Executive The Committee makes recommendations to the Board concerning the Directors and senior executives to achieve challenging target increases policy on remuneration for senior executives and the remuneration over 2004 performance in EBIT 93% achieved, ROCE 72% achieved package for each Executive Director.
In determining the remuneration and organic sales 60% achieved and quantitative improvements in policy the Committee has given full consideration to the provisions on safety and health 50% achieved.
As a result Executive Directors the design of remuneration policies contained in the Combined Code received a cash bonus of 38.5% of basic salary against a maximum and received input from the Chief Executive.
The Committee aims of 50% and senior executives cash bonuses ranged from 20% to 42% to provide a remuneration policy consistent with the Groups overall depending upon individual SBU performances again compared to strategic objectives and thereby attract and retain high calibre executives, maximum of 50%.
Details of the cash bonuses paid to Executive align executive rewards with the creation of shareholder value and Directors are shown on page 23. motivate executives to achieve and maintain challenging levels of Company and individual performance.
The Committee has used the remuneration practices of UK engineering businesses and other FTSE 250 companies, as well as other North American and European companies in similar trades, as comparables.
18 Bodycote annual report 2005 An additional bonus of up to 50% of basic salary, received as restricted REVIEW OF LONG-TERM INCENTIVES shares in the Company, to be awarded after the results for the 2005 The Group believes that participation in share incentive schemes by financial year are announced, will be payable as a result of the Groups Executive Directors and other executives of the Group strengthens the 2005 TSR performance in accordance with the rules of the short term link between executives personal interests and shareholders interests.
The Groups performance was in the upper quartile of TSR achieved by companies within the FTSE 350 Engineering & Following the implementation of International Financial Reporting Machinery Index and certain other comparator companies and, as a Standards from 1 January 2005, the Committee decided to review consequence, the maximum award will be made.
The graph below the arrangements for long-term incentives so that there would be an illustrates the TSR performance of the Group against the peer group appropriate balance between short and long-term incentives with an which includes companies representing the Groups geographical increasing proportion devoted to performance-related pay.
To promote spread of businesses.
The peer group consisted of 17 companies, creation of shareholder value, the Remuneration Committee seeks including Bodycote.
The Remuneration Committee have also taken to encourage and incentivise stretch or exceptional and sustainable into account the underlying financial performance of the Company financial performances over each three year period, as measured against before agreeing that these stock bonuses can be granted.
the strategic plans formulated for the Group.
It was decided not to grant any further share options under the 2003 scheme, but to propose The shares will vest in 2009, but each Executive Director would be adoption by shareholders of a new long-term share incentive scheme required to retain the stock awarded save for amounts necessary the Bodycote Incentive Plan, which will comprise two elements: to pay tax until the total value of shares held equals the executives basic salary.
At the end of the holding period, the awards will be 1 A conditional award of shares: enhanced by an amount reecting dividends paid on the award a A conditional award of shares which will vest on the third shares over the three-year period.
anniversary of the date of grant.
The Committee recommended this plan for 2005 because it encourages b Awards can be made annually and the amount awarded challenging performance, increases the variable element of pay and aligns will be based upon achievement of targeted Economic profit executives interests with those of shareholders.
The 2005 stock bonus performance for the prior year.
scheme will be replaced by the long-term share incentive schemes proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
c The number of shares forming a conditional award to Executive Directors will not exceed 1.75 times basic salary.
For 2006 the annual cash bonus programme has been increased to a maximum 60% of basic salary earned by achieving further challenging d The number of shares which vest on the third anniversary will increases in ROCE, Economic profit and organic sales and quantitative depend on the Economic profit growth of the Group in the three improvements in safety and health, together with achievement of year period commencing with the year of grant.
environmental accreditations and implementation of technologies 2 Award of shares to match bonus payments deferred by executives to improve capacity management.
If the proposal to adopt the from their annual cash bonus if any in that participants can defer Bodycote Incentive Plan as detailed below is approved by shareholders, up to 20% of salary or the bonus earned whichever is the lesser to participants in the 2006 cash bonus programme will be able to defer be converted into shares which will be held for 3 years and matched up to 20% of basic salary into a share matching arrangement.
at rates between 1 for 2 and 1 for 1 shares depending on growth of the Groups ROCE during the three year period of deferment.
180 160 140 120 100 80 Share price 60 p 40 20 0 1 Oct-04 1 Jan-05 31 Mar-05 30 Jun-05 30 Sep-05 31 Dec-05 This graph looks at the Share Price Performance rebased from 1 October 2004 to 31 December 2005 of Bodycote International plc vs. the Stock Bonus Scheme Peer Group excluding Bodycote.
1 October 2004 to 31 December 2005 is illustrated because the scheme rules require 3-month share price averaging at start and end of 2005 financial year performance period.
Bodycote International plc Bespoke Comparator Group excl.
Bodycote Source: Inbucon Datastream Bodycote annual report 2005 19 Board Report on Remuneration Economic profit for these purposes is dened as earnings before All outstanding share options have now qualied for exercise.
Options interest and tax EBIT, less a charge for the cost of the aggregate granted since 1998 have all qualied on the basis of the increase in average of shareholders funds, net borrowings and goodwill headline earnings per share EPS since 2002 using the UK GAAP EPS previously written off to reserves, impaired or amortised.
data for 2002 to 2004 and the IFRS headline EPS gure for 2005.
Having received and reviewed a reconciliation between the two accounting Only Executive Directors and other nominated full-time employees standards the calculations for which have been approved by the Audit will be eligible to participate.
Committee, the Committee were satisfied that each performance No awards may be granted more than 10 years after adoption of the criterion had been met by a wide margin.
Share options granted under the 1994 and 1996 share option schemes were only exercisable if, over any rolling period of three years from the No more than 5% of new issue ordinary share capital may be allocated date of the award, the growth in the Groups headline EPS exceeds under all of the Companys share schemes over a 10 year period.
United Kingdom retail ination by 6% 10% in respect of those options Leavers will not normally be entitled to receive conditional awards granted in September 2002. and or an award of matching shares which in each case will lapse upon a participant leaving group employment.
Under the 2003 scheme the value of shares over which options may be granted to an executive in any one year may not normally exceed If approved by shareholders the awards can be made in each of the 1.5 times basic salary.
The extent to which options may be exercised financial years 2006 to 2015 although the Committee can decide will depend on the Companys growth in pre-tax EPS exceeding the either to scale back awards or not to make awards in any one year.
growth in the retail price index RPI in the three or five year period The final outcome of the first awards proposed to be made in 2006 following grant.
Options over shares worth up to 0.5 times salary may will depend upon the Groups Economic profit performance in the be exercised if the growth in EPS exceeds the growth in RPI by 3% period 2006 to 2008. per annum.
It is anticipated that adoption of this scheme will suitably emphasise The Committee believed that the use of growth in pre-tax EPS was the increasing importance attached by the Committee to the variable at the time the most appropriate measure of the Companys financial elements of remuneration and encourage long-term shareholding performance and was consistent with market practice, when adopted.
The Remuneration Committee has Directors made no gains on the exercise of share options during 2004 decided to propose a long-term incentive scheme based upon growth or 2005.
The market price of Bodycotes ordinary shares at 31 December in Economic profit because this aligns the scheme with the Groups 2005 was 222.0p, the range during 2005 was 146.75p to 239.25p and business objectives, strategy and plan, and the long-term interests of the average was 190.03p.
An analysis of all Directors share options shareholders, in that sustainable and profitable growth should be is given on page 22. achieved and because it focuses directly on those elements, which executives have the capacity to inuence.
DEFERRED RESTRICTED STOCK BONUS SCHEME 2003 to 2004 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDING RETENTION POLICY In respect of annual cash bonuses payable for 2003 and 2004, The Committee will introduce a shareholding retention policy under Executive Directors and Senior Executives were permitted to defer which Executive Directors and other senior executives will be required, up to one-third of their cash bonus into shares which were then to within five years, to build up a shareholding in the Company.
In respect be held for three years and which the Company would then match.
of Executive Directors the requirement will be for their Directors Details of shares held by Directors pursuant to this scheme are given interests in shares to be worth at least 100% of basic salary.
If shareholders approve the share matching scheme forming part of the proposed new Bodycote Incentive Scheme, then Executive SHARE INCENTIVES old arrangements Directors and Senior Executives will be able to defer cash bonuses The Remuneration Committee also reviews and manages share received for 2006 and subsequently convert them into shares and obtain incentive schemes established between 1994 and 2003 and under matching shares depending on the Groups ROCE performance during which awards have yet to vest.
Following adoption of the Bodycote the three-year period of deferment.
Incentive Plan no further share options will be granted to Directors or executives and staff pursuant to the 2003 executive share option Shares scheme, but share options granted before this decision will continue Mr. J. D. Hubbard 36,697 to be capable of exercise.
At the time each scheme was approved Mr D. F. Landless 24,464 by shareholders, institutional guidelines were followed and latterly Mr D. R. Sleight 18,899 leading investors were consulted.
20 Bodycote annual report 2005 SERVICE CONTRACTS EXTERNAL APPOINTMENTS It is the Companys policy that Executive Directors have service contracts The Company believes that there are benets to the individual with a one year notice period.
All the Executive Directors have service and the Company for Executive Directors holding one non-executive agreements which are terminable by one years notice by either party directorship in other organisations, provided that they do not conict at any time, and by one years remuneration in lieu of notice by the with the Companys interests and that, provided the Directors employer, and by one years remuneration in the event of a change performance is not impaired, he could retain the fees earned in in control of the Company.
Legally appropriate factors would be taken connection with such an appointment.
into account to mitigate any compensation payment, covering basic NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS salary, annual and long term incentives and benets, which may arise The remuneration of Non-Executive Directors is determined by on the termination of employment of any Executive Director, other than the Chairman and the Executive Directors.
Remuneration for the payments made on a change in control or for payments in lieu of notice.
Chairman is determined by the whole Board excluding the Chairman.
Mr Hubbards contract is dated 5 February 2002 and those for Messrs Remuneration for the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors takes Landless and Sleight are each dated 26 September 2001. into account the time commitments and duties and responsibilities PENSIONS involved.
The Chairman and each Non-Executive Director hold letters of Pensions for current UK domiciled Executive Directors are, as far as appointment for terms of three years.
Each is terminable under the practicable, provided for under the Groups UK contributory final salary Companys articles of association, the Companies Act 1985, the Directors pension scheme which has a normal retirement age of 65 and which resignation or otherwise on six months notice twelve months in the is closed to new members.
case of the Chairman if termination occurs before expiry of the term.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to any The main features, in respect of Executive Directors, are: pension or other employment benets or to participate in any incentive scheme.
Payment in respect of Mr Vogelsangs service is made to a Pensions from age 65 of 1 60th highest average salary of any a company owned by him.
consecutive three years out of last ten years prior to retirement restricted to the earnings cap where it applies for each year of TSR PERFORMANCE pensionable service, and with increases in pensionable salary The graph on page 22 illustrates the Companys Total Shareholder after 31 December 2003 restricted to 4.25% the Salary Limit : Return TSR performance since 2000 in accordance with paragraph b A cash death-in-service benefit of four times basic salary at 4 of the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, relative to date of death: the FTSE Engineering & Machinery Index, of which the Company is a component part.
The index was selected in 2002 as the most c Spouse or dependants pension on members death equal to half appropriate comparator group and has been used again this year to members prospective retirement pension restricted as before be consistent with prior years.
at 65 on death in service, or half members pension entitlement on death in retirement: Approved by the Board.
d Members contributions are 7% 6% up until April 2005 of basic salary: e For Executive Directors with basic salaries above the Salary Limit or the earnings cap the Group will contribute 14% of the excess to a dened contribution arrangement.
J. Vogelsang Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Arrangements for Mr Hubbard are for a contribution to a dened benefit 28 February 2006 arrangement of 14% of his basic salary including any payments being made by the Group into the Groups US 401k retirement plan from January 2004 onwards.
An analysis of accrued pension entitlements for the two Directors with accruing benets under the scheme during 2005 is given on page 23.
Mr Hubbard, the Chief Executive, is a member of the Groups US 401K retirement plan to which the Group contributed 24,362 2004: 14,163.
Pension contributions for Mr Landless salary above the earnings cap amounted to 15,540 2004: 22,606.
