Directors Remuneration Report The board has prepared this report, in accordance Directors service contracts with the requirements of Schedule 7A to the It is the boards policy that none of the directors has Companies Act 1985.
An ordinary resolution for the a service contract.
The terms of their appointment approval of this report will be put to the members at provide that a director shall retire and be subject to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
re-election at the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment, and at least every three years The law requires your companys auditors to audit after that.
The terms also provide that a director certain of the disclosures provided.
Where may be removed without notice and that disclosures have been audited they are indicated as compensation will not be due on leaving office.
The auditors opinion is included in their report on page 19.
Directors emoluments for the year audited The fees for the non-executive directors are Remuneration committee determined within the limits set out in the The company has four non-executive directors.
The companys articles of association, and they are not board as a whole fulfils the function of a eligible for bonuses, pension benefits, share options, remuneration committee Mr Ferguson is the long term incentive schemes or other benefits.
The board has appointed the company secretary, Edinburgh Fund The directors who served in the year received Managers plc, to provide information when the emoluments in the form of fees, as described in directors consider the level of directors fees.
The Table 1 on page 17. board carried out a review of the level of directors fees during the year, and concluded that the amounts Your companys performance should remain unchanged at 15,000 per annum for The graph opposite compares the total share price the chairman and 10,000 per annum for each return assuming all dividends are reinvested to director.
ordinary shareholders compared to the total shareholder return on a notional investment made Policy on directors fees up of shares of the same kinds and number as those The boards policy is that the remuneration of by reference to which the S&P Composite Index is non-executive directors should reflect the experience calculated.
This index was chosen for comparison of the board as a whole, be fair and comparable to purposes as it is the benchmark used for investment that of other investment trusts that have a similar performance measurement purposes.
capital structure and investment objective investment in a portfolio designed to track closely Approval the S&P Composite Index, both in terms of capital The Directors Remuneration Report on pages 16 and income.
to 17 was approved by the board of directors on 9 March 2004 and signed on its behalf by: By order of the board, Edinburgh Fund Managers plc Secretary PAGE 16 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 Directors Remuneration Report For the year ended 31 January 2004 2003 Sir Angus Grossart 15,000 14,250 James Ferguson 10,000 8,494 Guy Crawford appointed 8.3.
03 4,167 William Wilson deceased 9,167 9,500 The Earl of Mansfield retired 13.5.
02 2,565 Total fees 38,334 34,809 Table 1 Total directors fees see note 4 Total shareholder return share price of the company since January 1999 !
"""# $ % & PAGE 17 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004"
