Directors remuneration report The directors remuneration report covers all directors, both second part, which was prepared by the company secretary on executive and non-executive, and is set out on pages 164-173. behalf of the board.
It is divided into two parts.
Executive directors remuneration The report has been approved by the board and signed on its is in the first part, which was prepared by the remuneration behalf by the company secretary.
This report is subject to the committee.
Non-executive directors remuneration is in the approval of shareholders at the annual general meeting AGM.
Part 1 Executive directors remuneration DEAR SHAREHOLDER As described in this Annual Report, 2005 was a year of strong financial performance for the group set against a background of a number of significant events both positive and negative.
It was also a year in which you, our shareholders, approved the renewal of the long-term incentive plan for the executive directors.
I am pleased to report that this plan has been implemented and is a key part of our policy on remuneration.
This revised policy has provided an effective framework against which to evaluate the performance of the executive directors.
In a performance-driven organization, the measurement of that performance is critical.
We believe that we have an appropriate balance of quantitative and qualitative measures.
Equally, the policy allows the remuneration committee to exercise judgement when it is appropriate to do so.
During the year, the executive team demonstrated strong leadership and delivery against a demanding set of targets.
They managed events well and group performance was also strong.
Against this backdrop, the significant events of the year were also taken into account in the committees overall judgement of results.
Full details of executive directors remuneration are set out in the pages that follow.
I am confident that the committees approach aligns executive remuneration with the interests of shareholders as well as rewarding and engaging the world-class team of people that we have leading this company.
Dr D S Julius Chairman, Remuneration Committee 6 February 2006 THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE the committees decisions.
The committee met six times in the Tasks The committees tasks are: period under review.
There was a full attendance record, except To determine, on behalf of the board, the terms of engagement for Mr Davis and Sir Robin Nicholson who were each unable to and remuneration of the group chief executive and the executive attend one meeting and Mr Knight who was unable to attend two directors and to report on those to the shareholders.
Mr Sutherland, as chairman of the board, attended all To determine, on behalf of the board, matters of policy over committee meetings.
which the company has authority relating to the establishment or The committee is accountable to shareholders through its annual operation of the companys pension scheme of which the executive report on executive directors remuneration.
It will consider the directors are members.
outcome of the vote at the AGM on the directors remuneration To nominate, on behalf of the board, any trustees or directors of report and take into account the views of shareholders in its future corporate trustees of such scheme.
The committee values its dialogue with major shareholders To monitor the policies being applied by the group chief executive on remuneration matters.
in remunerating senior executives other than executive directors.
Advice Advice is provided to the committee by the company Constitution and operation The committee members are all secretarys office, which is independent of executive management non-executive directors.
Dr Julius chairman, Mr Bryan, Mr Davis, and reports to the chairman of the board.
Mr Aronson, an independent Sir Tom McKillop and Sir Ian Prosser were members of the committee consultant, is the committees secretary and special adviser.
Sir Robin Nicholson and Mr Knight retired from Advice was also received from Mr Jackson company secretary the committee at the 2005 AGM.
Each member is now subject to and Mrs Martin senior counsel, company secretarys office.
annual re-election as a director of the company.
The board considers The committee also appoints external professional advisers to all committee members to be independent see pages 159-160.
They provide specialist advice and services on particular remuneration have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in matters.
The independence of advice is subject to annual review.
164 Making energy more The committee continued the engagement of Towers Perrin as its remuneration will again be performance-related see illustrative principal external adviser during 2005.
Towers Perrin also provided chart below.
limited ad hoc remuneration and benefits advice to parts of the group, mainly comprising pensions advice in Canada, as well as providing some market information on pay structures.
The committee also continued the engagement of Kepler Associates to advise on ON-TARGET REMUNERATION ELEMENTS performance measurement.
Kepler Associates also provided Base salary performance data and limited ad hoc advice on performance Performance-related annual bonus measurement to the group.
Performance-related share element Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer provided legal advice on specific matters to the committee as well as providing some legal advice to the group.
Ernst & Young reviewed the calculations in respect of financialbased targets that form the basis of the performance-related pay This chart reflects on-target values for annual bonus and share element.
They also provided audit, audit-related and taxation services to the group.
Salary The committee expects to review salaries in 2006.
In doing Lord Browne group chief executive was consulted on matters so, the committee considers both top Europe-based global companies relating to the other executive directors who report to him and on and the US oil and gas sector: each of these groups is defined and matters relating to the performance of the company.
He was not analysed by the committees independent external remuneration present when matters affecting his own remuneration were considered.
The committee then assesses the market information and advice and applies its judgement in setting the salary levels.
POLICY ON EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION During 2004, the committee carried out a comprehensive and Annual bonus Each executive director is eligible to participate in an independent review of all elements of remuneration policy for executive annual performance-based bonus scheme.
The committee reviews directors, culminating in a shareholder resolution at the 2005 AGM and sets bonus targets and levels of eligibility annually.
approving the renewal of the Executive Directors Incentive Plan EDIP.
For 2006, the target level is 120% of base salary except for The committee seeks to ensure that, in determining remuneration policy, Lord Browne, for whom, as group chief executive, it is considered there is a clear link between the companys purpose, the business appropriate to have a target of 130%.
In normal circumstances, the plans and executive reward.
The following key principles guide its policy: maximum payment level for substantially exceeding targets will continue Policy for the remuneration of executive directors will be to be 150% 165% for the group chief executive of base salary.
In determined and regularly reviewed independently of executive exceptional circumstances, outstanding performance may be recognized management and will set the tone for the remuneration of other by bonus payments moderately above the 150% and 165% levels at senior executives.
the discretion of the remuneration committee.
Similarly, bonuses may The remuneration structure will support and reflect BPs stated be reduced where the committee considers that this is warranted purpose to maximize long-term shareholder value.
and, in exceptional circumstances, bonuses can be reduced to zero.
The remuneration structure will reflect a just system of rewards The committee recognizes that it is responsible to shareholders for the participants.
to use its discretion in a reasonable and informed manner in the best The overall quantum of all potential remuneration components interests of the company and that it has a corresponding duty to be will be determined by the exercise of informed judgement of accountable and transparent as to the manner in which it exercises the independent remuneration committee, taking into account its discretion.
The committee will explain any significant exercise of the success of BP and the competitive global market.
discretion in the subsequent directors remuneration report.
The majority of the remuneration will be linked to the achievement of Executive directors annual bonus awards for 2006 will be based demanding performance targets that are independently set and on a mix of demanding financial targets, based on the companys reflect the creation of long-term shareholder value.
annual plan and leadership objectives established at the beginning A significant personal shareholding will be developed in order to of the year, in accordance with the following weightings: align executive and shareholder interests.
50% financial and operational metrics from the annual plan, principally Assessment of performance will be quantitative and qualitative and earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization will include exercise of informed judgement by the remuneration EBITDA and return on average capital employed ROACE.
committee within a framework that takes account of sector 30% annual strategic milestones taken from the five-year group characteristics and is approved by shareholders.
business plan, including those relating to technology, operational The committee will be proactive in obtaining an understanding actions and business development.
20% individual performance against leadership objectives and living Remuneration policy and practices will be as transparent as the values of the group, which incorporates BPs code of conduct.
possible, both for participants and shareholders.
In assessing the final outcome of the individual bonuses each year, The wider scene, including pay and employment conditions the committee will also carefully review the underlying performance elsewhere in the group, will be taken into account, especially of the group in the context of the five-year group business plan, as when determining annual salary increases.
well as looking at competitor results, analysts reports and the views from the chairmen of other BP board committees.
All the calculations Elements of remuneration The executive directors total remuneration are reviewed by Ernst & Young.
will consist of salary, annual bonus, long-term incentives, pensions and other benefits.
This reward structure will be regularly reviewed Long-term incentives Long-term incentives will continue to be by the committee to ensure that it is achieving its objectives.
It has three elements within its framework: In 2006, over three-quarters of executive directors potential direct BP Annual Report and Accounts 2005 165 a share element, a share option element and a cash element.
The directors as it best reflects the creation of long-term shareholder value.
committee does not currently intend to use either the share option Relative performance of the peer group is particularly key in order to or cash elements but, in exceptional circumstances, may do so.
minimize the influence of sector-specific effects, including oil price.
Each executive director participates in the EDIP.
The committees The committee is mindful of the possibility that a simple ranking policy, subject to unforeseen circumstances, is that this should system may in some circumstances give rise to distorted results in continue until the EDIP expires or is renewed in 2010. view of the broad similarity of the oil majors underlying businesses, The committees policy continues to be that each executive director the small size of the comparator group and inherent imperfections should hold shares equivalent in value to 5 x the directors base salary in measurement.
To counter this, the committee will have the ability within five years of being appointed an executive director.
This policy to exercise discretion in a reasonable and informed manner to adjust is reflected in the terms of the EDIP, as shares awarded under the upwards or downwards the vesting level derived from the ranking share element will only be released at the end of the three-year if it considers that the ranking does not fairly reflect BPs underlying retention period as described below if the minimum shareholding business performance relative to the comparator group.
The exercise of this discretion would be made after a broad analysis of the underlying health of BPs business relative to competitors, as 1.
Share element The committee may make conditional share awards shown by a range of other measures including, but not limited to, performance shares to executive directors, which will only vest to ROACE, earnings per share EPS growth, reserves replacement and the extent that a demanding performance condition imposed by the cash flow.
This will enable a more comprehensive review of long-term committee is met at the end of a three-year performance period.
performance, with the aims of tempering anomalies created by relying The maximum number of performance shares that may be solely on a formula-based approach and ensuring that the objectives awarded to an executive director in any one year will be determined of the plan are met.
at the discretion of the remuneration committee and will not normally It is anticipated that the need to use discretion is most likely to exceed 5.5 x base salary and, in the case of the group chief executive, arise where the TSR performance of some companies is clustered, 7.5 x base salary.
so that a relatively small difference in TSR performance would In addition to the performance condition described below, produce a major difference in vesting levels.
In these circumstances, the committee will have an overriding discretion, in exceptional the committee will have power to adjust the vesting level, normally circumstances, to reduce the number of shares that vest or to by determining an average vesting level for the companies affected provide that no shares vest.
The shares that vest will normally be subject to a compulsory In line with its policy on transparency, the committee will explain retention period determined by the committee, which will not any adjustment to the relative TSR ranking in the next directors normally be less than three years.
This gives executive directors remuneration report following the vesting.
a six-year incentive structure and is designed to ensure that their The committee may amend the performance conditions if events interests are aligned with those of shareholders.
Where shares vest occur that would make the amended condition a fairer measure of under awards made in 2005 and future years, the executive director performance and provided that any amended condition is no easier will receive additional shares representing the value of reinvested to satisfy.
For 2006, all executive directors will receive performance share awards on the above basis, over a maximum number of shares set by reference to 5.5 x base salary.
For awards under the share TIMELINE FOR 2006-2008 EDIP SHARE ELEMENT element in future years, the committee may continue with the same Performance period Retention period performance condition or may impose a different condition, which it considers to be no less demanding.
As group chief executive, Lord Browne is eligible for performance Award Vesting Release share awards of up to 7.5 x base salary.
The committee has determined that, while the largest part of this should relate to the 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 TSR measure described above, it continues to be appropriate that a specific part up to 2 x base salary should be based on long-term For share element awards in 2006, the performance condition will leadership measures.
These will focus on sustaining BPs financial, as in 2005 relate to BPs total shareholder return TSR performance strategic and organizational health and will include, but not be limited against the other oil majors ExxonMobil, Shell, Total and Chevron to, maintenance of BPs performance culture and the continued over a three-year period.
The committee will have the discretion to development of BPs business strategy, executive talent and internal amend this peer group in appropriate circumstances, for example, organization.
As with the TSR part of his award, this part will be in the case of any significant consolidations in the industry.
TSR is measured over a three-year performance period.
calculated by taking the share price performance of a company over the period, assuming dividends to be reinvested in the companys Share element awards made in previous years Awards for the period shares.
All share prices will be averaged over the three months 2005-2007 were made on the same basis as described above.
For before the beginning and end of the performance period and will be outstanding awards of performance units made under the plans for measured in US dollars.
At the end of the performance period, the the periods 2003-2005 and 2004-2006, the previous performance TSR performance of each of the companies will be ranked to establish conditions will apply for the three-year performance periods in each the relative total return to shareholders over the period.
Shares under of the plans.
The primary measure is BPs shareholder return against the award will vest as to 100%, 70% and 35% if BP achieves first, the market SHRAM, which accounts for nearly two-thirds of the second or third place respectively: no shares will vest if BP achieves potential total award, the remainder being assessed on BPs relative fourth or fifth place.
The committee considers that relative TSR is the most appropriate BPs SHRAM is measured against the companies in the FTSE All measure of performance for BPs long-term incentives for executive World Oil & Gas Index.
Companies within the index are weighted 166 Making energy more according to their market capitalization at the beginning of each 15%.
Although the change became effective in January 2006, the three-year period in order to give greatest emphasis to oil majors.
table on page 171 shows both 31 December 2004 and 31 December BPs ROACE and EPS growth are measured against ExxonMobil, 2005 transfer value figures on the new basis.
All calculations are reviewed by Ernst & Young to ensure that they meet an independent objective standard.
US director As a US director, Dr Grote participates in the US BP The relative position of the company within the comparator group Retirement Accumulation Plan US plan, which features a cash determines the number of shares awarded per performance unit, balance formula.
The current design of the US plan became effective subject to a maximum of two shares per unit.
Consistent with US tax regulations, pension benefits are provided 2.
Share option element The share option element of the EDIP through a combination of tax-qualified and non-qualified benefit permits options to be granted to executive directors at an exercise restoration plans, as applicable.
price no lower than the market value of a share at the date the The Supplemental Executive Retirement Benefit supplemental option is granted.
The committee does not currently intend to use plan is a non-qualified top-up arrangement that became effective this element.
on 1 January 2002 for US employees above a specified salary level.
The benefit formula is 1.3% of final average earnings, which 3.
Cash element The cash element allows the committee to grant comprise base salary and bonus in accordance with standard US long-term cash-based incentives.
This element has not been used practice as specified under the qualified arrangement multiplied since the EDIP was established in 2000 and the committee would by years of service, with an offset for benefits payable under all other only do so in special circumstances.
BP qualified and non-qualified pension arrangements.
This benefit is unfunded and therefore paid from corporate assets.
Pensions Executive directors are eligible to participate in the Dr Grote is an eligible participant under the supplemental plan appropriate pension schemes applying in their home countries.
and his pension accrual for 2005 includes the total amount that may become payable under all plans.
UK directors UK directors are members of the regular BP Pension Scheme.
Scheme members core benefits are non-contributory.
Other benefits They include a pension accrual of 1 60th of basic salary for each year Benefits and other share schemes: Executive directors are eligible of service, subject to a maximum of two-thirds of final basic salary, to participate in regular employee benefit plans and in all-employee and a dependants benefit of two-thirds of the members pension.
share schemes and savings plans applying in their home countries.
Bonuses are not pensionable for UK directors.
The scheme pension Benefits in kind are not pensionable.
is not integrated with state pension benefits.
Resettlement allowance: Expatriates may receive a resettlement Normal retirement age is 60, but scheme members who have allowance for a limited period.
30 or more years pensionable service at age 55 can elect to retire early without an actuarial reduction being applied to their pension.
SERVICE CONTRACTS In accordance with the companys past practice for executive Director Contract date Current salary directors who retire from BP on or after age 55 having accrued at Lord Browne 11 Nov 1993 1,486,400 least 30 years service, Lord Browne remains eligible for consideration Dr D C Allen 29 Jan 2003 441,000 for a payment from the company of an ex-gratia lump-sum I C Conn 22 Jul 2004 441,000 superannuation payment equal to one years base salary following his Dr B E Grote 7 Aug 2000 $945,000 retirement.
All matters relating to such superannuation payments are Dr A B Hayward 29 Jan 2003 441,000 considered by the remuneration committee.
Any such payment would J A Manzoni 29 Jan 2003 441,000 be additional to his pension entitlements referred to above.
No other executive director is eligible for consideration for a superannuation The committees policy is for service contracts to expire at normal payment on retirement, because the remuneration committee decided retirement date and have a notice period of one year.
All contracts in 1996 that appointees to the board after that time should cease to comply with this.
be eligible for consideration for such a payment.
The service contracts of Dr Allen, Mr Conn, Dr Hayward and The UK government has made important changes to the Mr Manzoni may be terminated by the company at any time operation and taxation of UK pensions, which come into effect with immediate effect on payment in lieu of notice equivalent to from 6 April 2006 and affect all UK employees.
The remuneration one years salary or the amount of salary that would have been paid committee has reviewed and approved proposals by the company if the contract had terminated on the expiry of the remainder of the that maintain the pension promise for all UK employees but that notice period.
deliver pension benefits in excess of the new lifetime allowance of Dr Grotes service contract is with BP Exploration Alaska Inc.
He is 1.5 million or personal lifetime allowance as at 6 April 2006 under seconded to BP p. l. c. under a secondment agreement dated 7 August statute if higher via an unapproved, unfunded pension arrangement 2000 that had an unexpired term of two years at 31 December 2005. paid by the company direct.
The secondment may be terminated by one months notice by either The trustee directors of the BP Pension Scheme have reviewed, party and terminates automatically on the termination of Dr Grotes in accordance with its statutory obligation, the actuarial basis under service contract.
which cash equivalent transfer values are payable to all UK employees There are no other provisions for compensation payable on early who participate in that scheme.
Consistent with evolving actuarial termination of the above contracts.
In the event of early termination practice, the trustee directors have resolved to base cash equivalent under any of the above contracts by the company other than for transfer values on a similar basis to that underlying the companys cause or under a specific termination payment provision, the relevant accounts, including allowance for improving longevity in accordance directors then current salary and benefits would be taken into account with standard tables: this has the effect of increasing cash equivalent in calculating any liability of the company.
Annual bonus is shown in the year it was earned.
a Based on market price on date of award 5.49 per share $62.15 per ADS.
b Gross award of shares based on a performance assessment by the remuneration committee and on the other terms of the plan.
Sufficient shares are sold to pay for tax applicable.
Remaining shares are held in trust for current directors until 2009, when they are released to the individual.
c Based on closing price of BP shares on 1 February 2006 6.75 per share $71.12 per ADS.
d Maximum potential shares that could vest at the end of the three-year period depending on performance.
e 2004 remuneration reflects that received by Mr Conn from his appointment as executive director on 1 July 2004. new service contracts to allow for severance payments to be phased, measures were taken from the annual plan principally on cash flow.
where appropriate to do so.
It will also consider mitigation to reduce Cash flow was strong.
Amounts received from the divestment of compensation to a departing director, where appropriate to do so.
non-strategic assets significantly exceeded internal targets principally due to the Innovene disposal and these, along with other actions and successes, more than offset reductions in cash flow caused by adverse events.
Production rates, allowing for the impact of oil prices on production-sharing contracts and weather-related downtime, 2005 ACTUAL REMUNERATION ELEMENTS were within internal expectations.
Annual strategic metrics and milestones were taken from the Base salary five-year group business plan.
There is a wide range of measures, Performance-related annual bonus including those relating to people, safety, environment, technology Performance-related long-term incentives and organization as well as operations and business development.
The group continued to perform well, developing business in Russia, India and elsewhere.
New fields came on stream in the US, Angola, Azerbaijan and Trinidad & Tobago.
A new code of conduct was launched and employees were trained in its application.
Safety The chart above reflects the average mix of total remuneration received performance was impaired by the incident at Texas City.
by executive directors in 2005 and includes actual salary, bonus and Individual performance against leadership objectives was share element award.
reviewed by the committee, as was the underlying performance of the group in the context of the five-year plan, together with Salary Base salaries for all executive directors were reviewed relative competitor results and positioning.
Results are in line with or to top Europe-based global companies and the US oil and gas sector.
Having taken account of market movements and performance, the The committee also considered this performance in the light of committee awarded a 5% increase in base salaries with effect from the significant events during the year, both positive and negative.
1 July 2005 for all exective directors except Mr Conn, whose increase These included the high prices of oil and gas: the overall financial was slightly higher to bring him to the same level as his peers.
performance of the group: the disposal of non-strategic assets, principally Innovene: the financial and other consequences of the Annual bonus The measures and weightings described earlier form serious incident at the Texas City refinery and the repairs to the the framework within which the remuneration committee determined Thunder Horse platform: and the effects of the hurricanes in the the annual bonuses for the executive directors.
The scale and the impact of all of these events were The committee made evaluations against each of the measures: taken into account in determining the annual bonuses, which are set financial, metrics and milestones, and individual.
The financial out in the table above.
During 2005, the highest market prices were 6.84 and $72.27 respectively and the lowest market prices were 5.04 and $56.61 respectively.
EDIP Executive Directors Incentive Plan adopted by shareholders in April 2005 as described on pages 165-167.
BPA BP Amoco share option plan, which applied to US executive directors prior to the adoption of the EDIP.
SAR Stock Appreciation Rights under BP America Inc. Share Appreciation Plan.
SAYE Save As You Earn employee share scheme.
EXEC Executive Share Option Scheme.
These options were granted to the relevant individuals prior to their appointments as directors and are not subject to performance conditions.
a Numbers shown are ADSs under option.
One ADS is equivalent to six ordinary shares.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2005 169 SHARE ELEMENT OF EDIP AND LONG TERM PERFORMANCE PLANS For the 2003-2005 share element of the EDIP and the LTPPs, Under the share element of the EDIP and the Long Term Performance BPs performance was assessed in terms of SHRAM, ROACE and Plans LTPPs, performance units were until 2004 granted at the EPS growth.
BPs three-year SHRAM was measured against the beginning of the three-year period and converted into an award of companies in the FTSE All World Oil & Gas Index.
Companies within shares at the end of the period, depending on performance.
There is the index are weighted according to their market capitalization at a maximum of two shares per performance unit.
For 2005 and future the beginning of each three-year period in order to give greatest years, grants of performance shares are made, being the maximum emphasis to oil majors.
BPs ROACE and EPS were measured against number of shares that could vest as described on pages 165-167.
In ExxonMobil, Shell, Total and Chevron.
Based on a performance the table below, performance units that have yet to convert to shares assessment of 75 points out of 200 0 for SHRAM, 50 for ROACE are expressed as the maximum number of shares into which they and 25 for EPS growth, the committee expects to make awards could convert based on the maximum 2:1 ratio.
This achieves of shares to executive directors as highlighted in the 2003-2005 lines consistency of disclosure between the two periods.
For the periods 2003-2005 and 2004-2006, the performance measure is SHRAM, which is measured against the FTSE All World Oil & Gas Index, and ROACE and EPS growth, which are measured against ExxonMobil, Shell, Total and Chevron.
For the 2005-2007 period, the performance condition is TSR measured against ExxonMobil, Shell, Total and Chevron.
Each performance period ends on 31 December of the third year.
b Represents awards of shares made, or expected to be made, at the end of the relevant performance period based on performance achieved under rules of the plan.
c Mr Conn elected to defer to 2006 the determination of whether LTPP awards should be made for the 2000-2002 performance period.
As this period ended prior to his appointment as a director, the expected award is not included in this table.
170 Making energy more PENSIONS thousand Accrued Additional pension Transfer value of Transfer value of Amount of B-A less b b Service at pension entitlement earned during the year accrued benefit accrued benefit contributions made by a 31 Dec 2005 at 31 Dec 2005 ended 31 Dec 2005 at 31 Dec 2004 A at 31 Dec 2005 B the director in 2005 Lord Browne UK 39 years 991 47 17,170 19,979 2,809 Dr D C Allen UK 27 years 200 17 2,754 3,433 679 I C Conn UK 20 years 147 20 1,542 2,124 582 Dr B E Grote US 26 years $570 $105 $5,529 $6,681 $1,152 Dr A B Hayward UK 24 years 207 19 2,680 3,408 728 J A Manzoni UK 22 years 163 15 1,958 2,518 560 a Additional pension earned during the year includes an inflation increase of 3.5%.
b Transfer values have been calculated in accordance with version 8.1 of guidance note GN11 issued by the actuarial profession.
HISTORICAL TSR PERFORMANCE PAST DIRECTORS This graph is included to meet a legislative requirement and shows During 2005, Mr Olver continued as a consultant to BP in relation the growth in the value of a hypothetical 100 holding in BP p. l. c. to its activities in Russia and served as a BP-nominated director of ordinary shares over five years relative to the FTSE 100 and to the TNK-BP Limited, a joint venture company owned 50% by BP.
Under the FTSE All World Oil & Gas Index.
These are considered to be the most consultancy agreement, he received 300,000 in fees in 2005 as well relevant broad equity market indices for this purpose and the company as reimbursement of costs and support for his role.
He is also entitled is a constituent of both indices.
to retain fees paid to him by TNK-BP up to a maximum of $120,000 a year for his role as a director, deputy chairman and chairman of 220 the audit committee of TNK-BP Limited.
200 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 Dec 00 Dec 01 Dec 02 Dec 03 Dec 04 Dec 05 FTSE 100 FTSE All World Oil & Gas Index BP BP Annual Report and Accounts 2005 171 Value of hypothetical 100 holding Part 2 Non-executive directors remuneration LETTERS OF APPOINTMENT Non-executive directors have letters of appointment, which recognize POLICY ON NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION that, subject to the Articles of Association, their service is at the The board sets the level of remuneration for all non-executive discretion of the shareholders.
All directors stand for re-election at directors within the limit approved from time to time by shareholders.
In line with BPs governance policies, the remuneration of the chairman is set by the board rather than the remuneration committee, NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ANNUAL FEE STRUCTURE since the performance of the chairman is a matter for the board as The fees paid to non-executive directors are set by the board within the a whole rather than any one committee.
limit set by shareholders in accordance with the Articles.
Shareholders The board has adopted the following policies to guide its approved an increase to this limit in 2004.
All fees are fixed and paid in current and future decision-making with regard to non-executive pounds sterling.
Fees payable to non-executive directors were reviewed directors remuneration: in 2005 by an ad hoc board committee comprising Mr Bryan chairman, Within the limits set by the shareholders from time to time, Dr Julius and Mr Burgmans.
This ad hoc committee recommended remuneration should be sufficient to attract, motivate and retain an increase in fees to reflect the increase in director workload as well world-class non-executive talent.
as increases in global market rates for independent non-executive Remuneration of non-executive directors is set by the board and directors, since these fees were last reviewed in 2002.
The board duly should be proportional to their contribution towards the interests approved the recommended increases with effect from 1 January 2005. of the company.
Remuneration practice should be consistent with recognized thousand best-practice standards for non-executive directors remuneration.
2005 2004 a a Remuneration should be in the form of cash fees, payable monthly.
Chairman 500 390 b b Non-executive directors should not receive share options from Deputy chairman 100 85 the company.
Board member 75 65 Non-executive directors should be encouraged to establish a Committee chairmanship fee 20 15 c holding in BP shares broadly related to one years base fee, to Transatlantic attendance allowance 55 be held directly or indirectly in a manner compatible with their a The chairman is not eligible for committee chairmanship fees or transatlantic personal investment activities, and any applicable legal and attendance allowance but has the use of a fully maintained office for company regulatory requirements.
b The deputy chairman receives a 25,000 2004 20,000 increment on top of the standard board fee.
In addition, he is eligible for committee chairmanship ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION fees and the transatlantic attendance allowance.
The deputy chairman is currently chairman of the audit committee.
Non-executive directors pay comprises cash fees, paid monthly, c This allowance is payable to non-executive directors undertaking transatlantic with increments for positions of additional responsibility, reflecting or equivalent intercontinental travel for the purpose of attending a board additional workload and consequent potential liability.
For all meeting or board committee meeting.
non-executive directors, except the chairman, a fixed sum allowance is paid for transatlantic travel or equivalent intercontinental travel LONG-TERM INCENTIVES RESIDUAL undertaken for the purpose of attending a board or board committee The table on the next page sets out the residual entitlements of meeting.
In addition, non-executive directors receive reimbursement non-executive directors who were formerly non-executive directors of reasonable travel and related business expenses.
No share or share of Amoco Corporation under the Amoco Non-Employee Directors option awards are made to any non-executive director in respect of Restricted Stock Plan.
172 Making energy more Information subject to audit SUPERANNUATION GRATUITIES In accordance with the companys long-standing practice, REMUNERATION OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS thousand non-executive directors who retired from the board after at least Current directors 2005 2004 six years service are, at the time of their retirement, eligible for J H Bryan 110 100 consideration for a superannuation gratuity.
The board is authorized A Burgmans 90 53 to make such payments under the companys Articles.
The amount E B Davis, Jr 110 105 of the payment is determined at the boards discretion having a D J Flint 90 n a regard to the directors period of service as a director and other Dr D S Julius 107 75 relevant factors.
Sir Tom McKillop 90 38 The board made superannuation gratuity payments during the Dr W E Massey 130 115 year to the following former directors: Mr Knight 79,000 and Sir H M P Miles 90 75 Robin Nicholson 84,000 who both retired in 2005 and Mr Maljers Sir Ian Prosser 135 110 18,000 who retired in 2004.
These payments were in line with the P D Sutherland 500 390 policy arrangements agreed in 2002 see below.
M H Wilson 105 95 In 2002, the board revised its policy with respect to superannuation Directors leaving the board in 2005 gratuities so that: i non-executive directors appointed to the board b c after 1 July 2002 would not be eligible for consideration for such a C F Knight 30 90 b d e payment: and ii while non-executive directors in service at 1 July Sir Robin Nicholson 32 90 2002 would remain eligible for consideration for a payment, service a Appointed on 1 January 2005. b after that date would not be taken into account by the board in Retired at AGM on 14 April 2005. c Also received a superannuation gratuity of 79,000 following his retirement.
considering the amount of any such payment.
d Also received 20,000 each year for serving as the boards representative on the BP technology advisory council.
e Also received a superannuation gratuity of 84,000 following his retirement.
This directors remuneration report was approved by the board and signed on its behalf by David J Jackson, company secretary, on AMOCO NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS RESTRICTED STOCK PLAN 6 February 2006.
Non-executive directors of Amoco Corporation were allocated restricted stock in the Amoco Non-Employee Directors Restricted Stock Plan by way of remuneration for their service on the board of Amoco Corporation prior to its merger with BP in 1998.
On merger, interests in Amoco shares in the plan were converted into interests in BP ADSs.
Under the terms of the plan, the restricted stock will vest on the retirement of the non-executive director having reached age 70 or on earlier retirement at the discretion of the board.
Since the merger, no further entitlements have accrued to any director under the plan.
These residual interests require disclosure under the directors remuneration report regulations 2002 as interests in a long-term incentive scheme.
Interest in BP ADSs Date on at 1 Jan 2005 and which director a b 31 Dec 2005 reaches age 70 J H Bryan 5,546 5 Oct 2006 E B Davis, Jr 4,490 5 Aug 2014 Dr W E Massey 3,346 5 Apr 2008 M H Wilson 3,170 4 Nov 2007 a No awards were granted and no awards lapsed during the year.
The awards were granted over Amoco stock prior to the merger but their notional weighted average market value at the date of grant applying the subsequent merger ratio of 0.66167 of a BP ADS for every Amoco share was $27.87 per BP ADS.
b For the purposes of the regulations, the date on which the director retires from the board at or after the age of 70 is the end of the qualifying period.
If the director retires prior to this date, the board may waive the restrictions.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2005 173 1 3 7 9 5 2 4 6 8 10 Board of directors EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 1 The Lord Browne of Madingley, FREng, 7 P D Sutherland, KCMG, Chairman 4 Dr B E Grote, Chief Financial Officer Group Chief Executive Peter Sutherland 59 rejoined BPs board in Byron Grote 57 joined BP in 1987 following Lord Browne 57 joined BP in 1966 and 1995, having been a non-executive director the acquisition of The Standard Oil Company subsequently held a variety of exploration from 1990 to 1993, and was appointed of Ohio, where he had worked since 1979. and production and finance posts in the chairman in 1997.
He is non-executive He became group treasurer in 1992 and in US, UK and Canada.
He was appointed an chairman of Goldman Sachs International 1994 regional chief executive in Latin America.
executive director in 1991 and group chief and a non-executive director of The Royal In 1999, he was appointed an executive vice executive in 1995.
He is a non-executive Bank of Scotland Group.
president of exploration and production, and director of Intel Corporation and Goldman Chairman of the chairmans and nomination chief executive of chemicals in 2000.
He was knighted in 1998 committees appointed an executive director of BP in 2000 and made a life peer in 2001. and chief financial officer in 2002.
8 Sir Ian Prosser, Deputy Chairman 2 Dr D C Allen, Group Chief of Staff Sir Ian 62 joined BPs board in 1997 5 Dr A B Hayward, Chief Executive, David Allen 51 joined BP in 1978 and and was appointed non-executive deputy Exploration and Production subsequently undertook a number of chairman in 1999.
He retired as chairman of Tony Hayward 48 joined BP in 1982. corporate and exploration and production Intercontinental Hotels Group PLC, previously He became a director of exploration and roles in London and New York.
He was a non-executive production in 1997, the segment in which to BPs corporate planning function in 1986, director of The Boots Company from 1984 he had previously held a series of roles.
becoming group vice president in 1999. to 1996, of Lloyds Bank PLC from 1988 to In 2000, he was made group treasurer He was appointed an executive vice 1995 and of Lloyds TSB Group PLC from and an executive vice president in 2002. president and group chief of staff in 2000 1995 to 1999.
In 2000, he was appointed He was appointed chief operating officer and an executive director of BP in 2003. a non-executive director of GlaxoSmithKline for exploration and production in 2002 and He is a director of BP Pension Trustees Ltd. and in 2004 he was appointed a non-executive an executive director of BP in 2003.
He is director of Sara Lee Corporation.
a non-executive director of Corus Group.
3 I C Conn, Group Executive Officer, Member of the chairmans, nomination and Strategic Resources remuneration committees and chairman of 6 J A Manzoni, Chief Executive, Iain Conn 43 joined BP in 1986.
Following the audit committee Refining and Marketing a variety of roles in oil trading, commercial John Manzoni 46 joined BP in 1983.
He refining, marketing, exploration and 9 J H Bryan became group vice president for European production, in 2000 he became group vice John Bryan 69 joined BPs board in 1998, marketing in 1999 and BP regional president president of BPs refining and marketing having previously been a director of Amoco.
From 2002 to 2004, he was He serves on the boards of General Motors became an executive vice president and chief chief executive of petrochemicals.
He was Corporation and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. executive for BPs gas and power segment.
appointed group executive officer with a range He retired as chairman of Sara Lee He was appointed chief executive of the of regional and functional responsibilities and Corporation in 2001.
He is chairman of refining and marketing segment in 2002 an executive director in July 2004.
He was Millennium Park Inc. in Chicago.
and an executive director of BP in 2003.
He appointed to the board of Rolls-Royce Group Member of the chairmans, remuneration and is a non-executive director of SABMiller plc.
He is chairman of BP audit committees Pension Trustees Ltd. 10 A Burgmans Antony Burgmans 59 joined BPs board in 2004.
He was appointed to the board of Unilever in 1991.
In 1999, he became chairman of Unilever NV and vice chairman of Unilever PLC.
He was appointed non-executive chairman of Unilever NV and Unilever PLC in 2005.
He is also a member of the supervisory board of ABN AMRO Bank NV.
Member of the chairmans and ethics and environment assurance committees 174 Making energy more 11 13 15 17 12 14 16 CHANGES TO THE BOARD 11 E B Davis, Jr 14 Sir T om McKillop Charles Knight and Sir Robin Nicholson retired Erroll B Davis, Jr 61 joined BPs board in Sir Tom McKillop 61 joined BPs board on 14 April 2005.
1998, having previously been a director of in 2004.
Sir Tom was chief executive of Amoco.
He was chairman and chief executive AstraZeneca PLC from the merger of Astra COMPANY SECRETARY officer of Alliant Energy, relinquishing this AB and Zeneca Group PLC in 1999 until David Jackson 53 was appointed company dual appointment in July 2005.
He was a non-executive secretary in 2003.
A solicitor, he is a director as chairman of Alliant Energy until 1 February director of Lloyds TSB Group PLC until 2004 of BP Pension Trustees Ltd, a director of 2006, leaving to become chancellor of the and is deputy chairman of The Royal Bank of Business in the Community and a member University System of Georgia.
of the Listing Authorities Advisory Committee.
non-executive director of PPG Industries, Member of the chairmans and remuneration Union Pacific Corporation and the US committees Olympic Committee.
Member of the chairmans, audit and 15 Dr W E Massey remuneration committees Walter Massey 67 joined BPs board in 1998, having previously been a director of Amoco.
12 D J Flint He is president of Morehouse College, a Douglas Flint 50 joined BPs board in January non-executive director of Motorola, Bank 2005.
He trained as a chartered accountant of America and McDonalds Corporation and became a partner at KPMG in 1988. and a member of President Bushs Council In 1995, he was appointed group finance of Advisors on Science and Technology.
director of HSBC Holdings plc.
He was Member of the chairmans and nomination chairman of the Financial Reporting Councils committees and chairman of the ethics and review of the Turnbull Guidance on Internal environment assurance committee Control.
Between 2001 and 2004, he served on the Accounting Standards Board and 16 H M P Miles, OBE the advisory council of the International Michael Miles 69 joined BPs board in 1994.
In 1988, he became an executive director Member of the chairmans and audit of John Swire & Sons Ltd.
He was chairman committees of Swire Pacific between 1984 and 1988.
He is chairman of Schroders plc, non- 13 Dr D S Julius, CBE executive chairman of Johnson Matthey Plc DeAnne Julius 56 joined BPs board in 2001. and a director of BP Pension Trustees Ltd. She began her career as a project economist Member of the chairmans, audit and ethics with the World Bank in Washington.
From and environment assurance committees 1986 until 1997, she held a succession of posts, including chief economist at British 17 M H Wilson Airways and Royal Dutch Shell Group.
From Michael Wilson 68 joined BPs board in 1998, 1997 to 2001, she was a full-time member having previously been a director of Amoco.
of the Monetary Policy Committee of the He was a member of the Canadian Parliament Bank of England.
She is chairman of the from 1979 to 1993 and held various ministerial Royal Institute of International Affairs and a posts, including Finance, Industry, Science, non-executive director of Lloyds TSB Group Technology and International Trade.
He is PLC, Serco and Roche Holdings SA.
chairman of UBS Canada and a non-executive Member of the chairmans committee and director of Manulife Financial Corporation.
chairman of the remuneration committee He is an Officer of the Order of Canada.
Member of the chairmans, audit and ethics and environment assurance committees BP Annual Report and Accounts 2005 175
