CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board supports the principles of corporate governance advocated by the Revised Combined Code the Code published in July 2003 and, in accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, sets out below its first report on the application of the principles contained in the Code for the year under review.
Unless otherwise stated below, the Company has complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code throughout the year.
The Board The Board is responsible to Shareholders for the management of the Group and has adopted a committee structure which enables it to concentrate its efforts on strategy, management performance, governance and internal control.
The Board consists of a Chairman, a Chief Executive plus two other executive directors and four non-executive directors.
John Peace and David Tyler were appointed to their respective positions as Chairman and non-executive director by GUS plc GUS under the Relationship Agreement between the Company and GUS, which was entered into at the time of the Initial Public Offering IPO in July 2002.
The Board has a clear understanding of the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive.
Although not documented, the Chairman leads the Board in reviewing the Groups strategy and monitoring high-level progress.
The day-to-day business of the Group is the responsibility of the Chief Executive, Rose Marie Bravo, who is supported by the Companys two executive directors, Brian Blake and Stacey Cartwright who meet on a weekly basis as an Executive Committee, a management committee which operates under written terms of reference.
During the year under review the Board held four scheduled meetings, which, in the opinion of the directors, was a sufficient number to enable them to discharge their duties effectively.
All directors attended every meeting.
At the request of any non-executive director, the Chairman will arrange meetings consisting of only the Companys non-executive directors to allow the opportunity for any concerns to be expressed.
No such meetings were held during the year under review.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision.
In order to ensure that the Company and the Board are able to draw from an appropriate balance of skills and experience, the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee further details of which are provided below, include the responsibility for reviewing succession plans for both Board and senior executive positions.
The Chairman ensures that the Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
In addition, directors are also supplied with an extensive monthly report, which provides information on operational and financial performance, risk management and the Groups business plans.
There is also a procedure whereby directors, in the furtherance of their duties, are able to take independent advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
In addition, all directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board as a whole.
Philip Bowman, Guy Peyrelongue and Caroline Marland are, in the opinion of the Board, independent of management and free from any business relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Throughout the year, a majority of the Board comprised non-executive directors.
However as explained above, GUS has the right to appoint the Chairman and a non-executive director pursuant to the Relationship Agreement.
Accordingly, John Peace Group Chief Executive of GUS and David Tyler Group Finance Director of GUS were appointed as Chairman and as a non-executive director respectively of the Company, and are not considered to be independent under the Code.
Therefore, at times during the year and in particular during the periods when Thomas ONeill and Brian Blake served as directors of the Company, half of the Board excluding the Chairman did not comprise independent non-executive directors as required under the Code.
Directors Development On appointment, directors are furnished with relevant information to discharge their duties effectively.
The Company has an induction process whereby a director will meet key members of the management team following his her appointment.
As an ongoing process, directors are briefed and provided with information concerning major developments affecting their roles and responsibilities.
In particular, the directors knowledge of the Groups worldwide operations is regularly updated by arranging presentations from local management and by holding meetings in the Groups major markets.
Board Evaluation The Nomination Committee has discussed the methods available to it in order to evaluate the performance of the Board including the assistance of specialist third-party consultants.
For the year under review, the Board considered that such a formal evaluation would not be undertaken but would be kept under review for future years.
The evaluation of the performance of the Board, its committees and of the individual directors is carried out on an informal basis.
This informal method of evaluation is carried out by the Chairman in respect of the Board as a whole.
The Chairmans performance was not subject to formal evaluation during the year under review.
22 Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED All directors are subject to election by Shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment and thereafter in accordance with Article 82 of the Companys Articles of Association.
This ensures compliance with the Code by providing that all directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
The biographical details of those directors seeking election and re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM can be found on page 18 of this Annual Report.
Committees The Board is supported by the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
GUS is entitled to appoint one member of each of these committees under the Relationship Agreement.
The Committees, if they consider it necessary, can engage third party consultants and advisers and can call upon other resources of the Group to assist them in developing their respective roles.
In addition to the relevant Committee members and the Company Secretary, external advisers and on occasion other directors attend committee meetings but only at the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee.
As the Committees terms of reference and the schedule of matters reserved for the Board were adopted at the time of the IPO in July 2002, they are currently under review, which once completed will be made available on request and on the Investors section of the Groups website www.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee consists of three non-executive directors: Philip Bowman Chairman, Caroline Marland and David Tyler.
The Committee met twice during the year, with both the external auditors and a representative of the Groups internal audit department present.
All members of the Committee attended every meeting.
Given the nature of the senior management positions held by Philip Bowman and David Tyler see biographical details on page 18 of this Annual Report, the Board is satisfied, in accordance with the provisions of the Code, that at least one member of the Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Code requires that the Audit Committee should consist of at least three independent non-executive directors.
David Tyler was appointed to the Board, and as a member of the Audit Committee pursuant to the Relationship Agreement with GUS and therefore is not independent for the purposes of the Code.
However, the Company considers his presence on the Committee as being in Shareholders interests overall, given that GUS was, during the year under review, the beneficial owner of over 65% of the Companys Ordinary Shares.
The Audit Committee has reviewed during the year the adequacy of whistleblowing arrangements adopted by the Group.
The Board acknowledges that the independence of auditors is a subject that has become increasingly prominent.
It is the role of the Audit Committee to recommend the appointment of auditors and to ensure that the auditors objectivity and independence are maintained.
It has adopted a policy in this respect and monitors the level of fees for non-audit services.
Audit related services The external auditors are preferred providers of audit related services given their understanding of the Group and the synergistic relationship between such work and the aims of the annual audit.
Such work extends to, but is not restricted to, Shareholder and other circulars and regulatory and other compliance reports.
Taxation services Generally, if the external auditors knowledge of the Groups tax affairs provides significant advantage which another third party would not have, they will be retained for both tax planning and compliance matters.
General services Other proposed assignments are put out to competitive tender and decisions to award work are taken on the basis of demonstrable competence and cost effectiveness.
As  PwC provides non-audit services, auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded in part by the use of different PwC personnel located wherever possible at different PwC offices.
In addition, fees for audit and non-audit services are separately negotiated.
Remuneration Committee Details of the Remuneration Committee and its application of corporate governance principles in relation to directors remuneration is described in the Report on directors remuneration and related matters on page 26.
Nomination Committee The members of the Nomination Committee are John Peace Chairman, Rose Marie Bravo, Philip Bowman, Caroline Marland and Guy Peyrelongue.
The Committee met twice during the year under review.
The Committee is responsible for identifying and recommending appointments to the Board.
Independent external search consultants are engaged to identify and or assess the suitability of candidates having regard to professional experience, qualifications and other capabilities which candidates are required to possess.
Details of candidates are prepared for review by the Committee which then makes a recommendation to the Board.
Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 23 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Relations with Shareholders The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its Shareholders and does this through its Annual and Interim Reports, quarterly trading updates and at the Annual General Meeting.
The Company communicates with its institutional investors frequently and regularly throughout the year through a combination of formal and informal meetings, participation at sector-specific conferences and ad-hoc briefings with management.
The Board is kept abreast of the views of major Shareholders by briefings from the Companys Senior Vice President of Strategy and Investor Relations.
Analysts notes and brokers briefings are also used to achieve a greater understanding of investors views of the Company.
The Companys non-executive directors, including the Senior Independent Non-executive director, are available to meet with any of the Companys major Shareholders to discuss issues of importance to them should a meeting be requested.
No such meetings were requested during the year under review.
In accordance with the provisions of the Code, the Notice of the 2004 AGM was sent to Shareholders at least 20 working days before the Meeting.
A poll vote was taken on each of the resolutions put before Shareholders.
It is the intention that all directors will attend the forthcoming AGM and will be available to answer Shareholders questions.
In keeping with the approach taken at the AGM held in 2004 and in accordance with the recommendation of the Myners Report to the Shareholder Voting Working Group 2004, the Company will be calling a poll on each of the resolutions to be put to Shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
The level of proxies lodged on each resolution and the number of proxy votes for and against the resolution will be made available at the AGM on request and will be published on the Companys website.
Corporate social responsibility CSR Details on the Companys approach to CSR are given on pages 38 to 41.
Accountability and audit The Board acknowledges that it should present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
In this context, reference should be made to the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 42, which includes a statement in compliance with the Code regarding the Groups status as a going concern, and to the Report of the Auditors on page 43, which includes a statement by the auditors about their reporting responsibilities.
The Board recognises that its responsibility to present a balanced and understandable assessment extends to interim and other price sensitive public reports and reports to regulators as well as information required to be presented by law.
Internal control The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the key procedures which have been established to provide internal control which includes all material controls such as financial, operational and compliance controls.
It currently believes that overall the Groups risk management and internal control procedures are adequate and that there are not any material weaknesses.
However, the continued financial and geographical growth and development of the business require such procedures to be reviewed and where necessary improved.
To facilitate this process the Group has strengthened its management by the appointment of a Director of Audit and Risk Assurance.
Furthermore, the programme to redesign business procedures and systems referred to in the Chief Executives Review is expected to strengthen the internal control environment as the programme progresses.
In accordance with the guidance for directors on internal control The Turnbull Guidance, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
These include those relating to social, environmental and ethical matters.
This process was in place in respect of the Burberry business throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The process will be regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee which reports its findings for consideration by the Board, and is in accordance with The Turnbull Guidance.
The key procedures operating within the Group are as follows: Risk assessment The Groups business objectives are incorporated into the annual budgeting and planning cycle.
Progress towards the achievement of such objectives is monitored by a variety of financial measures and non-financial performance indicators.
The Audit Committee has delegated responsibility for considering operational, financial, compliance and other risks.
Specific consideration is given to the identification of risk factors, and the appropriate control measures for such factors, as part of the Groups annual budgeting cycle.
The executive directors meet formally on a quarterly basis to re-evaluate these risk factors in the context of the then current environment and business activity.
24 Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Control environment and control activities The Group consists of a number of trading units, each with its own management and control structure.
These units report to the executive directors.
The Group has established procedures for the delegation of authorities for matters that are considered significant, either because of their value or the impact on the Group, to ensure that approval is considered at an appropriate level.
The Groups trading units operate within a framework of policies and procedures which are either already laid down or are being established in organisation or authority manuals.
Policies and procedures cover key issues such as authorisation levels, segregation of duties, compliance with legislation and physical and data security.
The Group has implemented various strategies to deal with the risk factors that have been identified.
Such strategies include a framework of internal control and the use of third party services to assist in monitoring specific issues.
In addition, other approaches are taken, such as insurance and the use of treasury instruments to hedge specific foreign currency exposures.
Information and communication The Group has a comprehensive system of budgetary control, focused on monthly performance reporting which is at an appropriately detailed level.
A summary of results supported by commentary and performance measures is provided to the Board each month.
The performance measures are subject to review to ensure that they provide relevant and reliable indications of business performance.
A summary of risk factors and relevant control measures identified as part of the budgeting cycle is submitted by the executive directors to the Audit Committee at the beginning of each year.
This report is updated at the half-year, and re-submitted to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee meets with both external and internal auditors, and can do so without the presence of executive directors, if it so chooses.
Monitoring A range of procedures is used to monitor the effective application of internal control within the Group.
These include management review, management confirmations of compliance with standards and procedures as well as internal audit and other specialist reviews.
The Internal Audit department is responsible for reporting to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of internal control systems.
Compliance with the Code Provisions Unless otherwise stated above, the Company has complied with the provisions of the Code throughout the accounting period under review with the following further exceptions: The Code states that directors notice or contract termination periods should be set at one year or less.
Ms Bravos service agreement dated 28 May 2002 was amended in June 2004, which had the effect of extending its initial fixed period by a year to 30 June 2006.
Ms Bravo may terminate the agreement on six months notice to expire on or after 30 June 2006.
Burberry Limited US can terminate the agreement in certain circumstances as described on page 28.
The Report on directors remuneration and related matters sets out further details of Ms Bravos service agreement.
At the time of the IPO, Burberry adopted various share incentive schemes which are not compliant with the Code in certain respects.
In particular, there are no performance conditions attached to the vesting of options and granting of awards under these schemes.
The Company has ceased granting awards under these schemes with the exception of the Burberry Group plc Executive Share Option Scheme 2002, and other than to the extent past contractual commitments oblige it to do so, the Company does not intend to make any further awards under these schemes during the current financial year.
Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 25 REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION AND RELATED MATTERS The Board presents its Report on directors remuneration and related matters including details of Total Shareholder Return, Remuneration Policy and of Directors Remuneration.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Guy Peyrelongue and its other members are Philip Bowman, Caroline Marland and John Peace.
The Remuneration Committee decides both the level and structure of executive directors pay and monitors pay for senior management.
The remuneration of the Chairman and non-executive directors is a matter reserved for the Board as a whole.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and holds additional meetings where necessary.
During the year under review, the Committee held two scheduled meetings at which all members were in attendance.
Pay decisions are made on the basis of advice or proposals prepared by the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Director of Human Resources as appropriate.
In making its decisions, the Remuneration Committee has access to external advisers appointed on behalf of the Company.
For the year to 31 March 2005, the Companys principal remuneration advisers were Kepler Associates.
No other services were provided to the Company by Kepler.
Supplementary analysis was carried out for the Committee by Mercer Human Resource Consulting.
Where appropriate, the Remuneration Committee will instigate consultation with major institutional Shareholders on remuneration matters.
The Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 the Code requires that the Remuneration Committee should consist only of independent non-executive directors.
John Peace was appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee pursuant to the Relationship Agreement with GUS plc GUS and is not independent for the purposes of the Code.
However, the Company considers his presence on the Committee as being in Shareholders interests overall given that GUS was, during the year under review, the beneficial owner of over 65% of the Companys Ordinary Shares Shares.
The Code states that the Remuneration Committee should determine the Chairmans remuneration, however this is currently a matter reserved for Board decision.
The Company intends to review this area of non-compliance with the Code as part of the general review of the terms of reference of the Companys main Board Committees and the schedule of matters reserved for the Board.
Subject to the above exceptions, the constitution and operation of the Remuneration Committee are in compliance with the principles of good governance and Code of Best Practice, set out in the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Total Shareholder Return The following graph shows the total Shareholder return for Burberry Group plc compared to the companies in the FTSE 100 Index assuming 100 was invested on 12 July 2002, the date of the IPO.
The FTSE 100 Index has been selected because Burberrys market capitalisation is close to that of companies at the lower end of the FTSE 100 Index.
Value of 100 invested on Burberry flotation date Burberry FTSE 100 200 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 June 2002 September 2002 December 2002 March 2003 June 2003 September 2003 December 2003 March 2004 June 2004 September 2004 December 2004 March 2005 40 26 Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION AND RELATED MATTERS CONTINUED Remuneration Policy The objectives of the Groups remuneration policy is to attract, motivate and retain exceptional talent to allow it to compete with the worlds leading luxury brands.
The success of Burberry has drawn attention to the quality of our senior management and the Group needs strong retention tools.
Furthermore, the majority of our management is from outside the UK.
Our remuneration policy is based on four tenets: 1.
Base pay levels and bonuses are established on a market competitive basis.
Benefits are based on local market practice for each executive.
Performance-related incentives provide the opportunity to deliver substantial rewards for high performance.
Pay is closely aligned to Shareholders interests and a substantial proportion of remuneration is delivered in Shares.
Remuneration packages are regularly reviewed against the agreed policy to ensure that they meet the overall objective.
Relative importance of elements of remuneration The relative importance of the elements of each of the executive directors remuneration is shown below based on base salaries, target annual bonuses and present fair values of long term incentives for the year to 31 March 2005.
Proportion of total compensation Rose Marie Bravo Brian Blake Stacey Cartwright Base salary Base salary Base salary Annual bonus Annual bonus Annual bonus Long term incentives Long term incentives Long term incentives Implementation of policy Burberry implements its remuneration policy as follows.
Base salary To help determine salaries, external remuneration consultants provide data about market salary levels, and advise the Remuneration Committee accordingly.
The Remuneration Committee also takes into account each directors contribution to the business during the year.
Annual bonus Executive directors are eligible for an annual incentive of 50% of base salary for achieving targets and a maximum of 100% of base salary for substantially exceeding targets.
Bonus entitlement, subject to the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, is calculated on a straight line basis from target through to maximum.
The Remuneration Committee sets bonus targets by reference to agreed budgets and external expectations.
Bonuses are currently based on growth in profit before tax and exceptional items.
Share incentives The share incentive awards granted to Ms Bravo were initially determined prior to the IPO and reflected the requirements with regard to the incentivisation of the executive team at that time in the context of the IPO.
The timetable under which some of Ms Bravos awards and options vested was adjusted as part of the agreed extension of Ms Bravos service agreement see page 28 for further details.
The incentive awards to Stacey Cartwright and Brian Blake were made in accordance with the terms of their respective service agreements.
As reported in the Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2004, the rules of the Co-Investment Plan were altered so as to increase the incentive and retention effect of the Plan.
To achieve this, the maximum matching ratio that could be awarded at maximum performance was increased, during the financial year under review, from one to one 1:1, to two to one 2:1.
The actual matching opportunity depends on the Companys performance.
Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 27 REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION AND RELATED MATTERS CONTINUED Service agreements Attracting and retaining the top talent in the global luxury brand business may require fixed term contracts and notice periods in excess of one year.
However, Burberry will not offer notice periods of more than one year unless it is necessary.
Termination payments reflect the circumstances of termination.
If a director voluntarily resigns, the director will be entitled to his her base salary and bonus to the extent earned.
In circumstances where the Company dismisses the director for cause, no further payments will be made whether of salary or otherwise.
Where a director is dismissed without cause the director will be protected against the financial consequences of such dismissal.
Save as described below, there are no service contracts with any director containing a notice or contract period of more than one year or provisions for pre-determining compensation on termination of any amount which exceeds one years salary and benefits in kind.
The main terms on which each of the directors is or, in the case of Thomas ONeill, was employed by a member of the Group are set out below.
Rose Marie Bravo The terms of Ms Bravos service agreement were negotiated in preparation for the IPO having regard to the need to incentivise her and, in particular, retain her services following the IPO a matter of considerable concern to potential investors at that time.
Ms Bravo is employed by Burberry as Chief Executive under a service agreement dated 28 May 2002 and amended in June 2004 which had the effect of extending the initial fixed period by a year to 30 June 2006.
As part of this extension, the Company adjusted the vesting schedule with respect to Ms Bravos Shares awarded under the IPO Restricted Share Plan.
A substantial part of Ms Bravos share incentives including 2.5m Shares awarded under the IPO Restricted Share Plan, which would have vested in 2005 at the end of her employment do not now vest until July 2006 at the earliest.
Accordingly, the vesting of one million Shares awarded to Ms Bravo under the IPO Restricted Share Plan was brought forward so that they vested a year earlier in July 2004.
From July 2005, Ms Bravo will be paid the cash equivalent of the dividends payable on 2.5m Shares held by her under the IPO Restricted Share Plan which now do not vest until July 2006 at the earliest.
Burberry may terminate Ms Bravos service agreement with or without cause at any time without a notice period during and after the initial fixed period.
If the service agreement is terminated by Burberry without cause an example of cause is gross misconduct then it will continue to pay to Ms Bravo her base salary for the balance of the fixed period or one year if longer : in lieu of an annual bonus, it will pay 50% of base salary for each full year and a pro rata portion thereof for each part year payable when such bonus would otherwise be paid.
If Ms Bravo terminates the service agreement with good reason the termination is deemed to be termination by Burberry without cause.
On termination of Ms Bravos employment she will be reimbursed for reasonable relocation costs to the US.
If any person acquires control of Burberry, including by acquiring 25% or more of the voting rights in Burberry, Ms Bravo can terminate her employment and such termination would be deemed to be by Burberry without cause.
If payments due to Ms Bravo are deemed of a level that would subject her to US federal excise tax under Section 280G b 2 of the US Internal Revenue Code 1986, Burberry Limited US will pay Ms Bravo an additional amount so that she will be in the same net after-tax position had the excise tax not been applied.
Pursuant to her service agreement Ms Bravo was granted options over Shares as set out on page 32.
Ms Bravo is also entitled to be granted in 2005 an option over 833,333 Shares, under the Burberry Non-Approved Executive Share Option Scheme 2002.
The exercise price of the option is the market value of a Share at the time of grant.
If the service agreement is terminated, Ms Bravos rights in respect of her award and options will be determined by the rules of the relevant share scheme except that her award and options will vest and become exercisable if the service agreement is terminated on or after 30 June 2006 in any circumstances, unless for cause.
Under the service agreement, and to strengthen the retention effect of the arrangements with Ms Bravo, a right was granted to her which operates as a deferred bonus and which is not payable until July 2006 at the earliest.
In other words, instead of her share incentives, Ms Bravo can receive a cash payment of US$15m.
Ms Bravo can exercise this right on or after 30 June 2006 on termination of her employment but this cash payment will be reduced or may be extinguished by an amount equal to the value already received on the vesting and exercise of her share incentives.
To date, the value of incentives received is approximately US$11.8m.
In addition, she can receive this cash payment before 30 June 2006 if either her employment is terminated by Burberry without cause or by Ms Bravo for good reason or if there is a Change in Control and she elects to terminate her employment.
Brian Blake Mr Blake is employed as Group President and Chief Operating Officer by Burberry Limited US under a service agreement effective from 1 June 2004.
Under the terms of his service agreement Mr Blake was granted a number of share options.
In addition to the options granted to Mr Blake and set out on page 32, Mr Blake was granted a nil-cost option over 231,640 Shares on the same terms as those granted under the Burberry Senior Executive IPO Restricted Share Plan except that such option shall be satisfied by market-purchased Shares.
In accordance with the terms under which the option was granted, 50% of the option will become exercisable on 2 August 2007, 25% on 2 August 2008 and 25% on 2 August 2009.
On termination of his service agreement, Mr Blakes rights in respect of his share options will be governed by the rules under which the options are granted.
Mr Blake is entitled to participate in such long term incentive arrangements and share option schemes as the Remuneration Committee may determine having regard to his position and performance.
28 Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION AND RELATED MATTERS CONTINUED Burberry may terminate Mr Blakes appointment by giving not less than 12 months written notice.
Mr Blake may terminate his employment by giving not less than six months written notice.
Stacey Cartwright Stacey Cartwright is employed by Burberry as Chief Financial Officer under a service agreement dated 17 November 2003.
Her term of appointment commenced on 1 March 2004.
Ms Cartwright was granted an award over, and options to acquire, Shares as set out on pages 32 and 33.
On termination of her service agreement, Ms Cartwrights rights in respect of her share awards and options will be governed by the rules of the relevant share schemes.
Ms Cartwright is entitled to participate in such long term incentive arrangements and share option schemes as the Remuneration Committee may determine having regard to her position and performance.
Burberry may terminate Ms Cartwrights appointment by giving 12 months written notice.
Ms Cartwright may terminate her employment by giving six months written notice.
Thomas ONeill As reported last year, Mr ONeill resigned as a director of the Company with effect from 1 July 2004 and ceased to be employed by the Group with effect from 31 July 2004.
Mr ONeill was employed as President Worldwide by Burberry Limited UK and by Burberry Limited US under service agreements dated 20 June 2002.
Details of awards and options over Shares held by Mr ONeill during the financial year are set out on pages 31 and 32.
Following Mr ONeills resignation as an employee, all his rights which had not vested in respect of the IPO Restricted Share Plan, the IPO Option Scheme and the 2002 Share Option Scheme lapsed.
Non-executive directors Guy Peyrelongue and Philip Bowman were each appointed as non-executive directors of the Company on 21 June 2002.
Caroline Marland was appointed as a non-executive director of the Company on 21 January 2003.
These directors have been appointed for an initial three-year term after which they may continue to serve for a maximum period of six years, subject to six months notice by either party.
Each director is paid a basic fee of 40,000 per annum.
An additional fee of 7,500 per annum is paid to each of the Chairman of the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
John Peace, Group Chief Executive of GUS, was appointed to the Board of the Company on 7 June 2002 as Non-executive Chairman.
David Tyler, Group Finance Director of GUS, was formally appointed as a non-executive director of the Company on 7 June 2002 having been a director since late 1997.
Messrs Peace and Tyler have been appointed for an initial three-year term after which they may continue to serve for a maximum period of six years, subject to six months notice by either party.
Neither John Peace nor David Tyler receives fees in respect of their appointments.
Instead, in accordance with the Relationship Agreement, the Remuneration Committee has agreed that the Company will pay annual fees of 100,000 in the case of John Peace, and 40,000 in the case of David Tyler, to GUS.
As part of the shareholding policy of the Company, non-executive directors are expected to acquire 6,000 in Shares in each year of their appointment.
The Shares must be held for three years from purchase, or, if longer, for the duration of a directors time on the Board.
External appointments The Company recognises that executive directors may be invited to become non-executive directors of other companies and that such appointments can broaden their knowledge and experience, to the benefit of the Company.
Ms Bravo served as a non-executive director of Tiffany & Co and The Este Lauder Companies Inc during the year, as a result of which the following remuneration was received and retained by her.
Tiffany & Co. $65,000 35,169 and an option to acquire 10,000 shares at a price equal to their market value on the date on which the option was granted.
The Este Lauder Companies Inc $73,500 39,768 and stock units with dividend entitlement in respect of 597.11 shares, which units shall be paid out in shares when Ms Bravo ceases to act as a director of the company.
Ms Bravo was also granted an option to acquire 5,000 shares at a price equal to their market value on the date on which the option was granted.
Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 29 REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION AND RELATED MATTERS CONTINUED Directors Remuneration The remuneration of the directors of Burberry Group plc in the period 1 April 2003 to 31 March 2005 is described below.
Total remuneration The table below summarises the total remuneration of the directors of the Company in the period 1 April 2003 to 31 March 2005: Total contribution to Total amounts received Total aggregate defined contribution under long term emoluments pension schemes incentive plans Total 000 000 000 000 Executive Remuneration 3,751 32 3,783 Non executive remuneration fees 276 276 Year to 31 March 2005 4,027 32 4,059 Year to 31 March 2004 3,809 61 3,870 These figures do not include deemed contributions under the Supplemental Executive Retirement Plans, see page 37.
Notwithstanding these changes, Ms Bravos aggregate emoluments expressed in Sterling have decreased by 30,000.
Until 2 November 2003, the cost of Ms Bravos accommodation was paid directly by Burberry and included in the figure disclosed as Benefits.
From that date to 31 March 2003, Ms Bravo was reimbursed in cash for her accommodation costs.
From 1 April 2004, Ms Bravo has been paid a housing allowance which is included in the figure disclosed as Allowances paid in cash.
2 Under the terms of the Co-investment Plan, directors will be given the opportunity to apply some or all of their Net bonus to purchase shares in Burberry Group plc.
3 Benefits for Tom ONeill include amounts paid for full year.
4 Figures disclosed include amounts relating to former directors of the Company 731,000.
5 Emoluments for Brian Blake are based from the time he joined the Company on 1 June 2004.
6 Emoluments for Tom ONeill are based on the period from 1 April 2004 to 31 July 2004.
30 Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION AND RELATED MATTERS CONTINUED Non-executive directors Fees Fees 2005 2004 000 000 John Peace 100 100 Philip Bowman 48 48 Guy Peyrelongue 48 48 Caroline Marland 40 40 David Tyler 40 40 Total 276 276 The fees for John Peace Chairman and David Tyler are paid to GUS.
Salaries and allowances Mr ONeill was paid an overseas allowance.
Brian Blakes allowances include the cash equivalent of a company car and a housing allowance.
Stacey Cartwrights allowances include the cash equivalent of a company car.
Mr Blake receives, by way of additional remuneration, an annual contribution equal to 20% of his base salary in lieu of pension contributions.
The Company makes an annual contribution equal to 20% of Ms Cartwrights base salary to such personal pension plan as she may nominate.
To the extent this exceeds Inland Revenue limits the excess is paid as additional remuneration and is disclosed in the table of Aggregate emoluments by director within Allowances paid in cash.
Benefits Benefits for executive directors include, a company car, allowances, private medical insurance and legal expenses.
Rose Marie Bravo receives an expatriate package commensurate with her position as Chief Executive.
This includes the cost of accommodation whilst in London and appropriate travel costs.
Share incentive schemes Details of the market price of the Companys Ordinary Shares are shown in the table below.
Period to 31 March 2005 2004 At the period end 409p 357p Highest price during the period 418p 410p Lowest price during the period 344p 216p Offer price at IPO: 230p The Burberry IPO Senior Executive Restricted Share Plan the IPO RSP On 11 July 2002 awards were made to executive directors, serving at the time, under the IPO RSP in respect of services provided prior to the IPO.
This was a one-off plan in order to retain senior executives, before and following the IPO.
As the awards were made in respect of services provided prior to the IPO, no performance criteria were attached to the awards.
The interests of the executive directors of Burberry Group plc, who served during the financial year, in Shares held under the IPO RSP as at 31 March 2005 were as follows.
Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 31 REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION AND RELATED MATTERS CONTINUED The Burberry Senior Executive IPO Share Option Scheme the IPO Option Scheme On 11 July 2002, options were granted to executive directors, serving at the time, under the IPO Option Scheme in respect of services provided prior to the IPO.
As the grants were made in respect of services provided prior to the IPO, no performance criteria were attached to the awards.
The interests of the executive directors, who served during the financial year, in options granted under the IPO Option Scheme as at 31 March 2005 were as follows.
The market price when Thomas ONeill exercised his options was 383p.
The Burberry Group plc Executive Share Option Scheme 2002 During the year to 31 March 2005 the executive directors of Burberry Group plc were granted options under this scheme which was adopted at the time of the IPO.
No performance criteria are attached to the awards as their primary purpose is retention and the majority of participants is from overseas.
These grants were made pursuant to obligations under each directors service agreement.
The interests of the executive directors, who served during the financial year, in options granted under this scheme as at 31 March 2005 were as follows.
32 Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION AND RELATED MATTERS CONTINUED The Burberry 2004 Senior Executive Restricted Share Plan the 2004 RSP and the Burberry Group plc Share Incentive Plan the SIP On 2 August 2004 awards were made under the 2004 RSP, which was approved by Shareholders at the 2004 Annual General Meeting.
The 2004 RSP was established in order to attract, retain and motivate senior executives over a period which extends beyond the vesting dates of the awards made under the IPO RSP.
Awards made under the 2004 RSP will only vest if Burberry achieves stretching profit growth targets and outperforms its peers.
The peer group comprises the following 19 companies: Barneys New York, Bulgari, Christian Dior, Coach, Compagnie Financiere Richemont, Hermes, Hugo Boss, IT Holding, LVMH Louis Vuitton Mot Hennessey, Movado, Neiman-Marcus, , Polo Ralph Lauren, Saks, Swatch, Tiffany, Tods, Tommy Hilfiger and Waterford Wedgwood.
The performance targets are based 50% on the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR relative to its peer group and 50% on three year growth in profit before tax PBT.
One quarter of awards will vest if TSR performance exceeds the median for the selected peer group and PBT growth is 5% or more.
Awards will vest in full if TSR performance exceeds the 75th percentile for the selected peer group and PBT growth is more than 15%.
Both of these performance conditions apply over a three-year performance period.
To the extent the performance conditions are met, 50% of each award will vest after three years.
The remaining 50% will vest in two equal tranches on the fourth and fifth anniversaries of the award date.
On 20 August 2004, all qualifying employees based in the UK were awarded free Shares under the rules of the SIP, a plan that was adopted at the time of the IPO.
Awards were made under this plan to acknowledge employees contribution in achieving strong business results.
Since Ms Cartwright is the only director in receipt of awards under the 2004 RSP and the SIP, her interests in such Shares as at 31 March 2005 were as follows.
The cessation date of the trust in which the awards are held is 18 July 2082.
Burberry Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2004 05 33
