qxd 31 3 06 5:17 pm Page 24 Operating and financial review Corporate social responsibility continued A team to build on 24 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2005 10569 pp022-025.
qxd 31 3 06 5:17 pm Page 25 we will act quickly and forcefully on those UK and, therefore, we make special efforts occasions where we are not satisfied with to encourage enterprise, opportunity, charity the policy of a company in which we invest.
m and respect within the UK community, Most often we will do this outside the glare especially those communities neighbouring of any publicity, but if we believe that a our major ofces.
Our staff are, of course, 2.5 public statement of our views is required, all themselves members of communities contributed to charitable causes then we will not hesitate to make one.
and I am delighted that so many of our As well as having responsibilities to staff take the initiative by becoming so todays customers and investors, companies actively involved in our community such as Legal & General have, in my view, a programme.
Their hard work and dedicated % responsibility to the future.
Legal & General support of local communities is something is 170 years old this year.
If Legal & General I both respect and feel a strong desire to 10 is to be prospering as much in 170 years continue supporting.
of staff donate to charity via time as it is today, then in part that will be I trust you will enjoy reading our full because we will have cared properly now Give As You Earn CSR Report.
I hope you will understand not for the environment on which we depend.
only how committed to CSR principles we are Legal & General works to protect our but also how, through our actions, we seek to environment in many ways, conserving live those principles and make a difference.
% energy, limiting our use of non-renewables and encouraging staff to adopt  behaviours.
72 A sustainable environment is necessary of total waste recycled at three for the future of the planet.
A sense of largest sites community, of shared responsibility, is similarly necessary for the future wellbeing of the United Kingdom.
Legal & General Tim Breedon undertakes over 90% of its business in the Group Chief Executive employees and growing Legal & General has over 9,000 employees worldwide, over 90% of whom are based in the UK.
Many of our employees are actively involved in our community programme.
Andrew Palmer Operating and financial review Chairman.
He was appointed a director Group Director Finance.
He joined Board of Directors in June 1996 and Chairman in February 2000.
He Legal & General in 1988 from Commercial Union.
is also Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
He was appointed to the Board as Group Director He is Chairman of The BOC Group PLC, senior Services on 1 January 1996 and became Group independent non-executive director of Anglo Director Corporate Business on 1 July 1999.
American Plc and Chairman of their Remuneration He was appointed Group Director Finance on Committee, and Chairman of the Natural 1 January 2001.
He is a non-executive director of Environment Research Council.
He is also a Slough Estates Plc and Chairman of the member of the Council of Science and Technology Association of British Insurers Financial Regulation and a Trustee of the Council for Industry and and Taxation Committee and Financial Reporting Higher Education.
He was formerly a director and Panel.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Vice Chairman of Imperial Chemical Industries Plc.
Accountants in England and Wales.
Kate Avery Group Chief Executive.
He joined Group Director Retail Distribution.
Legal & General in 1987 and became Director She joined Legal & General in 1996 as Director Index Funds in 1994.
He was promoted to Marketing.
She became Director Group Managing Director Index Funds on 1 January 2000 Marketing and Direct in 1997 and Retail Customer and appointed Group Director Investments on Director in 1999.
She was appointed to the Group 1 January 2002.
He was appointed Deputy Group Board on 1 January 2001.
She was previously Chief Executive on 1 June 2005 and succeeded Managing Director of Barclays Stockbrokers Ltd Sir David Prosser as Group Chief Executive on and Barclays Bank Trust Company Ltd. She has BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1 January 2006.
He is Chairman of the Group Risk an MBA from Craneld School of Management.
& Compliance and Corporate Social Responsibility She is a non-executive director of Kelda Group Plc Committees.
He holds a degree from Oxford and a member of the Association of British Insurers University.
He initially joined Standard Chartered Distribution and Regulatory Committee.
Bank before moving to the London Business School where he took an MSc in Business Administration.
Frances Heaton He is a director of the Financial Reporting Council.
She was appointed in July 2001.
She is a member of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
She is a non-executive director of AWG PLC and Chairman of its Audit Committee.
She was formerly a nonexecutive director of the Bank of England, and Deputy Chairman and Chairman of the Audit Committee of WS Atkins PLC and an executive director of Lazard Brothers & Co. Limited.
James Strachan Independent, non-executive director.
Aged She was appointed in December 2000.
She is a He joined Legal & General in 1980 on graduating 52.
He was appointed in December 2003. member of the Remuneration and Nominations from Strathclyde University.
He worked in I. T. and He is a member of the Audit, Nominations and Committees.
She is a non-executive director of customer services before taking responsibility, in Remuneration Committees.
He was, until January Robert Wiseman Diaries Plc and a director of 1994, for the employed sales force.
In 1998, after two 2006, Chairman of the Audit Commission.
He was First Milk Limited.
She was formerly Managing years as Managing Director, Legal & General Asia, previously a Managing Director of Merrill Lynch Director of UK Retail, WH Smith Group Plc, he was appointed Director, UK Operations, running and before that with Chase Manhattan.
He is Managing Director of Childrens World, which the large service units in Hove and Cardiff.
He was Chairman of RNID, visiting fellow at the London was part of Boots Company PLC, and Managing appointed to the Board on 11 December 2003.
School of Economics and a Trustee of Director of Dolcis, Bertie Shoes and Cable & Co. Somerset House.
which were part of Sears Plc.
Dr Ronaldo Schmitz a non-executive director of M & G Group Independent, non-executive director.
Sir David Walker Prudential, and the National College for School He was appointed in October 2000.
He is a Vice Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Leadership, and a member of the North Yorkshire member of the Remuneration and Nominations Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Aged & Humberside Regional Development Agency.
He is a non-executive director of 66.
He was appointed in March 2002.
He is also a GlaxoSmithKline Plc, Rohm & Haas Co. and the member of the Nominations Committee.
He was formerly a director Senior Adviser to Morgan Stanley.
He is a former Independent, non-executive director.
Chairman of Morgan Stanley International Limited He was appointed in October 1997.
He is a and the London Investment Banking Association.
member of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
Henry Staunton He was previously an executive director of the He is Chairman of Plasmon Plc.
He was formerly Independent, non-executive director.
Bank of England, Chairman of the Securities & Chairman of Azlan Group Plc and Chairman Investments Board and a Deputy Chairman of He was appointed in May 2004.
He is Chairman and Chief Executive of IBM UK Holdings Limited.
of the Audit Committee and a member of the Nominations Committee.
Robin Phipps the Board in May 2004.
He will shortly stand down Group Executive Director UK.
He joined as Finance Director of ITV Plc.
He was appointed Legal & General in 1982 from British Gas and was a non-executive director of Standard Bank Plc in appointed I. T. Director in 1985.
He was formerly a non-executive to the Board as Group Director Sales & Marketing director and Chairman of Ashtead Group PLC on 1 January 1996 and became Group Director and a non-executive director of Emap Plc.
He was appointed Group Director UK Operations on 1 January 2001 and he became Group Executive Director UK on 17 March 2006.
He is an ABI Board Director.
qxd 31 3 06 2:43 am Page 28 GOVERNANCE INFORMATION AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Contents 82 15.
Deferred tax liabilities 29 Governance information 82 16.
Related party transactions 34 Directors report on remuneration 83 18.
Contingent liabilities, guarantees 43 Report of the audit committee and indemnities 83 19.
Share-based payments 45 Report of the nominations committee 86 20.
Associates and joint ventures 48 Financial statements 111 51.
Derivative assets and liabilities Group consolidated financial statements 111 52.
IFRS 1 first-time adoption of international 88 24.
Reinsurers share of 48 Statement of directors responsibilities financial reporting standards contract liabilities 48 Independent auditors report 89 25.
Purchased Interests in long term 49 Consolidated income statement Supplementary financial statements business 50 Consolidated balance sheet 119 Consolidated income statement 89 26.
Deferred acquisition costs 51 Consolidated statement of recognised European embedded value basis 90 27.
Income tax income and expense 120 Consolidated balance sheet 90 28.
Other debtors 52 Consolidated cash ow statement European embedded value basis 90 29.
Cash and cash equivalents 53 Notes to the financial statements 120 Consolidated statement of recognised 91 30.
Accounting policies Income and expense European and treasury shares 58 2.
Management of capital resources embedded value basis 92 31.
Risk management and control 121 Notes to the supplementary 92 32.
Operating profit information financial statements 92 33.
New business 132 Independent auditors report 93 34.
Investment return Company financial statements 79 8.
Investment contract liabilities 133 Independent auditors report 97 37.
Unallocated divisible surplus insurance liabilities 134 Company balance sheet 79 9.
Value of in-force 135 Company statement of total recognised non-participating contracts 79 10. profit before income tax gains and losses 79 11.
Long term insurance 135 Company reconciliation of movements exchange rates valuation assumptions in total equity 80 12.
Borrowings 136 Notes to the company financial statements 81 13.
Events after the balance non-current assets and liabilities sheet date Shareholder information held for sale 103 42.
Deferred income liabilities 144 Financial calendar 28 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2005 10569 pp028-033.
qxd 31 3 06 2:43 am Page 29 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board of Legal & General Group Plc is committed to high The Chairman, Rob Margetts, is responsible for leadership of the standards of corporate governance.
It supports the Combined Board and for ensuring effective communication with shareholders.
In Code on Corporate Governance, published in July 2003, which is October 2005, following the recommendation of the Nominations Committee, the Board approved an extension to the Chairmans appended to the UK Listing Rules the Code.
The Code sets out tenure, to ensure continuity following the change of Group Chief standards of good practice for UK listed companies.
Executive, until the AGM in 2008.
As part of its regular evaluation, This section of the Annual Report, together with the Directors, see below the Board considers the Chairmans availability and Remuneration and Nominations Committee Reports, explains how his capacity to undertake his role, against the background of his Legal & General complies with the principles and relevant provisions other commitments.
The Board remains satisfied that the Chairman of the Code.
continues to be able to full the normal time commitments required of his role and has the personal commitment and capacity to make The Board and Management himself available when unforeseen circumstances arise.
The Board of Legal & General Group Plc is collectively responsible The Group Chief Executive is responsible for the day to day for determining the strategic direction of the Group and for ensuring management of the Group and implementation of the strategy that Legal & General meets its obligations to shareholders.
During 2005, the Board met 11 times and also held a separate Sir David Walker, Vice Chairman, is the senior independent strategy day.
At each Board meeting, the directors receive a detailed director.
The senior independent director is available to shareholders brieng from a senior manager on an important business issue.
This if they have concerns which cannot be resolved through the usual is designed not only to help non-executive directors develop a channels.
He also acts as a point of contact between the Chairman thorough understanding of key issues facing Legal & General but and the non-executive directors, if required.
also to allow non-executive directors to build working relationships The Group Secretary, through the Chairman, is responsible with senior managers below Board level.
The Board has a formal for advising the Board on all governance matters and for ensuring schedule of matters specically reserved to it including decisions good information ows within the Board.
All directors have access on strategic issues, capital expenditure and material contracts.
to the advice and services of the Group Secretary as well as In addition, the Board regularly reviews major projects, considers external advice, as required, at the expense of the Group.
operating and financial issues and monitors performance against plan.
The Board delegates responsibility for the management of the Board Evaluation Company to the Group Chief Executive who is supported by the The Board and its directors participate in an annual evaluation executive directors and heads of specialist functions.
Throughout 2005, process, the aim of which is to assess the effectiveness of the the Group Chief Executive chaired the Management Committee, Boards collective performance as well as the contributions of which consists of all executive directors, the Resources and individual directors.
As in previous years, the 2005 process was International Director, and the Group Secretary.
facilitated by an external consultant from the London Business The Chairman, in conjunction with the Group Secretary, School.
All members of the Board participated in the 2005 process, ensures that the Board receives the information it needs to which was divided into two parts.
Part 1 assessed the effectiveness discharge its duties.
of the Board as a whole while Part 2 considered individual performance.
The assessment took the form of a detailed Board Structure questionnaire followed by individual interviews.
Throughout 2005, the Board consisted of 14 members, of which The findings of Part 1 were provided to the Board in the eight including the Chairman were non-executive directors and form of a report prepared by the external facilitator.
Overall, there six including the Group Chief Executive were executive directors.
was a high level of satisfaction with the way in which the Board A full list of the directors holding ofce during 2005 and their functions.
Actions arising out of the evaluation process were attendance record appears on page 32. implemented by the Board in the course of the year.
Sir David Prosser retired as a director and Group Chief Feedback on individual performance was delivered to directors Executive on 31 December 2005.
On 1 January 2006, he was in 1:1 meetings with the Chairman.
In the case of the Chairman, succeeded by Tim Breedon, formerly Group Director Investments.
feedback was delivered by the senior independent director.
As a consequence, the number of executive directors including In addition to the Board evaluation, executive directors are the Group Chief Executive has reduced to five.
This change to also subject to an annual appraisal and to regular review of their the Boards composition has been achieved without any undue performance by the Group Chief Executive.
Biographies of directors holding ofce on 1 January 2006 Separate evaluations are carried out to assess the appear on pages 26 and 27. effectiveness of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Throughout 2005, the majority of directors were non-executive, all of whom with the exception of the Chairman the Board has Appointments to the Board determined to be independent in character and judgement.
Their Appointments to the Board are the responsibility of the Board as diverse business experience and wide range of skills enable them a whole on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee.
to make a significant contribution at meetings of the Board and its During 2005, a formal and rigorous process took place to identify Committees.
Their remuneration consists only of fees and they do a successor to Sir David Prosser.
The Nominations Committee not participate in any performance related pay arrangements.
The appointed a sub-committee to oversee the process for the selection terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors are of the new Group Chief Executive.
An outline of the selection process available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce and at appears in the Report of the Nominations Committee see page 45. the Annual General Meeting AGM.
All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the The Chairman holds at least two meetings a year with the first AGM after their appointment and, thereafter, are subject to non-executive directors without executive directors being present.
re-election once every three years.
The Board has agreed a clear division of responsibilities between The removal and appointment of the Group Secretary are the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
The roles of the reserved to the Board.
On 1 August 2005, the Board approved the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and directors are clearly dened appointment of Claire Davies as Group Secretary following the so that no single individual has unrestricted powers of decision.
qxd 31 3 06 2:43 am Page 30 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Disclosure Committee Induction and Training New directors participate in a formal induction programme tailored The Disclosure Committee was established during 2005 to advise to their individual needs.
The induction programme is designed to the Board on the management and disclosure of insider information give directors an understanding of Legal & General, its business and in accordance with the requirements of the Listing and Disclosure the markets in which it operates.
Introductory visits are arranged to Rules.
The Disclosure Committee is chaired by the Group Financial Company sites and with key suppliers and stakeholders.
All directors Controller and comprises the heads of specialist functions.
It meets are required to maintain and develop their knowledge throughout when circumstances dictate.
As part of its continuing training programme, Legal & General runs occasional training events solely for directors.
Group Risk and Compliance Committee GRCC In addition, all directors are invited to participate in Legal & Generals The GRCC meets monthly and is chaired by the Group Chief educational and business awareness seminars for senior Executive.
All executive directors are members.
Recent sessions include Market Abuse and the managers drawn from across the Group are regular attendees.
new Disclosure Regime, the Turner Report and Business Ethics.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee also attends its meetings.
Its primary role is to ensure there are appropriate processes in Relations with Shareholders place across the Group to identify, assess, monitor and control The Board attaches high importance to maintaining good critical risks facing the Group, including regulatory risks.
It reports relationships with shareholders.
There is regular dialogue with regularly to the Group Board and its minutes are available to the institutional shareholders.
However, care is exercised to ensure that Audit Committee.
any price-sensitive information is released at the same time to all shareholders, institutional and private, in accordance with the Nominations Committee requirements of the Listing and Disclosure Rules.
The Nominations Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board.
The Board regards the AGM as an important opportunity to All non-executive directors are members.
It is responsible for proposing communicate directly with private investors.
Board members, including the appointment of new Board directors.
In doing so, it considers the the chairmen of the Remuneration, Nominations and Audit Committees, composition of the Board, the demands made on the Board and its attend the meeting and are available to answer questions.
committees, and the requirements of good corporate governance.
In order that shareholders present are aware of the other The Report of the Nominations Committee is set out on page 45. shareholders voting intentions, the details of proxy votes are distributed immediately prior to the AGM.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the Board Committees Groups remuneration strategy and policy.
It is chaired by The Board has a number of standing committees: Sir David Walker, Vice Chairman and senior independent director.
Audit Committee The other members are Beverley Hodson, Ronaldo Schmitz and Corporate Social Responsibility Committee James Strachan.
Disclosure Committee Group Risk and Compliance Committee Internal Control Nominations Committee The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control Remuneration Committee systems and for monitoring their effectiveness.
Implementation and maintenance of the internal control systems are the responsibility of Audit Committee the executive directors and senior management.
The performance The Audit Committee is chaired by Henry Staunton.
Other members of internal control systems is reviewed regularly by the Audit are Barrie Morgans, Frances Heaton, and James Strachan, all of Committee, the GRCC and the boards of subsidiary companies.
whom are independent non-executive directors.
It met four times The Board regularly reviews actual and forecast performance during the year to: of its businesses compared with their one year plans, as well as Review and advise the Board on the Groups interim and annual other key performance indicators.
financial statements, its accounting policies, and on the control Lines of responsibility and delegated authorities are clearly of its financial and business risks.
The Groups control policies and procedures are set out Review the nature and scope of the work to be performed by in an operating manual, which is regularly updated and distributed the external and internal auditors, the results of that work and throughout the Group.
Executive Directors are required to confirm managements response: and compliance with these policies throughout the year.
The results of Make recommendations on the appointment and remuneration this conrmation process are reported to the Audit Committee.
of the external auditors and review the non-audit services The Chairman and Group Chief Executive oversee the policies provided to the Group by the external auditors.
for employee selection, assessment and development and they have direct involvement in senior management appointments.
Succession The Audit Committee meets with the executive directors and planning and contingency arrangements are in place for senior management, as well as privately with both external and internal management and have been reviewed by the Board.
The Chairman reports the outcome of meetings to the Board and the Board receives the minutes of all Committee meetings.
The to conduct business in accordance with ethical principles and there is guidance for employees on the standards required.
Report of the Audit Committee is set out on pages 43 to 44.
The arrangements for establishing policies in respect of the key Corporate Social Responsibility Committee risks to the Group are set out below.
The Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Committees work is directed by Legal & Generals CSR Guiding Principles which reect Review of Internal Control Legal & Generals commitment to its stakeholders and the The Combined Code requires directors to review and report to environment.
It is chaired by Tim Breedon, Group Chief Executive.
shareholders on the Groups internal control systems, which include The other members are senior managers within the business and financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk management.
Established procedures, including those already described, are 30 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2005 10569 pp028-033.
qxd 31 3 06 2:43 am Page 31 Internal Audit in place to comply with the Combined Code.
The Board assesses the effectiveness of internal control systems on the basis of: Internal Audit advises management on the extent to which systems of internal control are adequate and effective to manage business Regular reports by management to their main operating boards, risk, safeguard the Groups resources, and ensure compliance with and the Audit Committee, on the adequacy and effectiveness legal and regulatory requirements.
It provides objective assurance of internal control systems and significant control issues: on risk and control to senior management and the Board.
The GRCCs review of the continuous Group-wide process for Internal Audits work is focused on areas of greatest risk to the formally identifying, evaluating and managing the significant Group as determined by a structured risk assessment process risks to the achievement of the Groups objectives: involving executive directors and senior managers.
The output from Compliance reports and presentations from the Director, this process is summarised in a plan which is presented to the Audit Compliance, on at least a quarterly basis: and Committee.
The Group Chief Internal Auditor reports regularly to Presentations of the results of internal audits to the Audit the Group Chief Executive and to the Audit Committee.
Committee by the Group Chief Internal Auditor.
The Board takes regular account of the signicance of social, Compliance environmental and ethical matters to the businesses of the Group.
The Group Compliance function is responsible for oversight of the The GRCCs review of the significant risks to the Group includes Groups compliance with regulatory requirements and standards.
The work of the Corporate Social Responsibility This encompasses the provision of policy advice and guidance Committee, which is chaired by the Group Chief Executive, is set to the regulated rms, oversight of regulated rms compliance out on pages 22 to 25. arrangements to assess whether rms have appropriate systems, The Groups internal control systems are designed to manage, procedures and controls in place to manage their permitted rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to meet business objectives regulatory activities, and oversight of regulatory risks arising and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against from authorised rms compliance responsibilities.
The Director, material misstatement or loss.
In assessing what constitutes reasonable Compliance, reports regularly to the Group Board.
assurance, the Board has regard to materiality and to the relationship between the cost of, and benefit from, internal control systems.
Management of Risk The results of the ongoing monitoring of financial, operational The Group, in the course of its business activities, is exposed to and compliance controls, and the risk management process, are Insurance, Market, Credit, Liquidity, and Operational risks.
Overall reported to the Board.
The Board was able to conclude, with responsibility for the management of these risks is vested in the reasonable assurance, that appropriate internal control systems Group Board.
To support it in this role, a risk framework is in place had been maintained throughout the year.
comprising formal committees, risk assessment processes and risk Fig 18.
Committee Role Membership Group Capital To assess the capital requirements Group Chief Executive, Committee including the risk based capital Group Director Finance, requirements of the Group: to monitor Group Director Product & Corporate, the sources of capital available to Group Actuary, meet these requirements and oversee Actuary UK the allocation of capital to rms.
Counterparty To set limits for the Groups exposure Group Director Finance, Credit Committee to any single counter-party failure and Chief Executive officer LGIM, to manage exposures within these Group Treasurer established limits.
UK Asset and Liability To ensure that assets and liabilities Group Director Finance, Committee ALCO for the UK insurance business are Chief Executive officer LGIM, appropriately managed.
Group Actuary, Actuary UK, Managing Director Portfolio Managers UK Pricing and Insurance To ensure that products for the UK Group Director Product & Corporate, Risk Committee Group are appropriately designed Group Actuary, and priced, that product legal risks Actuary UK, are assessed and that appropriate Director UK Finance processes are in place to identify, assess, monitor and, where deemed appropriate, reinsure risk.
Group Operational Risk To ensure consistency in approaches Group Director Finance Assessment Committee to operational risk management Senior Finance and Risk Managers across the Group.
qxd 31 3 06 2:43 am Page 32 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued review functions.
The framework provides assurance that risks are Fig 18 on page 31 shows the sub committees of the GRCC that are being appropriately identied and managed and that an in place.
In addition, Risk and Compliance Committees RCCs are in independent assessment of risks is being performed.
place for each of the main operational business units of the Group.
These committees are predominantly responsible for the oversight of Committee Structure the management of operational risks and regulation.
RCCs formally Oversight of the risk management framework is performed on report both to their operating boards and to the GRCC on a monthly behalf of the Group Board by its sub-committee, the GRCC.
Oversight of the management of risk within the Groups Board Committees The number of full Board and Committee meetings attended by each director during the year was as follows: Scheduled Group Risk and Board Remuneration Audit CSR Nominations Compliance Meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Rob Margetts 11 11 3 3 Non-executive director Chairman and Chairman of the Nominations Committee Kate Avery 11 11 11 12 Executive director: Group Director Retail Distribution Tim Breedon 11 11 4 4 11 12 Executive director: Group Director Investments Frances Heaton 11 11 4 4 3 3 Non-executive director Beverley Hodson 11 11 3 3 3 3 Non-executive director Barrie Morgans 8 11 3 4 3 3 Non-executive director Chairman of the Audit Committee until April 2005 Andrew Palmer 11 11 10 12 Executive director: Group Director Finance Robin Phipps 11 11 12 12 Executive director: Group Director UK Operations John Pollock 11 11 11 12 Executive director: Group Director Product & Corporate David Prosser 11 11 4 4 12 12 Executive director: Group Chief Executive Ronaldo Schmitz 8 11 2 3 2 3 Non-executive director Henry Staunton 11 11 3 4 3 3 Non-executive director Chairman of the Audit Committee from April 2005 James Strachan 10 11 2 3 3 4 2 3 Non-executive director Sir David Walker 11 11 3 3 2 3 Non-executive director Vice Chairman, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and senior independent director Figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings in the period in which the director was a Board or Committee member.
In all cases the directors non-attendance was attributed to either an absence due to illness or an absence previously agreed with the Chairman of the Board or Committee e. g. due to meeting dates changing at short notice.
As part of the selection process to appoint the new Group Chief Executive, the Nominations Committee appointed a sub-committee to consider the candidates.
The sub-committee met on a number of occasions.
32 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2005
