Remuneration report Introduction Executive remuneration policy In accordance with the Listing Rules the Company presents a The Companys executive remuneration policy is to provide report on the remuneration of the Directors for the year ended market-competitive total remuneration packages enabling the 31 December 2005.
The Company is incorporated in Gibraltar Company to recruit and retain high-calibre individuals required so it is not subject to the Directors Remuneration Report to drive the future growth and performance of its business.
Regulations 2002 which apply to UK incorporated companies Being an online gaming business, operating in a fast-moving and which set out specific disclosure requirements for a competitive environment, a particular emphasis is placed on companys remuneration report.
In pursuit of best practice providing a share-based remuneration package appealing to and full and transparent disclosure, this Remuneration Report entrepreneurial and innovative executives.
for the year ended 31 December 2005 has been prepared When establishing remuneration policy, the Remuneration by the Remuneration Committee in accordance with Committee takes into account a range of special circumstances the aforementioned regulations.
An ordinary resolution to relevant to the Company.
These include the rapid growth of approve the Remuneration Report will be proposed at the the Company, the characteristics of the sectors in which the AGM on 4 May 2006.
The vote will have an advisory status only Company operates and the requirement for Executive Directors and will be in respect of the remuneration policy and overall and certain other senior management positions to discharge all remuneration packages generally and will not be specific to their responsibilities from Gibraltar and to relocate to Gibraltar.
BDO Stoy Hayward LLP has The Companys policy is that fixed compensation salary and audited the report to the extent required by the regulations, benefits should take account of the appropriate rate for each being the sections headed Share Option Plans and role, taking into account market practice in the gaming and Emoluments table.
internet sectors and geographic location.
Variable rewards provided through share options and bonuses currently form the Remuneration Committee majority c. 90% of the remuneration package for Executive The Board has appointed a Remuneration Committee.
The senior management bonus scheme rewards the duty of this Committee to determine and agree with the Board achievement of short-term corporate and personal objectives: the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the the Share Option Plans reward share price performance.
Chief Executive Officer Richard Segal, Executive Directors Anurag Dikshit, Vikrant Bhargava and Martin Weigold, Consistent with this policy, prior to the Company obtaining Company Secretary David Abdoo and any other senior a listing on the London Stock Exchange, the Board established management reporting directly to the Chief Executive Officer.
a nil-cost option plan described below.
Options were granted The Committee is also tasked with determining and reviewing on to all employees as reward for their efforts in establishing a an annual basis, the total individual remuneration packages of market-leading online gaming business and to align their interests each of these individuals, including bonuses, incentive payments with those of Shareholders.
Grants were also made to certain and share options or share awards.
In a wider context the Executive Directors and senior managers reflecting the risks Remuneration Committee also oversees major changes in and challenges in bringing the Company to the public market.
employee benefit structures throughout the Group.
Phased vesting over four to five years as appropriate, following Admission, helps to ensure that a significant proportion of The terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee Executive Director and senior manager remuneration remains are available on the PartyGaming.
com website geared to the Companys share price performance over the www.
or on request from the Company Secretary.
The Remuneration Committee comprises three independent Non-Executive In 2006 the Company will be undertaking a thorough Directors, Brian Larcombe Chairman, Nigel Kenny and compensation and benefits review for all employees, the findings Rod Perry.
Details of the experience of these Directors is of which will be considered by the Remuneration Committee.
contained in the Board of Directors section.
The Secretary to It is expected that the review will impact the Companys future the Remuneration Committee is David Abdoo.
remuneration policy for Executive Directors and senior managers.
Any changes in policy will be described in future reports, which In the period from Admission to 31 December 2005, the will continue to be subject to Shareholder approval.
During the reporting period and in pursuance of performing its duties effectively, the Committee consulted internally with the Group Human Resources Director and Company Secretary.
In addition, the Chief Executive Officer was invited to attend Committee meetings.
No person was involved in any decisions as to his own remuneration.
The Committee also appointed Kepler Associates to advise the Committee and the Companys management on market trends, short and long-term incentives and general executive remuneration matters.
No other services were provided to the Company by Kepler Associates.
71 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2005 Remuneration report continued Salary For Executive Directors, 60% of this bonus was dependent on Executive Directors salaries are reviewed annually with changes corporate financial performance targets being met and 40% on implemented from 1 January.
Salaries are benchmarked the satisfaction of agreed personal performance objectives.
The by the Remuneration Committees advisors against four maximum bonus that could be earned was 50% annualised of comparator reference groups: i other FTSE 100 companies an Executive Directors basic salary for the six month period to with a similar market capitalisation as the Company: ii listed 31 December 2005.
Bonus payments made to the Executive companies in the gaming sector: iii listed software companies Directors for the six month period to 31 December 2005 were and iv major internet companies.
as follows: Bonus paid The recent benchmarking exercise conducted for the Executive Director $ Remuneration Committee by Kepler Associates indicated that 2005 levels of salary and benefits paid to the Executive Directors Richard Segal 218,750 were generally below median of the selected comparator Martin Weigold 142,188 groups.
The Committee has therefore resolved to increase Vikrant Bhargava 118,125 Executive Director basic salary and benefits levels to market median over the three financial years 2006, 2007 and 2008.
Anurag Dikshit 123,375 Executive Directors 2005 and 2006 salaries are as follows: The Remuneration Committee has reviewed the structure of 2005 salary 2006 salary the senior management bonus scheme in respect of the year Name Position $ $ ending 31 December 2006.
The existing Executive Directors will Richard Segal Chief Executive be eligible for an incentive with a maximum award of 50% of Officer 705,920 1,023,750 basic salary.
Awards will be earned for achieving stretching Martin Weigold Group Finance targets linked to revenue, Clean EBITDA and personal Director 563,811 673,750 performance against agreed objectives.
No bonus will be payable if revenue thresholds are not met.
The performance Vikrant Bhargava Group Marketing measures were chosen for their relevance in driving short-term Director 385,082 612,500 performance of the business.
Anurag Dikshit Group Operations Director 354,309 612,500 Share Option Plans Executive Directors, senior managers and other staff are Benefits eligible to participate in the Companys long-term incentive Executive Directors receive private medical insurance, arrangements which are structured around two option plans.
permanent health insurance and life assurance.
There are no i PartyGaming Plc Share Option Plan pension benefits or company car allowances.
Under the terms of To attract, retain and reward employees and self-employed his service agreement, Richard Segal commutes to Gibraltar consultants, the Board established the PartyGaming Plc Share Monday to Friday for the purpose of carrying out his duties as Option Plan the Plan.
Each option granted to date under the Chief Executive Officer.
The Company has agreed to bear the Plan takes the form of a right to acquire Shares or Depositary costs of his accommodation in Gibraltar up to 40,000 each year Interests at nil-cost on particular vesting dates.
The exercise of plus service and utility costs and to bear the costs of his flights to these options will be satisfied by the transfer to participants of and from the United Kingdom for the purpose of carrying out his Shares held in the Employee Trust established prior to Admission.
Martin Weigold has relocated to Gibraltar and the Option exercises will therefore have no dilutive effect on other Company has paid him a one-off relocation bonus of 16% Shareholders or Depositary Interest Holders entering the register of his 2005 salary $91,484.
after 30 June 2005 and will have no cash impact on the Company.
International Financial Reporting Standards, however, Senior management bonus scheme require that the fair value of the options be amortised through For the six months to 30 June 2005, Martin Weigold received the income statement over the vesting period of the options, a bonus payment of $73,174 in respect of his performance based on the Groups estimate of the Shares that will eventually in the period leading up to Admission.
As at 28 February 2006 192,631,794 Shares were held in the Directors were eligible to receive a bonus payment in respect of Employee Trust to cover outstanding options: 57,240,430 Shares this period.
Since Admission, for the six months to 31 December are available in the Employee Trust for future awards under 2005, the Executive Directors participated in a senior the Plan.
management bonus scheme approved by the Remuneration Committee.
Under the Plan, Richard Segal and Martin Weigold were granted options over 40,000,000 and 16,000,000 Shares respectively.
The options were granted subject to the Shares being admitted to the London Stock Exchange by 31 December 2005.
Richard Segal and Martin Weigold were granted options over this quantum of shares to attract them to the Company prior to the Offer, to incentivise and reward them for successfully floating the Company and to reflect industry-specific and Company-specific factors.
There are no further performance conditions applying to these options and the rules of the Plan do not require performance conditions to apply.
72 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2005 As Principal Shareholders in the Company, Anurag Dikshit and In connection with the arrangements agreed on 27 February Vikrant Bhargava have not been granted options under the 2006 under which he will leave the Company no later than Plan.
In accordance with the Code none of the Non-Executive 1 June 2006, it has been agreed that Richard Segals options Directors have been granted options under the Plan.
will continue to accrue until his leaving date, rather than his entitlement being restricted to those Shares which have vested Richard Segals option vested in respect of 10,000,000 Shares under the quarterly vesting arrangements described above.
Richard Segal exercised his option in respect In addition, Richard Segal will be entitled to exercise his option of 9,200,000 Shares which were sold in the Offer at a price of in respect of those Shares which would have vested within 116 pence per Share.
Martin Weigolds option vested in respect 12 months of the leaving date being 7.5 million Shares in of 3,680,000 Shares on Admission and he exercised his option in accordance with his contractual entitlement described above.
respect of 3,680,000 Shares which were sold in the Offer at a price of 116 pence per Share.
Martin Weigolds option grant letter as amended provides that in the event that he resigns as Group Finance Director or his Richard Segals option vests each calendar quarter in 16 equal employment is terminated by the Company in circumstances instalments commencing on 30 September 2005.
As at where i it is entitled to terminate his employment immediately 31 December 2005, Richard Segals option had vested in respect without compensation: or ii his performance has fallen of an aggregate of 3,750,000 Shares excluding those vesting on substantially below the level reasonably expected for a Group Admission.
As at 31 December 2005 Richard Segal had not Finance Director having regard to the level of performance exercised his option in respect of these Shares.
Subject to the agreed by the Remuneration Committee as part of the annual terms of the grant, Martin Weigolds option vests in equal bonus arrangements, then he shall be entitled to exercise his instalments each calendar quarter commencing with the first option within the period of 90 days in respect of Shares vested at calendar quarter following Admission and ending on the date on which notice of termination is given or received the 31 December 2009.
As of 31 December 2005, Martin Weigolds notice date.
The option will lapse in respect of any remaining option had vested in respect of an aggregate of 1,368,896 Shares.
In all other circumstances in which his employment is Shares excluding those vesting on Admission and Martin terminated, he will also be entitled to exercise the option within Weigold had exercised his option in respect of all these Shares the period of 90 days following the notice date in respect of and retained the resulting Shares which he continues to hold.
such Shares that have vested at the notice date plus such Richard Segal and Martin Weigold are subject to lock-up additional number of Shares as would otherwise have vested arrangements with Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein pursuant to during the 12 months following the notice date.
In the case of which they cannot, without the prior consent of Dresdner both Richard Segal and Martin Weigold, these exercise periods Kleinwort Wasserstein, dispose of any Shares acquired on the are subject to extension to provide for a minimum open period exercise of options prior to 30 June 2006, other than in for dealing.
connection with a takeover bid or to connected persons Plan participants are not entitled to receive dividends in respect who are themselves locked-up.
of Shares relating to options which are unvested or vested Future vesting is conditional on their continued employment but unexercised.
by the Company on the relevant vesting date, save as The Remuneration Committee has no current intention to described below.
grant any further nil-cost options under the Plan to the existing Richard Segals option grant letter provides that in the event Executive Directors.
that he resigns as Chief Executive Officer or his employment is ii PartyGaming Plc Executive Share Option Plan terminated by the Company in circumstances where i it is On Admission, the Company also adopted the PartyGaming Plc entitled to terminate his employment immediately without Executive Share Option Plan.
The PartyGaming Plc Executive compensation: or ii his performance has fallen substantially Share Option Plan provides for grants of fair market value options below the level reasonably expected for a Chief Executive over existing or newly issued Shares or Depositary Interests to Officer having regard to the level of performance set by eligible employees including the Executive Directors and selfthe Remuneration Committee as part of the annual bonus employed consultants of the Group.
The exercise of any options arrangements, then he shall be entitled to exercise his option granted under the PartyGaming Plc Executive Share Option Plan within the period of 90 days in respect of Shares vested at the is subject to the satisfaction of corporate performance targets date on which notice of termination is given or received the set over three years.
To date no options have been granted notice date plus a pro rata number of Shares for the calendar under the PartyGaming Plc Executive Share Option Plan.
quarter in which the notice date falls.
The option will lapse in respect of any remaining Shares.
In all other circumstances in which his employment is terminated, he will also be entitled to exercise the option within the period of 90 days following the notice date in respect of such Shares that have vested at the notice date plus such additional number of Shares as would otherwise have vested during the 12 months following the notice date.
73 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2005 Remuneration report continued iii Status summary of options granted Only options under the PartyGaming Plc Share Option Plan have been granted during the year to 31 December 2005 to certain Executive Directors.
These options are nil-cost options and there has been no consideration paid for the grant of these options.
No options have been granted to Non-Executive Directors.
Number of Number of Shares over Shares over Number of which nil-cost which nil-cost Shares over options options which nil-cost granted remain options during unvested or granted on the year to unexercised at 1 January 31 December 31 December Executive Director 2005 2005 Vested Exercised Lapsed 2005 Expiry date Vikrant Bhargava Nil Nil N A N A N A N A N A Anurag Dikshit Nil Nil N A N A N A N A N A Richard Segal Nil 40,000,000 30.06.05 30.06.05 Nil 30,800,000 07.06.15 10,000,000 Shares option exercised in respect of 9,200,000 30.09.05 Shares and all 1,875,000 Shares these Shares sold immediately at 30.12.05 116 pence 1,875,000 Shares per Share.
Martin Weigold Nil 16,000,000 30.06.05 30.06.05 Nil 10,951,104 06.04.15 3,680,000 Shares option exercised in respect of 3,680,000 Shares and all these Shares sold immediately at 116 pence per Share.
30.09.05 684,448 Shares 08.12.05 option exercised in respect of 684,448 Shares 30.12.05 684,448 Shares 30.12.05 option exercised in respect of 684,448 Shares Note: In the period from 30 June 2005 to 31 December 2005 the Share price was 176 pence at its highest 28 July 2005 and 71 pence at its lowest 10 October 2005.
Executive Director service contracts payment is reduced pro rata.
In the event that an Executive Richard Segal, Martin Weigold, Vikrant Bhargava and Anurag Directors contract is terminated for cause e. g. gross Dikshit were appointed Executive Directors under terms of service misconduct, the Company may terminate the contract with agreements with the Company the Service Agreements and immediate effect and no compensation would be payable.
each a Service Agreement dated 7 June 2005, 4 April 2005, An Executive Directors options are dealt with in accordance with 13 June 2005 and 13 June 2005 respectively.
The Service the terms of his option grant letter.
Agreements are governed by English law.
On 27 February 2006, the Company entered into an agreement The Service Agreements grant entitlements to a salary, with Richard Segal under which he will cease employment no discretionary bonus, participation in the Companys long-term later than 1 June 2006.
On leaving, he will be entitled to 585,000 incentive plans, private medical insurance, permanent health by way of termination payment equal to one years salary, plus insurance and life assurance.
5,531 to compensate for the value of any lost benefits under his In accordance with the Code, each Executive Directors Service Agreement.
Richard Segal will also be eligible for an employment is terminable by either party on 12 months written annual bonus in respect of the period from 1 January 2006 to the notice.
The Company may elect to pay an Executive Director date his employment ceases.
This will be considered by the compensation in lieu of notice.
Such a payment would comprise Remuneration Committee shortly after his departure, but the twelve months salary at the Directors then current basic rate amount paid will not be less than 50% of the maximum bonus plus a cash payment to compensate for the value of any lost attributable to his period of service during the 2006 financial year benefits under the Service Agreement.
Richard Segals options will be treated payment is payable where the requisite twelve months notice is as described in this Remuneration Report.
not given to the Executive Director or where the Executive Director terminates by giving twelve months notice and the Company does not wish the Executive Director to serve his notice.
If a period of notice is served then the compensation 74 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2005 Chairmans terms of appointment and remuneration Rod Perry, Lars Berg and Nigel Kenny were all appointed under The Chairman of the Board, Michael Jackson, joined the Group appointment letters dated 17 April 2005, 21 April 2005 and in March 2005 and has an appointment letter dated 31 May 2005 10 May 2005 respectively.
On Admission, each one of them governed by English law the terms of which, with effect from received a one-off fee of 100,000 less statutory deductions 30 June 2005, provide for an initial fixed term until 21 March 2008. from the Company.
Each invested 59,000 to acquire Shares in The Company may terminate the appointment by giving 12 the Offer at 116 pence per Share to be held for the duration of months notice to expire on or at any time after 21 March 2008. their appointments.
The Chairman may terminate the appointment at any time by Rod Perry, Lars Berg, Nigel Kenny are each entitled to an giving six months notice.
The appointment is otherwise subject to annual fee of 75,000 plus an additional 10,000 per annum is the provisions of the Articles.
payable for chairmanship of any Board Committee.
Rod Perry is The Chairman is entitled to an annual fee of 500,000 for his Chairman of the Ethics Committee and Nigel Kenny is Chairman services, reimbursement of reasonable expenses and to the of the Audit Committee.
provision of office facilities and secretarial support at the Janos Libor was appointed under an appointment letter dated Companys offices in Gibraltar.
The Chairman does not 19 October 2005.
He is entitled to an annual fee of 75,000. participate in the Companys bonus or share plans.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors is entitled to reimbursement The Chairman is subject to certain restrictive covenants during of reasonable expenses incurred in the course of their duties, the appointment and for a period of 12 months following the the use of office facilities in Gibraltar and directors and officers termination of the appointment.
The Chairman received a one-off fee of 1,500,000 less statutory The appointments may be terminated by either party giving one deductions from the Company on Admission.
The Chairman months notice and are subject to the provisions of the Articles.
invested 1,000,000 of which approximately 115,000 was from his own funds to acquire Shares in the Offer at 116 pence per The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is a matter for Share and has agreed not to dispose of the Shares acquired for the Executive Directors and the levels of remuneration reflect the a period of 12 months following Admission.
time commitment and responsibilities of the particular NonExecutive role as well as the market rates paid to Non-Executive Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment and remuneration Directors generally.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to The Non-Executive Directors have each entered into a letter of participate in any of the Companys incentive or share plans.
appointment, the terms of which are governed by English law.
External appointments Brian Larcombe joined the Group in April 2005 and was All Executive Directors are required to seek the consent of appointed a Non-Executive Director under an appointment the Board before accepting external appointments as letter dated 31 May 2005.
On Admission, he received a one-off non-executive directors of companies outside the Group.
fee of 1,000,000 less statutory deductions from the Company.
With the consent of the Board, Martin Weigold remains a director He invested 590,000 to acquire Shares in the Offer at 116 pence of Ion Group Limited and Anurag Dikshit remains a director of per Share and has agreed not to dispose of the Shares acquired Integrated Developers Limited.
During the year to 31 December for a period of 12 months from Admission.
Brian Larcombe is 2005, Martin Weigold received fees of 2,500 for his services to entitled to an annual fee of 175,000.
Anurag Dikshit did not receive any fee for his services to Integrated Developers Limited.
