Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 50 Remuneration Report Remuneration Report The directors submit their Remuneration The remuneration of executive directors many cases to secure the services of senior Report for the year ended 31 March 2005. consists of annual salary, car allowance, executives who have international experience The information given on pages 53 to 55 health and disability benefits, an annual and flexibility in job location.
cash bonus scheme, pension contribution comparisons are made with the assistance and participation in long-term incentive of available independent remuneration The Remuneration Report sets out the schemes.
In the case of executive directors surveys.
Companys policy on the remuneration of who are relocated to overseas offices, an executive and non-executive directors with additional housing allowance may be paid.
The fees of the non-executive directors are details of their remuneration packages Only base salary is pensionable.
Details of determined by the Board within the limits including share incentive scheme awards, each individual directors remuneration, contained in the Articles of Association.
service contracts and disclosable interests shareholding and, where applicable, share As discussed in the Directors Report, in the issued share capital of Man Group plc options and long-term incentive plan the fees payable for the services of the in respect of the year ended 31 March benefits are set out in this report.
The report will be put to an advisory increased during the year.
The basic fee, vote of the Companys shareholders at the Service contracts as from 1 April 2004, was increased to Annual General Meeting to be held on The Group has service agreements with its 75,000.
Additional fees of 10,000, 12 July 2005. executive directors.
The service contracts 20,000 and 20,000 were paid to the do not have a fixed term but provide for Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, The Remuneration Committee comprises termination on the expiry of not more than Chair of the Audit and Risk Committee and only independent non-executive directors: 12 months written notice by either party or senior independent director respectively, to Dugald Eadie Chairman, Jon Aisbitt, Alison at the end of the month during which the reflect their additional responsibilities.
Carnwath, Glen Moreno and Jonathan director has attained the age of 60.
It is responsible for setting the effective dates of the service agreements Pension provision remuneration of all executive directors and are: Chris Chambers 20 August 2003: Peter The Group operates pension and retirement the Chairman of Man Group plc.
It is also Clarke 1 April 1997: Kevin Davis 1 April benefit schemes for its employees in a responsible for determining the framework 2000: and Stanley Fink 24 March 2000. number of countries.
Base salary is the and policy for the remuneration of senior They contain no contractual entitlement to only component of remuneration which is executives below Group Board level across be paid any fixed amount of bonus or right pensionable.
All executive directors are Man Group.
to participation in any of the Groups shareeligible to participate in the Groups pension based incentive schemes, participation in arrangements generally operating in the Executive remuneration policy which is at the Committees discretion.
jurisdiction in which they work.
Alternatively, The Group aims to attract, motivate and To protect the Groups business interests, the Group will, at the executive directors retain high calibre executives by rewarding executive directors service contracts request and subject to applicable limits and them with competitive salary and benefit contain non-compete covenants designed regulations, make a contribution of up to packages which are linked to a the to be applicable to the extent permitted 10% of pensionable salary to a private achievement of agreed individual objectives: under the law of the relevant jurisdiction.
pension plan nominated by the director.
b the achievement of the Groups key The executive directors service contracts The Remuneration Committee is reviewing financial and business targets as set out in do not include any fixed provision for the forthcoming changes to pensions the Financial Review : and c the creation of termination compensation.
The Committee legislation in the UK and will report on its long-term shareholder value.
In assessing is mindful of the need to consider what conclusions in next years Report.
the competitiveness of remuneration, compensation commitments, if any, are salaries and bonuses have been reviewed appropriate in the event of the termination Performance-related cash bonuses against available external market data of executive directors service contracts, In addition to base salary, all executive provided by independent professional bearing in mind the Groups legal directors and senior executives are eligible consultants.
To retain flexibility in the obligations and the individuals ability to for an annual performance-related cash application of its remuneration policy on an mitigate their loss.
The Committee must bonus, which is non-pensionable.
Total annual basis, the Committee seeks to give a approve in advance any proposed bonuses available across the Group for high proportion of total annual compensation termination payments.
distribution to eligible employees including in the form of variable bonus payments.
The executive directors are determined by Committee does not consider it appropriate The non-executive directors are appointed reference to the pre-tax profit of each to establish any maximum percentage of by the Board.
Details of their terms of business unit after making certain salary payable by way of annual bonus.
It is appointment are set out in the Directors adjustments, including a charge for the also policy to align the interests of executive Report.
capital allocated by the Group to the directors and senior executives with the operation of that business and any Groups shareholders through the promotion Salaries credit usage.
and encouragement of share ownership, by Salary ranges are established by reference offering participation in share-based longto those prevailing in the employment Bonuses for executive directors are term incentive schemes, details of which are market generally for executives of discretionary.
In considering the appropriate set out in this report.
The Committees comparable status, responsibility and skills.
level of bonus for each director, the policy with regard to the remuneration of Particular regard is paid to salary levels Committee considers a the extent to which executive directors is not expected to within other leading companies in the the individual has achieved their agreed change in the current year.
financial services sector and the need in personal objectives for the year and b the Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 51 Remuneration Report extent to which the Group has achieved its The FTSE 100 comprises the 100 largest 30% or more 24% or more for pre-July stated financial targets.
The Groups UK quoted companies by market 2001 awards.
These return targets longstanding key targets are: significant capitalisation.
It has been chosen because represent a multiple of the Groups weighted growth in diluted underlying earnings per it is a widely recognised performance average cost of capital and are considered share which was up 28% in the year : and comparison for large UK companies.
The by the Committee to be both challenging maintaining a high level of post-tax return on graph shows the change in the hypothetical and appropriate.
Additionally, no pre-July equity which was 26.8% for the year.
Total value of 100 invested in the Companys 2001 award is capable of being transferred cash bonuses paid to executive directors for ordinary shares on 31 March 2000, regardless of the level of Return on Equity the year adjusting for Chris Chambers who compared with the change in the hypothetical achieved unless aggregate earnings per was appointed during the comparative year value of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 share growth over the performance period are 9% lower than last year.
The bonus of Index, at 31 March in each year.
This shows has exceeded the growth in the Retail each executive director, as determined by that Man has materially outperformed the Prices Index for the same period by at the Remuneration Committee against these FTSE 100 over this period.
Entitlements are subject to an measures on an individual basis, is shown in additional one year restriction on transfer Total shareholder return the table on page 53.
Bonuses for senior to participants dependent upon continued executives below Board level are discussed employment with the Group.
During the Man Group plc with the Committee and reviewed by it.
year, the 2000 awards vested at 100% and FTSE 100 Index were transferred in June 2004.
The 2001 400 Long-term share-based awards will vest at 100% and will be 358 incentive schemes transferred in June 2005.
The 2002 awards 350 Man Group has always sought to facilitate will vest at 100% and will be transferred in 300 significant equity ownership by directors and June 2006.
287 250 233 senior management, principally through 200 schemes which encourage and assist the Additionally the Plan allows participants to 160 194 150 purchase of shares with their own money or invest part or all of their annual performanceby way of bonus sacrifice.
The Board and related cash bonus in shares in the 100 employees worldwide together currently own Company invested shares.
In return, 88 50 85 87 75 an estimated 10% of the Companys share 60 a participant will be provisionally allocated 0 capital, either directly or through employee such number of additional shares as 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 trusts established and funded for this represents the amount of their investment Source: Datastream purpose.
The Board alone directly holds 6% gross of personal tax and social security of the issued capital.
The employee trusts liabilities matching shares.
In addition, are included in the Groups consolidated The following is a summary of the long-term shares purchased under the Assisted Accounts.
share-based incentive schemes operated by Purchase Scheme see below are eligible the Group during the year.
for a matching allocation under the Plan on Executive directors are eligible to participate a one to one ratio.
The provisional allocation in the Performance Share Plan, Assisted Performance Share Plan of matching shares will be subject to the Purchase Scheme and Executive Share This is a long-term incentive plan for same performance criteria and three-year Option Scheme, in each case at the executive directors and senior executives performance period as set out above, and Committees discretion.
Both the Board first approved by shareholders in 1996 and to continued employment with the Group and the Committee believe that it is amended at the 2001 AGM.
Awards are over four years.
A participant may withdraw inappropriate to use short-term share price performance-related over a three-year their invested shares at any time but if, and movements as a measure of management measurement period based on the level of to the extent that, they do so during the performance: true long-term shareholder post-tax return on average capital employed performance period, the corresponding value will be created through long-term Return on Equity achieved by the Group allocation of matching shares lapses.
growth in earnings per share and the throughout that period.
Return on Equity, maintenance of high levels of post-tax for this purpose, is defined as the post-tax Share Option Scheme return on capital.
For this reason, these two profit for the year before goodwill An Inland Revenue Approved and measures form the basis of the performance amortisation and any exceptional items Unapproved Scheme, The Man Group criteria applicable to the Groups long-term relating to the disposal of the Agricultural Executive Share Option Scheme 2001, was share-based incentive schemes.
The Products businesses, divided by the established following shareholder approval Committee is not aware of any listed average of the opening and closing equity at the 2001 AGM.
Selected senior companies of substantial size whose main shareholders funds.
Annual awards are employees and executive directors are business activities are comparable in nature capped at 100% of base salary and no eligible to participate.
All grants of options and scale to that of Man Group, and award will be transferred unless the Group are subject to Remuneration Committee accordingly the Committee does not see any maintains an average annual Return on approval.
Details of options held by merit in trying to benchmark performance Equity of at least 20% 18% for pre-July executive directors are set out in the table criteria against other companies.
2001 awards across the performance on page 54.
Individual share option awards period.
Awards will be transferred at levels are subject to an annual cap of 200% of The performance graph below compares above this on a linear sliding scale.
Options issued under the the Companys total shareholder return benefits of an award can only be transferred Scheme may normally only be exercised performance against the FTSE 100 Index.
when annual Return on Equity has averaged between three and 10 years from the date Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 52 Remuneration Report of grant and are subject to the satisfaction Co-Investment Scheme of performance conditions.
50% of each This is a long-term incentive scheme, option will vest if the Companys underlying designed to encourage senior executives earnings per share EPS growth matches or excluding directors to invest a proportion exceeds the growth in RPI plus 3% per of their cash bonus by purchasing shares annum, with the entire option vesting at RPI in the Company and to facilitate their plus 6% per annum.
It is a matching scheme whereby are calculated from the end of the financial the Group matches on an agreed basis the year prior to the grant of option.
During the pre-tax amount of bonus invested in the year, the Executive Directors proposed, and scheme provided that the bonus the Remuneration Committee accepted, investment shares are retained by the that no re-testing of the EPS performance employee for three years.
The matching targets should take place.
Accordingly, if award can be exercised for no payment the targets attached to any option are not after four years provided that the employee reached after three years, the option will is still employed by the Group.
The Remuneration Committee operates on a four to one matching basis.
considers underlying earnings per share The amount a participant can invest cannot that is earnings from net management exceed 100% of their bonus.
The only fee income and Brokerage net income, director participating in the Co-Investment and therefore excludes net performance Scheme during the year was Chris Chambers, fee income, Sugar Australia, goodwill who was granted awards prior to becoming amortisation and exceptional items to a director.
The effect of performance fee income is excluded Other Employee Share Schemes as it can be volatile when comparing In 2001, the Group introduced an Inland between accounting periods.
The Revenue approved Sharesave Scheme Committee also considers these targets in the United Kingdom and an Internal to be suitably challenging.
The options Revenue Code qualifying employee Stock granted in 2001 and 2002 have fully met Purchase Plan in the United States.
Both are the performance criteria.
all-employee plans and executive directors are entitled to participate, subject to the Assisted Purchase Scheme relevant terms and conditions.
The UK The Group has established and contributes Sharesave Scheme contracts are for three to a discretionary trust for the benefit of or five year periods, with each participant employees of the Group including executive permitted to save up to 250 per month directors to facilitate the acquisition of to purchase Man Group plc shares at a shares in the Company as long-term discount.
The initial grant was made in holdings.
The current trustees, who are October 2001 and further grants in June not connected with the Group, are Roanne 2002, June 2003 and June 2004.
The Trust Company Jersey Limited and discount was 20% of the market value Ansbacher Trustees Jersey Limited.
The near the time the option was granted.
trustee acquires shares in the market, which Under the US Stock Purchase Plan, each it will sell on at the prevailing market price participant is permitted to save up to $375 on deferred payment terms.
In the case of per month $500 per month from 2005 executive directors, such assistance is to purchase Man Group plc shares at a subject to prior approval by the Remuneration discount, normally after a 24 month period Committee.
As at 31 March 2005 the and is subject to a restriction on transfer directors receiving such assistance were: of one year following purchase.
The initial Chris Chambers 1,225,000, payable in grant, for a 17 month period, was made annual instalments during the period to in January 2002 and further grants for 24 November 2008: Peter Clarke 840,150, month periods were made in June 2002, payable in annual instalments during the June 2003 and June 2004.
The option price period to November 2007: Kevin Davis was at a 15% discount to the market value 928,400, payable in annual instalments on the date of grant.
during the period to November 2010: and Stanley Fink 1,680,240, payable in annual instalments during the period to November 2007.
