46 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration Committee and Advisers Reference is made to page 37 of the Corporate Governance Statement, where there is a summary of the role of the remuneration committee.
Cairns remuneration committee operates within terms of reference set by the Board.
These are reviewed periodically to ensure that the remuneration committee remains up to date with best practices appropriate to Cairn, its strategy and the business environment in which it operates.
The deliberations and decisions of the remuneration committee are governed by the provisions in the Listing Rules and the Combined Code appended to the Listing Rules and the remuneration committee has followed these provisions and those of the Act, as amended by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, in preparing this report.
As and when the remuneration committee deems appropriate, it takes external advice on remuneration from the Companys legal advisers, Shepherd Wedderburn, and auditors, Ernst & Young LLP in respect of the Companys share option schemes and LTIP.
Advice obtained from Ernst & Young LLP is purely in relation to their independent verification of the Companys performance against performance criteria applicable to the Companys share option schemes and LTIP.
In respect of comparative remuneration, advice has also been obtained from New Bridge Street Consultants, who last conducted a comprehensive review of the directors remuneration packages in 2004.
In line with the remuneration committees policy of carrying out a comprehensive review of the directors remuneration packages at least every two years, the committee intends to instruct the next review to be carried out at the end of 2006.
The current members of the remuneration committee are Hamish Grossart chairman, Ed Story, Mark Tyndall and Todd Hunt.
The Chairman and Chief Executive are not members of the remuneration committee but may attend its meetings by invitation and are consulted in respect of certain of its proposals although they are not consulted or involved in any discussions in respect of their own remuneration.
The remuneration committee determines and agrees with the Board the overall remuneration policy for the executive directors, the Chairman and the members of the GMB.
The remuneration committee also determines, within the terms of the agreed policy and having consulted with the Chairman and the Chief Executive about their proposals, specific remuneration packages for each of the executive directors, including pension rights and any compensation payments to be paid on termination.
Remuneration Policy Cairns policy on executive directors remuneration for the current year and subsequent financial years is that the overall remuneration package should be sufficiently competitive to attract, retain and motivate high quality individuals capable of achieving the Groups objectives and thereby enhance shareholder value.
The package is generally weighted more towards variable pay and, in relation to the variable pay element, the package is weighted more towards long term performance.
Each executive directors remuneration package currently consists of basic salary, benefits, annual performance related bonuses, a long term incentive plan, defined contribution pension if appropriate and life assurance of four times basic annual salary.
The package is designed to support the Groups business strategy and to provide an appropriate incentive to maximise individual and corporate performance, whilst ensuring that overall rewards are market competitive.
Details of the individual components of the package and of contracts are given below.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors takes the form solely of fees, which are agreed by the executive members of the Board and the Chairman, having taken independent advice on appropriate levels, within an overall limit determined by shareholders.
The fees are designed to attract experienced individuals and reflect the responsibilities of the role.
The fees stated are in respect of all responsibilities undertaken by the non-executive directors, including membership of Board committees.
Basic Salary and Bene ts Basic salary is reviewed annually by the remuneration committee and any changes take effect from 1 January each year.
The salary increases awarded to directors for the year 2005 retained basic salary levels at below the median level identified in the review carried out by New Bridge Street Consultants in 2004.
47 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED For the year 2006, the basic salaries of the executive directors have increased from 2005 levels to 480,000 for Sir Bill Gammell, 350,000 for Dr Mike Watts and 300,000 for each of Kevin Hart, Malcolm Thoms and Phil Tracy.
The non-executive directors fees were increased from 2005 levels to 140,000 for Norman Murray, 90,000 for Hamish Grossart and 50,000 for each of Ed Story, Todd Hunt, Mark Tyndall and Andrew Shilston.
Benefits available to the executive directors comprise a company car, permanent health insurance, private health insurance and death in service benefit.
Share Options The Group currently operates three share option plans, as follows: 1.
1996 Second Share Option Scheme 1996 Scheme 2.
2002 Unapproved Share Option Plan 2002 Plan 3.
2003 Approved Share Option Plan 2003 Plan The 1996 Scheme was adopted in 1996.
The approval of the Inland Revenue was not sought for the 1996 Scheme.
The date of grant of the first award of options under the 1996 Scheme was 29 May 1996.
The 1996 Scheme has now been superseded by two new share option plans the 2002 Plan and the 2003 Plan.
As such, no further awards of options will be made under the 1996 Scheme.
The date of grant of the last award of options under the 1996 Scheme was 1 October 2002.
The principal difference between the 2002 Plan and the 2003 Plan is that the approval of the Inland Revenue was not sought for the 2002 Plan.
The 2003 Plan was approved by shareholders at the 2003 AGM and subsequently by the Inland Revenue.
The date of grant of the first award of options under the 2002 Plan was 18 March 2003.
The date of grant of the first award of options under the 2003 Plan was 30 June 2003.
Options granted under the 1996 Scheme, 2002 Plan and 2003 Plan are exercisable three to ten years following the date of grant and are subject to performance conditions on exercise.
At present, the option holder may only exercise options if Cairns share price has increased by 5% on a compound basis over the period from the date of grant of options up to the date they are exercised.
In addition, the percentage increase in Cairns share price over the period must be at least equal to or greater than the percentage movement in the FTSE Oil & Gas Index.
Share options are awarded in order to provide employees with a long term performance incentive and to align their interests with those of shareholders.
As such, the remuneration committee is satisfied that the current share price related performance conditions are appropriate.
Confirmation of whether the applicable performance conditions have been met is subject to independent verification by Ernst & Young LLP.
Ernst & Young LLP is also Cairns external auditor.
Up to 5% of Cairns issued ordinary share capital from time to time may be placed under option under the 1996 Scheme and the 2002 Plan in any rolling ten year period.
Up to 10% of Cairns issued ordinary share capital from time to time may be placed under option under the 1996 Scheme, the 2002 Plan and the 2003 Plan in any rolling ten year period.
None of the directors holds any options under any of the Companys share option plans.
Since 1999, the long term incentives for executive directors and certain senior executives have been made through the Companys LTIP and therefore no options have been granted to these individuals under the share option plans since that time.
LTIP Details of directors awards pursuant to the LTIP are given on pages 53 and 54.
The purpose of the LTIP is to align the interests of executive directors and senior executives with the interests of shareholders by providing a share based incentive.
The LTIP is designed to reward participants based on company performance and benefits are only delivered if challenging conditions are met.
Participants are required to hold 50% of any shares awarded pursuant to vesting for a minimum of one year and are not entitled to receive additional grants of options under any of the Companys share option plans.
The executive directors and senior executives eligible to receive awards are determined by the remuneration committee each year.
Participants may be granted Tier One and Tier Two awards under the LTIP.
Performance conditions for each are determined by the remuneration committee and the calculation of shares vesting based on these conditions is subject to independent verification by Ernst & Young LLP.
48 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Performance Conditions Tier One A Tier One award is an award of Cairn shares with the vesting and release of all part of those shares being dependent upon the executive remaining an employee and achievement of performance conditions over a performance period of three years.
In any one year, the market value of Cairn shares comprised in a Tier One award at the date of grant will not exceed one and a half times a participants annual gross remuneration.
Vesting of the Tier One award is currently subject to a total shareholder return TSR target which is calculated in two steps, each of which must be satisfied.
Step One First, the TSR of a Cairn share during the performance period is compared to the average TSR performance of the companies comprising the relevant FTSE index the Index at the beginning and at the end of the performance period details of the FTSE Indices used are set out on page 49.
If Cairns TSR performance exceeds the average TSR performance of the Index, then the step one test has been passed.
The step two test will then be used to calculate how many if any Cairn shares the subject of the award will vest.
Step Two Under step two, the TSR of Cairn shares will be compared to the TSR of a share in each company in a comparator group comprising exploration, production and integrated oil companies over the performance period details of the relevant comparator groups are set out on pages 49 to 50.
Each company will then be ranked in order of TSR performance.
Cairns position in the comparator group list will determine how many if any Cairn shares the subject of the award will vest, as follows: all the Cairn shares comprised in the award will vest if Cairns position in the comparator group is at the upper quartile or above: 20% of the Cairn shares comprised in the award will vest if Cairn reaches the median in the comparator group: between the median and upper quartile the number of Cairn shares vesting will be calculated on a straight line basis: and no shares comprised in the award will vest if the TSR of Cairn shares does not place it at the median or above in the comparator group.
In addition, no Tier One award will vest unless the remuneration committee is satisfied that there has been a satisfactory and sustained improvement in Cairns underlying financial position and performance over the performance period.
Performance Conditions Tier Two A Tier Two award is a TSR appreciation right over a number of notional Cairn shares.
The maximum potential benefit a participant may receive under a Tier Two award is calculated by comparing the percentage change in Cairns TSR over the performance period with the percentage change in the average TSR of the comparator group over the same period.
The relative performance in Cairns TSR if any over the performance period, is multiplied by the number of notional shares the subject of the award.
This gives rise to a monetary figure which is then converted into an actual number of Cairn shares using the market value as at the date of vesting.
Where there has been a fall in Cairns TSR, no Tier Two award will vest.
Vesting of the Tier Two award is then subject to a further TSR target which is calculated in two steps, each of which must be satisfied.
Step One This step is the same as step one of the performance conditions in respect of Tier One.
Step Two Under step two, the TSR of Cairn shares will be compared to the TSR of a share in each company comprised in the comparator group over the performance period.
As with Tier One awards, each company will then be ranked in order of TSR performance.
Cairns position in the comparator group list will determine how many if any shares the subject of the award will vest, as follows: all of the benefit will vest if Cairn achieves position number one in the comparator group: 40% of the benefit will vest if Cairn reaches the upper quartile in the comparator group: between the upper quartile and number one position, the level of benefit vesting will be calculated on a straight line basis: and no benefit will vest under this target if the TSR of Cairn shares does not place it at the upper quartile or above in the comparator group.
49 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED In addition, no Tier Two award will vest unless the remuneration committee is satisfied that there has been a satisfactory and sustained improvement in Cairns underlying financial position and performance over the performance period.
At the end of the performance period, 50% of vested shares under both Tier One and Tier Two awards will be transferred to participants immediately, and the remaining shares will be transferred at the end of one year.
Vesting of the award will be dependent upon the executive remaining an employee, and upon the achievement of performance conditions over the performance period.
In any three year period, the market value of the notional shares comprised in all outstanding Tier Two awards at the date of grant will not exceed four times a participants annual gross remuneration.
The LTIP is designed to provide the executive directors and other senior executives with a long term incentive based on company performance.
As such, the performance conditions described above are deemed appropriate by the remuneration committee.
The remuneration committee reviews performance conditions on a regular basis.
For the first step of the TSR target described on page 48, for 2004 and 2005 awards, the Companys performance is measured against the FTSE 250 Index.
The remuneration committee reviewed this performance condition in March 2006 and has decided to measure awards made in 2006 against the FTSE 350 Index.
For awards prior to 2004, the Companys performance was measured against the FTSE Small Cap Index excluding investment trusts.
Comparator Groups The comparator group applicable to awards made on 11 March 2002 and which vested on 19 April 2005 details of which are on page 54 was: BP Amoco PLC Chevron Texaco Corporation Dana Petroleum plc Exxon Mobil Corporation Fortune Oil PLC Melrose Resources PLC Occidental Petroleum Corporation Paladin Resources plc Premier Oil plc Ramco Energy plc Royal Dutch Petroleum Company Shell Transport and Trading Company SOCO International plc Tullow Oil plc The comparator group of companies used in the second step of the TSR target is reviewed by the remuneration committee on an annual basis and from time to time companies are removed or added to ensure that the comparator group remains appropriate.
The table on the following page shows the comparator groups applicable to: awards made in 2003 and 2004: awards made in 2005: and awards to be made in 2006.
50 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Comparator Group continued 2003 and 2004 Awards 2005 Awards 2006 Awards BG Group p. l. c. BG Group p. l. c. BG Group p. l. c. Chevron Texaco Corporation Burren Energy plc Burren Energy plc Dana Petroleum plc Chevron Texaco Corporation Dana Petroleum plc First Calgary Petroleums Limited Dana Petroleum plc Melrose Resources PLC Fortune Oil PLC First Calgary Petroleums Limited Occidental Petroleum Corporation John Wood Group PLC Melrose Resources PLC Premier Oil plc Melrose Resources PLC Occidental Petroleum Corporation SOCO International plc Occidental Petroleum Corporation Paladin Resources plc Talisman Energy Inc. Paladin Resources plc Premier Oil plc Tullow Oil plc Premier Oil plc SOCO International plc Venture Production plc Ramco Energy plc Tullow Oil plc Woodside Petroleum Ltd SOCO International plc Venture Production plc Tullow Oil plc Venture Production plc Annual Cash Bonus Scheme Cairns annual cash bonus scheme has been in place since 1999 and applies to all employees and executive directors.
Bonuses under the scheme are based on individual and Company performance measures.
Individual performance is measured through the Companys performance management system.
Company performance measures are based on annually defined key performance indicators KPIs.
The KPIs for 2005 encompassed various budgetary, portfolio growth and procedural compliance targets, the substantial majority of which were met.
For employees other than executive directors, only the individual and Company performance measures determine the overall bonus award.
As was the case in 2004, the 2005 bonus award to the executive directors was subject to two additional performance measures, being performance against annually defined corporate objectives and reserve replacement performance.
This resulted in one quarter of the award being determined by individual performance, one quarter by company performance, one quarter by performance against corporate objectives and one quarter by reserve replacement performance.
The corporate objectives for 2005 are commercially sensitive and are therefore excluded from this report, as are the 2006 corporate objectives.
The maximum level of bonus award for the executive directors for 2005 was 66.6% of salary for the Chief Executive and 50% of salary for the other executive directors.
The bonuses awarded to the executive directors for performance in 2005 are shown in the table on page 53.
The maximum level of bonus award for other senior executives for 2005 was 40% of salary.
The maximum level of bonus award for the executive directors for 2006 will be increased to 100%.
The remuneration committee has the discretion to award bonuses in addition to those payable under the annual cash bonus scheme in recognition of particular efforts or achievements by employees, including executive directors.
Pension Scheme The Company is the principal employer for a defined contribution pension scheme in the UK: the Cairn Energy PLC Retirement Benefits Scheme.
This scheme is non-contributory and all UK employees aged 18 and over are eligible to participate in the scheme.
The Company contributes 10% of basic annual salary 15% in respect of senior executives to the pension scheme on behalf of all qualifying employees.
Sir Bill Gammell, Dr Mike Watts and Kevin Hart are members of the Cairn Energy PLC Retirement Benefits Scheme and are entitled to a contribution to the scheme equal to 15% of their respective annual basic salaries.
Malcolm Thoms and Phil Tracy each have a personal pension plan and receive a contribution from the Company equal to 15% of their respective annual basic salaries.
Pursuant to new pension scheme regulations which will come into force on 6 April 2006 Phil Tracy has requested and the Company has agreed that no further contributions be made into his personal pension plan after 31 March 2006.
Instead, with effect from 1 April 2006, the Company will pay an amount equivalent to the contributions to him as an additional salary.
Further details of the contribution made by the Company in respect of each executive director are set out on page 53.
The Company is also the principal employer for a Small Self-Administered Scheme.
Sir Bill Gammell is the sole member of this scheme.
The Company is not contractually obliged to make any contributions into this scheme on behalf of Sir Bill Gammell.
51 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Service Contracts The Companys policy is for all executive directors to have contracts of service which can be terminated by either the director concerned or the Company on giving 12 months notice of termination.
On a change of control of the Company resulting in the termination of a directors employment, each of the directors is entitled to compensation of a sum equal to their annual basic salary as at the date of termination of employment.
Each of the non-executive directors has a letter of appointment in terms of which he is appointed for a fixed three year period, subject to the Companys articles of association, which provide for retirement by rotation at least once every three years.
The letters of appointment set out the time commitment expected by the Company and can be terminated with immediate effect by either the director concerned or the Company.
The Board is satisfied that each of the non-executive directors commits sufficient time to fulfil his duties as a director of the Company.
None of the non-executive directors has any conflict of interest which has not been disclosed to the Board in accordance with the Companys articles of association.
The terms and conditions for the appointment of the non-executive directors of the Company are available for inspection on request and will be available for inspection before and during the AGM to be held on 20 April 2006.
Details of the service contracts and letters of appointment of the current directors of the Company are given in the table below.
Effective Date Unexpired Term Notice Period Executive service contracts Sir Bill Gammell 19.02.03 n a 12 months Dr Mike Watts 19.02.03 n a 12 months Kevin Hart 19.02.03 n a 12 months Malcolm Thoms 19.02.03 n a 12 months Phil Tracy 06.02.04 n a 12 months Non-executive letters of appointment Norman Murray 19.02.06 35 months None Hamish Grossart 19.02.06 35 months None Ed Story 19.02.06 35 months None Todd Hunt 14.05.03 2 months None Mark Tyndall 10.10.03 6 months None Andrew Shilston 08.11.04 19 months None Certain of the Companys executive directors serve as non-executive directors on the boards of other companies and are permitted to retain the fees relating to those positions.
Details of the positions held and the fees receivable are set out in the table below.
Executive Director Position Held Fees 2005 Sir Bill Gammell Non-executive director, Artemis AiM VCT plc 12,292 Kevin Hart Non-executive director, Glasgow Income Trust PLC 11,500 Malcolm Thoms Non-executive director, Revus Energy AS 28,775 payable partly in cash and partly in shares Phil Tracy Non-executive director, Vienco Oil & Gas Limited 18,000 The Board believes, in principle, in the benefits of executive directors accepting positions as non-executive directors of other companies in order to widen their skills and knowledge for the benefit of the Company, provided that the time commitments are not unduly onerous.
The appointment of any executive director to a non-executive position with another company must be approved by the Board.
In the case of a proposed appointment to a company within the oil and gas industry, permission will only be given if the two companies do not compete in the same geographical area.
52 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Performance Graphs Both the FTSE 100 Index and FTSE 250 Index were selected as appropriate comparator indices for the two performance graphs shown below as although Cairn is currently a constituent member of the FTSE 100 Index it was not a member of that Index for a period of six months during 2005.
Cairn was a member of the FTSE 100 Index in Q1 and Q4 2005 and a member of the FTSE 250 Index in Q2 and Q3 2005.
The graphs compare Cairns TSR with that of the chosen indices.
The bar chart is presented as additional information to that required by the Act, as amended by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
During 2005, the range of high and low market value of shares was 20.18 to 10.42.
2 The annual bonus for 2005 is payable in the subsequent financial year.
3 Phil Tracy was appointed a director on 6 February 2004.
The figures stated are in respect of the period from that date to 31 December 2004.
4 Andrew Shilston was appointed a director on 8 November 2004.
The fees stated are in respect of the period from that date to 31 December 2004.
Vested Awards Details of awards which vested during 2005 are given in the table below.
Calculations to determine the number of shares vesting, based on the performance conditions described on pages 48 and 49 of this report were carried out by Cairn and independently verified by Ernst & Young LLP.
By Order of the Board Duncan Wood Company Secretary 14 March 2006
