18 Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2005 The Board presents this Report which has been prepared under the requirements of Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985 and in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
An Ordinary Resolution for the approval of this Report will be put to shareholders at the AGM.
Your Companys auditors are required to audit certain of the disclosures provided in this Report.
Where disclosures have been audited, they are indicated in this Report.
The auditors opinion is included in their report on pages 26 and 27.
Remuneration Responsibilities The Board have resolved that a remuneration committee is not appropriate for a Company of this size and nature.
Remuneration responsibilities are part of the Boards responsibilities, to be addressed regularly by the Board as a whole.
All Directors are non-executive and all participate in meetings of the Board at which Directors remuneration is considered.
The Board seeks advice, inter alia, from the Secretary, INVESCO Asset Management Limited, when considering the level of Directors fees.
Policy on Directors Remuneration The Boards policy is that the remuneration of non-executive Directors should be fair and reasonable in relation to the time commitment and responsibilities of the Director.
It is intended that this policy will continue for the year ended 31 March 2006 and subsequent years.
Fees for the Directors are determined by the Board within the limits stated in the Companys Articles of Association.
The maximum currently dictated by the Companys Articles of Association is 150,000.
The Directors are not eligible for bonuses, pension benefits, share options or other incentives or benefits.
In light of the increasing demands and accountability of the new corporate governance environment, the Board has recognised the additional workload that each Director has and will continue to experience.
For this reason, the Board resolved that the remuneration be increased to 20,000 for the Chairman and 15,000 for the other Directors, with effect from 1 April 2004.
Directors Service Contracts It is the Boards policy that none of the Directors has a service contract.
The terms of the Directors appointment provide that a Director shall retire and be subject to re-election at the first annual general meeting after appointment and at least every three years thereafter.
The terms also provide that a Director may be removed from office without notice and that no compensation will be due on leaving office.
Perpetual Income and Growth Investment Trust plc 19 Your Companys Performance The graph below plots the total return to ordinary shareholders compared to the total return of the FTSE All-Share Index over the five years to 31 March 2005.
This index is the benchmark adopted by the Company for comparison purposes.
Share Price Total Return vs FTSE All-Share Total Return rebased to 100 at 31 March 2000 Directors Emoluments for the year audited The Directors who served during the year received the following emoluments in the form of fees: 2005 2004 000 000 Sir Patrick Sheehy Chairman of the Board 20 17 Sir Martyn Arbib 15 16 Ed Burke James DAlbiac 15 13 Antony Hardy 15 13 Total 65 59 Covers the period from 1 January 2003 to 31 March 2004 at 12,500 per annum.
No sums were paid to third parties in respect of any Directors services.
Approval The Directors Remuneration Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 14 June 2005.
Sir Patrick Sheehy Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors
