38 In this section, we report to you on the remuneration of the directors in the year to 31 July 2005.
At the AGM, the shareholders will be asked to approve this report.
The vote is advisory and will not affect the remuneration which has been paid.
Remuneration Policy Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Policy Executive Directors For all directors, the Company's policy is that remuneration should be set at a level to attract and retain individuals of high Annual Bonus Arrangements calibre and to reward consistent high performance in order to benefit the long-term performance of the Company.
Senior Management Equity Remuneration should also reflect individual directors respective responsibilities.
All directors are appointed on the basis that Incentive Plan they are competent to do the job, have the potential to deliver the objectives of the Company and are motivated by the Remuneration and alignment of their own interest with those of the shareholders.
Pension Entitlement To understand the framework for paying directors, it is important to look at the non-executive and executive directors Company Performance Graph separately since they have different roles on the board, as explained on page 29.
Audit Statement Non-executive Directors Non-executive directors are not salaried employees and do not have employment contracts.
They do, however, have written terms of appointment which set out the expected term of office, the expected time commitment and responsibilities.
These terms are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
Non-executive directors are initially appointed for a term of 3 years.
The maximum aggregate amount of fees which can be paid to the non-executives each year has to be approved by the shareholders at a general meeting, such as an AGM, in accordance with the Articles of Association.
The current aggregate amount is 60,000.
Within this aggregate, the Remuneration Committee determines the Chairmans fees and the board as a whole determines what the other non-executives should receive.
The fees, which are reviewed at two year intervals, are set to take into account the time and responsibilities of the roles.
The next such review will take place in 2006.
No individual plays a part in the decision on his or her own remuneration.
Independent consultants advise on issues of comparability, taking into account the nature of the duties to be performed and the time commitment involved.
Directors Remuneration Report 39 Death-in-service insurance and disability insurance.
These Executive Directors are insured benefits which have no value on leaving service.
Executive directors are salaried employees engaged full time in Private health care which extends to any spouse and any the business of the Company, the Alliance Trust and their unmarried children under 25. respective subsidiaries.
They do not receive any fees as directors outwith their salaries.
The level of their salaries is not Annual Bonus Arrangements laid down in the Articles of Association, but is determined by the Remuneration Committee of the board, which is composed Participants, who include the executive directors, can earn a entirely of the independent non-executive directors and is cash bonus at the end of each financial year.
The grant of any chaired by Christopher Masters.
No director is involved in award is discretionary, and the amount of the award will be deciding his or her own remuneration.
Each executive director calculated in part by reference to achievement against also receives a salary from the Alliance Trust.
stretching performance targets, which in the case of the executive directors are approved and monitored by the The Remuneration Committee appoints and takes advice from Remuneration Committee, and in part by the Company's total independent consultants on the level and composition of shareholder return compared with its peer group.
The maximum executive directors remuneration.
This advice is set against the cash bonus payable to any participant in the annual bonus position of the Company compared to its peers and the general scheme will not exceed 50% of their salary.
level of remuneration and pay awards in the Company.
Such advice may include advice on pension and remuneration issues Senior Management Equity Incentive Plan generally as they affect all staff of the Company.
"In 2005 this At the 2004 Annual General Meeting, the introduction of an advice was provided by Monks Partnership, who have no Equity Incentive Plan the ""Plan"" for executive directors and connection with the Company other than providing senior managers was approved by shareholders."
Under the Plan, consultancy services.
the Remuneration Committee has the discretion to require that Each of the executive directors has a contract of employment.
"one half of any bonus paid under the annual scheme will be used to purchase shares in the Company that will be held by an These contracts are available for inspection at the Companys Employee Benefit Trust ""EBT"" on the terms of the Plan."
registered office and at the AGM.
Participants are also given the opportunity to apply some or all Some features of the executives contracts are: of their remaining bonus in purchasing further shares to be deposited with the EBT, again on the terms of the Plan.
They are terminable on one years notice by the Company and on six months notice by the director.
Shares deposited with the EBT will be held by the EBT for a deferral period of three years, at the end of which an award of Alan Hardens contract contains express mitigation additional matching shares may be made.
The number of provisions should his contract be terminated.
matching shares that are awarded to a participant will depend The other executive directors have acknowledged in writing on both the number of shares originally deposited with the EBT that they have a duty to mitigate loss in the event of early and the extent to which further demanding performance termination and the Remuneration Committee has a conditions have been satisfied over the duration of the three responsibility to take into account this duty before deciding year deferral period.
In the case of the executive directors the any compensation on termination.
performance condition is total shareholder return compared with the Companys peer group.
The maximum matching award All executive directors are required to retire at age 60. that can be made under the Plan is two shares for every one share originally deposited with the EBT.
The remuneration packages of the executive directors comprise: Where a participant leaves the Company during the three year Salary, which is set at a level to reflect individual deferral period, he or she will generally lose the opportunity to responsibility and performance and is reviewed annually.
It is intended that the matching shares should be financed by Eligibility for a bonus of a maximum of 50% of salary the increased performance necessary to achieve the award.
The depending on personal and Company performance.
awards of shares will more closely align the interests of executive directors and senior managers with the interests of Eligibility for membership of the Senior Management Equity shareholders.
The first awards under the Plan are due to be made after Participation on the same terms as all staff in an Allpublication of these accounts.
Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP subject to a statutory maximum limit of 3,000 in any year.
40 Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration and Pension Entitlement Non-executive Directors Fees Paid 2005 2004 Lesley Knox Chairman 18,000 11,250 Non-executive directors also receive fees from the Alliance Bruce Johnston - 13,500 Trust for services as directors of William Berry 6,725 9,000 that company not shown here.
2 Annual bonuses were payable in respect of personal objectives.
No bonus was payable in respect of total shareholder return which was below the median of the peer group over the year see page 39.
3 Highest paid director during the year.
4 From appointment as director on 1 January 2004.
5 Gavin Suggett ceased to be a director on 31 December 2003 and data is included for comparison purposes.
The Company contributes 25% of the cost of the Alliance Trust Share Incentive Plan which benefits all employees including the executive directors as part of the joint employment arrangements see note 2 on page 47.
In 2005 the Company contributed 186 nil for Alan Harden, 371 341 for Sheila Ruckley 371 341 for Alan Young and 371 170 for David Deards.
No taxable benefits are provided by the Company.
The transfer values of the accrued pensions and the transfer values of scheme connected with previous employment and 2 years 11 months by the inflation adjusted increases in the accrued pensions in the period a discretionary increase.
His service is also being enhanced by six have been calculated by the actuary of the scheme in accordance with months in respect of each actual year of service over a period of 10 actuarial guidance note GN11.
The changes in the transfer values years ending on his 60th birthday.
His pensionable salary, like that of between 31 July 2004 and 31 July 2005 are significantly influenced by Sheila Ruckley, is not subject to the earnings cap as they both joined the assumptions underlying their calculation and market conditions.
the pension scheme before June 1989.
Alan Hardens pension benefits accrue on the basis of a 1 30th accrual The disclosure of the increases in the inflation adjusted accrued rate which is twice that of the normal accrual rate for scheme members.
pensions and the transfer values of those increases is a requirement of the UK Listing Authority.
The other disclosures are required by the From 1 April 2004, David Deards pension benefits accrue on the basis Companies Act 1985. of a 1 40th accrual rate which is one and a half times that of the normal accrual rate for the scheme.
Alan Young was credited with 5 years pensionable service in August 1988.
It was funded as to 2 years 1 month by a transfer in from a 41 Company Performance Graph Company Performance Graph We are required to show a graph of the performance of the 31 July 2000 to 31 July 2005 Company compared to a broad equity market index.
The graph 110 above compares the total return on the Companys shares to the 105 FTSE All-Share Index.
100 Total Return on Second Alliance Trust ordinary shares It should be noted that the Company does not seek to track the 95 90 FTSE All-Share Index.
It is not used as a benchmark and has 85 simply been chosen to comply with the requirement in that it is 80 an index which we consider to be well known to our 75 shareholders.
The Companys assets will not necessarily perform Total Return on the 70 FTSE All-Share Index in line with the Index.
31 July 31 July 31 July 31 July 31 July 31 July The FTSE All-Share Index is a UK equity index, whereas a 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 substantial part of the Company's assets are invested overseas Source: Thomson Financial Datastream and the Company may not be fully invested in equities.
In The total return on ordinary shares is the theoretical growth in value addition, the return on the Company's shares is partly over five years, assuming that gross dividends are fully reinvested, and determined by supply and demand for the shares on the stock ignoring re-investment charges.
The total return on the index is the theoretical aggregate in value of the index constituents.
This return may not equate to the return achieved by the Company on its assets.
For the year under review, other indices are set out on page 55.
Audit statement The tables on page 40, together with the footnotes relating to them, have been audited by the Companys auditor whose report is on page 42.
By order of the Board Ian Goddard, Company Secretary Dundee, 19 September 2005
