DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Remuneration Committee and Advisors to provide Executive Directors with an incentive for the The Remuneration Committee received external advice from development and performance of the Group in the best Linklaters and Mercer Human Resource Consulting in respect interests of shareholders: and of the implementation of the new Performance Share Plan to ensure that a significant proportion of Executive Directors which received approval at the 2005 Annual General Meeting.
remuneration is structured such that rewards are linked to In addition, general remuneration information has been provided corporate and individual performance.
The policy is designed to ensure that a significant proportion of Directors and employees of the Company who provided material the total remuneration is dependent upon personal and Company advice or services to the Committee during the year were: performance and aligns the interests of executives and shareholders.
This is achieved through a combination of fixed and Ron Sandler Chairman variable payments, benefits, share option schemes and the Alan Pottinger Company Secretary until 4 October 2005.
Tim Way Group HR Director Basic salary and benefits In future, Stephen Benade as the new Company Secretary In seeking to ensure that the basic salary and benefits for each appointed on 4 October 2005, may be called upon to advise the Executive Director are appropriate and competitive, relevant Remuneration Committee.
external market data, as well as pay and conditions in the Group generally, are taken into consideration.
The Chairman makes The Committee takes into account comparative practice in both recommendations to the Committee in respect of the two other the European technology sector and FTSE mid-250 companies.
Executive Directors, based upon this information, together with an assessment of their individual performance against specific Remuneration policy financial and non-financial goals, and the performance of the The Board has delegated responsibility for determining Group as a whole.
Cliff Preddy, as Committee Chairman, is remuneration policy to the Committee.
No Director is involved in responsible for an equivalent process in respect of Ron Sandlers deciding his own remuneration.
The Board determines the fees for remuneration.
Non-Executive Directors that reflect the time commitment and responsibilities of their roles, and the Committee is responsible for Performance-related bonus scheme determining the appropriate policy for rewarding the Groups Mike Norris and Tony Conophy participate in annual performanceExecutive Directors and senior management.
40% of the award is linked to the financial performance of the Group against a pre-agreed target, In implementing its policy, the Committee has given full with the balance related to the achievement of specific personal consideration to the principles of the Combined Code with regard objectives agreed with each of them for the year by the Chairman, to Executive Director remuneration, and is satisfied that it has and approved by the Committee.
Performance conditions are complied with best practice provisions in this matter.
In particular, relevant, challenging and designed to enhance shareholder value.
the following objectives have been addressed: For 2005, the maximum levels of bonus were 75% of base salary and Mike Norris earned 100,125 2004: 73,100 and Tony to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors with the Conophy 100,800 2004: 54,000.
Following a review by the qualities required to run the Company successfully: Remuneration Committee, the maximum levels of bonuses for to reward Executive Directors through remuneration 2006 will be 75% of base salary.
arrangements that are competitive but not excessive: The various elements of Executive Directors Remuneration are shown below: Performance based equity schemes Element: Fixed basic salary Bonus PSP Share options Maximum Award: 75% of Base Salary 100% of Base Salary 125% of Base Salary Purpose: Reflects competitive salary Rewards the delivery of Improved motivation for Linked to the achievement levels and takes account of Group operational performance senior executives to of significant and personal contribution and and achievement of personal contribute to sustained improvements performance objectives growth and profitability in the Companys and better align the financial performance Companys incentive and to the creation arrangements with of value through shareholders interests increased share price Performance Standard: Individual Specific individual EPS growth EPS growth contribution targets approved by relative to RPI relative to RPI the Remuneration Committee each year Note: The Chairman is ineligible for a bonus award.
30 COMPUTACENTER PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Equity schemes Share options Performance Share Plan The Executive Directors have historically been awarded executive Approved by shareholders at the 2005 Annual General Meeting, share options under the Companys share option schemes, it is intended that this new plan will operate as the main long term although no such options were granted during 2005.
Since 1998, incentive scheme for senior employees in place of the existing these awards have ordinarily been subject to certain performance executive option schemes.
Under this plan, selected employees conditions that are challenging and designed to produce significant will receive conditional rights to acquire shares in the Company at and sustained improvements in the Groups underlying financial the end of a performance period, subject to performance targets.
The details of the various performance conditions In appropriate circumstances, grants of options under the current relating to grants are set out in the table of Directors interests in executive option schemes may still be considered, particularly in share options on page 33.
Should the conditions not be met, those countries where there may be associated tax or other options will lapse.
The actual award is dependent upon individual advantages.
and Company performance assessed against agreed personal targets and grants are normally limited to a maximum of 1.25x The Remuneration Committee believes that the PSP scheme will an individuals base salary.
generate improved motivation for senior employees to contribute to growth and profitability, and better align the Companys EPS has been chosen as a performance measure on the incentive arrangements with shareholders interests.
basis that this is a widely used and transparent yardstick.
As for the PSP scheme, EPS is calculated on a diluted basis.
For 2006, the PSP performance target will be based on the Further grants of share options will be made in appropriate Companys annual adjusted earning per share EPS growth in circumstances only, since the approved Performance Share Plan relation to the retail price index RPI and measured over a three is intended to become the main long-term incentive scheme for year period.
No shares subject to awards will vest if cumulative senior employees.
annual growth is less than RPI plus 3%.
One quarter of the shares will vest at RPI plus 3%.
Awards will vest in full if the Companys Pension cumulative annual growth is at or above RPI plus 7.5%.
If the Past and present Executive Directors are entitled to participate Companys EPS growth over the period is between 3% and 7.5% in the Computacenter Pension Scheme, a defined contribution above RPI, awards will vest on a straight line basis.
There will be salary sacrifice scheme available to all employees under which a no re-testing of the performance target.
maximum annual Company contribution of 3,710 per employee is payable.
The maximum Company contribution is automatically The maximum value of shares that can be awarded under the reviewed each July in line with the average increase in national plan to an employee in a financial year is 1x base salary.
The scheme also allows employees to make additional can be exceeded in exceptional circumstances up to an absolute salary sacrifices, which the Company may contribute to the maximum of 2x base salary.
It is intended that awards for the scheme on their behalf.
The amounts of such additional salary Executive Directors will be in the range of 0.75 to 1x base salary.
sacrifices are shown as Company contributions in the table of No awards were made under the PSP scheme in 2005.
Mike Norris and Tony Conophy participate in the scheme.
Directors Contracts Contract letter of Unexpired term months Notice period Director appointment start date Expiry date as at 14 March 2006 months Executive: Ron Sandler 15.03.2001 n a see below 12 Mike Norris 23.04.1998 n a none specified 12 Tony Conophy 23.04.1998 n a none specified 12 Non-Executive: Nick Cosh 08.01.2002 2008 AGM 25 12 Phil Hulme 09.05.2003 2006 AGM 2 12 Ghislain Lescuyer 19.01.2004 n a n a n a Peter Ogden 09.05.2003 2006 AGM 2 12 Cliff Preddy 08.01.2002 2008 AGM 25 12 Ron Sandlers service contract automatically terminates on his 65th birthday, on 5 March 2017.
Calculated as at 14 March 2006 and assuming that future AGMs will be held in May each year, and assumes re-election where required to retire at earlier AGMs in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association.
Ghislain Lescuyer resigned from the Companys Board on 13 September 2005.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 COMPUTACENTER PLC 31 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED All Executive Directors have a rolling 12 month service contract All Directors must offer themselves for re-election by shareholders with the Company, which is subject to 12 months notice by either in general meeting at least every three years, in accordance with the Company or the Director.
the Companys Articles of Association.
No contractual arrangements are in place that guarantee Performance Graphs additional payments upon termination of employment by the The performance of the Company over the last five financial years Company.
All service contracts provide for summary termination in relation to other relevant UK-quoted shares is shown in the in the event of gross misconduct.
The Non-Executive Directors do not have service contracts with Computacenters shares are quoted on the London Stock the Company.
They each operate under a letter of appointment Exchange and the Committee has deemed the FTSE Software & that sets out their terms, duties and responsibilities.
NonComputer Services share index as the comparator against which Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term which runs to assess Total Shareholder Return performance.
to the conclusion of the first Annual General Meeting to be held following the third anniversary of appointment and may be renewed at that point for a further three-year term.
Total Shareholder Return performance Computacenter versus FTSE Software and Computer Services sector 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 Key Computacenter TSR Sector The Directors remuneration and Directors interests in share options tables below, and their associated notes, are subject to audit.
Cliff Preddy receives an annual fee of 5,000 for his services as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
The Companys Non-Executive Directors are not permitted to participate in any of the Companys Employee Share Schemes and none of the Non-Executive Directors holds any outstanding share options over Computacenter ordinary shares.
Notes: 1 Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Employee Share Option Scheme 1998.
2 Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Services Group plc Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme.
3 Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Sharesave Plus Scheme, which is available to all employees and full time Executive Directors of the Computacenter Group.
4 Exercisable on the condition that the average annual compound growth in the Computacenter Groups diluted earnings per share, compared to the base year of 2000, is at least equal to the RPI plus 5% in any of the three, four or five year periods up to and including 2003, 2004 and 2005 respectively.
5 Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Performance Related Share Option Scheme 1998.
The options become exercisable if the average compound growth in the Computacenter Groups diluted earnings per share, compared to the base year of 2000, is at least equal to the RPI plus 5% in any of the three, four or five year periods up to and including 2003, 2004 or 2005 respectively.
6 Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Performance Related Share Option Scheme 1998.
The options become exercisable if the average annual compound growth in the Companys earnings per share on a post-investment in the Biomni joint venture, diluted basis compared to the base year of 2001, is at least equal to the RPI plus 5% in any of the three, four or five year periods up to and including 2004, 2005 or 2006 respectively.
7 Exercisable on the condition that the average annual compound growth in the Companys earnings per share on a post-investment in the Biomni joint venture, diluted basis compared to the base year of 2001, is at least equal to the RPI plus 5% in any of the three, four or five year periods up to and including 2004, 2005 or 2006 respectively.
8 Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Performance Related Share Option Scheme 1998.
The options become exercisable if the average annual compound growth in the Companys earnings per share on a post-investment in the Biomni joint venture, diluted basis compared to the base year of 2002, is at least equal to the RPI plus 5% in any of the three, four or five year periods up to and including 2005, 2006 or 2007 respectively.
9 Issued under the terms of the Computacenter Performance Related Share Option Scheme 1998.
The options become exercisable if the average annual compound growth in the Companys earnings per share on a post-investment in the Biomni joint venture, diluted basis compared to the base year of 2003, is at least equal to the RPI plus 5% in any of the three four or five year periods up to and including 2006, 2007 or 2008 respectively.
The market price of the ordinary shares at 31 December 2005 was 255.00p.
The highest price during the year was 320.75p and the lowest was 181.00p.
SJ Benade Secretary 13 March 2006 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 COMPUTACENTER PLC 33
