Remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2005 Remuneration Committee The full terms of reference of the Committee can be obtained on request The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee the approval from the Company Secretary and are set out on the Companys website of the remuneration and employment terms of the Executive Directors at www.
and certain other senior executives.
Attendance at meetings and advisers The Committee comprises the Non-executive Directors, all of whom are During the year, the Committee continued to use New Bridge Street considered to be independent, and its membership during the year was Consultants LLP which it appointed as its adviser.
This firm has provided as follows: material advice to the Committee to assist it in developing and monitoring policies for remunerating senior employees throughout the Group.
Committee Chairman The major areas for advice were Executive Directors remuneration, John Gildersleeve - Non-executive Deputy Chairman and senior determining competitive levels and forms of pay for Executive Directors independent Non-executive Director.
and senior executives, reviewing incentive arrangements for that group, reviewing all share-based and long-term incentive plans and advising Committee Members the Committee of developments and best practices for remuneration Sly Bailey - Non-executive Director and applicable corporate governance requirements.
New Bridge Street since her appointment on 2 April 2004.
Consultants LLP has not, during the year, provided any other services Harald Einsmann - Non-executive Director to the Group.
The letter of appointment in respect of New Bridge Street until his retirement on 13 July 2004.
Consultants LLP can be viewed on the Groups website, Peter Georgescu - Non-executive Director www.
com, or obtained on request from the Company Secretary.
David Londoner - Non-executive Director Kathleen ODonovan - Non-executive Director The Committee schedules three meetings during each year but also holds additional meetings as and when material matters arise for discussion.
Terms of reference During the last financial year, the Committee met on six occasions.
The key terms of reference of the Committee are as follows: Only Committee members are entitled to attend meetings of the to provide the policy framework for the remuneration of Executive Committee as of right, although the Executive Chairman the Chairman, Directors, the Company Secretary and other senior executive and the Human Resources executive charged with supporting the Committee operational management currently approximately 100 individuals Carol Separovich as Vice President, Rewards Management together in total : with the Company Secretary & Group General Counsel in his capacity as Committee Secretary are generally invited to attend so as to assist and subject to the policy framework and the Code, to review in detail advise the Committee on matters under consideration.
Other executives and approve all aspects of the terms and conditions of employment may be invited to attend in respect of specific issues where their guidance of each Executive Director and the Company Secretary, including may be of assistance to the Committee.
In this regard, during the last their incentive arrangements, pension rights and any compensation financial year the Chairman & Chief Executive Officer of EMI Music CEO payments: EMI Music and the Vice Chairman, EMI Music attended two meetings and one meeting, respectively, to provide material assistance and advice to review and approve the base salaries of the most senior with regard to their division.
None of these attendees participated in any direct-line reports to the Executive Directors, together with their discussion relating to his or her own remuneration.
remuneration packages, incentive arrangements, pension rights and any compensation payments: In monitoring the level and mix of remuneration packages, the Committee has access to a number of music and general industry remuneration to determine targets for any performance-related incentive surveys, covering both local and international data.
The Committee takes arrangements operated by the Company: into account factors such as the nature, size, complexity and international profile of the surveyed companies relative to EMI: it also seeks such to ensure the effective administration of any other long-term specific advice from external consultants as it considers appropriate.
or share-based remuneration arrangements for employees: to ensure that regulations and codes on the disclosure of remuneration are adhered to by the Group: and, to review major changes in Group employee benefit structures.
The Committee is also authorised, where necessary, to obtain external independent professional advice.
52 Policy statement on Directors remuneration The amended contract also contains two other changes from the previous agreement, namely, the enhancement of severance following Background a change of control from 12 to 24 months has been removed and, should The Committee recognises that, as a major UK-listed company, EMI Mr Levy wish to resign, the notice required from him has been increased should comply with the highest standards of corporate governance from six to 12 months.
and, wherever it is appropriate to do so having regard to the wider interests of shareholders, UK remuneration best practices.
Accordingly, The Board and the Committee remain committed to a high proportion the Committee periodically reviews the Groups remuneration practices of the total earning opportunity being  and only against such standards and practices while recognising that the paying bonuses where stretching performance criteria have been satisfied.
achievement of success in the highly competitive worldwide music market depends critically upon the Groups ability to compete for the Remuneration arrangements for Martin Stewart management talent necessary to secure, develop and promote Martin Stewart joined EMI on 5 January 2005 and became a Director successful recording artists, composers and songwriters.
The Groups on 1 February 2005 when he took up the appointment of CFO.
In order remuneration policies, therefore, will continue to reflect the need to to secure his appointment, the Committee agreed to the provision of attract, retain and motivate top-calibre international management in the a base salary of 525,000 pa.
The first review of this salary will take effect context of remuneration levels and practices in the international music from 1 July 2006. and entertainment industry, many of which are set in the US, the indigenous repertoire of which, in the year ended 31 March 2005, For the period from 5 January to 31 March 2005, Mr Stewart was eligible amounted to 46.7% of worldwide record sales.
for a discretionary pro-rata bonus, based on the rules of the Companys Executive Incentive Plan EIP.
Commencing from 1 April 2005, Mr The Groups remuneration policies also recognise that the music Stewart will participate in the EIP, with his maximum annual bonus publishing and recorded music businesses operate in distinct market entitlement being 100% of his eligible base salary but with no entitlement places.
The level and form of remuneration will continue to be tailored to any guaranteed level of bonus.
to the different market places in which the Group competes and to recognise the importance of creative talent to the overall success On commencement of his employment, Mr Stewart received the of the Group.
following awards under the rules of the ESIP in respect of the period to 31 March 2006: The remuneration packages of the Executive Directors have been designed to help them attain, and encourage them to retain, long-term an initial option grant over 519,116 shares with an exercise price interests in EMIs shares, and thereby align their interests with those of 252.833p per share: and, of shareholders.
Performance-related elements, in the form of annual bonuses and share-based long-term incentives, represent a significant an initial performance share award over 259,558 shares.
proportion of the total annual remuneration opportunity, typically providing at least two-thirds of potential remuneration for the Annual grants and awards will be made to Mr Stewart in accordance with achievement of stretching performance targets.
the rules of the ESIP in each subsequent year starting with 2006, for which there will be no guaranteed awards.
Such grants and awards will be made Overview in accordance with the Committees policy at the relevant grant date.
The Group revised certain aspects of its remuneration policies during 2003.
Notably, the introduction of the Executive Share Incentive Plan Extended contract and revised remuneration arrangements ESIP was approved by shareholders at the 2003 Annual General for Martin Bandier Meeting.
Revisions were also made to certain Executive Directors The employment agreement of Martin Bandier, CEO EMI Music service contracts to bring them into line with developments in best Publishing, was extended and revised as of 1 February 2005.
The Committee considers it appropriate to apply the same arrangements are designed to secure Mr Bandiers services as full-time policies in 2005 and, therefore, has made no changes to the general Chairman of EMI Music Publishing until 31 March 2008, as well as policy reported in the Annual Reports for the last two years.
securing an orderly succession plan for that business.
From 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007, Mr Bandier will become joint Chief Executive Officer Remuneration arrangements for Alain Levy of EMI Music Publishing with Roger Faxon.
As of 1 April 2007, Mr Bandier As reported last year, following consultation with major shareholders, will cease to be joint Chief Executive Officer but will remain as full-time the service contract of Alain Levy, CEO EMI Music, was amended as Chairman until 31 March 2008.
Thereafter, Mr Bandier will act as from 1 April 2004.
The revised arrangements were designed to secure a consultant to EMI Music Publishing for a further three years.
Mr Levys services for EMI until at least March 2009 and are as follows: Mr Bandier will cease to be a Director of the Company on 31March 2006. base salary was increased to 1.0m pa: Until his retirement as a Director, Mr Bandiers base salary will continue at its current level of US$3,331,635 pa and his annual performance bonus the annual bonus opportunity was increased from two times salary at target and maximum performance will continue to be 50% and 80% to three times salary, by adding to the operating margin criterion of base salary, respectively.
The one-off long-term incentive arrangements a further potential one times salary opportunity by reference to turnover for Mr Bandier, referred to in previous annual reports and set out in the performance relative to the recorded music market with nothing tables accompanying this report, will continue in place for the period to payable for below-market levels of turnover performance and 31 March 2006.
From 1 April 2006, when Mr Bandier becomes joint Chief increasing on a sliding scale : and, Executive Officer with Roger Faxon, his base salary will reduce to US$1,800,000 and his annual performance bonus at maximum as originally contemplated when the ESIP was introduced, Mr Levy will performance will increase from 80% to 100% of base salary.
not receive any share awards under that scheme until May 2006.
It is envisaged that he will then participate on a comparable basis to other The Committee believes that these changes, which are designed to Executive Directors, with any awards being on the same basis in terms secure an orderly succession to the leadership of EMI Music Publishing, of performance criteria, etc but with awards based on a higher multiple as well as the benefit of Mr Bandiers continued advice and assistance of salary.
It is currently intended that Mr Levy would receive annual to the business thereafter, are appropriate.
grants of options over shares worth three times base salary and awards of performance shares worth one and a half times salary each year compared with, currently, two times salary and one times salary, respectively, for the Chairman and for the CFO.
53 Remuneration report continued Base salary The Committees policy is not to pay transaction-related bonuses.
Details The Group believes pay should be closely linked to performance.
of the bonuses achieved during the year by individual Executive Directors are set out on page 60.
Base salary levels are determined by the Committee having regard to the experience and performance of the individual executive, the performance Long-term incentive arrangements of the Group as a whole over the preceding year, data regarding external Of the Executive Directors, the Chairman and the CFO currently participate salary levels for comparable positions, internal relativities and wage in the ESIP.
It is anticipated that both the CEO EMI Music and Martin inflation elsewhere in the Group.
The Committee seeks to ensure that, in Bandier, as the then joint CEO EMI Music Publishing, will participate in the respect of industry-specific roles, base salaries are generally set no higher ESIP as from 1 April 2006. than the median for the music industry and, in the case of non-operational roles, has appropriate regard to general industry data.
Under the terms of the ESIP, regular annual awards of both share options and performance shares are made, with awards vesting after a fixed Recognising the requirements of good corporate governance and a three-year period subject to the achievement of demanding pre-vesting desire to constrain fixed costs to the advantage of all shareholders, base performance conditions.
salaries for certain operating executives, most notably and even after the revisions to his arrangements for the CEO EMI Music, have been The Committee determined that, for the first award made under the ESIP kept below industry market levels.
In these instances, in order to deliver in 2003, options over shares worth two times base salary should be competitive overall levels of pay, the balance of the overall remuneration awarded, together with an award of performance shares worth one times is weighted more significantly towards long-term incentives than is the base salary.
This policy was implemented by the Committee throughout case with EMIs major competitors.
the last financial year and the Committee intends to continue to apply it in the current financial year.
However, the mix of options and performance The base salaries of each Executive Director on 31 March 2005 were shares remains under review and may vary from year to year.
as follows: One third of the number of share options granted may be exercised if E L Nicoli 721,500 pa adjusted ie normalised earnings per share EPS growth, over the three M N Bandier US$3,191,220 pa years following grant with no retesting opportunities, exceeds an A M J I Levy 1,000,000 pa average of the increase in the Retail Prices Index RPI plus 3% pa: M D Stewart 525,000 pa two thirds of the number of share options granted may be exercised if normalised EPS growth exceeds an average of RPI plus 5% pa: Salaries are revised annually with any increases generally taking effect and all share options granted may be exercised if normalised EPS growth on 1 April, for Mr Levy and Mr Bandier, and 1 July for Mr Nicoli and exceeds an average of RPI plus 7% pa with straight-line interpolation Mr Stewart.
Other than Mr Levy and Mr Stewart, the Executive Directors between the points.
To the extent that the targets have not been fully received an increase in the range of 3% to 4.5% in 2004 which was satisfied, options will lapse.
consistent with the overall increase for other executives and staff.
Mr Stewarts first review will take effect from 1 July 2006.
Performance share awards vest by reference to the Companys relative Total Shareholder Return TSR performance over a fixed three-year Annual bonus period with no retesting opportunities.
TSR is a measure of the return to Annual bonus opportunities for Executive Directors remain at the same a shareholder in terms of share price appreciation, assuming reinvestment levels as last year.
For the Chairman and the CFO, the maximum bonus of any dividends over a fixed period.
25% of the shares subject to an opportunity is 100% of base salary, whilst that for the CEO EMI Music is award will vest if the Companys TSR, relative to the companies in the 300% of base salary.
In the case of the CEO EMI Music Publishing, the FTSE Mid-250 Index excluding investment trusts as at the date of award, maximum bonus opportunity remains at 80% of base salary, with 50% is at least at the median of that group.
This will increase, on a straight-line bonus at target performance.
These bonus opportunities are paid in cash basis, to full vesting if the Companys TSR is at least at the upper quintile following the approval of the accounts for the relevant year.
ie within the highest 20% of that group.
The share price used for calculating both the opening and closing TSR of the Company and each The performance criteria are tailored to individual positions and to ensure company in the comparator group for the three-year period will be that bonuses are appropriate in all the circumstances.
Subject to the assessed using three-month average figures.
In addition to satisfying Committees discretion and within the limits described above, bonuses the TSR performance condition, awards will only vest to the extent that are determined as follows: the Committee considers that the Companys TSR performance reflects the underlying performance of the Company over the period.
for the Chairman and the CFO, two thirds of the bonus opportunity is earned by reference to the attainment of stretching financial targets, The EPS and TSR targets, which were selected following extensive split equally between pre-set profit and cashflow targets for the Group, discussions with the Companys leading institutional shareholders with the remaining one third being determined by reference to and which received the support of an overwhelming majority of those strategic objectives set on a balanced-scorecard basis: shareholders, are considered to be both demanding and stretching over the medium term in light of the prevailing business climate.
the annual bonus for the CEO EMI Music Publishing is based on pre-set targets relating to the divisions economic profit ie taking into account The EPS growth targets were chosen because profit growth as measured the value of the investment in the business from year to year, reflecting through EPS is currently a key objective within the Group and is EMI Music Publishings objective of achieving sustained profit growth considered to be the most appropriate measure of financial performance.
while providing an adequate return on invested assets: and, since 1 April 2004, the annual bonus for the CEO EMI Music has been calculated so that two thirds of his opportunity is measured by reference to pre-set operating profit margins, with the other third determined by the divisions sales performance relative to the recorded music market.
54 The FTSE Mid-250 Index was chosen as the TSR comparator group as Benefits in kind there have been no, or insufficient, similarly sized independently quoted Benefits and perquisites are based on general industry practice and music companies to provide a more bespoke comparator group and, typically include a car or car allowance together with life assurance, therefore, it was felt appropriate to compare the performance of EMI retirement, disability and healthcare plans.
Further details are set out with the constituents of the FTSE Mid-250 Index on the basis that, from on page 60. an investor perspective, shareholders have the choice of investing in EMI as compared with other UK-quoted companies of a similar size.
If the Pension arrangements Company becomes a constituent of the FTSE 100, the constituents For UK-based Executive Directors, the policy is to provide pension of that Index would be used for subsequent grants.
benefits through a final salary arrangement with an accrual rate of 1 30th.
Where possible, this is achieved through the Groups Inland RevenueIn all the circumstances, the Committee considers these two measures, approved occupational pension scheme.
Except in the case of the CFO, taken together, to be the most appropriate method of assessing the an unapproved defined contribution scheme is utilised to provide benefits success of EMI over the medium term and, accordingly, considers them on salaries above the Inland Revenue-imposed earnings cap, with the to be appropriate performance conditions.
The Committee reviews these level of contribution being set by reference to an actuarial assessment targets each year, prior to awards being made, to determine whether they of the value of a 1 30th arrangement.
Benefits are based on base salaries remain appropriate.
only and specifically exclude bonuses.
For the CFO, a pension allowance is provided, initially at the rate of 40% of annual earnings above the The EPS measure is fully diluted EPS adjusted to take account of earnings cap but increasing by 1% per year until it reaches 50% of annual exceptional items and excluding amortisation.
EMIs performance against earnings above the cap.
the EPS and TSR targets will be monitored by the Committee, which will assess the extent to which the targets have been achieved.
The EPS For the US-based CEO EMI Music Publishing, the Groups retirement calculations will be verified by the Companys external auditor while the plan contributions are made with respect to both salary and annual TSR calculations will be undertaken by New Bridge Street Consultants bonus, consistent with normal practice in the US and the Groups benefit LLP.
The Committee is conscious that the basis for calculating EPS is arrangements for all US employees.
changing in light of the move from UK GAAP to International Accounting Standards and will ensure that any EPS performance conditions are The Committee is currently reviewing the impact of the changes to measured on a consistent basis and as originally intended.
the tax treatment of UK pensions due to take effect in April 2006.
It is not envisaged that the Company will meet any additional tax liabilities The Committee also confirms that the Company has at all times complied of executives and the review should, therefore, not result in an increase with the share dilution limits as previously agreed with shareholders.
in overall cost to the Company.
As reported in previous years, the CEO EMI Music Publishing and the CEO EMI Music had one-off long-term incentive arrangements covering, in Mr Bandiers case, the period from April 2001 to 31 March 2006 and, in Mr Levys case, the period from October 2001 to 31 March 2006.
These arrangements are summarised in footnotes b, c and d on page 63 and footnote e on page 64, respectively.
Neither Mr Bandier nor Mr Levy will participate in the ESIP for the duration of these one-off arrangements.
As part of the amendments to their service agreements, both Mr Levy and Mr Bandier will participate in the ESIP from 1 April 2006.
All UK-based Executive Directors are entitled to participate in the Groupwide ShareSave scheme on the same terms as other UK-based Group employees.
Shareholder consent was obtained at the 2004 AGM for the renewal of the ShareSave scheme and also to introduce another tax-sponsored all-employee plan, the Share Incentive Plan SIP.
The operation of these plans will be at the discretion of the Committee, although Executive Directors will be eligible to participate on the same basis as other staff.
No grants under the SIP were made during the year.
Details of the awards granted to Executive Directors under the ESIP and the ShareSave scheme are contained in the section on Current long-term incentive schemes on page 62.
Details of share options and other share awards granted in previous years in accordance with the schemes then applying and the performance criteria attaching to those grants are contained in the section on Closed long-term incentive schemes on pages 63 and 64.
55 Remuneration report continued Directors service contracts CEO EMI Music - Alain Levy The Code recommends that notice or contract periods should be set Mr Levys service contract, which commenced on 15 October 2001 at one year or less.
It is the Groups policy to achieve that, where possible.
and was amended as of 1 April 2004, allows the Company to terminate his employment at any time without notice.
If termination is for cause The Committee endorses the principle of mitigation of loss on early as defined in the contract, no compensation is payable.
If termination termination of a service contract and recognises the advantage of service is without cause, or Mr Levy terminates the agreement for good reason contracts including an explicit calculation, subject to mitigation, of for example, breach by EMI, he is entitled to a lump-sum severance compensation payable upon early termination, other than for misconduct payment based on one years pay, calculated using: or in other circumstances justifying summary termination.
The Committees policy is that such compensation should generally be his then base annual salary currently 1,032,000 pa : plus, calculated by reference to base salary, annual bonus at target level and other benefits, including pension contributions, for the notice period or the value of retirement benefits and either the continued enjoyment unexpired term of the service contract.
The contract should also include of, or the value of, benefits in kind provided to him the accrued value an explicit obligation to mitigate and to offset earnings from alternative of such retirement contributions and the benefits in kind would have employment undertaken during the notice period or unexpired term been 529,661 had he been dismissed on 31 March 2005 : plus, of the contract against all or part of the compensation payment.
the average annual bonus earned by him over the last three financial However, the Committee is conscious that fixed-term contracts years 730,474 in respect of years ended on or before 31 March 2005. of three or more years are common for senior executives in the global entertainment industry and such agreements often include no or only Mr Levy accepted a basic contract term of one year, which is significantly a limited obligation to mitigate.
The Committee, therefore, considers that less than competitive music industry practice, as well as a base salary and it is in the best interests of EMI and its shareholders to retain the flexibility potential cash bonus at levels lower than those for equivalent positions in to compete for top executive talent, where necessary, through the ability other major record companies.
In recognition of this, there is no obligation to offer contract terms in excess of one year.
However, as an alternative, on Mr Levy to mitigate or to offset against the compensation payment any the Committee may agree compensation payments calculated without earnings from alternative employment following termination.
mitigation in order to limit contract terms or notice periods to one year.
CEO EMI Music Publishing - Martin Bandier Chairman and CFO - Eric Nicoli and Martin Stewart Mr Bandiers employment agreement, dated as of 1 February 2005, The service contracts of Mr Nicoli and Mr Stewart, dated 11 April 2003 is with a Group subsidiary in the US and is governed by New York state and 5 January 2005, respectively, are terminable by the Company on one law.
This agreement extends Mr Bandiers employment beyond 31 March years notice.
2006, which was the term date for the prior employment agreement between the same parties dated as of 1 April 2001.
However, Mr Bandier In the case of gross misconduct or other circumstances justifying will cease to be a Director of the Company on 31 March 2006.
The summary dismissal, the Company may terminate their service contracts contract allows the employing company to terminate his employment without payment of compensation.
Termination by the Company in other at any time without notice.
If termination is for cause, no compensation circumstances, without the required notice being given, entitles the is payable.
If termination is without cause, or Mr Bandier terminates the departing executive to compensation, calculated on: contract for good reason, he is entitled to compensation based on two years salary and benefits.
The Committee considers that these terms his then base annual salary currently 721,500 pa for Mr Nicoli for Mr Bandier are appropriate in view of competitive practice in the US, and 525,000 pa for Mr Stewart for one year: plus, where he is resident and where EMI Music Publishing is headquartered, and the fact that the service contract is intended to secure his services until age the value of retirement benefits and either the continued enjoyment of, 69.
Additionally, following a change of control of the Company, Mr Bandier or the value of, benefits in kind provided to him for one year the accrued is entitled to terminate his service contract after a one-year transitional value of such retirement contributions and the benefits in kind would period and to receive a compensation payment as described below.
have been 408,298 for Mr Nicoli and approximately 218,004 on an annualised basis for Mr Stewart had either one of them been dismissed Where compensation is payable in respect of termination of Mr Bandiers on 31 March 2005 : plus, service contract, it is specified to be the aggregate of: a sum in respect of his lost annual bonus opportunity, being 50% of his his then base annual salary currently US$3,331,635 but reducing maximum bonus for the period from the date of his departure to the end to US$1,800,000 as of 1 April 2006 for the succeeding two years: plus, of the contractual notice period.
continuation for two years of medical and dental benefits and retirement Their entitlement to such compensation is subject to both a duty to plan contributions the accrued value of such retirement contributions mitigate and, also, offset for any earnings which they derive from other and medical and dental benefits for the year ended 31 March 2005 employment during the unworked part of the notice period for which they would have been US$1,982,551 if his employment had been have been compensated.
terminated on that date : plus, a sum in respect of lost annual bonus opportunity namely, 50% of annual base salary for each of the succeeding two years.
While, reflecting competitive music industry practice, there is no obligation on Mr Bandier to mitigate, the continuation of salary and bonus for 12 months after termination is subject to offset in respect of salary and bonus earned by Mr Bandier from a subsequent employer in the 12 months following termination: and the continuation of benefits is also offset to the extent of similar benefits provided by the subsequent employer.
56 Roger Faxon The Non-executive Directors have letters of appointment from the Roger Faxon ceased to be a Director on 31 January 2005 but continues Company which are available for inspection at the Companys registered to be employed by EMI Music Publishing.
office or on request and are also provided on the Companys website at www.
Each Non-executive Director is appointed for a Mr Faxons service agreement, dated as of 1 April 2003, allowed EMI specified term of an initial period to the next AGM after appointment and, to terminate the contract at any time without notice with a specified subject to election at that Meeting, for a further period ending at the third severance payment calculated on the same basis as if he were entitled to AGM held thereafter.
Subsequent reappointment is subject to one years notice.
In the case of gross misconduct or other circumstances endorsement by the Board and to re-election by the shareholders.
Each justifying summary dismissal, the Company could terminate his service Non-executive Directors date of appointment as a Director and his or her contract without payment of compensation.
Termination by the Company most recent date of re-election at an AGM is shown below: in other circumstances, without the required notice being given, entitled him to lump-sum compensation, calculated on: Date of appointment as a Date of Date of his then base annual salary US$812,500 pa for one year: plus, Non-executive letter of last election or Director appointment re-election at AGM the value of retirement benefits and either the continued enjoyment of, J Gildersleeve 28.2.
04 or the value of, benefits in kind provided to him for one year the accrued S Bailey 2.4.
04 value of such retirement contributions and the benefits in kind would P A Georgescu 1.9.
03 have been US$407,839 had he been dismissed on 31 January 2005 : plus, D J Londoner 13.5.
04 a sum in respect of lost annual bonus opportunity, being 50% of his maximum bonus for the period from the commencement of the financial year in which he departed to the end of the contractual notice period.
Their appointments may be terminated at any time or in the event that they are not elected or re-elected by shareholders in accordance with the In the light of competitive music industry practice, and in recognition of Companys Articles of Association.
On termination, a Non-executive Mr Faxons agreement, when he was promoted to CFO, to reduce his basic Director is entitled to any accrued but unpaid Directors fees, but not contract term from two years to one year, there was no obligation on him to any other compensation.
The new Articles, if adopted, provide that to mitigate, or to offset against the compensation payment any earnings a Director will retire, if so agreed, earlier than three years from the date from alternative employment during the year following termination.
of last reappointment and also, if agreed, will not stand for re-election.
However, the Companys obligation to continue to provide insurance This will ensure that the Company can, where appropriate, reappoint benefits would cease to the extent that similar benefits were provided Non-executive Directors for periods which reflect corporate governance by another employer following termination.
guidelines and that there will be consistency between the terms of appointment and the relevant provisions of the Articles.
As Mr Faxon remained employed within the Group, on his ceasing to be a Director, no amount was paid to him by way of compensation for loss of office or under the provisions of his service contract as set out above.
Non-executive Directors Non-executive Directors do not participate in the Groups bonus scheme or long-term incentive plans and are not eligible for membership of any of the Groups pension plans.
Their fees are payable wholly in cash.
In view of the greater responsibilities of Non-executive Directors under the Combined Code together with their strategic contribution and increased time commitment, annual fees of 50,000 per annum have been paid since 1 January 2004.
These fees will be reviewed every two years with the next review date being due on 1 January 2006.
John Gildersleeve, the Deputy Chairman and senior independent Non-executive Director, receives an additional 40,000 per annum, reflecting his larger role and his chairmanship of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Kathleen ODonovan receives an additional 10,000 per annum for chairing the Audit Committee.
No other additional fees are payable for membership of Committees or otherwise.
57 Remuneration report continued Total shareholder return performance graphs Policy on outside appointments Under the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, UK-listed Executive Directors are permitted to take external appointments as companies are required to include a graph indicating their TSR ie share non-executive directors but usually only one such appointment may price growth assuming reinvestment of any dividends performance over be with another publicly quoted company.
The remuneration from such the last five years relative to a recognised equity index.
Consistent with appointments is retained by the Director and the table below sets out the approach adopted last year, in the absence of suitable comparators, such amounts for the year ended 31 March 2005.
All appointments must the Committee has again elected to show EMIs performance related to be approved by the Board to ensure that they do not give rise to any the FTSE Mid-250 Index.
The FTSE Mid-250 Index excluding investment conflicts of interest.
trusts was the comparator group for the TSR performance condition for last years awards under the ESIP and will continue to be so for this Name Fees received and subsequent years unless the Company re-enters the FTSE 100. of Company Executive Directors: Total shareholder return E L Nicoli The Tussauds Group Ltd 55,002 Source: Thompson Financial M N Bandier National Music Publishers Association 1,297 A M J I Levy Schroder Venture Partners LLC 6,757 a M D Stewart - - Former Executive Director: b R C Faxon-- a Appointed as a Director on 1 February 2005. b Resigned as a Director on 31 January 2005.
Share ownership guidelines The Committee has adopted a formal policy that requires Executive Directors to hold shares in EMI worth at least two times their respective salaries.
Executive Directors are required to build up this shareholding by retaining shares with a value of at least 25% of the after-tax gain arising on the maturity of any long-term incentive awards.
Pensions The UK-based Executive Directors are executive members of the EMI Group Pension Fund which provides them, on normal retirement at age 60, with a pension of between 1 60th and 1 30th of the earnings cap for each year of membership, depending upon benefits built up prior Additionally, this year the Committee is including the equivalent graph to joining the Company.
Members contribute 4% of the cap.
On death, as against the FTSE All-Share Media & Entertainment Sector Index.
there is a spouses pension of two thirds of the members pension This illustrates the volatility of the various indices particularly as, at the ignoring the impact of any exchange of pension for a lump sum on beginning of the five-year period, UK media stocks were at a relative retirement, plus child allowances if applicable.
An early retirement 1 peak as compared to other sectors.
pension may be paid on leaving but the pension is reduced by 3% for each month that pension starts earlier than age 60.
Subject to the Companys or, in the case of Executive Directors, the Committees Total shareholder return consent, the reduction applied may be less.
Source: Thompson Financial Transfer values are calculated on a basis that assumes the pension would be drawn at the earliest date where no reduction would apply and with allowance for future pension increases both before and after pension commences to reflect the past practice of granting increases greater than those guaranteed.
Pensions in payment are subject to annual increases at the lower of the increase in the RPI in the previous year and 5%.
As all of the UK-based Executive Directors joined the Company after 5 April 1997, there is no Guaranteed Minimum Pension GMP element included in their pensions.
The GMP is that part of the pension which replaces State Earnings-Related Pension.
The table below sets out the transfer value at 31 March 2005 of each Executive Directors accrued deferred pension at that date as well as the movement in that transfer value over the period.
The transfer values are liabilities of the EMI Group Pension Fund and reflect both the age of the Executive Director and his length of service and membership of the Fund.
The graphs above look at the value, at the end of March 2005, of 100 invested in EMI Group plc on 31 March 2000 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE Mid-250 and FTSE All-Share Media & Entertainment Sector Indices.
The other points plotted in the graphs are the values at intervening financial year ends.
58 Increase in Increase in accured Directors transfer value pension during contributions over the year a b Age at Accrued pension the year net of Transfer value of accrued pension during net of Directors a 31.3.
b The transfer values have been calculated in accordance with guidance note GN11 published by the Institute of Actuaries and Faculty of Actuaries.
c Appointed as a Director on 1 February 2005.
The earnings cap as defined in the Finance Act 1989 limits salary The CFO receives a pension allowance, as described on page 55 and, for pension purposes to 105,600 from 6 April 2005 2004: 102,000. therefore, does not participate in the defined contribution plan.
This Therefore, as described above and except in the case of the CFO, allowance amounted to 28,200 for the period from 1 February 2005 the Company makes contributions to a separate defined contribution the date he joined the Board to 31 March 2005 and is included in plan that provides additional benefits to those affected by the cap.
Benefits in the table on page 60.
The after-tax value of contributions, expressed as a percentage of base salary in excess of the cap, which the Company paid to the defined contribution plan in respect of Executive Directors, was: E L Nicoli 33.42% A M J I Levy 30.00% Money purchase contributions in the year to 31 March 2005 a FURBS Tax compensation Total Executive Directors: E L Nicoli 205,533 142,828 348,361 A M J I Levy 269,400 187,210 456,610 b M D Stewart a Funded unapproved retirement benefits scheme.
b Appointed as a Director on 1 February 2005.
These contributions are set at levels which, based on actuarial advice, The table below sets out the contributions made to US money purchase are likely to deliver comparable benefits to the capped final salary pension arrangements in respect of the two US-based Executive element.
Directors who served during the year.
Contributions by Group Contributions by Director Total % US$ % US$ US$ Executive Director: a a M N Bandier 33.4% of pay 1,905,271 13% of pay 741,572 2,646,843 Former Executive Director: b R C Faxon 50% of base salary 347,634 13.8% of base salary 95,947 443,581 a Consistent with US practice, pay for this purpose includes the value of annual cash bonuses.
b Resigned as a Director on 31 January 2005.
There were no retirement benefits paid to former Directors in excess Payments to third parties for making the Directors services of those to which they became entitled when such benefits first became available payable to such former Directors.
No payments have been made to third parties for making any Directors services available to the Company.
Compensation to former Directors not previously reported There were no compensation payments or other awards made to former As required by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations, Directors.
As referred to above, Roger Faxon continues as an employee those items from the Pensions heading on page 58 to page 64 of EMI Music Publishing following his resignation as a Director and has inclusive have been subject to audit.
received no compensation for loss of office.
By Order of the Board John Gildersleeve Deputy Chairman 20 May 2005 59 Remuneration report continued Remuneration details a Annual remuneration Base Compensation 2005 2004 c salary for loss Incentive Total Total b or fees of employment Expenses Benefits remuneration in year in year 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive Directors: d E L Nicoli 716.2 46.6 372.8 1,135.6 1,378.5 M N Bandier 1,725.0 41.8 1,379.9 3,146.7 3,318.4 A M J I Levy 1,000.0 53.7 997.0 2,050.7 1,595.8 e M D Stewart appointed 1.2.
04 14.2 14.2 39.5 Total 2005 4,218.6 461.0 2,970.9 7,650.5 Total 2004 3,899.6 222.9 3,280.1 7,402.6 a Excludes retirement contributions see table on page 59 and the value of share awards ceasing to be contingent, as reported in the table shown below.
b The nature of the non-cash benefits provided to Executive Directors who held office during the year is as follows: E L Nicoli: -provision of a Company car plus use of a Company pool car and driver until 28 February 2005 and, since 1 March 2005, a car allowance plus use of a Company pool car and driver: -private healthcare: and, -personal accident insurance.
M N Bandier: -a car allowance of US$36,000 pa: and, -participation in the Groups US executive medical plan, life, health hospital, major medical and dental and accident insurance.
A M J I Levy: -use of a Company pool car and driver: -private healthcare: and, -personal accident insurance.
M D Stewart: -a car allowance plus use of a Company pool car and driver: -private healthcare: and, -personal accident insurance.
R C Faxon: -a car allowance of US$25,000 pa: -participation in the Groups US executive medical plan, life, health hospital, major medical and dental and accident insurance: and, -health club memberships in both New York and London.
c Bonuses paid to the Executive Directors reflect the factors referred to on page 54.
Bonuses for Mr Nicoli and Mr Faxon reflect full achievement of the cashflow target and the Committees assessment of their performance against strategic objectives.
In Mr Stewarts case, the bonus is pro-rated for the part of the year during which he was a Director.
In Mr Levys case, EMI Musics operating profit margin was at approximately the mid-point of the scale set in his employment contract but the bonus element in respect of relative sales growth decline did not result in a payment.
The economic profit achieved by EMI Music Publishing resulted in Mr Bandier achieving his maximum bonus opportunity of 80% of base salary.
d The 2005 benefits figure for Mr Nicoli is significantly lower than that for the equivalent period in 2004 as the payment in respect of Mr Nicolis private healthcare and personal accident insurance for 2005 was accounted for in the period ended 31 March 2004. e For Martin Stewart, this includes the pension allowance which is more fully described on page 55 in the Remuneration Report.
f Includes tax equalisation payments totalling 253,775 paid in the year ended 31 March 2005 relating to service in the UK for the US tax periods from 1 January 2002 through to 31 January 2005 when Mr Faxon ceased to be a Director.
Of this amount, 146,663 is in respect of the 2002 and 2003 US tax years which coincide with the calendar years.
60 Remuneration from prior-year share awards ceasing to be contingent 2005 2004 a a Awards Total value Awards Total value No.
of shares 000 Executive Directors: E L Nicoli b b M N Bandier 165,625 391.3 165,625 459.6 A M J I Levy M D Stewart appointed 1.2.
05 Former Executive Director: c R C Faxon resigned 31.1.
05 298,250 704.6 Total 463,875 1,095.9 165,625 459.6 a The value is based on the share price on the date awards ceased to be contingent.
b Whilst in certain circumstances these restricted share awards may lapse or be released before the vesting date, a proportion of their value is included in reported remuneration each year to match remuneration costs more accurately to the time period in which these shares are earned.
c In the report for the period to 31 March 2004, an award over 103,803 shares with a value of 288,100 was shown as ceasing to be contingent.
Following the publication of the Companys preliminary results to 31 March 2004, Mr Faxon deferred the vesting of this award for a period of three years.
Accordingly, the figures for the period to 31 March 2004 have been restated.
Directors interests abc Directors interests all beneficial in the Companys Ordinary Shares of 14p each As at 1.4.
04 or date of appointment Non-contingent Directly held As at 31.3.
05 Non-executive Directors: J Gildersleeve 1,377 1,377 1,254 S Bailey appointed 2.4.
04 1,250 1,250 P A Georgescu 100,000 100,000 100,000 D J Londoner 10,000 10,000 10,000 K A ODonovan 2,000 2,000 2,000 a The Companys Register of Directors Interests is available for inspection in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985. b No Director had any interest in either shares or debentures of any subsidiary of the Company.
c As potential beneficiaries under the EMI Group General Employee Benefit Trust EBT, the Executive Directors are deemed to be interested in the entire shareholding of the EBT which at 31 March 2005 amounted to 3,840,515 shares.
d Non-contingent share awards shown in this column are also included as incentive awards in the table on page 63.
Such awards, made under the now-closed Senior Executive Incentive Plan, arise from the deferral of annual cash bonuses into shares.
The awards are subject to an additional 1:3 matching award if deferred for three years from the date of the award, or an additional 2:3 award if deferred for six years from the date of the award.
e Mr Nicolis interest in shares declined by 2,205 shares on 9 May 2005 when the connected person beneficially owning such shares ceased to be a person connected to him.
There has been no other change in these interests between 31 March 2005 and the date of this report.
61 Remuneration report continued Current long-term incentive schemes ab Directors outstanding performance share awards under the Executive Share Incentive Plan As at 1.4.
05 or date of or date of Date of Earliest normal Lapse appointment Vested Awarded Lapsed resignation award vesting date date if later in year in year in year if earlier Executive Directors: E L Nicoli 14.7.
07 17.12.07 207,510 207,510 Total 375,255 207,510 582,765 a Exercise is subject to the performance target set out in the policy section of this report in respect of performance share awards, namely based on the Companys Total Shareholder Return TSR, compared to FTSE Mid-250 companies excluding investment trusts, over a fixed three-year period.
b The rules of the ESIP currently provide that a participant is required to make payment of a nominal sum of 1 in aggregate on the exercise of a share award, unless such sum is waived by the Remuneration Committee.
Since 31 March 2005, the Remuneration Committee has concluded that, so as to ease the administration of such awards if and when they vest, the payment of this nominal amount should be waived or removed.
c The closing mid-market share price on the date of the award was 234p.
d Appointed 1 February 2005. e Resigned 31 January 2005. a Directors outstanding share options over Ordinary Shares of 14p each under the Executive Share Incentive Plan As at 1.4.
05 or date of or date of Date Earliest normal Lapse Exercise appointment Exercised Granted Lapsed resignation granted exercise date date price if later in year in year in year if earlier Executive Directors: E L Nicoli 14.7.
14 223.66p 415,020 415,020 Total 750,511 415,020 1,165,531 a Exercise is subject to the performance target set out in the policy section of this report in respect of grants of share options, namely the Companys Earnings Per Share EPS growth over a fixed three-year period.
Directors outstanding share options over Ordinary Shares of 14p each under the ShareSave scheme Date Earliest normal Lapse Exercise As at Exercised Granted Lapsed As at granted exercise date date price 1.4.
09 96p 16,588 16,588 Total 16,588 16,588 ShareSave options are normally exercisable for a six-month period following completion of savings to either a three-year or a five-year ShareSave contract and are not subject to additional performance conditions.
62 Closed long-term incentive schemes Directors outstanding share awards under long-term incentive plans As at 31.3.
04 During year or date of Date of Matching resignation a b c award Incentive Performance Restricted awards Vested Lapsed if earlier Executive Directors: E L Nicoli 31.5.
02 112,628 37,542 150,170 Total 276,664 103,803 96,774 298,250 178,991 a Incentive share awards are not contingent on future performance and or are no longer subject to forfeiture.
The total of the eventual award depends on the achievement of Group or business unit performance against profit targets set by the Remuneration Committee in respect of a performance period that terminates on 31 March in the third year after the date of the award.
The eventual award is subject to an additional 1:3 matching award if vesting is deferred for a further three years from the vesting date.
In certain circumstances, for example upon a change of control of EMI, awards could be released before the normal vesting date.
Mr Faxon participated in a performance share award granted on 15 June 2001 based on EMI Music Publishings performance, which required growth of between 6.1% and 22.5% in EMI Music Publishings economic profit over three years.
In the report for the period to 31 March 2004, this award over 103,803 shares was shown as ceasing to be contingent and was valued at 288,100.
Accordingly, the figures in respect of this award have been restated.
In 2001, in place of overlapping annual share awards based on three-year performance cycles, Mr Bandier was granted a one-time performance share award which requires 2% pa growth in the Music Publishing divisions economic profit for the entire performance period to 31 March 2006, at which level one sixth of the shares accrue, with maximum payout at 7% pa growth with straight-line vesting between these two points.
c Mr Bandiers restricted share award will vest no earlier than 31 March 2006.
The award was in lieu of additional base salary and is not, therefore, subject to performance requirements.
The aim of the award was to bring Mr Bandiers basic annual remuneration into line with competitive practice in the US, where he is based, whilst aligning his interests more closely with those of the shareholders and providing him with a strong incentive to remain with the Group.
No further awards of this nature are envisaged.
A proportion of this award is included in remuneration each year so as to match remuneration costs more accurately to the time period in which the shares are earned.
d With the exception of Mr Bandiers awards, on termination of employment in certain circumstances, for example, as a result of death, disability, sale of the relevant business unit, normal retirement, or termination without cause, and if the performance criteria are on target for achievement, a proportion of the awards may become exercisable prior to normal vesting.
If the performance criteria are not on target for achievement, the whole award lapses if it has not reached its normal vesting date.
Upon a change of control, all awards vest, or can be exchanged for an equivalent value of awards in the acquiring entity, with identical terms to the original awards.
Mr Bandiers outstanding share awards would vest, in whole or in part, if he was dismissed other than for cause or following a change of control of EMI.
Both his performance share and restricted share awards will lapse if, prior to the vesting date of 31 March 2006, Mr Bandier resigns voluntarily or his employment agreement is terminated by EMI for cause.
However, if Mr Bandiers employment is terminated without cause by EMI, he will receive the proportion of his restricted share award which he would have earned had he remained in employment for a further two years.
Under these same circumstances, he would also receive a proportion of his performance share award pro-rated to the date of termination, subject to the achievement of the relevant performance criteria.
In the event of a change of control of EMI, all the restricted share award would vest together with a proportion of the performance share award pro-rated to the date of the change of control together with an additional 625,000 shares up to the maximum award of 1.25m shares.
Vesting would take place on the earlier of one year after the date of the change of control or the termination of his employment without cause.
e Resigned 31 January 2005. f The closing mid-market share prices on the dates of the award 18 June 1999 and vesting 31 March 2005 were 528.75p and 236.25p, respectively.
g The closing mid-market share prices on the dates of the award 28 May 2002 and vesting 31 March 2005 were 267.25p and 236.25p, respectively.
63 Remuneration report continued ab Directors outstanding share options over Ordinary Shares of 14p each Earliest As at 31.3.
05 normal or date of Date exercise Lapse Exercise Exercised Granted Lapsed resignation cd granted date date price As at 1.4.
04 in year in year in year if earlier Executive Directors: E L Nicoli 3.6.
Therefore, the total gain made on the exercise of share options was nil 2004: nil.
The closing mid-market share price on 31 March 2005 was 236.25p.
The range of closing mid-market share prices during the year was 191p and 281.25p.
b All of the options were granted for nil consideration.
c Executive Directors share options are normally exercisable during the period commencing no earlier than three years and ending no later than 10 years from the date granted.
d Share options were granted to Executive Directors in previous years in accordance with the relevant Executive Share Option Scheme rules and market practice at the time.
The table above sets out information on the current Executive Directors grants of such share options.
The performance criteria relating to these grants are as follows: For the period from 25 August 1995 to 9 December 1999, the criterion was that the Companys TSR over the relevant calculation period compared to the TSR of the companies in the FTSE 100 at 1 April prior to the date of grant is at least equal to the median of that group.
TSR is the percentage growth of the share price, assuming reinvestment of any dividends paid, over the calculation period.
The initial calculation period commences on 1 April immediately preceding the date of grant and ends on 31 March three years later and, thereafter, calculations are made at each quarter end for the preceding three-year period until the performance criterion is met or the option lapses.
For the period from 10 December 1999 to 8 July 2003 excluding Mr Levys grants see footnote e below, the criterion was that the increase in the Groups adjusted, fully diluted EPS over a three-year period following the date of grant should exceed an average of the UK retail prices index RPI plus a rate ranging between 2% and 3% pa.
The Committee chose the relevant performance criteria as they were considered to be challenging and in accordance with the then existing market practice, while aligning Executive Directors interests with those of shareholders.
e On appointment, Mr Levy was granted options over 10m shares at prices between 300p and 700p.
Since appointment, Mr Levy has been granted additional options over a further 10m shares which represent his entitlement to options in respect of the five financial years up to and including, but ending on, 31 March 2006.
The exercise prices for these options are determined after the announcement of the interim results for the respective financial years, using a five-day average share price.
Exercise of all the options is generally conditional on the Companys adjusted diluted EPS growing by at least an average of RPI plus 2.5% pa over the period from 31 March 2002 to the 31 March following the relevant vesting date with retesting throughout the options life.
The terms of Mr Levys contract prescribe the impact of a cessation of employment or a change of control of EMI on the share options granted under his contract.
If Mr Levys appointment were terminated by EMI without cause or by Mr Levy with good reason as defined in the contract, the options over 10m shares granted on 15 October 2001 would vest and could be exercised without regard to the performance conditions.
If Mr Levys appointment is terminated in the circumstances described in the preceding paragraph, the options granted on 2 January and 19 December 2002 for which the prices have been determined by the date of termination, as set out in the table above, will vest and may be exercised without regard to the performance conditions: all other options would lapse.
The exercise of options vested under the preceding paragraph must be undertaken within 12 months of the date of termination.
On a change of control of EMI, Mr Levys options will be treated as if his employment had been terminated by EMI without cause with the result that they may be exercised without regard to performance conditions, but the exercise period will be limited to six months.
A termination resulting from Mr Levys death or disability will be treated in the same manner as a termination by the Company without cause.
Over the last year listening to music stored on a computer rose 22 per cent and online radio listening increased 18 per cent.
Source: NPD 65 Financial contents 67 Auditors report Additional information 68 Consolidated profit and 97 Five year summary loss account 98 Investor information 70 Balance sheets Subject index 71 Statement of total recognised gains and losses 71 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds 72 Consolidated cash flow statement and notes 74 Accounting policies 76 Notes to the financial statements 66
