26 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
com Report of the Remuneration Committee This Report to shareholders for the year ended 31 December 2005 sets out the policies under which Executive and Non-executive Directors were remunerated and tables of information showing details of the remuneration and share interests of all the Directors.
As required by The Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations this Report will be subject to an advisory shareholder vote at the AGM.
The Report is intended to be in full compliance with the requirements of the Regulations.
KPMG Audit Plc have audited the contents of the Report to the extent required by the Regulations pages 26 to 32.
The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on remuneration policy as applied to Filtronas senior executives, including Executive Directors.
It consists wholly of independent Non-executive Directors: Paul Drechsler Chairman, Adrian Auer and Paul Heiden.
The Chairman, Chief Executive, Company Secretary and Director of Group Human Resources of the Company may, by invitation, attend the Remuneration Committee meetings, except when their own remuneration is discussed.
No Director is involved in determining their own remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee met six times during the year, focussing its attention on the implementation and development of policies and processes relevant to the Company following the demerger.
Remuneration policy The Board as a whole establishes remuneration policy.
The Remuneration Committee determines and recommends to the Board the framework of Board policy for the remuneration of the Executive Directors.
It also ratifies the Chief Executives remuneration proposals for the members of the Executive Committee and for other senior executives reporting directly to him.
The Remuneration Committee also takes note of the remuneration policy and details as set by the Chief Executive in respect of other levels of management in the Company.
The remuneration of the Executive Directors and Chairman is the responsibility of the Remuneration Committee and the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors is the responsibility of the Board as a whole but no Director may vote on their own remuneration.
In determining the policy for the Executive Directors, the Remuneration Committees objective is to ensure that those individuals are provided with appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced performance and are, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the Company.
The objective of the remuneration policy is to provide remuneration in a form and amount to attract, retain and motivate high quality management.
The importance of aligning the interests of Executive Directors and senior executives with shareholders is carefully considered, particularly in the design of the performance-related elements of their remuneration packages.
Advice During the year ended 31 December 2005, Filtronas Director of Group Human Resources was invited by the Remuneration Committee to provide views and advice.
The Remuneration Committee approved the appointment by the Company of the following independent and expert consultants: New Bridge Street Consultants LLP who provided advice on the structure and rules of the Companys long term share incentive plans.
Monks Partnership who provided advice on the remuneration of the Executive Directors and other senior executives within the Company.
Mercers Human Resource Consulting who provided advice and information on pension matters.
Components of executive remuneration Remuneration is reviewed in December each year and is established with reference to the remuneration offered to senior executives with similar roles, taking proper account of the particular responsibilities, skills, performance and experience required for the executive role within the Company.
Market comparisons are made with the assistance of remuneration surveys, including specific surveys commissioned with external consultants where appropriate.
27 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
com Components of executive remuneration continued The remuneration of Executive Directors consists of a number of separate elements: base salary, a short-term incentive plan annual cash bonus, long-term equity incentives, car and fuel allowance, benefits in kind medical expenses insurance, accident insurance, life insurance and permanent health insurance and pension provision or allowance.
For the year ended 31 December 2005 the remuneration of the Executive Directors and Chairman was agreed by the Board prior to the demerger and reflected the policies of the former parent company.
Details of such remuneration, including executive share-based incentive plans, were included in the Listing Particulars produced for the purposes of the demerger from Bunzl plc.
Since demerger, recommendations of the Remuneration Committee in respect of the remuneration of the Executive Directors and Chairman have been accepted by the Board.
The emoluments of the Directors for the seven months from demerger to 31 December 2005 were as follows: Total excluding Period ended pension Pension 31 Dec 2005 Fees Salary Bonus Benefits contributions contributions Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Jeff Harris 86 86 86 Mark Harper 214 11 225 62 287 Steve Dryden 132 20 152 10 162 Paul Drechsler 23 23 23 Adrian Auer 23 23 23 Paul Heiden 18 18 18 Current salary levels are 420,000 and 250,000 per annum for Mark Harper and Steve Dryden respectively Benefits Mark Harper received a car and fuel allowance of 10,120 and benefits in kind of 634.
Steve Dryden received a car allowance of 5,432, benefits in kind of 634 and a supplementary payment of 14,226 in respect of pension provision above the current HM Revenue & Customs earnings cap.
Annual bonuses Under the terms of the annual bonus arrangements for 2005, Mark Harper and Steve Dryden were each potentially entitled to a maximum bonus of up to 100% of basic salary 50% in cash and 50% in shares in the Company, the entitlement to such shares being deferred for three years, in accordance with the rules of the Companys Deferred Annual Share Bonus Plan DASB.
For the year ended 31 December 2005, the performance targets were approved by the Remuneration Committee and based upon Group operating profit.
Performance was required to reach a minimum target for a bonus of 30% of basic salary to be payable 15% in cash and 15% in deferred shares under the DASB.
For the year ended 31 December 2005, the Companys performance exceeded the minimum target and the Remuneration Committee approved a bonus of 80.2% of basic salary for each of the Executive Directors 40.1% in cash and 40.1% in deferred shares under the DASB.
For the financial year ending 31 December 2006, the Remuneration Committee determined that for the Executive Directors the same maximum bonus arrangements will apply.
Targets have been set relating to the growth in adjusted earnings per share over the prior year.
Any payment is entirely at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
Executive share-based incentive plans The Remuneration Committee is firmly of the view that offering Executive Directors and other senior executives the opportunity to be awarded shares in the Company is an important part of motivating, rewarding and retaining key employees so that they may participate in the future growth in value of the Company.
It is also of the view that the Executive Directors and other senior executives should be encouraged to invest directly in the Company through the purchase of shares.
The Companys DASB and Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP consisting of Part A Approved and Unapproved Executive Share Options and Part B Performance and Matching Share Awards are both intended to support these objectives.
28 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
com Report of the Remuneration Committee Executive share-based incentive plans continued The award of shares or options under the executive share-based incentive plans is determined by the Remuneration Committee taking into account, inter alia, the seniority of the individual, length of service and other such criteria as they may determine from time to time.
The current policy is that participation in the DASB and Part B of the LTIP is restricted to Executive Directors, members of the Executive Committee and certain other nominated senior executives.
Participation in Part A of the LTIP is extended to a wider group of executives.
The Deferred Annual Share Bonus Plan The DASB provides for Executive Directors and nominated senior executives to receive existing issued ordinary shares in the Company for nil payment.
The number of shares subject to an award is determined at the time the award is granted, based upon the Boards assessment of the performance in the Companys preceding financial year, of the participant and or the Group and or the business in which the participant works.
The aggregate value of shares made subject to awards granted to a participant in any one financial year may not exceed 100% of their basic salary as at the award date.
Shares awarded under the DASB are held in trust until the third anniversary of the award date at which point they are transferred to the participant.
The Long Term Incentive Plan Part A of the LTIP provides for participants to receive share option awards over shares worth up to two times basic salary or 250,000 whichever is the greatest in any financial year, subject to performance conditions.
During 2005 participants received share option awards over shares worth up to one times basic salary, with the exercise price set equal to the share price at date of grant.
A share option award will normally be exercisable between three and ten years following its grant, but only if the specified performance condition has been satisfied.
The performance conditions attached to Part A awards made in 2005 were based on the Companys earnings per share growth adjusted to exclude items which did not reflect the Companys underlying financial performance and intangible amortisation relative to inflation over three financial years, requiring such earnings per share growth to exceed inflation by an average of at least 3% per annum.
The performance condition will be tested after three financial years and there will be no provision for retesting.
To the extent the performance condition has not been met after three financial years, the relevant share option awards will lapse.
The Remuneration Committee will review the performance conditions each time share options are awarded under Part A of the LTIP in order to ensure that they remain challenging and may impose different conditions on share options awarded in subsequent years, provided that any new conditions are no less challenging.
A performance share award under Part B of the LTIP consists of a conditional right to receive shares in the Company, subject to performance conditions, on the basis described below.
Participants will make no payment or only a nominal payment for the grant and exercise of performance share awards.
Participants may receive performance share awards, excluding matching share awards, over shares worth up to twice their basic salary in any financial year.
The Executive Directors and other senior executives were granted a one-off matching share award following the demerger linked to their investment in the Companys shares.
For the grant of these matching share awards, the Executive Directors and senior executives were invited to purchase shares up to a certain value, depending on their seniority, with each of the Executive Directors invited to purchase up to 150,000 worth of shares.
The Executive Directors and senior executives were then granted matching share awards over shares of up to twice the number of shares they purchased.
29 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
com The Long Term Incentive Plan continued A performance share award, including any matching share award, will not normally be exercisable before the third anniversary of its grant, may only be exercised to the extent that the applicable performance conditions have been satisfied, and will, for employees based outside the US, then remain capable of being exercised up to the sixth anniversary of grant.
For employees based in the US once the performance conditions have been satisfied the grant must be exercised within 30 days of vesting.
In the case of the vesting of the matching share awards granted by reference to shares purchased by participants, not only will applicable performance conditions have to be satisfied but those awards will only vest to the extent that participants have retained the shares they bought.
If a participant sells any of the shares they purchased before the time when vesting of the matching share award would occur under the performance conditions, their award will be reduced on a pro rata basis.
The extent to which performance share awards vest is subject to the Companys total shareholder return TSR performance over a fixed three year period relative to the TSR performance of a specified group of companies.
For the initial performance share awards the comparator group is the FTSE 250 companies excluding investment trusts at the start of the three year performance period.
Identical conditions were attached to the matching share awards.
The three year performance period for the TSR usually starts at the beginning of the calendar month in which a performance share award is made and the relevant TSR figures are averaged over a one month period at the beginning and end of the performance period.
In the case of the initial performance share awards, including the matching share awards, the three year performance period started on the date of the award.
A performance share award, including any matching share award, will vest in full only if the Companys TSR performance is ranked at upper quartile or above within the peer group over the performance period.
For median performance one quarter of such awards vests, rising proportionally up to full vesting thereafter.
For below median performance, no such awards will vest.
The performance condition will be tested after three years and there will be no provision for retesting.
To the extent the performance condition has not been met after three years, the relevant performance or matching share awards will lapse.
The Remuneration Committee will review the performance conditions each time performance share awards are granted under Part B of the LTIP in order to ensure that they remain challenging and may impose different conditions on share awards granted in subsequent years provided that any new conditions are no less challenging.
Details of the awards granted and outstanding during the year to the Executive Directors under the LTIP are as follows: Share Awards price at granted Lapsed Award date of Exercise during Earliest Expiry during Executive Director Scheme date award price the year vesting date date the year Mark Harper LTIP Part A 23 June 2005 239p 239p 156,903 23 June 2008 22 June 2015 nil LTIP Part B Matching 7 June 2005 232p nil 126,902 7 June 2008 6 June 2011 nil LTIP Part B Performance 7 June 2005 232p nil 161,637 7 June 2008 6 June 2011 nil Steve Dryden LTIP Part A 23 June 2005 239p 239p 96,234 23 June 2008 22 June 2015 nil LTIP Part B Matching 7 June 2005 232p nil 102,474 7 June 2008 6 June 2011 nil LTIP Part B Performance 7 June 2005 232p nil 99,137 7 June 2008 6 June 2011 nil 30 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
com Report of the Remuneration Committee The Long Term Incentive Plan continued A total of 3,453,266 share incentive awards were granted to Executive Directors and senior executives during the year ended 31 December 2005.
The middle market price of an ordinary share in the Company on 31 December 2005 was 285p.
The middle market price of an ordinary share in the Company during the year ranged from 222.5p to 287p.
Performance graph The graph below represents the comparative total shareholder return share price and dividend performance of the Company against the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts Index from the date of the listing of the Company until 31 December 2005.
This index has been selected as it is considered the most appropriate published general index in which the Company is a constituent.
130 125 120 115 110 105 100 95 90 85 80 June July August September October November December 2005 Filtrona plc FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts Index Source: Datastream This graph shows the value of 100 invested in Filtrona plc on 6 June 2005 compared with the value of 100 invested in the FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts Index.
Executive Directors service contracts The policy for senior executive service contracts is that notice periods will normally not exceed twelve months.
Both Mark Harper and Steve Dryden have service contracts, dated 12 May 2005, with notice periods of twelve months from either party.
The service contracts of the Executive Directors are available for inspection by members at each Annual General Meeting and during normal business hours at the Companys Registered Office.
The Remuneration Committees policy in relation to termination of service contracts is to apply an appropriate level of mitigation, having regard to all of the circumstances of the individual and the termination of employment, and to any legal advice received.
The Company has the right to make a payment in lieu of notice and any such payment may be made in monthly instalments at the Companys discretion and may be reduced to take into account any sums earned during the payment period by way of employment elsewhere.
Mark Harper and Steve Dryden retire as Directors by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Non-executive Directors The appointment of each Non-executive Director is for a fixed term of three years and is reviewed at the end of two years.
The Nonexecutive Directors do not have service contracts and do not participate in any Company pension, share or incentive scheme.
The current letters of appointment, dated 12 May 2005, for all Non-executive Directors are available for inspection by members at each Annual General Meeting and during normal business hours at the Companys Registered Office.
Fees for Non-executive Directors are approved by the Board and are based on a standard fee with additional fees payable for the chairing of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Value 31 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
com Non-executive Directors continued Paul Heiden will retire as a Director of the Company with effect from the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Pension schemes Mark Harper is a member of the Filtrona Senior Pension Scheme FSPS which entitles him to a pension at the date of retirement based on final salary.
He accrues pension at the rate of 3% of final salary for each year of membership of the scheme and he contributes 9% of pensionable salary to the scheme.
His normal retirement age is 60.
He is unaffected by the current HM Revenue & Customs earnings cap on approved pension benefits.
Steve Dryden is a member of the BRIS Section of the Filtrona Pension Plan FPP which entitles him to a pension at the date of retirement based on final salary.
He accrues pension at a rate of 1.7% of final salary for each year of membership of the plan and he contributes 7% of pensionable salary to the plan.
His normal retirement age is 65.
He is affected by the current HM Revenue & Customs earnings cap on approved pension benefits and he receives a supplementary payment of 20% of his pensionable salary above the cap to permit him to secure additional pension benefits for himself.
Both the FSPS and the FPP provide death benefits as shown in the table below: FSPS BRIS section of the FPP Death-in-service Death after Death-in-service Death after before NRD retirement before NRD retirement Lump sum 4 x annual salary Guaranteed 4 x annual salary Guaranteed and a refund of pension 5 years and a refund of pension 5 years members members contributions contributions Spouses Up to 60% of Up to 60% of Up to 50% of Up to 50% of pension members pension members pension members pension members pension entitlement as at NRD entitlement as at NRD entitlement as at NRD entitlement as at NRD Dependants Share of spouses Share of spouses Share of spouses Share of spouses pension pension if applicable pension if applicable pension if applicable pension if applicable normal retirement date The table below shows the accrued pension in the scheme and plan to date in respect of the Executive Directors, together with the transfer value of such accrued pensions: Increase in accrued Transfer value Transfer value pension from Total accrued of accrued of accrued Total change 6 Jun 2005 to pension at pension at pension at in transfer value Executive Director 31 Dec 2005 31 Dec 2005 6 Jun 2005 31 Dec 2005 during period Mark Harper 24,900 156,600 1,654,000 2,184,000 510,000 Steve Dryden 1,200 19,600 96,000 118,000 17,000 A review will be undertaken of the pension consequences of the changes in legislation from 2006.
The Board intends to ensure that there will be no material additional cost to the Company as a result of any changes made following this review.
Outside appointments Executive Directors are permitted to accept up to two appropriate non-executive directorships offered by listed companies and other organisations, which provide industry experience or public service.
Such outside appointments are subject to prior Board approval, taking into account existing duties or potential conflicts of interest.
Neither of the Executive Directors have any such outside appointment at present.
32 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 www.
com Report of the Remuneration Committee Directors shareholdings The interests both beneficial and family interests of the Directors in office at 31 December 2005 in the ordinary share capital of the Company were as follows: At date of appointment At 31 Dec 2005 Jeff Harris 0 11,651 Mark Harper 0 75,986 # Steve Dryden 0 51,237 # Paul Drechsler 0 8,519 Adrian Auer 0 7,500 Paul Heiden 0 1,500 410 shares are held non-beneficially and 63,451 shares are held beneficially in a nominee account # held beneficially in a nominee account The Executive Directors are regarded as being interested, for the purposes of the Companies Act 1985, in 423,009 shares in Filtrona plc currently held by the Filtrona Employee Benefit Trust as they are, together with other Filtrona group employees, potential beneficiaries of the Trust.
By order of the Board Paul Drechsler Chairman Remuneration Committee 1 March 2006
