Remuneration report Composition and role of the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for formulating executive remuneration policy and for determining the remuneration of the executive directors and certain senior executives.
Its members are the non-executive directors as shown in Table 1 together with their attendance at meetings of the Remuneration Committee during 2004 05: Table 1.
Remuneration Committee membership and attendance in 2004 05 Committee member 27 April 2004 2 June 2004 24 November 2004 20 January 2005 30 March 2005 Mr C R N Clark Chairman Attended Attended Attended Attended Attended 1 Mr K Orrell-Jones Attended Attended 2 Mr G F Page C. B. E. Attended Attended Attended Mr R P Edey Absent Attended Attended Attended Attended Sir Michael Hodgkinson Attended Attended Attended Attended Absent Mr C Matthews Attended Attended Attended Attended Attended By invitation.
1 Mr Orrell-Jones retired on the 1 September 2004.
2 Mr Page joined FKI plc as a non-executive director on 1 August 2004.
He was appointed as non-executive Chairman from 1 September 2004.
At the November meeting of the Remuneration Committee it was decided that the Company Chairman would cease to be a member of the Committee.
After this date he attended by invitation at meetings as shown in Table 1.
All of the above served on the Remuneration Committee throughout the year, or as indicated, in Table 1.
All of the non-executive directors including the Company Chairman are considered by the Company to be independent.
Mr Heiden is normally invited to attend meetings as an adviser to the Committee but is not present when his own remuneration is being determined.
The Committee received information from Mercer Human Resources TSR monitoring, Hewitt Associates remuneration policy and Deloitte remuneration policy.
None of these organisations provide any other services to the Company.
Mr Heiden appointed Deloitte and Hewitt Associates as advisers.
Mercer Human Resources was appointed by the Remuneration Committee.
In accordance with the requirements of the revised Companies Act, an ordinary resolution seeking shareholders approval for the Remuneration report will be proposed at the annual general meeting.
Executive remuneration policy The Remuneration Committees objectives are to ensure that the Company is able to: attract, retain and motivate high calibre people: and align the interests of the executive directors and senior executives with those of shareholders by rewarding executive directors and certain senior executives according to the overall performance of the individual businesses and Group.
As indicated in last years Remuneration report a comprehensive review of the policies and mechanisms of executive remuneration was undertaken.
This review was concluded with the benefit of feedback from major shareholders and governance bodies ABI, PIRC and RREV on initial proposals.
The refined proposals have been set out in a shareholder circular to be voted upon at the annual general meeting in July 2005.
The proposed changes to executive remuneration reflect both current best practice and a response to comments by governance bodies last year about policy, practice and disclosures.
More detail of each proposed change appears in the following pages under the relevant section of this report.
For ease of identification a summary of each proposed change is shown in shaded text areas.
The proposed changes are: A policy of setting base salaries at the appropriate market median 50% of total remuneration to be variable, for on-target performance A more appropriate balance between short and long-term variable remuneration 1 One third of annual incentive paid as restricted shares that can be matched if ROIC targets are exceeded Long-term incentives are to be a combination of option grants and performance shares If shareholders approve proposals, no further awards will be made under the former option or LTIP schemes.
The proposed performance measures for the long-term incentive plan are a mix of absolute EPS and ROIC, and relative TSR.
The Remuneration Committee believe that these metrics provide a good balance between internal and external measures of executive performance.
The total potential additional cost of proposed changes for executive directors, assuming on target performance, is approximately 370,000 over a three year period of the scheme.
Implementation of these proposals would have no significant adverse impact on share dilution because of the relatively small number of shares involved and the proposed use of share-settled stock appreciation rights.
1 ROIC is defined as operating profit adjusted for exceptional items divided by total capital invested in the business.
33 FKI plc Remuneration report continued Within current policy, variable pay under the annual bonus and long-term incentive schemes can form a higher proportion of total pay than is typical in the UK market.
Incentive opportunities are designed to deliver above median total rewards in the event of superior performance.
Any payments made to executive directors other than basic salary are not pensionable.
Under new proposals, on-target performance is capable of delivering around 50% of total remuneration in the form of variable remuneration.
This is achieved through redesign of the annual performance related bonus scheme and long-term incentives.
Basic salary and benefits Basic salary is reviewed annually having regard to market practices for similar executive positions in a comparable group of companies in the engineering sector and supported by advice from external independent consultants.
Under new proposals, salaries will be set around the median of the distribution for an appropriate peer group of comparators.
For most roles this peer group will be the Engineering & Machinery Sector.
However, for the roles of Chief Executive and Group Finance Director a broader range of comparators, including some outside of the Engineering & Machinery Sector, will be used to help determine competitive base salaries.
Sources of comparative data will normally be Hewitt Associates and The Monk Partnership.
Executive directors also receive additional taxable benefits, namely the provision of a fully expensed company car or an allowance in lieu thereof, medical insurance and disability insurance.
Performance appraisal During the year the Company introduced a structured performance appraisal process for its executive directors and executive management.
The outcome from appraisal influences decisions on salary progression and helps to identify individual and collective training and development needs.
Annual performance related bonus scheme The Company operates an annual performance related bonus scheme for executive directors and other schemes for certain senior executives based on the budgeted pre-tax profits of the Group.
An annual performance related bonus scheme for the remaining executives and certain senior executives with operating Group responsibilities also exists, based partly on the performance of the respective operating group for which they are responsible or individual business performance and partly on the budgeted pre-tax profits of the Group as a whole.
Bonus schemes have had the potential to lift total remuneration above the median for the comparator group of companies in the event of superior performance.
At Board level a performance related bonus of 25% of salary is payable for achieving a trigger point of Target profit less 10% budgeted operating profit, after interest and exceptional items but before amortisation and tax.
The bonus increases on a straight line pro rata basis from 25% to 50% for achieving between the trigger point and 100% of Target profit.
The bonus may increase further on a straight line pro rata basis from 50% to 100% for achieving 100% of Target profit plus 10% of budgeted operating profit.
Under new proposals, the Trigger 90%, Target 100% and Maximum points and respective bonus percentages do not change.
However, one third of any post-tax cash bonus will be exchanged for deferred shares.
If the Companys level of ROIC reaches an average of 10% over the following three years the deferred shares will be matched one-for-one.
This will align executive directors interests more closely with the long-term interests of shareholders.
Long Term Incentives The Company has operated two forms of share based incentive schemes for executive directors and senior executives.
Participants in the Long Term Incentives are encouraged to retain part of their vested awards, such that they are expected to accumulate a minimum shareholding in the Company of one times basic salary over five years.
Under new proposals, executive directors will be encouraged to accumulate a shareholding of one times basic salary over four years.
Long-term incentives will be provided through a combination of executive share options and performance shares.
Each element of the incentive may vest independently of the other.
The proposed changes to level of awards, vesting scales and performance criteria are shown below under the relevant heading.
Executive Share Option Scheme The Company has operated an Executive Share Option Scheme, approved by shareholders in 2001, designed to encourage long-term retention of key staff.
Executive directors are eligible to receive options on an annual basis.
In normal circumstances, the maximum level of grant each year to executive directors is limited to options over shares with a value of one times basic salary.
The normal practice is to grant options within a period of six weeks following the announcement of the Companys preliminary and interim results.
Options are granted at the mid-market price of FKI plc ordinary shares on the third dealing day before the grant date and normally are required to be held for a minimum of three years before they are capable of exercise.
They expire after ten years.
34 FKI plc Remuneration report All executive options granted from July 1996 onwards may only be exercised subject to a performance condition that the Groups growth in earnings 1 per share, as defined below, must exceed the UK retail price index by 9% or more over a three year period, subject to re-testing in subsequent years from a rolling base.
Earnings per share growth is considered to be the most appropriate measure of the Companys underlying performance, as it requires that there should be a demanding improvement in the Companys performance before scheme participants can benefit from an increase in the share price.
The assessment as to whether performance conditions have been met is calculated by the Secretary to the Remuneration Committee and independently verified by the Remuneration Committee and where appropriate advice is obtained from an external independent firm of Chartered Accountants.
Earnings per share are defined as the Companys headline earnings per share, as calculated in accordance with the principles set out in the Statement of Investment Practice No.
1 The Definition of IIMR Headline Earnings issued by the Institute of Investment Management and Research.
IIMR Headline earnings are calculated by excluding from the reported FRS 3 results any profit or loss items of a non-trading or capital nature.
A table giving full details of the directors options granted and exercised during the year under review is shown on pages 39-40.
1 Re-testing was removed from the executive option scheme for options granted after April 2004.
Under new proposals, in the first year, option grants of up to two times annual salary would normally be provided to executive directors.
After the first year, Remuneration Committee would decide if any award was to be made and, if so the level of that award within the scheme rules.
Options would vest depending on achievement of EPS growth relative to the growth in the RPI.
No options would vest for growth below RPI plus 3%.
RPI EPS growth of 3%, 4%, 5% or 6% p. a. results in vesting levels of 25%, 50%, 75% and 100% respectively.
The Company has the right to direct that a share or cash settled exercise takes place.
This helps reduce the impact of dilution to shareholders.
Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP The Company currently operates a LTIP which was approved by shareholders in 2001 and under which participants receive annual conditional awards of shares in the Company of a value equal to up to 70% of basic salary per annum, which may vest only after the achievement of certain long-term performance conditions.
Participants may receive up to the maximum number of shares, three years after the award, provided the performance conditions are met.
Until then, the shares are held in a trust which is administered by a trustee company.
The level of vesting of awards under the LTIP is determined by the performance of the Companys total shareholder return TSR against a comparator group of all companies which on the date of grant are constituent companies of the Engineering and Machinery sector as determined by the FTSE Actuaries Industry Classification Committee.
The graph below shows the Companys TSR performance compared with that of the comparator group.
No awards vest for below median performance and 50% of an award will vest for median performance.
Full vesting occurs only at upper quartile performance, and 75% of an award will vest for performance above the median but below upper quartile.
Accrued dividends on vested awards are paid to the executives pending transfer of the shares into the name of the respective participant.
The performance condition is based upon total shareholder return see Graph 1 below as this is considered to be the best means of aligning the interests of directors with shareholders by requiring superior total shareholder return.
Under new proposals, there would be a performance share element in the long-term incentive plan.
Performance shares upto the equivalent of one times salary will be granted in the first year.
Vesting of these shares will be dependent on two performance criteria.
Firstly, vesting of 50% of the shares will be against the Companys TSR performance compared with that of a peer group of companies in the FTSE Engineering & Machinery Sector.
No shares vest for below-median TSR performance, 30% vest for median performance and 100% vest for achieving or exceeding the 80th percentile.
The remaining 50% of performance shares vest against adjusted ROIC.
No shares vest for ROIC below 8%.
For ROIC levels between 8-9%, 9-10%, 10-11%, more than 11%: then 40%, 60%, 80% and 100% of these performance shares vest respectively.
Total shareholder return FKI plc FTSE All-Share Engineering & Machinery Sector Index Source: Thomson Financial 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 31 March 00 31 March 01 31 March 02 31 March 03 31 March 04 31 March 05 This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2005, of 100 invested in FKI plc on 31 March 2000 compared with 100 invested in the FTSE All-Share Engineering & Machinery Sector Index.
The other points are the values at intervening financial year ends.
a The graph illustrates the Companys total shareholder return performance since 31 March 2000 relative to the FTSE Engineering & Machinery Sector.
b The Company is a member of the FTSE All-Share Engineering & Machinery Sector and, as such, the sector is considered to be the most appropriate comparator group upon which a broad equity market index is calculated.
35 FKI plc Remuneration report Remuneration report continued Table 2 below shows a list of competitor companies included during the period 2001 05.
TSR monitoring awards peer group 2001 05 5 AGA FOODSERVICE FKI RENOLD 1 BABCOCK INTERNATIONAL HALMA ROTORK 6 BODYCOTE INTERNATIONAL HENLYS GROUP SENIOR 3 4 3 CASTINGS HILL AND SMITH SEVERFIELD-ROWEN CHARTER IMI SPIRAX-SARCO ENGINEERING 7 COOKSON GROUP KIDDE TOMKINS 2 DOMNICK HUNTER METALRAX GROUP VITEC GROUP 3 ENODIS MOLINS WEIR GROUP FENNER MORGAN CRUCIBLE Notes: 1 Babcock International were reclassified out of FTSE All Share Engineering & Machinery Index into Support Services in 2002.
2 Domnick Hunter fell outside the Index in December 2002 but re-entered in December 2003.
3 Castings, Molins and Severfield-Rowen entered the peer group in 2003.
Molins then fell outside the Index in December 2004.
4 Hill & Smith entered the peer group in 2004.
5 Renold has fallen outside of the Index.
6 Henlys Group delisted in July 2004.
7 Kidde were acquired by UTC in May 2005.
The assessment as to whether the performance conditions have been met is independently calculated by Mercer Human Resources Consulting in conjunction with Datastream and is ratified by the Remuneration Committee.
A table giving full details of the directors LTIP awards that were granted, vested and exercised during the year under review is shown on pages 40-41.
Inland Revenue Approved Save-As-You-Earn share option scheme This scheme was approved by shareholders in 1997 and is open to all UK employees who have completed six months service and who enter into an approved savings contract for a term of three or five years.
The maximum amount which can be saved is 250 per month, and the total savings including interest at the end of the term are available to purchase shares at 80% of their market value shortly before the start of the savings contract.
Executive directors may participate in this scheme on the same terms as all other employees.
In 2005 the Company will evaluate the feasibility of extending the offer of participation in savings-related share ownership schemes to its employees in mainland Europe and North America.
Recruitment of new directors Executive directors The Nominations Committee review and approve a recruitment specification.
The director of Group HR advises the Committee on availability of internal candidates.
If no internal candidate exists a recruitment consultant or head-hunter is engaged depending on the nature of the assignment.
The Chief Executive selects a shortlist of candidates from those presented by the recruitment consultant.
A member of the Nominations Committee joins with the Chief Executive to select from the shortlist of candidates.
The Remuneration Committee approves a proposed remuneration package.
The recruitment process is concluded by the Chief Executive.
Non-executive directors The Nominations Committee agree a recruitment specification.
The Company Chairman leads the recruitment process that normally involves an external search firm.
The Company Chairman selects a shortlist of candidates for interview with the Chief Executive and Nominations Committee.
The Nomination committee then make a recommendation for appointment to the Board.
Non-executive Chairman The Nominations Committee agree a recruitment specification.
They appoint one of their members to lead the recruitment process.
A search firm is normally engaged to assist with the recruitment process.
A shortlist of candidates is presented to the Chief Executive who interviews potential candidiates, and refines the shortlist.
The Nominations Committee make the final selection and recommendation to the Board.
In the recent recruitment of Mr Page as non-executive Company Chairman, Sir Michael Hodgkinson led the recruitment process on behalf of the Nominations Committee.
Service contracts It is the Companys policy that all executive directors have one year rolling service contracts with a one year notice period.
However, in order to attract high calibre recruits, the Remuneration Committee may exercise its discretion to offer newly recruited executive directors an initial two year notice period which reduces to one year.
Save as listed below, there are no express provisions for compensation payable upon early termination of the executive directors contracts and at the date of termination, other than payments due during the notice period.
In the case of Mr Heiden, in the event of termination of his service contract by an acquiring company after a change of control of FKI, there is a provision in his service contract for a payment of liquidated damages equivalent to one years pay and contractual benefits without deduction for mitigation and or accelerated receipt.
36 FKI plc Remuneration report The contract dates and notice periods for the executive directors during the year were as follows: Name of director Date of contract Notice period P Heiden 16 December 2002 One year J A Biles 14 January 1998 One year Resigned from the Board 30 June 2004 R L Gott 7 April 2005 One year N Bamford 2 June 2004 One year The non-executive directors do not have service contracts.
The dates of the current non-executive directors appointments are as follows: Date of Date of Non-executive director Appointment date last re-election next re-election Mr C R N Clark 1 January 2000 23 July 2003 20 July 2005 Mr R P Edey 6 November 1996 23 July 2003 21 July 2006 Sir Michael Hodgkinson 1 April 2000 23 July 2003 21 July 2006 Mr C Matthews 11 September 2003 21 July 2004 21 July 2007 Mr G F Page C. B. E. 1 August 2004 20 July 2005 Succession planning During the year, the Company introduced a succession planning process for its executive directors and senior executive management as part of its risk management process.
The Board considered the first executive succession plan at its meeting in November 2004 subsequent to which the Executive Committee has continued to manage the development of potential successors.
Pensions With the exception of Mr Heiden, executive directors are members of the FKI Group Pension Scheme, a defined benefit scheme with a normal retirement age for directors of 60 years.
Its main features, in respect of executive directors, are: a A cash benefit on death in service of four times annual rate of the highest average basic salary restricted to the earnings cap where it applies during any three consecutive years within the ten years before the members date of death.
b Pensions payable in the event of ill health.
c Pensions for dependants on a members death generally equal to half the members prospective retirement pension at 60 on death in service, or half the members pension entitlement on death in retirement.
d Member contributions are 7% of basic salary restricted to the earnings cap where it applies.
There are funded and unfunded unapproved pension arrangements to increase the pension benefits where because of Inland Revenue limitations including those resulting from the earnings cap these cannot be paid in total from the Scheme.
Such arrangements apply to Mr Gott.
In lieu of participation in the FKI Group Pension Scheme, Mr Heiden receives contributions into a funded unapproved retirement benefit scheme equivalent to 50% of his basic salary.
Details of the directors pension benefits during the year under review are shown on page 39.
Non-executive directorships The Company believes that there are significant benefits to the individual and the Company from executive directors accepting non-executive directorships in other organisations.
Each executive director may accept one non-executive directorship provided that it does not conflict with the Companys interests and is approved by the Board.
Fees from an external directorship may be retained by the director concerned.
Mr Heiden fulfilled a role as non-executive director.
Details of fees received in 2004 05 in respect of this external role are show below: Mr P Heiden Non executive director Bunzl plc 40,100 37 FKI plc Remuneration report Remuneration report continued Directors emoluments Pension Pension Taxable contributions contributions Basicbenefits Other Total Total 2005 2004 salary fees a Bonus b 2005 2004 c c Name of director 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive directors Mr P Heiden 483 47 169 242 941 1,008 1 Mr N Bamford 200 19 70 289 2 Mr J A Biles 212 16 86 314 396 41 52 Mr R L Gott 250 20 270 308 93 Mr S D Jones 78 9 12 99 320 Non-executive directors 3 Mr G F Page 90 90 3 Mr K Orrell-Jones 52 52 125 Mr C R N Clark 37 37 35 Mr R P Edey 37 37 35 Sir Michael Hodgkinson 34 34 32 Mr C Matthews 34 34 18 Aggregate emoluments 1,507 111 337 242 2,197 2,277 134 52 a Taxable benefits consist of health insurance, company car allowances, life assurance.
b Other represents payments to a director in lieu of payments into a pension fund.
c Contributions paid in respect of funded unapproved retirement benefit schemes.
1 Mr Bamford joined the Board of Directors on 1 April 2004.
No disclosures were made regarding Mr Bamford prior to him joining the Board.
2 Mr Biles resigned as a director on 30 June 2004 and left the Company on 31 December 2004.
3 Mr Page joined FKI plc as non-executive director on 1 August 2004.
Mr Orrell-Jones retired from his position as non-executive Chairman on 1 September 2004.
The table above shows fees for only the relevant part of the year with respect to both the non-executive Chairmen.
Non-executive directors fees The fees paid to non-executive directors and the Chairman are determined by the Board after reviewing fee payments for comparable positions within similar organisations, and are normally reviewed every three years.
Board changes Mr Bamford joined the Board on 1 April 2004.
Mr Biles resigned from the Board on 30 June 2004 and left FKI on 31 December 2004.
For the period April to December 2004 Mr Biles received his normal remuneration and benefits.
During the period July to December 2004 Mr Biles was available to the Company at the discretion of the Chief Executive.
On leaving in December he received a payment of 204,975 less accelerated benefit discount which equated to six months normal remuneration and benefits, and a bonus 64,125 determined on a discretionary basis.
He will continue to have use of his company car until 30 June 2005.
He may then purchase the car for a fair value at July 2005.
A sum of 26,464 was withheld from the payment made to him in December in respect of the company car.
Any adjustment necessary will be made to the withholding based upon the agreed value.
The Company paid to the FKI Group Pension Fund a sum of 32,400 as the cost of Mr Biles early pension not being subject to a actuarial reduction for benefits accrued up to his leaving date.
After leaving Mr Biles may receive benefits from the share options and LTIPS shown in the tables below, subject to the rules of both schemes.
Mr S D Jones resigned from the Board on 31 March 2004 and left FKI on 30 July 2004.
He received his normal remuneration and benefits from April to July.
During this period he continued in full time employment with FKI.
He then received a payment of 214,468 less accelerated benefit discount which equated to eight months contractual remuneration and benefits, and a discretionary bonus of 11,700 in respect of the period April to July 2004.
After leaving Mr Jones received benefits from LTIPS, within the rules of the scheme, and may receive further benefits from remaining share options.
38 FKI plc Remuneration report Directors pension benefits The undernoted directors were members of a defined benefit scheme provided by the Group during the year.
Mr P Heiden is responsible for his own pension provision.
Pension entitlements and corresponding transfer values were as follows during the year: Transfer value of increase Increase in Increase in in accrued Transfer Transfer transfer accrued benefit less Accrued Accrued value of value of value less pension contributions pension at pension at pension at pension at contributions excluding made by 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March made by inflation directors 2005 2004 2005 2004 directors Name of director 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Mr J A Biles 1.3 25.1 11.8 10.2 232.6 161.6 71.0 Mr R L Gott 1.7 0.6 23.8 21.5 209.7 168.1 26.2 Mr N Bamford 8.1 63.1 44.8 35.6 358.0 179.6 167.2 Note: 1.
Mr Biles retired on 31 December 2004.
His benefits were augmented so that no early retirement factor was applied to his accrued pension.
This is reflected in the transfer values shown.
In addition to the accrued pension shown in the table, Mr Gott will receive a fixed pension of 24,400 from age 65.
This arises from funds transferred-in to the FKI Group Scheme from a previous employers scheme.
The value of this pension is excluded from the transfer values shown.
Mr Bamfords pension promise was retrospectively augmented on becoming a director.
The normal retirement age was reduced from 65 to 60 and the accrual rate improved from 60ths to a target of 50% of salary at age 60.
The pension entitlement shown is that which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year or date of leaving the pension scheme or ceasing to accrue further benefit if earlier.
The increase in accrued pension during the year excludes any increase for inflation.
The transfer values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11, although no adjustment has been made for any under funding of the Scheme.
The calculation of each transfer value includes an allowance for the cost of death before retirement benefits.
The change in the amount of the transfer value over the year is impacted by the following elements: a the transfer value of the increase in accrued pension net of inflation b the transfer value of the increase in accrued pension due to inflation c the increase in the transfer value of accrued pension at the beginning of the year due to ageing d the impact of any change in the economic or mortality assumptions underlying the transfer value basis e the effect of a. to d. less the directors own contributions over the year.
The change in the amount of the transfer value over the year includes the effect of fluctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the Company and directors, such as stock market movements which are reflected in [d. ] above.
Directors have the option to pay additional voluntary contributions.
However, neither the contributions nor the resulting benefits are included in the table.
Mr Biles and Mr Gotts UK pension scheme benefits are subject to the Inland Revenues earnings cap.
This includes the period of service prior to Mr Gott becoming a director.
During the year the Company paid contributions amounting to 40,591 to a Funded Unapproved Retirement Scheme for Mr Biles.
For service from 1 April 2004, Mr Gott is being provided with an additional 37% per annum of salary to provide further pension benefits on a defined contribution basis.
Prior to 1 April 2004 the Company has agreed to provide benefits in excess of the earnings cap through an Unfunded Unapproved Retirement Benefits Scheme.
During the review of executive remuneration mentioned on page 33, executive benefits were included in the process and found to be competitive or in some cases in need of further examination at a later date following clarification of pending new regulations, e. g. retirement benefits.
It is anticipated that any change in retirement benefit arrangements will be at nil cost to the Company.
All executive share options were granted at nil cost to the director concerned.
The market price of an ordinary share on 31 March 2005 was 106.25p 2004: 111p and the range during the year was 105p to 137.5p.
All but the Executive Share Options granted in 2003 are underwater.
Executive share options granted prior to 1996 are not subject to a performance condition.
All executive share options granted in 1999 and subsequent years are exercisable from the dates stated above, subject to them satisfying the performance condition stated in the policy section.
Executive Share Options granted from April 2004 were no longer subject to re-testing.
Mr S D Jones, as a former executive director of the Company may receive further benefits from pending share options under the rules of the scheme.
The Companys total shareholder return performance for the three year performance period that ended in March 2005 ranked below median against its comparator group and under the terms of the rules applicable to the 2001 awards, 100% of the awards lapsed.
The price of an ordinary share on 11 June 2004, being the date that awards were made during the year was 115.75p.
The awards are subject to the performance conditions for LTIP awards, as outlined in the policy section.
The market value of shares as yet unvested is stated at 106.25p per share, being the closing midmarket price on 31 March 2005.
As at 31 March 2005, the Company was ranked below median in its comparator group for the awards granted in 2001.
Therefore the awards granted in 2001 lapsed.
If the ranking position for the award made in 2002 were to be maintained until the end of the respective performance period, none of the awards granted in 2002 would vest.
During the year, in accordance with the rules of the LTIP, the Remuneration Committee permitted the early vesting of a pro rata number of shares 84,034 to Mr Biles following termination of his employment by reason of redundancy.
Mr S D Jones, as a former executive director, received benefits from restricted LTIPs, within the rules of the scheme, following his departure from the Company.
Directors beneficial interests in ordinary shares of FKI plc As at As at 31 March 1 April 2005 2004 or subsequent date of appointment Ordinary shares Ordinary shares Name of director Number Number G F Page 15,000 1 N Bamford 34,263 34,263 C R N Clark 6,174 6,174 R P Edey 6,250 6,250 R L Gott 23,098 23,098 P Heiden 160,000 130,000 Sir Michael Hodgkinson 5,370 5,370 C Matthews 1 This share holding was accumulated prior to Mr Bamford joining the Board of FKI plc.
Any ordinary shares required to fulfil entitlements under the current LTIP are provided by the FKI Employee Benefit Trusts.
As beneficiaries under the Employee Benefit Trusts, the directors are deemed to be interested in the shares held by the Employee Benefit Trusts which, at 31 March 2005, amounted to 1,836,302 FKI plc ordinary shares.
No changes took place in the interest of directors between 31 March 2005 and 9 June 2005.
FKIs register of directors interests is open to inspection and contains full details of directors shareholdings and options.
Auditable information The information in the Remuneration report subject to audit is that included in the tables and related notes in the section on directors emoluments, directors LTIPs, directors share options and directors pension benefits.
By order of the Board C R N Clark Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 9 June 2005 41 FKI plc Remuneration report
