GKN plc 93 Annual Report 2005 Remuneration Committee Directors attendance record The Remuneration Committee consists of the independent non-executive The attendance of Directors at relevant meetings of the Board and of the Audit, Directors.
Sir Peter Williams assumed the chairmanship of the Committee from Remuneration and Nominations Committees held during 2005 was as follows: Baroness Hogg with effect from 1 January 2006.
The Committee is responsible Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee for approving the terms of service and setting the remuneration of the Director 13 meetings 6 meetings 8 meetings 2 meetings executive Directors and the Company Secretary in accordance with a Roy Brown 13 2 remuneration policy which is approved annually by the Board.
It is also Chairman responsible for determining the fees of the Chairman and the terms upon BaronessHogg 12682 which the service of executive Directors is terminated having regard to a Deputy Chairman and severance policy adopted by the Board, and for monitoring the remuneration Senior Independent Director of senior managers just below Board level.
It also prepares for approval by the latter until 31 December 2005 Board the annual report on Directors remuneration set out on pages 95 to 103.
Executive Directors The Committee meets periodically when required.
Members attendance Kevin Smith 13 2 record at meetings of the Committee in 2005 is given opposite.
No person Chief Executive other than the members of the Committee is entitled to be present at meetings Richard Clowes 13 but others may be invited by the Committee to attend.
No Director nor the Ian Grifths 13 Company Secretary is present when the Committee considers, or acts in, NigelStein 13 matters relating to himself.
Other independent non-executive Directors The Committee has access to such information and advice both from within Sir Ian Gibson 10351 the Group and externally, at the cost of the Company, as it deems necessary.
Senior Independent Director It is responsible for appointing any consultants in respect of executive from 1 January 2006 Directors remuneration.
HelmutMamsch 12672 Sir Christopher Meyer 11662 Nominations Committee John Sheldrick 11672 The Nominations Committee consists of the non-executive Directors and the Sir Peter Williams 11662 Chief Executive under the chairmanship of the Chairman of the Board except when the Committee is dealing with the appointment of a successor as Internal control Chairman of the Board when the Senior Independent Director chairs the The Board attaches considerable importance to, and acknowledges its Committee.
responsibility for, the Groups systems of internal control and risk management The Committee leads the process for identifying and makes recommendations and receives regular reports on such matters.
to the Board on candidates for appointment as Directors of the Company and The Boards policy is to have systems in place which optimise the Groups as Company Secretary, giving full consideration to succession planning and ability to manage risk in an effective and appropriate manner.
The Board has the leadership needs of the Group.
It also makes recommendations to the delegated to the Executive Committee responsibility for identifying, evaluating Board on the composition of the Chairmans and Nominations Committees and monitoring the risks facing the Group and for deciding how these are to and the composition and chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration be managed.
The Governance and Risk Sub-Committee of the Executive Committees.
It keeps under review the structure, size and composition of the Committee facilitates this process.
There is a standing agenda item at every Board, including the balance of skills, knowledge and experience and the Executive Committee meeting to enable its members to advise if any material independence of the non-executive Directors, and makes recommendations internal control issues, serious accidents or events having a major commercial to the Board with regard to any changes.
impact have arisen or any significant new risks have been identied, with The Committee meets periodically when required.
Members attendance subsequent reporting to the next Board meeting and or Audit Committee record at meetings of the Committee in 2005 is given opposite.
No person meeting if appropriate.
other than the members of the Committee is entitled to be present at meetings Continuing processes under the oversight of the Governance and Risk but others may be invited by the Committee to attend.
Sub-Committee are in place for all parts of the Group to assess the major risks The Board has agreed the procedures to be followed by the Nominations to which their operations are exposed and the way in which such risks are Committee in making appointments to the various positions on the Board and monitored, managed and controlled.
The risks covered by these processes as Company Secretary.
These procedures, under which the Committee agrees include those relating to strategy, operational performance, finance including a description of the role, experience and capabilities for a Director, are risk nancing and fraud, product engineering, business reputation, human available on GKNs website.
The Committee has access to such information resources, health and safety, and the environment.
These processes are and advice both from within the Group and externally, at the cost of the summarised in a risk map which is reviewed at least annually by the Company, as it deems necessary.
This may include the appointment of external Audit Committee.
executive search consultants, where appropriate.
94 GKN plc Annual Report 2005 Corporate governance continued Each year all Group businesses are required formally to review their business receiving regular reports on the Groups treasury activities, having approved risks and to report on whether there has been any material breakdown in their the operating policies and controls for this function: internal controls.
This formal review is supplemented by an interim review performing at least annually a review of the Groups pension fund conducted at the half year.
Companies also have to confirm annually whether arrangements and insurance and risk management programmes: they have complied with statutory and regulatory obligations as well as with internal policies on matters such as competition law, employment, ethics, receiving two reports each year, following their review by the Executive document management, data protection and employee disclosure.
Risk Committee, on corporate social responsibility matters, which include proling is undertaken across all subsidiaries to identify accidental risks and environmental, health and safety performance of the Groups operations: highlight action required to mitigate such risks.
and The objective of the Groups risk management processes is to ensure the reviewing at least annually management development and succession plans.
sustainable development of GKN through the conduct of its business in a The Executive Committee also reviews management development issues way which: twice a year.
satisfies its customers: The Board receives an annual report from the Audit Committee concerning the operation of the systems of internal control and risk management.
This develops environmentally friendly products and processes: report, together with the reviews by the Board during the year of the matters provides a safe and healthy workplace: described above, enables the Board to form its own view on the effectiveness of the systems.
protects against losses from unforeseen causes: The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the ongoing control minimises the cost and consumption of increasingly scarce resources: processes and the actions undertaken by the Committee during 2005 to prevents pollution and waste: discharge this responsibility are described on page 92.
To assist it in this role the Committee liaises closely with the internal audit department.
This maintains proper relationships with our suppliers and contractors: and department utilises a risk-based internal audit programme and its purpose is maintains a positive relationship with the communities in which it does to review and test the systems, controls, processes, procedures and practices business.
The head of internal audit reports directly to the Chief Executive and the departments reports are seen by the relevant members of The Group Risk Management Council acts as a steering group for the the Executive Committee.
The resolution of any control issues raised by Board management of accidental risk across GKN, including but not limited to health members or in reports reviewed by the Audit Committee are discussed in and safety, environment, business continuity, risk proling and risk nancing.
The Council is under the overall supervision of the Governance and Risk Sub-Committee referred to above.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and risk management during the period covered by this annual report.
The Groups systems and procedures are designed to identify, manage and, It confirms that the processes described above, which accord with the where practicable, reduce and mitigate the effects of the risk of failure to guidance on internal control appended to the Code the Turnbull Guidance, achieve business objectives.
They are not designed to eliminate such risk, have been in place throughout that period and up to the date of approval of recognising that any system can only provide reasonable and not absolute the annual report.
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Compliance with the Code The review process It is the Boards view that, throughout 2005, GKN was in compliance with the The Board reviews the Groups systems of internal control and risk relevant provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
management on an ongoing basis by: setting the strategy of the Group at both Group and divisional level and, within the framework of this, approving an annual budget and medium-term projections.
Central to this exercise is a review of the risks and opportunities facing each business and the steps being taken to manage these: reviewing on a regular basis operational performance and updated forecasts for the current year.
Comparisons are made with budget and the prior year and appropriate action plans put in place to optimise operational and financial performance: retaining primary responsibility for acquisition and divestment policy, and the approval of major capital expenditure, major contracts and nancing arrangements.
Below Board level there are clearly dened management authorities for the approval of capital expenditure, major contracts, acquisitions, investments and divestments, together with an established framework for their appraisal, which includes a risk analysis and postimplementation plan, and where appropriate, a post-acquisition review: GKN plc 95 Annual Report 2005 Report on Directors remuneration In setting remuneration levels the Remuneration Committee takes into Role of the Remuneration Committee The Boards Remuneration Committee is responsible for formulating the consideration the remuneration practices found in other multinational companies of similar size and also ensures that the remuneration Groups policy for the remuneration of the executive Directors of GKN plc.
The Committee reviews the policy annually and recommends any changes to the arrangements for executive Directors are compatible with those for executives throughout the Group.
It also considers the most recent pay awards in the Board as a whole for formal approval.
Group generally when reviewing the basic salaries of the executive Directors.
Within the framework of the agreed policy, the Committee determines the The remuneration of the executive Directors comprises basic salary and detailed terms of service of the executive Directors, including basic salary, benets in kind set at competitive levels, short-term variable remuneration incentives and benets, and the terms upon which their service may be dependent upon the achievement of performance targets, and longer-term terminated.
The Committee also determines the fees of the Chairman and is rewards including retirement benets and performance-related long-term responsible for recommending to the Chief Executive and monitoring the level incentives.
Further details of each of these elements are given in the following and structure of remuneration for the most senior managers below Board paragraphs.
On the basis of the expected value of long-term incentives and level.
The Committees full terms of reference are available on GKNs website achievement of on-target performance for the purposes of the short-term at www.
variable remuneration scheme, the total annual remuneration excluding The Committee consists entirely of independent non-executive Directors.
pension benets of each executive Director under the Groups remuneration Baroness Hogg chaired the Committee throughout 2005, a position she held policy is weighted approximately 50% performance-related and 50% non since May 2002.
She resigned from the Committee on 31 December 2005 performance-related, valued as at the time of award of long-term incentives, and was succeeded as Committee Chairman by Sir Peter Williams.
The other with exibility to change the balance between the performance-related and current members of the Committee are Sir Ian Gibson, Helmut Mamsch, Sir non performance-related elements when the Remuneration Committee Christopher Meyer and John Sheldrick, all of whom, together with Sir Peter considers it appropriate.
The Remuneration Committee believes that these Williams, served on the Committee throughout 2005.
Members attendance proportions represent an appropriate balance between certainty of income at meetings of the Committee in 2005 is summarised on page 93. and incentive-based remuneration linked to the achievement of GKNs operational and strategic objectives.
The Remuneration Committee is responsible for appointing external independent consultants to advise on executive remuneration matters and The fees of the non-executive Directors are set at a level that the Board believes has adopted a policy under which an individual external consultant appointed will attract individuals with the necessary experience and ability to make a by it to advise on the determination of Board level remuneration shall not also substantial contribution to the Groups affairs.
The fees paid are act as consultant to any company in the GKN Group.
The Committee has commensurate with those paid by other UK listed companies of comparable appointed and received advice during 2005 from Towers Perrin in relation to size and complexity.
During 2005 Towers Perrin consultants Basic salary different from the consultant who provided advice to the Remuneration This is based on a number of factors including market rates together with the Committee were also appointed by the Group to provide advice to GKN individual Directors experience, responsibilities and performance.
The subsidiaries in relation to actuarial valuations relating to retirement plans in Remuneration Committees objective is to maintain salaries at around the Japan and assistance in the design and implementation of healthcare median level of the relevant employment market and in this connection it programmes and software implementation in the US.
Towers Perrin did not reviews annually data drawn from an analysis of senior executive salary levels provide any other services direct to the Group during the year.
in approximately 100 major UK companies provided to it by independent The Committee also receives input from the Groups Chief Executive when consultants.
considering the remuneration of the other executive Directors.
Individual salaries of Directors are reviewed annually by the Committee with The Committees terms of reference and procedures, which are reviewed any increase usually being effective from 1 July.
annually under the Boards performance evaluation procedures described on Benets page 91, comply with the best practice provisions of the Combined Code on These comprise principally car and healthcare benets and premiums paid on Corporate Governance.
The Boards statement of overall compliance with the additional life assurance policies in connection with pension arrangements.
Combined Code is given on page 94.
The level of benets provided to executive Directors is consistent with that Remuneration policy provided by other major companies.
These benets do not form part of This section describes GKNs policy for the remuneration of its executive and pensionable earnings.
non-executive Directors as at the date of this report and for the foreseeable future.
Performance-related short-term variable remuneration Payments may be made annually under arrangements which link remuneration GKNs remuneration policy for executive Directors is designed to attract, retain to the achievement of short-term operational targets relevant to GKNs longand motivate executives of the high calibre required to ensure that the Group term strategic objectives.
These targets will typically relate to a combination is managed successfully to the benefit of shareholders.
To achieve this, an of corporate and, where appropriate, individual portfolio profit and cash ow internationally competitive package of incentives and rewards linked to performance.
Achievement of on-target performance will result in payments performance is provided.
of approximately 50% of an executive Directors salary and payments are normally capped at 100% of salary.
96 GKN plc Annual Report 2005 Report on Directors remuneration continued Details of the targets and cap for 2005 are given below in the section Directors received by GKNs shareholders over the measurement period compared with remuneration 2005. the return investors could have received by investing in alternative stocks over the same period.
This incentive arrangement is therefore less affected by The Remuneration Committee has absolute discretion to alter targets to reect changes in economic conditions and short-term stock market sentiment than changed circumstances such as material changes in accounting standards or plans based on certain other measures.
For awards made from 2004 onwards, changes in the structure of the Group.
It may also make discretionary payments the comparator group comprises a tailored peer group representing GKNs in respect of exceptional performance.
Payments to Directors are based upon major competitors and customers worldwide.
Where a comparator companys a percentage of basic salary received during the year and do not form part of shares are listed on an overseas market, the TSR of that company is calculated pensionable earnings under Directors pension arrangements.
The Committee believes this method of measurement Long-term incentive arrangements provides a true indication of a companys performance, without potential The Remuneration Committee believes that performance-related long-term distortions brought about by windfall movements in currency.
incentives which closely align executive rewards with shareholders interests The companies making up the comparator group for the awards granted in are an important component of overall executive remuneration arrangements.
2004 and 2005 unless specified otherwise are as follows: In 2004 shareholders approved revisions to both elements of GKNs current long-term incentive arrangements for executive Directors and other senior Automotive companies executives the GKN Long Term Incentive Plan and the GKN Executive Share Magna International Inc Canada Tomkins plc UK Option Scheme.
The substantive differences between the revised Torch Investment Co Ltd China Wagon plc UK arrangements and those approved previously by shareholders in 2001 under Faurecia SA France American Axle & which awards remain outstanding but no further awards will be made are Valeo SA France Manufacturing Inc USA referred to below.
The structure of the Companys performance-related DaimlerChrysler AG Germany ArvinMeritor Inc USA long-term incentives is considered annually as part of the award process and Volkswagen AG Germany Borg Warner Inc USA the Committee believes the current arrangements remain appropriate.
Fiat SpA Italy Dana Corporation USA Denso Corporation Japan Delphi Corporation USA Award levels under each of the Long Term Incentive Plan and the Executive NGK Spark Plug Co Ltd Japan Ford Motor Company USA Share Option Scheme are set such that the combined rewards available to an Toyota Motor Corporation Japan General Motors Corporation USA individual Director, assuming full vesting, are no greater than they would have Scania AB Sweden Johnson Controls Inc USA been had the Groups long-term incentive arrangements comprised only a Mayower Corporation plc UK Visteon Corporation USA single element.
The combined maximum potential annual award under both 2004 comparator group only elements of the long-term incentive arrangements is 250% of basic salary, or such higher overall percentage which may be applied where necessary Aerospace companies specically to recruit or retain an individual.
Bombardier Inc Canada Boeing Company The USA Zodia SA France General Dynamics There are no provisions under the rules of either the Long Term Incentive Plan Finmeccanica SpA Italy Corporation USA or the Executive Share Option Scheme for the automatic release of unvested BAE Systems plc UK Goodrich Corporation USA awards on a change of control of GKN plc.
Cobham plc UK Lockheed Martin Corporation USA GKN Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP Meggitt plc UK Raytheon Company USA In summary, under the LTIP introduced in 2004, each executive Director may Rolls-Royce plc UK United Technologies be awarded annually a conditional right to receive GKN plc Ordinary Shares Smiths Group plc UK Corporation USA up to a maximum value of 150% of basic salary 100% of basic salary for The comparator group for awards granted under the LTIP arrangements awards made prior to 2004.
The value of shares for this purpose is calculated approved by shareholders in 2001 the pre-2004 awards consisted of the by reference to the average of the daily closing prices of GKN plc Ordinary companies constituting the FTSE 100 Index at the start of the measurement Shares during the preceding year.
LTIP awards to executive Directors in 2005 period excluding companies in the telecommunications, media, technology were made at a value of 80% of basic salary.
It was thought appropriate to exclude certain The number of shares that the Director will ultimately receive will depend on non-manufacturing sectors, some of which had contributed signicantly to the Groups performance during the three years commencing on 1 January in the volatility of the FTSE 100 Index.
The Remuneration Committee is of the the year of award and on satisfaction of a personal shareholding requirement view, however, that a tailored peer group, such as those being used in 2004 see page 99. and 2005, provides a more meaningful comparator group.
Performance is measured by comparing the total shareholder return i. e. the For awards granted from 2004 onwards, if GKNs TSR ranks in the upper internal rate of return from the cash ows arising from buying, owning and quartile of the comparator group at the end of the three-year measurement selling a companys shares, or TSR, from GKN shares with the return on period the conditional award is converted into a deferred right to receive all shares of other companies chosen by the Remuneration Committee as an of the shares, which will not be released to the Director for at least one further appropriate comparator group.
The Committee considers relative TSR to be an year other than in the specic circumstances set out in the rules of the LTIP.
appropriate performance criterion as it represents the investment return For pre-2004 awards, this deferment period was two years.
GKN plc 97 Annual Report 2005 If the ranking is at the median level, 30% 50% for pre-2004 awards of the median and upper quartile.
No retesting of the performance condition after shares will be received at the end of the deferment period, with no shares the end of the measurement period is permitted.
being received for below median ranking.
For intermediate rankings between The TSR information is obtained from an external consultant to ensure that the median and upper quartile, the executive Director will receive a proportionate performance is independently veried.
In addition, notwithstanding GKNs number of shares increasing on a straight-line basis.
For 2004 awards TSR, the Remuneration Committee must be satisfied that the vesting of an onwards, dividends will be treated as having accrued from the beginning option is justied by the underlying financial performance of the Group over of the third year of the measurement period on any shares that vest and the measurement period.
the equivalent cash amount will be paid to the Director on release of such shares no dividends accrue on either vested or unvested shares under For options granted from 2001 to 2003 inclusive, the performance condition pre-2004 awards.
is linked to the increase in GKNs earnings per share, or EPS, calculated in accordance with International Accounting Standard 33, adjusted to exclude GKN obtains the required TSR data and ranking information from an external individually significant charges and credits including, but not limited to, major consultant to ensure that the comparative performance is independently veried.
restructuring costs, profits or losses on disposal of businesses and the change However, irrespective of GKNs TSR, before any shares become eligible for in fair value of derivative financial instruments where hedge accounting has release the Remuneration Committee must be satisfied that this is justied by not been used as disclosed in the Groups financial statements and the tax the underlying financial performance of the Group over the measurement period.
thereon over the three years commencing on 1 January in the year of award.
GKN Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS 50% of the shares can be acquired if the increase over this period is not less In summary, under the ESOS each executive Director may be awarded annually than the increase in the Retail Prices Index RPI plus 9%.
The remaining an option to subscribe for a number of GKN plc Ordinary Shares.
The 50% can only be acquired in full if such increase is RPI plus 15% with a Remuneration Committee decides the level of awards in each year.
For awards straight-line sliding scale for increases between RPI plus 9% and RPI from 2004 onwards, annual award levels are not specically capped under the plus 15%.
If the performance condition is not satisfied in full after the first ESOS, but when combined with awards under the LTIP which are capped at three-year period, so that less than 100% of the shares under option can 150% of basic salary they cannot exceed 250% of basic salary, except where be acquired, the performance condition will be reassessed each year up to necessary specically to recruit or retain an individual.
ESOS awards to six years from the date of grant the RPI plus 9% will be increased by 3% for executive Directors in 2005 were made at 120% of basic salary, giving a each year beyond the third year, and the RPI plus 15% will be increased by 5% combined award value with LTIP for 2005 of 200% of basic salary.
for each year beyond the third year.
At the end of the six-year period, any unvested options will lapse.
As stated above, there will be no such retesting The number of shares that a Director can ultimately acquire upon exercise of of awards made from 2004 onwards.
the option is dependent upon satisfaction of a performance condition and a personal shareholding requirement see page 99, set by the Remuneration Options granted under the ESOS are normally exercisable between the third Committee before an option is granted.
Performance for awards granted from and tenth anniversary of the date of grant.
The exercise price is xed at the 2004 onwards is measured by comparing the TSR from GKN shares with the market price of GKNs shares at the time of grant.
TSR from shares of companies in a comparator group comprising the Retirement benets constituents of the FTSE 350 Index at the start of a three-year measurement For executive Directors subject to the UK restrictions on pensionable earnings period commencing on 1 January in the year of award.
The Remuneration in the Finance Act 1989 the earnings cap, retirement provision is secured by Committee believes the FTSE 350 Index to be appropriate as it is a broadly the Company by a combination of amounts paid to individual moneybased index which contains more manufacturing and engineering companies purchase schemes and supplementary allowances paid to each Director.
50% of the shares under option can be acquired by certain cases, dependent in part upon the individuals salary level at the Director if GKN ranks at the median level in the comparator group with no commencement of employment, retirement benets are also provided through shares being receivable for below median TSR performance.
100% of the membership of the Executive section of the GKN Group Pension Scheme, shares can only be acquired if GKN ranks in the upper quartile of the which is a dened benefit scheme.
The retirement provisions are made in comparator group, with a straight-line sliding scale for rankings between GKN LTIP vesting scale GKN ESOS vesting scale 100 100 80 80 60 60 40 40 2004 awards onwards pre-2004 awards 2004 awards onwards 20 20 0 45505560657075 100 0 0 45505560657075 100 0 GKN TSR percentile GKN TSR percentile award vesting level % award vesting level % 98 GKN plc Annual Report 2005 Report on Directors remuneration continued order to assist each Director towards securing overall retirement benets As permitted by the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, if termination comparable in value with those available under the pension scheme had it not of a Directors service agreement occurs on less than due notice within 12 been for the operation of the earnings cap.
months following a change in control of GKN plc, a predetermined amount is payable to the Director equivalent to one years basic salary, pension GKNs pension scheme provides Directors with a pension of up to two-thirds contributions, benets in kind and loss of entitlements under short-term of basic annual salary up to the earnings cap on retirement at age 60 after performance-related remuneration arrangements.
20 or more years service and proportionately less for shorter service or for retirement before pension age.
A standard employee contribution, currently An enhancement to the pension rights of an executive Director upon early 5% of gross salary, is required under the scheme, except in the case of retirement will only be considered in exceptional cases and a full costing would members who joined it prior to 1991 when such contributions were be provided to the Remuneration Committee at the time of its deliberations.
In addition, from 1 April 2004 members have been required to pay In any event, such enhancement would not be considered unless objectives a further 2%.
set for the Director had been met or it was otherwise merited in the opinion of the Remuneration Committee.
The arrangements for providing retirement benets to executive Directors and other senior executives have been reviewed in the light of changes in the It is also the Boards policy that, at the time of consideration of a proposed taxation of pensions being introduced by the Government from April 2006.
For appointment of an executive Director, the Remuneration Committee will take those currently affected by the limit on annual pensionable earnings, which into account the likely cost of severance in determining the appropriateness includes all executive Directors, a notional limit will be maintained beyond of the proposed terms of appointment.
April 2006 so that, overall, the existing pension and salary supplement External appointments arrangements will be broadly unchanged.
For senior executives who joined the The Board recognises the benefit which GKN can obtain if executive Directors Company prior to June 1989 and are currently not affected by the limit on of GKN serve as non-executive Directors of other companies.
Subject to review pensionable earnings, no compensation is to be offered for any additional in each case, the Boards general policy is that each executive Director may tax suffered by the individual in the event that the value of their pension accept one non-executive directorship with another company but not the exceeds the new Lifetime Allowance.
chairmanship of a FTSE 100 company from which the Director may retain the Service agreements fees.
The service agreements of executive Directors are with GKN Holdings plc, the Kevin Smith is a non-executive Director of Scottish and Southern Energy plc.
parent company of the GKN Group prior to the Industrial Services demerger in Nigel Stein is a non-executive Director of Wolseley plc.
They each retain the fees 2001 and now a wholly-owned subsidiary of GKN plc.
The non-executive payable in respect of these appointments currently 40,000 and 50,000 per Directors do not have service agreements, their terms of service being annum respectively.
Ian Grifths, who left the service of the Group on contained in letters of appointment.
3 February 2006, was a non-executive Director of Ultra Electronics Holdings The Boards current policy is that, unless local employment practice requires plc throughout 2005.
He also retained the fee payable in respect of that otherwise, the service agreements of its executive Directors will be terminable appointment in 2005 29,000 per annum.
by the employing company on one years notice.
The agreements terminate Terms of appointment of Chairman and non-executive Directors in any event at the end of the year in which the Director attains the age of 60.
Roy Brown became Chairman in May 2004 for an initial period of three years Other than in the event of early termination following a change of control of terminable at any time upon 12 months notice by either party.
He receives a GKN plc, there is no contractual provision for predetermined compensation fee, determined by the Remuneration Committee, of 240,000 per annum.
He payable upon early termination of an executive Directors service agreement.
does not participate in the Groups short-term variable remuneration or longIn the event of such a severance other than on a change of control the term incentive arrangements or in its pension scheme.
Remuneration Committee would apply the principles of the severance policy The fees received by each of the remaining non-executive Directors, including adopted by the Board.
Under this policy, which may be varied in individual the Deputy Chairman, are determined by the Board upon the recommendation cases, an immediate lump sum severance payment will be made to the of the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
In respect of 2005, the Deputy Director equivalent to one years basic salary plus one years pension Chairman and Senior Independent Director, Baroness Hogg, received an annual contributions.
Consideration would be given to the inclusion in the severance fee of 55,000.
The basic fee received by the other non-executive Directors in payment of additional elements relating to short-term variable remuneration 2005 was 40,000.
In addition, the Chairmen of the Audit Committee Sir and major benets in kind.
However, such additional elements will not Peter Williams and Remuneration Committee Baroness Hogg received normally be included where the severance is as a result of underperformance.
7,000 and 5,000 respectively to reect the significant extra responsibilities Consideration would also be given to paying the severance payment in 12 attached to these positions.
The non-executive Directors do not participate in equal instalments which will only be paid to the extent that the Director has the Groups short-term variable remuneration or long-term incentive not been able to mitigate his or her loss by the date of the relevant payment.
arrangements or in its pension scheme, nor do they receive benets in kind.
In the event of the service agreement coming to an end by mutual consent, The current policy, save in exceptional circumstances, is for non-executive the Remuneration Committee will approve such termination arrangements as Directors to serve on the Board for nine years with interim renewals after three are appropriate in the particular circumstances.
and six years, subject to mutual agreement and annual performance reviews.
GKN plc 99 Annual Report 2005 With effect from 1 January 2006, Sir Ian Gibson was appointed to the position broad equity market index.
The Committee considers that in order to maintain of Senior Independent Director, receiving an annual fee of 50,000, Sir Peter consistency, it continues to be appropriate to show the FTSE 100 Index to full Williams was appointed Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, receiving this requirement.
the additional fee payable in respect of that position, increased to 8,000, and The chart below left therefore illustrates the TSR performance based on an John Sheldrick was appointed Chairman of the Audit Committee, receiving the initial investment of 100 of GKN plc Ordinary Shares over the period from additional fee payable in respect of that position, increased to 9,000.
Also the Industrial Services demerger in 2001 until the end of 2005 compared to with effect from 1 January 2006, the basic fee payable to non-executive the TSR that would have been obtained over the same period from a Directors was increased to 45,000.
Whilst ceasing to be Senior Independent hypothetical investment in the companies constituting the FTSE 100 Index.
The Director on 31 December 2005, Baroness Hogg continues as Deputy Chairman interim points show the cumulative TSR at each calendar half year-end date.
until her retirement from the Board at the AGM in May 2006.
She will continue As GKN plc was incorporated during the course of 2001, Schedule 7A to the to receive a fee at a rate of 55,000 per annum until that date.
Act only requires the comparative TSR performance of the Companys shares Shareholding requirement to be shown since 1 August 2001 when the Company became the listed parent In order to reinforce the alignment of their interests with those of shareholders company of the GKN Group just prior to the demerger.
generally, all Directors are subject to a shareholding requirement.
However, for the purposes of the LTIP and ESOS different comparator Under a policy adopted by the Remuneration Committee, executive Directors companies are used see pages 96 and 97.
In addition, the TSR calculation are required to establish and maintain an investment in GKN plc Ordinary methodology required by the LTIP and ESOS is different from that required Shares equivalent to at least 100% of their basic salary.
The receipt of any by the regulations for the broad equity market index graph.
We therefore shares by a Director from an award made under the LTIP and ESOS is show in the table below GKNs TSR and rank against the TSR of the relevant conditional upon the shareholding requirement being met on the third comparator group, together with the percentage of the conditional award anniversary of the grant of the award.
For these purposes any deferred rights converted into a deferred award, for the five most recently completed under the LTIP will be counted as shares.
measurement periods as computed under the terms of the LTIP.
Percentile Each executive Director must acquire the minimum required shareholding by ranking in comparator Deferred adding to any existing shareholding using performance-related rewards which group award a Period TSR % rank no.
1 100 conversion % may be received under the GKN short-term variable remuneration and longb term incentive arrangements.
Until the required shareholding level is reached, Jan 1999Dec 2001 0.67 46 0 b Jan 2000Dec 2002 14.97 23 0 an executive Director must apply, in the purchase of GKN shares, 30% of that amount of the gross i. e. before tax payment under the short-term annual Jan 2001Dec 2003 13.26 25 0 Jan 2002Dec 2004 6.45 24 0 variable remuneration scheme which exceeds 50% of the Directors gross basic salary at that time, and must retain such number of shares received Jan 2003Dec 2005 3.59 22 0 under the LTIP and ESOS as represents at least 30% of the gross gain which a For measurement periods ending before or on 31 December 2002, the comparator group was the Director would have realised on the exercise of such an award had the based on the entire FTSE 100 Index.
For the subsequent measurement periods it was based on the FTSE 100 Index less the telecommunications, media, technology and financial services sectors and shares been sold on the day of exercise.
comprised 57, 63 and 64 companies including GKN respectively.
b Comparative TSR performance for these awards post the Industrial Services demerger in 2001 was It is the Boards policy that non-executive Directors will normally be expected based on a bundle of GKN plc and Brambles Industries plc Ordinary Shares.
to acquire a holding of GKN plc Ordinary Shares of a value equivalent to 30% of one years basic fee within three years of appointment.
The chart below illustrates GKNs TSR compared to the average TSR of the relevant comparator group under the LTIP for such periods.
Total shareholder return performance Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 the Act requires GKNs TSR performance to be displayed in chart form against the TSR of a readily available Total shareholder return Total shareholder return % 120 GKN and FTSE 100 Index GKN and average for 110 1 Aug 2001-31 Dec 2005 comparator group for completed three-year 100 measurement periods 90 under the LTIP 80 0 70 GKN TSR GKN TSR 60 FTSE 100 Index TSR LTIP Comparator Group TSR 01 02 03 04 05 50 99-01 00-02 01-03 02-04 03-05 sterling 0.67 3.58 14.97 7.51 13.26 3.15 6.45 3.42 3.59 11.39 100 GKN plc Annual Report 2005 Report on Directors remuneration continued Directors remuneration 2005 With the exception of the dates of the executive Directors service agreements shown in the table below, note a to the table below, note f to the tables on page 101 and the section headed Share interests on page 103, the information set out on pages 100 to 103 represents the auditable disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Act.
The remuneration of the executive Directors in 2005, excluding pension benets and long-term incentives, was as follows: Date of PerformanceCar Other Termination Total Total a service Salary related allowance benets costs 2005 2004 agreement 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 b K Smith 24.1.
The average year-end basic salary of those executives in the most senior executive grade below Board level whose remuneration is monitored by the Remuneration Committee was 200,068 all non-sterling amounts have been translated into sterling at the year-end exchange rate for this purpose.
b Payments of supplementary allowances to certain executive Directors to assist them towards securing retirement benets are included in the money-purchase contributions and allowances for pension benefit purposes disclosed in the first table on page 102.
The allowances, detailed below, have therefore been excluded from the total remuneration shown in the table above although they are part of the Directors aggregate emoluments for the purpose of disclosure under the Companies Act 1985: Mr K Smith 153,000 2004 133,000 : Mr R J Clowes 103,000 2004 99,000 : Mr R W Etches nil 2004 26,000 : Mr I R Grifths 142,000 2004 128,000 : Mr N M Stein 110,000 2004 103,000. c The service agreement of Mr Clowes terminated by way of redundancy on 31 December 2005.
Under Mr Clowes redundancy arrangements a payment equivalent to 504,311 was payable to him.
This consisted of 12 months basic salary and benets including payments relating to pensions, health assurance and car entitlement.
Comparative gure for 2004 represents total emoluments payable on retirement full details of which were contained within the 2004 Report : the performance-related element of this 11,000 was, however, paid in 2005. e Resigned from the service of the Group with effect from 3 February 2006 to take up an appointment external to the GKN Group.
No termination payment was payable to Mr Grifths consequent upon him leaving service.
Comparative gure for 2004 represents total emoluments payable on cessation of employment full details of which were contained within the 2004 Report : the performancerelated element 10,000 and a proportion of the termination element 127,000 were, however, paid in 2005.
As Mr Keating was paid in US$, for this purpose his in-service emoluments have been translated at US$1.82 1 and his termination costs at US$1.84 1 being respectively the average exchange rates for the first and second halves of 2004.
The 2005 performance-related payments were triggered by the achievement of a number of Group and divisional targets relating to profit before tax and cash generation.
profit performance equal to target would have resulted in payments of 40% of salary.
The maximum amount that an individual could receive under the profit element was 90% of salary.
In addition, cash ow targets were set for the Group as a whole or, where appropriate, the cash ow performance of the Directors portfolio for each half of the year.
All cash ow targets were achieved, resulting in payments equal to 10% of salary.
In relation to profit performance, achievements resulted in payments of between 16% and 41% of salary.
The remuneration of the non-executive Directors in 2005 was as follows: Total 2005 Total 2004 a 000 000 b R D Brown 240 159 c Sir David Lees 125 Baroness Hogg 60 60 Sir Ian Gibson 40 40 H C-J Mamsch 40 40 Sir Christopher Meyer 40 40 c Dr K H Murmann 17 d J N Sheldrick 40 2 Sir Peter Williams 47 44 507 527 a No payments other than fees were received by the non-executive Directors in 2005. b Appointed Chairman 20 May 2004. c Retired 20 May 2004. d Appointed 20 December 2004.
Directors aggregate emoluments for 2005 amounted to 4.3 million 2004 4.4 million.
GKN plc 101 Annual Report 2005 Options over GKN plc Ordinary Shares granted under the ESOS and the Save As You Earn SAYE share option scheme and held by the executive Directors at 31 December 2005 and 1 January 2005 were as follows: Shares Shares a Exercisable under option 2005 under option 31 December Exercise 1 January Scheme From To 2005 price Granted Exercised Lapsed 2005 K Smith ESOS 21.9.
07 4,028 229p 4,028 a Represents the earliest exercise date assuming satisfaction of relevant performance criteria and personal shareholding requirements and latest expiry date of options held by the Director during the year.
b The service agreement of Mr Clowes terminated by way of redundancy on 31 December 2005.
Under the rules of the ESOS, any options which vest under his awards will be exercisable for a period of six months following vesting.
The number of shares the subject of his 2004 ESOS award has been reduced, by 91,377 shares, pursuant to the rules to reect his cessation of employment during the course of the relevant measurement period.
Mr Clowes SAYE option became exercisable immediately upon his termination.
c Resigned from the service of the Group with effect from 3 February 2006, as a consequence of which all outstanding ESOS awards lapsed on that date in accordance with the rules.
d The SAYE share option scheme is open to all UK subsidiary employees with six months service or more.
Participants save a regular monthly sum of up to 250 for three years or five years for options granted prior to 2003 and can use these savings and any bonus payable under the scheme to exercise the options.
For options granted prior to 2003, the exercise price was set at the maximum discount permitted by the Finance Act 1989 of 20% below the market price before the start of the savings period.
For options granted in 2003 this discount was reduced to 10% no SAYE share options were granted in 2004 or 2005. e The closing mid-market price of GKN plc Ordinary Shares on the London Stock Exchange on 30 December 2005 being the last day of trading for 2005 was 288p and the price range during the year was 228.75p to 300p.
f At 31 December 2005, the total number of GKN plc Ordinary Shares which had been issued on the exercise of options granted by the Company or were the subject of such options remaining outstanding under the ESOS and the SAYE share option scheme was 21.2 million and 8.4 million respectively.
This represents approximately 2.9% of the issued share capital of the Company at that date in respect of discretionary i. e. executive schemes and 4.0% of the issued share capital of the Company at that date in respect of all i. e. both executive and all-employee schemes.
Conditional and deferred rights to GKN plc Ordinary Shares under the LTIP held by the executive Directors at 31 December 2005 and 1 January 2005, together with awards made and lapsed during the year, were as follows: Awards held Awards held 31 December 2005 Conditional Conditional 1 January 2005 awards awards a Conditional Deferred made lapsed Conditional Deferred K Smith 647,440 215,720 103,400 535,120 b R J Clowes 198,908 120,300 207,000 327,200 c I R Grifths 451,240 153,140 103,400 401,500 N M Stein 371,540 123,800 91,250 338,990 a The closing mid-market price on the date of award of the shares comprising the conditional awards made during the year was 259p per share.
The measurement period relating to these awards ends on 31 December 2007. b The service agreement of Mr Clowes terminated by way of redundancy on 31 December 2005.
Under the rules of the LTIP, the shares that are the subject of his conditional awards are eligible for release at the end of the relevant measurement period: the award granted during 2005 lapsed on Mr Clowes date of leaving in accordance with the rules as he left in the first year of the measurement period.
The number of shares the subject of his 2004 award has been reduced, by 41,592 shares, pursuant to the rules to reect his cessation of employment during the course of the relevant measurement period.
c Resigned from the service of the Group with effect from 3 February 2006, as a consequence of which all outstanding LTIP awards lapsed on that date in accordance with the rules.
d Since 31 December 2005, the following conditional rights to GKN plc Ordinary Shares in respect of awards granted in relation to the measurement period 2003 to 2005 have lapsed: Mr K Smith 207,750 shares: Mr R J Clowes 115,600 shares: Mr I R Grifths 103,400 shares: Mr N M Stein 119,200 shares.
e During both 2005 and 2004, no conditional rights were converted into deferred awards, no awards vested and no shares were released to Directors.
