Directors Remuneration Report General Policy on Directors Remuneration Introduction The Committees policy is to establish competitive remuneration packages that will This report has been prepared in accordance with the Directors Remuneration attract, retain and motivate individuals with appropriate skills and experience and Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations.
This report also meets the relevant will best serve the interests of the Company, its shareholders and its employees.
requirements of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and describes Where possible, the Committee will also seek to structure bonus arrangements in a how the Board has applied the Principles of Good Governance relating to manner that will align the interests of executive directors with those of shareholders.
Remuneration packages for executive directors are designed so as to reward them The Regulations require the auditors to report to the Companys members on the fairly for their contributions within the range of benefits offered by other UK companies auditable part of the Directors Remuneration Report and state whether, in their of equivalent size, to recognise the unusually complex nature of the combined opinion, that part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with the retail, manufacturing and distribution operations of the Greggs business and so as to Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Regulations.
This report has, therefore, take into account levels of remuneration paid to others within the Company.
been divided into separate sections for audited and unaudited information.
Basic salaries for executive directors should be at a level broadly equivalent to median salaries for individuals holding similar positions in comparable companies, with Unaudited information adjustment to reflect individual performance.
Basic salaries are normally benchmarked The Remuneration Committee of the Board the Committee sets the remuneration every three years unless a material change in the business warrants earlier review.
and terms of appointment of the executive directors and the Chairman on behalf of Between major reviews, basic salaries will normally rise in line with rates of increase the Board.
The names of the directors who have served on the Committee during adopted elsewhere in the Greggs business.
Basic salaries and other benefits were last the year are Ian Gregg who was Chairman until 3 August 2005, Julie Baddeley benchmarked in 2005, on the basis of advice provided by Monks Partnership.
This who joined the Committee in May 2005 and assumed the Chair from 3 August 2005, advice indicated that the fees payable to the Chairman, the basic salary of the Chief Stephen Curran and Bob Bennett.
Mike Darrington, Andrew Davison the Company Executive, the annual bonus arrangements for the executive directors and shareSecretary and Nicola Instone the Companys People Director have assisted the based long term incentive schemes for the executive directors had all fallen some Committee in their deliberations.
The Committee received independent external way behind the Companys stated policy.
Acting on this advice, the Remuneration advice from Monks Partnership who were appointed by the Committee.
Monks Committee has adjusted the fees payable to the Chairman and the basic salary of Partnership also assisted the Executive Director Committee by producing the Chief Executive.
The annual bonus formula for executive directors has also been comparative information to assist in determining the fees payable to non-executive altered so that during 2005, this scheme when combined with the All Employee directors and assisted the Company generally in determining the remuneration of Profit Sharing Scheme, which distributes 10% of profits half-yearly to all employees its senior management team, but otherwise had no connection with the Company.
on the basis of a formula related to the profitability of their relevant division, length of service and salary levels could, subject to Remuneration Committee discretion, shareholders, especially if the proposed new LTIP is not available to a particular individual, or where the Committee considers it appropriate.
deliver a cash bonus non-pensionable of 3% of basic salary for every 1% increase in the net profit excluding property profit and adjusted for the issue of any shares Unless granted pursuant to the all-employee Savings Related Share Option Scheme during the year over a level fixed by the Committee in the light of economic and under which options may be offered at a discount to market price, the Committee market conditions.
The aggregate of these bonuses is subject to a cap of 60% of intends that all options granted to executive directors in respect of shares in the basic salary.
In addition, the Committee is recommending the adoption of a new Company except those relating to matching shares under the LTIP will be at Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP.
This LTIP will be proposed for shareholders to exercise prices at least equal to the market price of a share as at the date of grant.
vote upon at the Annual General Meeting and details of it are set out in the circular The above policies enable the executive directors to receive potentially significant to shareholders accompanying the Notice of that meeting.
If approved by benefits in addition to their basic salaries, but only if value has been created for shareholders, the Committee intends that the LTIP will be used for the first time in shareholders.
The Committee considers that, although the non-performance related 2007.
The Committees policy is that bonus payments to executive directors should elements of the executive directors remuneration packages are substantial, the not be pensionable.
performance related elements are significant in terms of providing motivation to the There have been occasional grants to the executive directors of options over shares executive directors to improve shareholder value.
in the Company, pursuant to one or more of the share option schemes operated In order to ensure that no director is involved in deciding his her own remuneration, through the Committee.
These include both Inland Revenue approved and unapproved the fees payable to non-executive directors other than the Chairman are set, after long-term share incentive schemes, designed to encourage the executive directors consultation with the Chairman, by a committee of the Board consisting only of and other employees to hold shares in the Company and to enhance share values.
executive directors Mike Darrington and Malcolm Simpson who periodically seek In accordance with institutional investor guidelines, the total number of new shares advice from external consultants as to the appropriate market rates applicable.
Such and shares held in treasury over which the Company may grant options is limited and advice was obtained in 2005 from Monks Partnership.
the Company has chosen to allocate most of the number available to the Companys Policy on Performance Conditions Savings Related Share Option Scheme open to all employees, including executive directors.
This has restricted the number of new shares or shares held in treasury The performance conditions attaching to share options granted to the executive available to be allocated under the discretionary Senior Executive Share Option directors under the Companys Senior Executive Share Option Schemes have varied Schemes under which the last grant of options in which no executive director according to the date of grant.
Such conditions are set by the Committee following participated was made in September 2004.
Any future grants of executive share receipt of advice from external consultants as to prevailing market practice and in options to executive directors will be based upon the need to secure individuals of order to set challenging performance objectives linked to shareholder return.
The appropriate calibre, having regard to prevailing market conditions at the date of Committee intends that performance conditions will continue to be settled on this appointment, or to help to align the interests of executive directors with those of basis and applied to any future grants of options to executive directors under the GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 66 67 discretionary Senior Executive Share Option Schemes.
Details of the performance non-executive directors are appointed subject to the Companys Articles of conditions for options currently outstanding are set out in the section headed Association, which require them to retire and to seek re-election at the first AGM Share Options below.
Thereafter, one half of the Board other than those appointed since the last AGM, being those who have been longest in office since last Whether performance conditions attached to share options have been met is tested re-election, and any other director who has not been elected or re-elected at by the Committee, which compares the actual performance of the Company with either of the two preceding AGMs, must retire and seek re-election.
Any nonrelevant published statistics and, if necessary, obtains advice from external consultants executive director who has served on the Board for over nine years must seek in order to reach its conclusion.
This ensures that no director is in a position to rule on re-election annually.
The Nominations Committee advises the Board as to whether any performance condition applicable to his own options has been satisfied.
whether a particular director, whose turn it is to retire by rotation, should be No performance conditions have been attached to options granted pursuant to the nominated for re-election.
Companys Savings Related Share Option Scheme, which is available for all The policy on termination payments for executive directors is that the Company employees.
The principal purpose of this scheme is to encourage employees at all does not normally make payments beyond its contractual obligations, including any levels within the Company to participate in, and to understand better, the growth payment in respect of notice to which a director is entitled.
In exceptional circumstances, in value of the Company and the rules of that scheme require that all options an additional ex-gratia payment may be considered, based on factors including the granted must be on the same terms.
directors past contribution and the circumstances of the directors departure.
Performance criteria in relation to the performance based annual cash bonuses Non-executive directors would not normally be entitled to compensation for early payable to the executive directors are set by the Committee each year in accordance termination of their appointments prior to the date on which they would next be with the general remuneration policy set out above.
If approved by shareholders, due to retire by rotation, or if not re-appointed at such time.
the Committee will offer participation in the proposed new LTIP in accordance with the provisions set out in the circular to shareholders proposing its adoption.
Directors Service Contracts Policy on Service Contract Notice Periods and Payments on Early Termination Details of the directors service contracts or letters of appointment are as follows: The Companys policy on the duration of directors contracts is that: Executive Directors Mike Darrington has a service contract with the Company dated 7 March 2003. existing executive directors should have service contracts terminable on one years His continuous period of service with the Company commenced on 15 July 1983. notice served by the Company or by six months notice served by the director: Malcolm Simpson has a service contract with the Company dated 7 March 2003. future executive directors would be engaged on terms necessary to secure His continuous period of service with the Company commenced on 24 April 1973. individuals of appropriate calibre, having regard to prevailing market conditions at that time: Both Mike Darrington and Malcolm Simpson have provisions in their contracts which enable them to be terminated by the Company on 12 months notice or by Performance Graph the executive on six months notice.
In addition to their basic salaries, each is entitled The graph below shows a comparison of the total shareholder return for the to participate in the Companys profit sharing scheme available to all employees Companys shares for each of the last five financial years against the total and to a performance based cash bonus.
They are also entitled to additional shareholder return for the companies comprised in the FTSE Mid 250 Index benefits including the use of a motor car, private medical insurance, life assurance, excluding Investment Trusts and the FTSE 350 excluding Investment Trusts.
permanent health insurance and a contribution towards telephone expenses.
These indices were chosen for this comparison because they include companies of In addition to the above arrangements, for 2006, the executive directors will receive broadly similar size to the Company.
a performance based cash bonus such that the combined bonus to be received by each of them under this arrangement and the Companys Profit-Sharing Scheme will be set according to a straight line graph based upon net profit achieved by the Company, subject to confirmation by the Remuneration Committee.
Total bonus payments are capped at 60% of basic salary.
250 Non-executive Directors FTSE 350 200 The non-executive directors do not have service contracts with the Company.
ex-Invst Trusts Greggs However, each of them does have a letter of appointment.
The terms of appointment 150 FTSE Mid 250 ex-Invst Trusts of each non-executive director require that they seek re-election on a regular basis 100 in accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company see above.
The fees 50 payable to the non-executive directors cover all normal duties.
In exceptional 0 circumstances, where significant additional time commitment is required, the Board or a duly authorised committee may award additional fees.
No right of compensation exists where the office is terminated, for whatever reason.
GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 68 69 01 01 2001 01 07 2001 01 01 2002 01 07 2002 01 01 2003 01 07 2003 01 01 2004 01 07 2004 01 01 2005 01 07 2005 Directors Remuneration Report continued Audited Information Directors emoluments and compensation The following table sets out details of the emoluments and compensation received or receivable by each director excluding pension contributions, details of which are set out below.
The fees payable to the non-executive directors reflect their respective membership and chairmanship of the relevant Board Committees and, in the case of Stephen Curran, his role as Senior Independent Director.
Share options The following table sets out details of the share options all of which were granted at a nominal or nil cost to the executive director concerned held by, or granted to, each director during the year, according to the register of directors interests: Number of options during year Market price at Date from At At Exercise date of Gain on Date of which Expiry 01 01 05 Granted Exercised 31 12 05 price exercise exercise grant exercisable date Scheme Number Number Number Number Mike Darrington 18,000 - 18,000 - 26.875 45.25 330,750 Mar 99 Mar 02 Mar 06 Executive 27,900 - 7,900} 12,000 17.015 45.25 223,056 Mar 00 Mar 03 Mar 07 Executive 8,000} 45.00 223,880 Malcolm Simpson 12,000 - 12,000 - 26.875 45.25 220,500 Mar 99 Mar 02 Mar 06 Executive 12,400 - 2,400 10,000 17.015 45.25 67,764 Mar 00 Mar 03 Mar 07 Executive The aggregate gains on exercise of share options were 1,065,950 2004: 5,039, including 777,686 2004: 2,557 in respect of the highest paid director.
The executive directors also have a potential beneficial interest in the Greggs Employee Benefit Trust.
On each of the grants awarded in 1999 and 2000 under the Senior Executive Share Option Scheme, the exercise of one half of the options granted was made conditional upon the growth in the Companys basic earnings per share over the three years from grant being greater than the median earnings per share growth of the companies comprised in the FTSE Mid 250 Index excluding Investment Trusts.
The other half of the options granted was conditional upon growth in the basic earnings per share of the Company being at least 10% above the median basic earnings per share growth of such comparator companies within the same period.
No non-executive director has any options to acquire shares in the Company.
The mid-market price of ordinary shares in the Company as at 31 December 2005 was 47.00.
The highest and lowest mid-market prices of ordinary shares during the financial year were 49.50 and 36.20 respectively.
Pensions Both of the executive directors earned pension benefits under the Greggs 1978 Retirement and Death Benefit Scheme, the Companys defined benefit scheme, during the year under review.
This scheme, which currently requires a contribution of 6.6% of pensionable salaries from members, provides for up to two-thirds of final pensionable salary, dependant on length of pensionable service.
Both of the executive directors also received contributions into the Companys money purchase defined contributions pension schemes during the year under review.
No pension benefits were earned or accrued in respect of any non-executive director.
The Finance Act 2004 has led to changes in the tax treatment of the current UK pension regime which are effective from 6 April 2006.
These changes are not expected to have any material effect on the Company.
Defined benefit scheme The following table sets out the change in each directors accrued pension in the Companys defined benefit scheme during the year and his accrued benefits in the scheme at the year end: Accrued annual Accrued annual Increase in Transfer value pension pension Increase in accrued of increase entitlement at entitlement at accrued pension in accrued age 65 as at age 65 as at pension entitlement for pension 31 December 1 January entitlement the year net of entitlement Date of Date service 2005 2005 for the year inflation of 2.4% for the year Executive Director birth commenced Mike Darrington 8 3 42 15 8 83 132,370 117,892 14,478 11,649 119,533 Malcolm Simpson 15 10 41 24 4 73 125,591 114,021 11,570 8,833 87,228 Note 1: The pension entitlement shown is that which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year, but excluding any statutory increases which would be due after the year end.
Note 2: The inflation rate of 2.4% shown in the table above is that published by the Secretary of State for Social Security in accordance with Schedule 3 of the Pensions Schemes Act 1993.
Increase in the Cash equivalent Cash equivalent cash equivalent transfer transfer transfer value as at value as at value since 1 January 31 December 1 January 2005 2005 2005 Executive Director Mike Darrington 1,862,841 1,982,373 96,820 Malcolm Simpson 1,751,283 1,838,511 72,258 Note: cash equivalent transfer values have been calculated in accordance with Actuaries Guidance Note GN11 and the increase is stated net of contributions made by the director.
The transfer values disclosed above do not represent a sum paid or payable to the individual director.
Instead they represent a potential liability of the pension scheme.
GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 70 71 Directors Remuneration Report continued Money purchase schemes The Company has paid the contributions set out below to two of the Companys money purchase schemes the Greggs Bakeries MJD Retirement Benefit Scheme and the Greggs Senior Executive Pension Scheme for the benefit of executive directors during this financial year.
Total Contribution contributions in respect made during of 2005 2004 Executive Director Mike Darrington 3,333 76,868 Malcolm Simpson 60,500 10,500 Approval by Shareholders At the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 10 May 2006, a resolution approving this report is to be proposed as an ordinary resolution.
This report was approved by the Board on 10 March 2006.
Signed on behalf of the Board Julie Baddeley Director Chair of Remuneration Committee 10 March 2006
