DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Consideration of matters relating to Directors remuneration The Remuneration Committee currently comprises three Non-Executive Directors, C Goodson-Wickes Chairman, MF Garner and CW Cummings.
All of these Non-Executive Directors are independent.
The Executive Chairman and other senior executives attend meetings from time to time at the invitation of the Committee.
The Committee meets at least four times a year and more frequently when required, as was the case in 2005 when the Company introduced a new Long Term Incentive Plan and considered retention and remuneration issues associated with senior staff joining the Group as a result of the acquisition of ACMI.
It performs its duties under formal terms of reference which include determining with the Board the Companys broad policy for executive remuneration and, within the terms of this agreed framework, determining the total individual remuneration packages including pension rights, performancerelated bonus plan and share option awards for each of the Executive Directors and the Operating Board.
In addition to authorising the granting of share options to executives and other employees within the rules of the existing share plans, the Remuneration Committee is responsible for making appropriate recommendations to the Board with regard to the introduction of, or changes in, share option plans or other long term incentive arrangements.
No director or manager is involved in any decisions as to his or her own remuneration.
The Committee is consulted on, and notified of, all senior management appointments and related remuneration.
It is also consulted on major organisational change.
Fees for Non-Executive Directors are proposed by the Executive Chairman, after taking into account fees paid by similar companies, and are approved by the Board.
The Remuneration Committee has access to independent advice where it considers it appropriate.
During the year such advice was received from New Bridge Street Consultants LLP, which is the Remuneration Committees retained adviser.
New Bridge Street Consultants have no other connection with the Group and did not provide any other services to any company in the Group during the financial year other than advising the Executive Chairman during a review of fees for the Non-Executive Directors.
Remuneration Policy Remuneration policy centres on ensuring that remuneration packages are sufficiently competitive to attract, retain and motivate the right calibre of Executive Director and senior manager for each individual function, taking into account the Groups particular activities and its stage of development.
The remuneration packages are also designed to align the interests of shareholders and executives with a view to encouraging commitment to the development of the Group for the long term enhancement of shareholder value.
In determining remuneration packages for senior executives the Board has regard to pay and conditions elsewhere in the Group.
The policy in respect of Directors remuneration for the forthcoming year is as follows: Policy on relative importance of performance linked and non-performance linked pay It is the Groups policy to emphasise the performance linked element of remuneration as it believes this policy to be in the interests of shareholders.
It does this by rewarding executives with a remuneration package incorporating a moderate basic salary, which is not performance linked, together with participation in the performance linked Annual Bonus Plan and Share Incentive Plans.
The potential remuneration linked to performance is intended to be a significant proportion of the total remuneration package.
At the target level for incentives it is estimated that 40-45% of total pay comprises performance-related pay.
Basic Salaries Executive Directors salaries are normally reviewed annually taking into consideration individual performance over the previous 12 months and pay and employment conditions elsewhere in the Group.
The Remuneration Committee also uses information provided by its advisor relating to rates of pay for similar positions in similar businesses and in UK companies with a similar market capitalisation.
Basic salaries and total remuneration are set at broadly market median levels.
A salary review was undertaken during the year, with effect from 1 August 2005, which took account of the Executives increased responsibilities in the enlarged Group following the acquisition of ACMI.
Pensions The Group contributes 10% of basic salary to a non-contributory defined contribution pension scheme for SJB Shaw and GR Davis.
BL Steer, Executive Chairman, receives an annual pension contribution of 98,000 with payments being spread equally over the year.
The contributions are made to a non-contributory defined contribution scheme.
The Remuneration Committee considers this appropriate in the context of his total remuneration package and there remains a sensible balance between fixed and performance related remuneration.
Actual contributions for Executive Directors to pension plans in 2005 are shown in the Directors emoluments table on page 40.
Non-Executive Directors fees are non-pensionable.
Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 37 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED Performance Related Annual Bonus Plan Annual bonus payments are conditional upon demanding performance criteria so as to align incentive awards paid to Directors directly with the interests of shareholders.
For 2006 bonuses will be payable on achievement of demanding profit before tax targets.
As in previous years, a maximum of 50% of an Executive Directors average basic salary for the financial year under review is payable for achievement at the targeted level, where the target is designed to be stretching but achievable.
In addition, the Executive Committee, including the Executive Directors, have an opportunity to increase their bonus potential to a maximum of 100% of basic salary if reported Group earnings performance exceeds the already demanding target.
The additional bonus above 50% and up to 100% of basic salary is payable for the achievement of predetermined Group earnings targets and requires exceptional Group performance for the full bonuses to be earned.
Bonuses paid to Executive Directors relating to the Groups performance in 2005 are shown in the Directors emoluments table on page 40.
The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the annual bonus plan.
Long Term Incentive Plans The Board believes that share participation plans are an important element in attracting, retaining and rewarding executives and employees, and aligning their interests with those of shareholders.
The majority of employees of the Group are able to participate in either the Save As You Earn Scheme or US Employee Share Purchase Plan following an initial period of service.
As reported in the 2004 Remuneration Report, the Remuneration Committee undertook a comprehensive review of long term incentive arrangements for senior executives at the end of 2004 and concluded that the existing Executive Share Option Scheme ESOS should be replaced with a new Long Term Incentive Plan.
A resolution to adopt the 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP was approved at the 2005 AGM.
Under the LTIP, senior executives and other employees may be granted a conditional award of free shares which will normally only vest if demanding performance conditions are achieved over a three-year period and if the grantee remains an employee of the Group.
The LTIP is now the primary long term incentive plan for senior executives and it is envisaged that the Executive Directors and other senior executives will receive an annual award under the plan.
Following the adoption of the LTIP, it is intended that no further options will be granted under the ESOS, other than in exceptional circumstances or to meet the requirements of jurisdictions where the LTIP is non-operable.
Under the terms of the Plan, normally an individual may not receive awards in any financial year over shares having a market value on grant in excess of 100% of his or her annual salary in that financial year and Executive Directors are expected to retain no fewer than 50% of shares acquired upon the vesting of awards under the LTIP, net of taxes, until such time as, in combination with any other shares the executives may have acquired, they hold shares with a value equivalent to 100% of base salary.
The Remuneration Committee believes that the LTIP provides a good link between reward and performance and aligns the interests of executives and investors.
LTIP Performance conditions Vesting of awards under the LTIP is subject to the achievement of stretching performance conditions based on growth in the Companys earnings per share over a fixed three-year period, beginning on the first day of the financial year in which the award is granted, with no provision to retest.
The Committee considers that EPS growth alone is the most appropriate measure of performance for the time being as it allows the Company to grant and structure awards in both the UK and US on the same basis, where previously under the ESOS only options granted in the UK were subject to a performance target, based on Total Shareholder Return.
As awards are also granted to US employees, it was not felt appropriate to have a UK measure of inflation as a benchmark against which to compare EPS growth and therefore the performance condition has not been expressed as RPI % growth.
This fact has been taken into account in determining the growth rates for the purposes of performance conditions.
All awards will lapse at the end of the applicable performance period to the extent that the applicable performance condition has not been satisfied.
In the event of an offer for the Company being accepted by the Board during the performance period, the LTIP awards shall vest at completion to the extent that applicable performance conditions have been satisfied.
Performance Conditions for the 2005 LTIP Awards The first award was made under the LTIP in May 2005 shortly after the approval of the plan by shareholders at the 2005 AGM.
For these initial awards including awards to employees in the US the performance conditions were described in the details of the plan circulated to shareholders in the AGM notice.
Vesting of an award is based on the growth in the Companys earnings per share EPS from a 2004 base, as follows: Average annual Adjusted EPS growth Proportion of over three financial years Award Vesting 8% i. e. 24% over 3 years 25% 18% i. e. 54% over 3 years 100% 8% to 18% Between 25% and 100% on a pro rata basis Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 38 In connection with the acquisition of ACMI, the Remuneration Committee agreed that a special one-off award should be made to approximately 25 senior executives within the enlarged Group under the 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan.
Although shareholder approval was not required for this award, as a matter of good corporate governance and transparency with shareholders, a separate resolution was proposed and approved at an Extraordinary General Meeting in July 2005.
In determining these additional awards, the Remuneration Committee was satisfied that the acquisition would materially transform the Company and that the additional LTIP award, which is subject to extremely demanding EPS performance conditions, would provide a significant and meaningful incentive to reward the effective and efficient integration of ACMI into the enlarged Group.
In exceptional circumstances, the rules of the LTIP provide that the Remuneration Committee may grant awards in excess of the one times salary limit and the grant levels to individual Directors and Executive Committee members were over shares worth between approximately 100% and 400% of salary.
The performance condition to determine vesting of the special award is also based upon growth in EPS over three financial years using the 2004 EPS as a base.
The growth targets start at the top end of the performance condition for the annual award and are more stretching to reflect the significance of the special award.
Furthermore, the vesting levels are significantly geared towards the achievement of targets at the upper end of the EPS growth range.
The EPS growth targets are as follows: Average annual Adjusted EPS growth Proportion of over three financial years Award Vesting 18%-20% 0-9% pro rata 25% 17.5% 30% 40% 35% 66% 40% 100% Straight line interpolation between the points The Remuneration Committee is satisfied that the range of targets is a stretching incentive and the award strongly aligns the interests of executives and investors.
In the light of this award, the Remuneration Committee has modified its policy regarding shareholding guidelines for Executive Directors by increasing the required level of shareholding from 100% to 200% of annual salary.
In the case of both the normal and special LTIP awards in 2005, the performance conditions will not be subject to retesting and EPS is the Adjusted Basic EPS excluding amortisation of intangible assets, charges relating to share based payments and, at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, exceptional items such as restructuring costs.
The Remuneration Committee is required to ensure that there is consistency of treatment in the calculation of EPS under International Financial Reporting Standards.
Service Contracts The Company has service contracts with its Executive Directors.
It is Company policy that contracts should contain notice periods of not more than 12 months.
The Companys policy is that the Company shall be entitled to terminate the appointment immediately by paying to an Executive Director a payment in lieu of notice which shall be calculated with regard to the directors common law duty to mitigate his loss.
Details of the contracts currently in place for Executive Directors who served during 2005 are as follows: Notice Notice Provision for Date of period required period required compensation for contract from Company from director loss of office BL Steer 25 June 2002 as amended 6 May 2004 six months six months Payment in lieu of notice six months basic salary only SJB Shaw 9 September 2003 six months six months Payment in lieu of notice which shall be calculated with regard to the Executives common law duty to mitigate his loss GR Davis 9 September 2003 six months six months Payment in lieu of notice which shall be calculated with regard to the Executives common law duty to mitigate his loss All of the Executive Directors service contracts are rolling contracts except for Mr Steers contract which expires when he relinquishes his responsibilities.
It is planned that Mr Steer will relinquish responsibility at the end of 2007.
Non-Executive Directors terms of appointment are governed by contracts for services.
The contracts outline the role of the Non-Executive Director, fees to be paid, anticipated time commitment necessary to meet the expectations of the role, and the need to retire and submit themselves for re-appointment at least once every three years.
The contract can be terminated by either party upon six months written notice.
There is no provision for compensation to be payable upon early termination of the contracts.
Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 39 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The Board believes that the holding of other Directorships outside the Company by Executive Directors is beneficial for the Group in terms of training and experience.
It is therefore the Companys policy that Executive Directors may hold other Directorships and may retain any fees from these Directorships, as long as the company concerned is not in a competing business and the time spent on the outside Directorship does not interfere with the directors role within the Company.
During 2005, Mr Davis and Mr Shaw had reported earnings of 12,000 and 25,000 respectively from other Non-Executive Directorships.
Auditable Information Individual Aspects of Remuneration Details of individual emoluments and compensation The emoluments in respect of qualifying services and compensation of each person who served as a director during the year were as follows: Performance Total Total related emoluments emoluments annual excluding excluding Pension Pension Salaries fees bonuses Benefits pensions pensions contributions contributions 2005 2005 2005 2005 2004 2005 2004 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Executive BL Steer Chairman 278 278 19 575 464 98 98 GR Davis 204 204 32 440 22 SJB Shaw 180 180 17 377 317 18 16 NM Goble 131 14 Non-executive MF Garner 54 54 50 C Goodson-Wickes 42 42 40 KT Krzywicki 31 31 30 CW Cummings 31 31 30 NM Goble 30 30 13 Total 850 662 68 1,580 1,075 138 128 Notes: 1.
No payments were made to any director in respect of compensation for loss of office in 2005 or 2004.
Benefits receivable consist of the provision of cars and car allowances, life assurance and medical cover.
C Goodson-Wickes fees are paid to Medarc Limited, a company controlled by him.
Pension contributions represent payments made to defined contribution schemes.
Non-Executive Directors are not entitled to retirement benefits.
In 2005 the executives achieved the target level set in the 2005 bonus plan under which they could receive a bonus of 50% of basic salary and also achieved the out-performance element of the bonus plan which was based on the degree to which the Group surpassed its target profit before tax and under which they could receive up to a further 50% of basic salary, making maximum bonus achievable 100% of basic salary.
GR Davis spends the majority of his time in Boston where he receives normal benefits in kind such as accommodation, utilities and a car allowance.
The total value of his US-based benefits amounted to 14,000 2004: nil.
Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 40 Directors holdings in share participation plans Summary particulars of the Groups share participation plans are given in note 16 to the financial statements.
These share options were not subject to performance conditions because they were granted before November 2001 when performance conditions were introduced under the Gyrus Share Option Policy.
These share options were granted with performance criteria requiring the Companys earnings per share growth to exceed inflation by an average of 3% per annum over a three-year period, measured from a base point of 3 pence.
These share options were granted with performance conditions based on Total Shareholder Return TSR over a three-year period beginning on the first day of the Companys financial year in which the grant of options is made.
Assessment of achievement of the performance conditions is made by comparison to a list of companies from the Techmark Mediscience Index which are ranked in order of TSR.
In order for 100% of the options to be exercisable Gyruss TSR must be in the upper quartile relative to the comparator companies.
At median ranking only 50% of the options will be exercisable and between median and upper quartile the percentage exercisable will be prorated between 50% and 100%.
Share options granted in October 2004 have performance based on TSR with assessment of the achievement of the performance condition by comparison to the FTSE Small Cap Index.
In order for options to be exercisable Gyruss TSR must exceed the median of the FTSE Small Cap Index.
Performance conditions are based on earnings per share growth over a three-year period as described in detail under Performance Conditions for the 2005 LTIP awards.
Represents the one-off special LTIP award whose performance conditions are based on earnings per share growth over a three-year period as described in detail under Performance Conditions for the 2005 LTIP awards.
Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 41 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The market price of ordinary shares at 31 December 2005 was 380 pence and the range during 2005 was 214 pence to 381 pence.
All option prices are based on the mid market quotation MMQ from the Daily Official List as per the scheme rules.
In the case of the UK schemes this was based on the MMQ on the day of grant for all grants before October 2003, and on the day preceding the grant for those issued thereafter.
All grants made under the US schemes are based on the MMQ on the day preceding grant.
All of the options were granted for nil consideration.
Directors exercised no share options in 2005.
In 2004, BL Steer was the only director to exercise share options, exercising options over 75,000 shares on 20 October 2004.
The Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the share option schemes.
Total Shareholder Return TSR The following graph charts the total cumulative shareholder return of the Company from 31 December 2000 to 31 December 2005, in accordance with paragraph 4 of the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, relative to the FTSE Small Cap Index: 250 Gyrus Group Plc FTSE Small Cap Index 200 150 100 50 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 The graph shows the value, by the end of 2005, of 100 invested in Gyrus compared with 100 invested in the FTSE Small Cap Index on 31 December 2000.
Save As You Earn Scheme SAYE US Employee Stock Purchase Plan All Executive Directors with UK contracts are eligible to participate in the Save As You Earn Scheme operated by the Company.
A maximum of 250 per month may be contributed into the scheme and contracts are entered into for a period of three or five years.
Executive Directors with US service contracts are eligible to participate in the Employee Share Purchase Plan as described in note 16 to the accounts whereby US employees can enter into a 12 month contract to contribute up to the lower of US$375 or 10% of salary per month to purchase shares in the Company at a 15% discount at the end of the 12 month period.
Annual General Meeting An ordinary resolution seeking the approval of the Remuneration Report will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on 2 May 2006.
Charles Goodson-Wickes Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 15 March 2006 Gyrus Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 42 Value
