HALMA Report on Remuneration The following sections of the Report on Remuneration have been audited: the table of Directors remuneration: pension benefits: Directors interests in shares.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee consists of the Chairman and the non-executive Directors, the members being Mr R A Stone Chairman of the Committee, Mr E G Unwin, Mr A J Walker and Mr S R Pettit.
The Board has re-affirmed its decision to appoint Mr Unwin to the Committee as the Board believes that his Chairmanship of the Board does not interfere with his independence as regards membership of the Committee.
No Director takes part in discussions concerning his own remuneration.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the framework for executive remuneration based on proposals formulated by the Group Chief Executive and determines the terms of service and remuneration of executive Directors and senior executives.
The Committees Terms of Reference, which are available from the Company Secretary on request, include: determining and agreeing with the Board the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the Group Chief Executive, the executive Directors, the Company Secretary and such other members of the executive management as it is designated to consider: approving the design of, and determining targets for, any performance related pay plans operated by the Company and approval of the total annual payments made under such plans: reviewing the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the Board and shareholders.
For any such plans, determining each year whether awards will be made, and if so, the overall amount of such awards, the individual awards to executive Directors and other senior executives and the performance targets to be used: determining the policy for, and scope of, pension arrangements for each executive Director and other senior executives.
The Committee also monitors the framework of remuneration for subsidiary chief executives and directors.
The Committee has appointed Ernst & Young LLP to advise on certain aspects of executive remuneration.
This firm did not provide any other services to the Company during the year.
Remuneration policy The policy on Directors Remuneration is to provide the remuneration packages necessary to attract, retain and motivate Directors of the quality required to run the Group successfully, manage the business of the Group and to align the interests of the Directors with those of the shareholders.
In determining such packages, the Committee considers whether members of the executive management of the Group are provided with appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced performance and are, in a fair and responsible manner, rewarded for their individual contributions to the success of the Group.
In accordance with rule 12.43A c of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority the Board presents its Report on Remuneration to the shareholders.
The Board confirms that when determining the remuneration policy for executive Directors for 2004 05 full consideration was given to the Combined Code appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Halma p. l. c. 2005 39 HALMA Report on Remuneration continued Basic salary and benefits Basic salary levels for each individual are determined with reference to independent surveys and other relevant data in order to relate remuneration levels to comparable publicly quoted companies.
The Group Chief Executive is responsible for assessing the performance of each senior executive, the complexity of the operations under their control and their opportunities for advancement within the Group.
He then formulates a remuneration proposal for the Committees approval.
Basic salary levels are set around the market median, and the Committee ensures that a balance between fixed and variable remuneration is achieved.
Remuneration of subsidiary directors is set at competitive levels to reflect the size, complexity and geographic locations of these businesses.
Share plans The Directors have long believed that share plans are an excellent way to align the interests of senior management with those of shareholders and that share plans provide excellent motivation.
The Committee recognises the need to continually assess and evaluate such incentives and therefore engaged Ernst & Young LLP to assist them in developing the next phase of incentive arrangements to introduce across the Group.
Included in the Notice of Meeting is a resolution for the approval of a Performance Share Plan which would replace the existing share option plan for future share incentives.
The Plan contains provisions permitting share option grants, restricted share awards and performance share awards, however, the Committee intends to initially use the Plan to award performance shares only.
Awards, which will be made annually, will be determined by evaluating the financial performance of the executive Directors and the Divisional Chief Executives operations and the attainment of certain personal goals.
The maximum award is fixed at 140% of salary for executive Directors and 100% of salary for Divisional Chief Executives.
The expected level of award is 110% and 80% of salary respectively.
Awards vest after three years on a sliding scale subject to the Companys relative TSR performance against the Engineering and Machinery sector, combined with an absolute Return on Total Invested Capital measure.
Awards which do not vest on the third anniversary of their award lapse.
The Performance Share Plan will also be extended to certain centrally based executives and subsidiary chief executives with maximum awards of 40% of salary.
More details of the Plan are contained in the circular which has been sent to shareholders.
The 1990 and 1996 Share Option Plans and the 1999 Company Share Option Plan all provide for the grant of two categories of option both of which are subject to performance criteria.
The exercise criteria for these three plans are noted in Note 19 on the Accounts.
No further grants may be made from the first two of these plans nor does the Company plan to make any further grants from the 1999 Plan provided that the Performance Share Plan is approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in August 2005.
The granting of options was spread over the life of the plan.
Executive Directors received a triennial award of A options, an annual award of B options and the possibility of further A options under the Performance Related Bonus Scheme.
Performance related This scheme, which applies to executive Directors and Divisional Chief Executives, bonus scheme is reviewed annually by the Remuneration Committee and approved by the Board.
Without approval of this scheme there is no alternative bonus arrangement for Directors and Divisional Chief Executives.
During the year the Remuneration Committee carefully reconsidered existing bonus arrangements and determined that incentive levels are appropriately set.
40 Halma p. l. c. 2005 HALMA Report on Remuneration continued In the case of a Divisional Chief Executive a bonus would be earned if the profit of the Division for which he is responsible exceeds a target calculated from the profits of the three preceding financial years.
The profits calculated for this purpose regard each Division as a stand-alone group of companies charging it with the cost of capital it utilises including the cost of acquisitions.
For the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, bonuses are calculated as above but based on the aggregated profit of the Divisions exceeding a target calculated from the profits of the Divisions for the three preceding financial years.
A pre-determined percentage of the profit improvement is payable in cash, and, up to and including 2004 05, a further percentage was granted in the form of Section A share options.
The percentage payable in cash commences at a low level for modest growth increasing, in percentage terms, as performance improves.
The maximum cash bonus payable to any one Director or Divisional Chief Executive is capped at 100% of his salary.
For 2005 06, executive Directors and Divisional Chief Executives may increase their cash bonus, subject to the 100% of salary cap, by either 10% of salary if the Return on Capital Employed of their Division or aggregate thereof exceeds 45%, or by 15% of salary if accompanied by absolute profit growth in their Division or aggregate thereof.
Subsidiary directors participate in bonus arrangements similar to those established for senior executives.
Further to the succession planning process, Mr S R OShea resigned on 28 February 2005, and the figures above include 347,000 representing his contractual entitlement to December 2005, his normal retirement date.
After inclusion of gains on the exercise of share options Mr S R OShea was the highest paid director in the financial year.
Halma p. l. c. 2005 41 HALMA Report on Remuneration continued Pension benefits The executive Directors participate in the appropriate section of the Halma Group Pension Plan.
This section is a funded, Inland Revenue approved, final salary occupational pension scheme, which provides a pension equal to the lower of twothirds of final pensionable salary and the Inland Revenue maximum pension at normal pension age 60.
Pensionable salary is the greatest salary of the last three complete tax years immediately before retirement or leaving service.
Bonuses and other fluctuating emoluments and benefits in kind are not pensionable.
The scheme also provides for life cover of three times pensionable salary, pensions in the event of early retirement through ill health and dependants pensions of one-half of the members prospective pension.
Early retirement pensions, possible from age 50 with the consent of the Company and the Trustees of the Halma Group Pension Plan, are subject to actuarial reduction.
Pensions in payment increase by 3% per annum for service up to 5 April 1997 and by price inflation thereafter subject to a maximum of 5%.
Details of the value of individual pension entitlements are shown below.
Accrued Accrued Years of pension Increase pension Age at service at 2004 in the year 2005 2.4.
05 000 000 000 S R OShea 59 29 165 18 188 A J Williams 37 10 17 5 23 K J Thompson 45 17 51 6 59 N Quinn 55 17 60 9 71 K J Roy 54 12 33 5 39 as at date of resignation as at date of appointment The accrued pension shown is that which would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year.
The increase in accrued pension during the year is the amount in excess of the increase due to inflation.
Increase Transfer in transferTransfer value Directors value net of value 3.4.
05 000 000 000 000 S R OShea 2,722 24 528 3,274 A J Williams 103 5 45 153 K J Thompson 444 13 98 555 N Quinn 812 13 181 1,006 K J Roy 439 12 106 557 as at date of resignation as at date of appointment The transfer values disclosed above do not represent a sum paid or payable to the individual Director.
Instead they represent a potential liability of the pension scheme.
These values have been calculated on the basis of actuarial advice in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11.
Further to Mr OSheas resignation, the Company and Mr OShea each paid pension contributions equating to those payable during the notice period up to Mr OSheas normal retirement date.
The Companys contributions amounted to 86,936.
The above table does not reflect this augmentation.
42 Halma p. l. c. 2005 HALMA Report on Remuneration continued Total shareholder return The graph below shows the Companys total shareholder return performance over the five years to 2 April 2005 as compared to the FTSE 250 and Engineering & Machinery indices which have been chosen as the Company is a constituent of both of these indices.
Over the period indicated, the Companys total shareholder return was 110% compared to 28% for the FTSE 250 and 32% for the FTSE Engineering & Machinery sector.
240 220 200 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Financial year end HALMA TOTAL RETURN INDEX FTSE 250 TOTAL RETURN INDEX FTSE ENGINEERING & MACHINERY TOTAL RETURN INDEX Source: DATASTREAM At the commencement of the five-year period depicted in the graph, the Halma p. l. c. ordinary share price was 95p and the total of dividends in respect of the year ended 1 April 2000 was 3.993p per share.
The Halma p. l. c. ordinary share price at 2 April 2005 was 161p and the total of dividends in respect of the year then ended was 6.5p per share.
Directors interests The beneficial interests of Directors and their families in the ordinary shares of in shares the Company during the financial year were as follows: Shares Shares 2.4.
There were no changes in Directors' interests from 2 April 2005 to 21 June 2005.
Halma p. l. c. 2005 43 Rebased total return index HALMA Report on Remuneration continued The movements in share options during the financial year were as follows: As at As at Gains on 3.4.
The gains are calculated by deducting the exercise price from the closing middle market price at the date of exercise or the actual gross sales proceeds if appropriate.
Options granted to Directors during the financial year were at an exercise price of 142.25p, and 157.92p in respect of 236,112 of Mr OSheas options.
The closing middle market price of the Companys ordinary shares on Friday, 1 April 2005, the last trading day preceding the financial year end, was 161p per share and the range during the year was 141.5p to 170p.
Details of Directors options outstanding at 2 April 2005 are set out in the table below.
The status of the options can be summarised as follows: 1 Exercisable at that date at a price less than 161p 2 Not yet exercisable, will only be exercisable when the performance criteria, set out on note 19, have been met and have an exercise price per share of less than 161p.
3 Not yet exercisable, will only be exercisable when the performance criteria, set out on note 19, have been met and have an exercise price per share of greater than 161p.
The Companys Register of Directors Interests, which is open to inspection at the Registered Office, contains full details of Directors shareholdings and share options.
44 Halma p. l. c. 2005 HALMA Report on Remuneration continued Service contracts It is the Companys policy that executive Directors have contracts with an indefinite term up to the normal retirement age of 60 and providing for a maximum of one years notice.
There are no exceptions to this policy.
None of the contracts has predetermined compensation clauses in the event of early termination.
The Board and the Remuneration Committee confirm that these contracts are appropriate.
Chairman and Unless otherwise indicated, all non-executive Directors have specific three-year non-executive Directors terms of engagement which may be renewed for a further three years if both the Director and the Board agree.
The remuneration of the Chairman and the non-executive Directors is determined by the Board based on independent surveys of fees paid to Chairmen and non-executive directors of similar companies.
The Chairman and the non-executive Directors receive a basic fee supplemented by additional fees for membership and or chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The contract in respect of Mr Unwins services provides for termination, by either party, by giving not less than six months notice.
Mr Unwins basic fee for 2004 05 was set at 108,000 per annum excluding Committee membership fees, and he received a contribution of 1,000 per month towards his office costs.
The non-executive Directors do not have service contracts.
The Chairmans and the non-executive Directors fees were last reviewed by the Board of Directors in April 2005.
By Order of the Board R A Stone Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Misbourne Court Rectory Way Amersham Bucks HP7 0DE 21 June 2005 Halma p. l. c. 2005 45
