COMPOSITION OF THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration of the executive directors, key members of the executive team and the Company secretary.
All the members of the Committee are independent non-executive directors of the Company and have served on the Committee throughout 2005.
The members of the Committee are: Lesley Knox Chairman Tony fide Nunzio Ian Smith Peter Wallis During 2005 the Committee has taken external advice from its appointed independent remuneration consultants, being Ernst & Young LLP, in the period from the beginning of the year until 5 July 2005 and, since that date, KPMG.
The Committee is assisted by the Chairman, the Chief executive officer, and the Company secretary, where appropriate.
The Committee met four times during 2005.
The terms of reference of the committee are available on the Companys website www.
In addition to their remuneration advice services, Ernst & Young LLP represented the Company over the merchant charges appeal with HM Revenue & Customs.
In addition to their remuneration advice services, KPMG also provided advice in respect of refinancing, certain corporate transactions, value added tax and staff on secondment.
Part A of this Report, which comprises Sections 1 to 4, is not subject to audit.
Part B, which comprises Sections 5 to 11, is subject to audit.
POLICY ON REMUNERATION OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS FOR 2005 AND 2006 The Committee determines policy for current and future years, which is reviewed on an annual basis.
The policy in recent periods has been designed to provide a total remuneration package, which has the objective of ensuring business success through the recruitment, retention and motivation of a team of talented executives.
The Committee has undertaken a comprehensive review of the remuneration policy at Board level and for key executives with the assistance of KPMG, its new independent advisers.
In the current challenging trading environment and against the background of major changes to the top executive team, the Committee has been conscious of the need to have a remuneration strategy which underpins the widespread and complex changes management will need to deliver to achieve the Companys new strategic direction.
As a result of that review, the Committee has introduced for 2006 the new Foundation Plan which will operate for this year only alongside the Annual Incentive and Deferred Incentive Plan and will generally only deliver rewards to participants from 31 December 2008 if extremely demanding share price growth is achieved in the financial year 2006.
Consequently, no grants or awards will be made under the existing long-term incentive plans during 2006.
Company policy is to set base salaries with regard to the median level of companies of similar size and complexity.
These are then supplemented by variable rewards and incentives, which can raise the total value of the package into the upper quartile if superior performance and returns for shareholders are generated.
The total opportunity of remuneration is strongly weighted in favour of performance-based incentives.
The remuneration policy has been designed and developed over a number of years to place emphasis on significant shareholding opportunities if stretching performance conditions are satisfied.
These conditions, if satisfied, will deliver substantial increases in shareholder value.
Performance measures include short-term business targets, stretching earnings growth and the delivery of superior shareholder return compared with a group of UK quoted retailers or the FTSE 250.
The new Foundation Plan, with its demanding share price targets during 2006 should also deliver a substantial increase in shareholder value.
The overall balance of these measures is aimed to ensure that shareholders will enjoy real absolute and relative returns if executive directors achieve partial vesting and superior returns if awards vest in full.
The remuneration package includes an annual incentive plan with a compulsory one third deferral of any payment into shares and, prior to 2006, a performance share plan which is based on total shareholder return TSR relative to comparable companies and an optional executive co-investment plan.
Under this plan, which commenced in 2002, executive directors were encouraged to invest in the Companys shares and in return receive matching awards of shares and options only if there is significant growth in earnings and median to upper quartile growth in returns to shareholders relative to the FTSE 250.
The package has also included, in prior periods, the provision of share options, including performance options, which only become exercisable if particularly stretching performance targets are met.
Prior to each award, the Committee has considered carefully which performance measures would be most effective for each long-term incentive plan.
For awards up to 2005, the Committee concluded, after consulting with certain institutional investors, and after taking advice from its independent advisors, that a combination of TSR and earnings per share EPS would be the most appropriate measures for the circumstances of the Company at the time of the relevant grants.
The Committee has noted that none of the performance measures selected by the Committee were satisfied in 2005.
The Committees recent review indicated that the Companys established long-term incentive arrangements with performance measured by EPS and TSR over three years would be reasonable in the context of a relatively stable but growing business, but did not fit the circumstances facing the Company at the end of 2005 with the significant changes required to meet the new strategy announced in early 2006.
With this in mind the Committee needs to ensure that the remuneration package is targeted both to keep the senior executive team together and also focus them on the achievement of key targets over the current year.
The targets set out in the Foundation Plan are designed to achieve those aims in 2006.
Under the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 the Regulations the Company is required to include in this report a graph showing the Companys total shareholder return TSR performance over the most recent five years compared to an appropriate index.
The graph below illustrates the Companys TSR performance relative to the constituents of the FTSE 250 Index excluding investment companies of which the Company is a constituent.
COMPONENTS OF EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION I.
Basic salary Basic salary for each director is positioned with regard to the median level, is reviewed annually and is determined by the Committee taking into account the performance of the individual, changes in their responsibilities and information from independent remuneration consultants sources on the levels of salary for similar jobs having regard to the size of the company its turnover, profits, market capitalisation and complexity.
The Committee also takes account of the remuneration levels within the Group generally.
Annual Incentive and Deferred Incentive Plan This Plan sets challenging Group targets and provides for a bonus opportunity of up to 100% of salary for the Chief executive and 75% for the other executive directors.
In 2005 the target was not met, however a discretionary bonus payment of 500,000 100% of salary was made to Matthew Ingle based on the stabilisation of the Group and the financial results of Howden which achieved another year of outstanding profits growth.
A bonus payment of 247,500 75% of salary, was made to Mark Robson 50% of which had been guaranteed as part of his recruitment terms, recognising the loss of benefits foregone when he left his previous employer.
Bob Wilson was awarded a bonus of 78,000, representing 33% of salary.
A stretching Group target has been set for performance in 2006 to support the turnaround of performance of the Group.
To align the executive directors interests with those of the shareholders, one third of the incentive is deferred into ordinary shares of the Company and held in trust for three years before release to the executive director.
A third of the bonus payments made to Matthew Ingle and Mark Robson were deferred into ordinary shares of the Company accordingly.
Bob Wilson is retiring as an executive director in April 2006 and his bonus was not subject to any deferral.
All bonuses are paid at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, cash bonuses may also be paid in exceptional circumstances, for example for recruitment or retention of key executive directors or for outstanding performance.
2006 Foundation Plan The Committee intends that the participants in the Plan, which is to be implemented by the Committee in March 2006 and does not require shareholder approval, will be the Chief executive, the Chief financial officer and a limited number of senior executives.
Whilst the Plan does not require Shareholder approval as it relates to performance in 2006 and will not involve the issue of new shares, the Company has consulted with a number of investors and representatives thereof before finalising the terms of the Plan.
The grant to each participant will comprise an award of restricted shares and share options with an exercise price of 92 pence per share.
The number of shares and share options the participant will become entitled to is determined by demanding share price targets.
Vesting at 100% requires a sustained share price of 1.25 for the restricted shares and 1.60 for the share options.
Vesting will also be dependent on the Remuneration Committee determining that there has been a satisfactory improvement in underlying financial performance of the Company.
Whilst the awards will vest at the end of the financial year 2006, the awards will generally not be exercisable during a Deferral Period that will continue until 31 December 2008.
Performance Share Plan This Plan provides a direct link between the pay of executive directors and the creation of value for shareholders.
The structure of this Plan is as set out below.
However, it is not intended that any grants will be made under this Plan during 2006 to participants in the Foundation Plan.......................................................................................................................................................................... MFI Annual Report 2005 37 Conditional awards of shares equivalent to one years salary have previously been made to executive directors annually at the discretion of the Committee and are released subject to the achievement of company performance targets.
Company performance is measured over three years, in terms of TSR relative to a comparator group of companies.
In addition, no award will vest unless the EPS of the Company increases over the performance period by a percentage amount that is equal to or greater than the percentage change in the retail prices index RPI plus 9% over the same period.
The Committee has noted that the Performance Share Plan PSP award granted in 2003 has not vested as a result of this performance target not being met.
The comparator companies have been selected on the basis of relative sector, size and complexity.
The comparator group is reviewed before each performance award cycle to maintain its relevance.
The comparator group for the 2003 award was as follows: Boots Carpetright Debenhams DFS Dixons GUS Kingfisher Marks and Spencer Matalan MFI Selfridges WH Smith Arcadia Woolworth The comparator group for the 2004 award is as follows: Boots Carpetright Debenhams DFS Dixons GUS Kingfisher Marks and Spencer Matalan MFI Selfridges WH Smith Wolseley Woolworth fide-listed since the formation of these groups The comparator group for the 2005 award is as follows: Boots Carpetright Dixons GUS Kingfisher Marks and Spencer Matalan MFI Travis Perkins WH Smith Wolseley Woolworth The number of shares released depends upon the Companys comparative performance against its peer group.
If the Companys TSR is at the median level, 40% of the shares, which are the subject of the award, will vest.
If the Company is ranked in the top quartile of the list, 100% of the shares will vest.
Proportional vesting on a straight-line basis will take place for performance between the median and the top quartile positions.
Full details of how TSR is calculated and measured and of the Companys performance relative to the peer group for each award are shown on page 44.
KPMG are instructed by the Committee to collect market data and report on the Companys performance under the PSP with regards to TSR.
Share Option Plan Portfolio The Company operates a share option plan portfolio which has three sections.
Grants were made to executive directors in 2000 and 2001 but as explained above it has not been the policy of the Committee to make option grants to participants in the Executive Co-investment Plan and no grants will be made during 2006 to participants in the Foundation Plan.
Under Sections 1 and 2, the Inland Revenue Approved and Unapproved sections of the plan, executive directors may receive annual grants of options up to two times salary at the discretion of the Committee.
However, unless there are exceptional circumstances, executive directors cannot receive options under these sections of the Plan if they receive an award under the Performance Share Plan in the same year.
Share options under Sections 1 and 2 become exercisable only if a performance condition is satisfied.
The current condition applying to existing options is that the growth in EPS of the Company must meet or exceed the growth in the RPI by 9% over a three-year period.
Options will lapse if this target has not been satisfied.
Under Section 3 of the Plan the Committee has discretion to grant Performance Options to executive directors up to four times salary subject to the achievement of certain demanding and challenging performance targets based on EPS growth, which if achieved, will demonstrate superior performance.
Details of these targets are set out under the table of directors share options.
KPMG are instructed by the Committee to review the calculation and to advise the Committee of the Companys EPS performance relative to these targets.
FreeShare Plan The FreeShare Plan was introduced in 2002.
Executive directors may participate in the Plan on the same terms as all other eligible employees.
Under this Plan all eligible employees were invited to accept an allocation of up to 200 of the Companys shares in September 2002 and again in May 2003.
The shares are held in a Trust for a holding period being between three and five years after which the award of shares will vest and participants may withdraw their shares.
ShareSave Plan Executive directors may participate in the ShareSave Plan, if offered, on the same terms as all other eligible employees.
At the discretion of the Board, the Plan is offered to all employees contracted to work a minimum of eight hours per week.
Under the Plan, participants make regular savings and at the end of the savings period participants may use all or part of their savings and bonus to purchase shares at the option price which is set at the start of the savings plan.
In 2003 all eligible employees were invited to save to invest in the Companys shares under this plan and ShareSave options over approximately 5.7 million shares were granted to participants.
Pensions Executive directors participate in the MFI Group Pension Plan on a similar basis to senior executives, with the exception that one executive director has a long-standing right to retire at age 55 and draw a pension without any early retirement reduction factor being applied.
The Plan is a funded, Inland Revenue approved, final salary, occupational pension plan.
Its main features are: a. pension at normal pension age of two thirds of final pensionable salary, subject to completion of 20 years service: post-retirement increases are expected to be in line with inflation, guaranteed up to the level of 5% and discretionary above that level: b. members contribute 9.5% of pensionable salary: c. life assurance cover of four times pensionable salary: d. pension payable in the event of ill health: and e. spouses pension on death 2 3rds of deceaseds pension.
Pensionable salary is the members basic salary.
Pension supplements To recognise that pension entitlement will be limited for those members who joined the MFI Group Pension Plan after 14 March 1989 and whose final pensionable salary exceeds the Earnings Cap, a pensions supplement system has been introduced.
The pensions supplement is based on salary above the Earnings Cap.
Below age 45 the supplement is 40%.
Above age 45 the supplement is 45%.
The supplement is paid in arrears and in two instalments, in September and March.
New pension arrangements The Company announced in February 2006 that it had reached agreement with the Trustees of the MFI Group Pension Plan in relation to future funding and that it was proposed that the benefit structure of the Plan would be revised from 1 September 2006.
The Committee will, during the year, review the executive directors pensions arrangements to align them with the new structure, when finalised.
Service contracts The Committees policy on service contracts has been to offer a notice period for termination by the Company or director of 12 months and liquidated damages of 12 months base salary are applied to any payment of compensation on termination.
Previously, on change of control of the Company, liquidated damages of 18 months base salary might have become become payable.
This policy, which did not comply with the Combined Code, was changed last year by the Committee and service contracts issued to newly appointed directors including Mark Robson, who was appointed during the year as Finance Director, will provide that liquidated damages of 12 months base salary may become payable on a change of control.
Matthew Ingle has agreed to accept a reduction in his contract from the 18 months period to 12 months without compensation.
Executive director Date of contract Matthew Ingle 1 November 1999 Mark Robson 7 February 2005 Bob Wilson 1 November 1999 The unexpired term for all executive directors service contracts is twelve months.
Mr Wilson will be retiring as a director in April 2006.
Termination of contracts John Hancock stepped aside as Chief executive in October 2005.
Following extensive negotiation of his contractual position, it was agreed that he would be placed on garden leave, remaining bound by competition restrictions, for a period of 12 months until 31 December 2006, during which time he would receive total payments based on 12 months basic salary excluding benefits to be paid on a phased basis and reduced by any salary earned from new employment during the twelve month period.
He would continue to be available to the Company in relation to transitional matters, in particular to assist with certain contractual claims against third parties.
It was also agreed to pay his out-placement and professional fees up to a maximum of 60,000.
Shaun OCallaghan, previously interim CFO, was placed on garden leave at the end of September 2005 for a period of 12 months, expiring on 30 September 2006, during which time he remains bound by competition restrictions.
Payments based on 12 months salary and benefits were agreed to be paid on a phased basis, to be reduced by any earnings from new employment during the twelve month period.
Mark Horgan resigned his employment as executive director MFI Retail in May 2005 and an early release date was agreed with him.
His employment therefore ceased on 31 August 2005 and his salary and benefits were paid until that date.
No termination payments were made.
Mr Horgan remains bound by post-termination competition restrictions.
External appointments It is recognised that executive directors may be invited to become non-executive directors of other companies and that exposure to such duties can broaden experience and knowledge, which will benefit the Company.
Executive directors may accept one non-executive appointment, unless otherwise agreed by the Remuneration Committee, provided this is not with a competing company nor likely to lead to conflicts of interest.
Executive directors may retain the fees paid to them in respect of their non-executive duties.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The remuneration of the independent non-executive directors is determined by a Committee appointed by the Board comprising the Chairman and Chief executive after taking advice from the Committees independent external consultants, who review the fee payments of non-executive directors in similar organisations.
Non-executive directors remuneration consists of an annual basic fee of 35,000 for their services as members of the Board and of 5,000 for their services as members of the Committees of the Board.
Lesley Knox and Tony fide Nunzio each receive an additional fee of 8,000 for their services as chair of the Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee respectively.
In addition, Tony fide Nunzio receives a fee of 15,000 per annum for his services as deputy chairman.
Non-executive directors do not have service agreements, but instead have letters of appointment and are appointed by the Board for an initial period of three years subject to retirement by rotation and re-appointment by shareholders.
Ian Peacock was appointed Chairman on 18 May 2000 subject to the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association.
Mr Peacock receives a fee of 170,000 per annum in consideration for his services as Chairman and non-executive director.
In the first year of his appointment Mr Peacock agreed to apply 20,000 of this fee towards the purchase of shares in the Company and to hold these shares until he ceases to be Chairman and non-executive director.
Under this arrangement Mr Peacock purchased 31,740 ordinary shares at 63 pence per share on 16 June 2000.
Mr Ingle, the highest-paid director, received the emoluments set out above in respect of the period under review.
His base salary is currently 500,000 pa.
In January 2005 he also received a payment of 77,500, representing salary earned between 1 July 2004 and 24 December 2004.
Mr Robson was appointed as a director on 12 April 2005: his base salary is 330,000 pa. 3.
Mr Cheng was appointed as a director on 1 August 2005.
Mr OCallaghan resigned as a director on 20 July 2005.
It was agreed that he would remain in the employment of the Company on garden leave and his service agreement will terminate on 30 September 2006.
He will until that date be entitled to receive payments based on salary and benefits, such amounts to be payable on a phased basis, to be reduced by earnings from any new employment.
These payments are included in the emoluments disclosed in the above table.
Mr Hancock resigned as a director on 2 October 2005, remaining as an employee and continuing to be available to the Company in relation to transitional matters, in particular to assist with certain contractual claims against third parties.
On 21 December 2005, it was agreed with Mr Hancock that his service contract would be terminated on 31 December 2006.
It was agreed that he would be placed on garden leave until that date during which time he would receive total payments based on 12 months basic salary excluding benefits to be paid on a phased basis and reduced by any salary earned from new employment during the twelve month period.
These payments are disclosed in the benefits column.
Mr Horgan resigned as a director on 18 May 2005.
His employment ceased on 31 August 2005 and his salary and benefits were paid until that date.
Payments were made during the year to two former directors, Mr MacDonald and Mr Clifford-King, totalling 165,000 and 150,000 respectively being payments made in accordance with the agreements relating to the termination of their employment contracts, details of which were disclosed last year.
The Remuneration Committee has awarded each of Matthew Ingle, Mark Robson and Bob Wilson a discretionary award under the Annual Incentive Plan of 500,000, 247,500 and 78,000 respectively for the 52 weeks ended 24 December 2005.
For Mr Ingle and Mr Robson, two-thirds of these awards are payable in cash and are disclosed in the column for the annual cash incentive.
One-third of the awards will be made in shares under the terms of the Deferred Incentive Plan 191,167 and 94,628 shares respectively.
Mr Wilsons award is payable in cash as he is retiring in 2006.
The Benefits column incorporates benefits in kind which relate in the main to the provision of a fully expensed car or cash equivalent and private medical cover.
Pension supplements are paid every six months in arrears and the next payment is due in March 2006.
The table above includes an accrued amount for the period from 1 October 2005 to 24 December 2005.
Further details of the Pension Supplement Plan are given on page 40.
Executive directors may also have a beneficial interest in the shares held under the terms of the Executive Co-investment Plan.
These shares are held beneficially but are subject to performance and employment conditions.
Details of these interests are set out in the table on page 46.
As at 24 December 2005 Mr Hancock held 556,054 ordinary shares.
Neither Mr Horgan nor Mr OCallaghan held any shares as at that date.
Deferred shares Deferred shares Deferred shares 52 weeks 52 weeks 52 weeks ended Date Release ended Dec Date Release ended Dec Date Release Executive Dec 2002 awarded date 2003 awarded date 2004 awarded date John Hancock 118,828 03.03.03 02.03.06 Matthew Ingle 57,871 03.03.03 02.03.06 55,799 03.03.04 02.03.07 170,831 29.03.05 28.03.08 Bob Wilson 49,769 03.03.03 02.03.06 Shares were acquired by the Trustee on 28 February 2003 at 108 pence per share.
Shares were acquired by the Trustee on 3 March 2004 at 147.75 pence per share.
Includes shares granted for the purposes of National Insurance elections.
Grants made in 2004 and 2005 include shares for National Insurance elections.
Performance Measurement and the comparator peer group for the share performance plan is as follows: Vesting targets for each award are measured over three years, in terms of Earnings per Share EPS and total shareholder return TSR.
An award will not vest unless EPS growth over the vesting period increases by a percentage amount that is equal to or greater than the percentage change in the Retail Prices Index over the period plus 9%, the extent to which an award vests depend on TSR performance.
TSR is a way of calculating the return shareholders would enjoy if they held a notional number of shares, over a period of time.
TSR measures the percentage growth in the Companys share price together with the value of dividends received in the period, assuming that all of those dividends are re-invested into new shares.
The TSR is measured against a comparator group, with the starting base period being the three months to 1 January of the year in which the awards are made.
For a TSR performance that places the Company at the median of the comparator group, 40% of the award will vest.
For attaining an upper quartile position, 100% of the award will vest, with straight-line vesting between the median and upper quartile positions.
The options outstanding are exercisable at prices between 35 pence and 184 pence.
In the period the highest middle market closing price was 143 pence per share and the lowest middle market closing price was 65.25 pence per share.
The middle market price on 23 December 2005 the last business day before the financial year-end was 78.5 pence per share.
Options granted under the Executive Scheme which was replaced with the approval of shareholders on 18 May 2000 by the Share Option Plan Portfolio became exercisable on 28 February 2002 following satisfaction of the performance target that options granted are not normally exercisable unless growth in EPS, as determined under the scheme, have exceeded the growth in the RPI over a three-year period.
Options granted under Sections 1 and 2 of the 2000 Share Option Plan Portfolio are not normally exercisable unless growth in EPS, as determined under the Plan, meets or exceeds the growth in RPI by 9% over a three-year period.
Options will lapse if this target is not satisfied.
Options granted under Section 3 of the 2000 Share Option Plan Portfolio are not normally exercisable unless challenging targets are met.
For Section 3 options granted in 2000 50% of an option becomes exercisable subject to growth in EPS, calculated on an IIMR basis, being equal to 100% over three years: increasing on a straight-line basis up to 100% of an option becoming exercisable where EPS growth equals or exceeds 150%.
For Section 3 options granted in 2001 50% of an option becomes exercisable subject to growth in EPS, calculated on an IIMR basis, being equal to 60% over three years: increasing on a straightline basis up to 100% of an option becoming exercisable where EPS growth equals or exceeds 120%.
Options will lapse to the extent that these targets are not satisfied.
For Section 3 options granted in 2003, 20% of an option becomes exercisable subject to TSR a median level of the comparator group increasing on a straight-line basis to 50% of an option becoming exercisable for upper quartile position: and in addition 20% of an option becomes exercisable if growth in EPS meets or exceeds the growth in RPI by 10% over a three year period, rising on a straight-line basis to 50% of an option becoming exercisable if EPS meets or exceeds the growth in RPI by 20%.
For Section 3 options granted in 2005, 40% of an option becomes exercisable subject to growth in EPS exceeding the growth in RPI by 40% over a three-year period rising on a straight-line basis to 100% of an option becoming exercisable if EPS exceeds the growth in RPI by 100%.
Mr Hancock exercised options granted under the Executive Scheme in 1999 in respect of 785,000 shares on 29 December 2005 at the exercise price of 35 pence.
The market value at the date of exercise was 77.55 pence.
Mr Horgan exercised options granted under the Executive Scheme in 1999 in respect of 642,722 shares on 3 June 2005 at the exercise price of 42 pence.
The market value at the date of exercise was 108.5 pence.
EXECUTIVE CO-INVESTMENT PLAN The Performance Period for the Executive Co-Investment Plan expired on 31 December 2005 with the Performance Conditions not having been met.
In the cases of John Hancock, Mark Horgan, Matthew Ingle, Shaun OCallaghan and Mark Robson the benefits accruing are limited by the earnings cap imposed by the Finance Act 1989.
The aggregate pension costs paid by the Company in respect of the directors qualifying services were 63,030 2004 77,299.
The amount paid in respect of the highest paid director was 9,900 2004 9,600.
