CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Board and Board Committees Board Structure The Board of Directors, which meets at least five times a year, currently comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, seven other independent NonExecutive Directors and five Executive Directors.
There is a clear separation of the roles of Chairman, Mr D C Bonham, and Chief Executive, Mr G Davis, to ensure an appropriate balance of power and authority.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the whole Board with the Chief Executive, in conjunction with the Chief Executives Committee, responsible for managing the Group and implementing the strategy and policies which have been set by the Board.
Mr A G L Alexander is Joint Vice Chairman alongside Mr I J G Napier and the recognised senior independent Non-Executive Director to whom any concerns can be conveyed by shareholders.
As further explained below, all of the Non-Executive Directors are, in the opinion of the Board, independent of management and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Following disclosure of their other commitments and the results of the Board performance evaluation, the Board is satisfied that all of the current Non-Executive Directors have sufficient time available to contribute effectively to the Board and demonstrate ongoing commitment to their roles.
The Directors biographies, appearing on pages 35 and 36, demonstrate a detailed knowledge of the tobacco industry together with a range of business and financial experience which is vital to the management of an expanding international company.
The biographies also include details of their other major directorships.
Board Changes The composition and balance of the Board is subject to continuing review.
This process takes account not only of the overall balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board but also of the wider provisions of the Code and the results of the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors.
Ms S E Murray and Mr C R Day joined the Board on 8 December 2004 and 25 July 2005 respectively as Non-Executive Directors.
Both were identified as suitable candidates for appointment by an external search consultancy based on role profiles provided by the Nominations committee.
Mr I J G Napier was also appointed Joint Vice Chairman in December 2004 alongside Mr A G L Alexander.
On 9 February 2005 Mr B C Davidson resigned from the Board as Sales and Marketing Director.
His responsibilities for the Groups global sales and marketing activities have been transferred to Mr G L Blashill who was appointed to the Board on 28 October 2005.
Excluding the Chairman, three of the Non-Executive Directors have now served slightly in excess of nine years, having been appointed to the Board on fide-merger in August 1996.
Whilst length of tenure is one of the factors to be taken into consideration when considering director independence under the Code, the Board concluded at its meeting in September 2005 that Messrs S P Duffy, S Huismans and A G L Alexander continue to contribute effectively and constructively to Board debate, to challenge and question management objectively and robustly and at all times to have the best interests of the Group in mind.
Furthermore the Board concluded that there was no evidence to suggest that length of tenure was having an adverse impact on their independence.
The Board therefore considers that, taking account of these issues together with the other relevant factors contained in the Code and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, all seven Non-Executive Directors excluding the Chairman are independent for the purposes of the Code and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
However, as already announced, Messrs S P Duffy and S Huismans will be retiring from the Board at the Annual General Meeting the AGM in January 2006.
It is proposed that Mr A G L Alexander will remain on the Board beyond the AGM in 2006 in order to facilitate a smooth transition at senior Board level.
It is also proposed that Mr I J G Napier will become the recognised senior independent Non-Executive Director with effect from the AGM in 2006.
The Chairman and Mr A G L Alexander, both having served in excess of nine years, will offer themselves for re-election annually at the Companys AGM.
Following the disclosure of individual Directors external commitments, as part of the Board performance evaluation conducted during the year, the Board accepted that Mr D W Thursfields increasing level of external commitments was likely to have an adverse impact on his availability for Board and committee matters.
As a consequence the Board accepted Mr D W Thursfields resignation with effect from 28 October 2005.
Over the coming months the Board will be seeking to appoint one or more additional Non-Executive Directors to ensure that the Board and its committees continue to remain suitably balanced.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2005 40 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT With effect from the AGM in January 2006 it is proposed that a number of changes will be made to the membership of the Board and its Committees, as follows: Current Structure of the Board and Board Committees Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Executive Directors G Davis Member Member R Dyrbus Member D Cresswell Member F A Rogerson Member G L Blashill from 28 10 05 Member Non-Executive Directors D C Bonham Chairman Chairman Member Chairman A G L Alexander Senior Independent Director Joint Vice Chairman Member Member I J G Napier Joint Vice Chairman Member Chairman Member P H Jungels Member Member Member Member D W Thursfield resigned 28 10 05 Member Member Member S E Murray Member Member C R Day Member Member S P Duffy Member Chairman Member S Huismans Member Member Member Proposed Structure of the Board and Board Committees with effect from the AGM in 2006 Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Executive Directors G Davis Member R Dyrbus Member D Cresswell Member F A Rogerson Member G L Blashill Member Non-Executive Directors D C Bonham Chairman Chairman Chairman A G L Alexander Joint Vice Chairman Member I J G Napier Senior Independent Director Joint Vice Chairman Member Chairman Member P H Jungels Member Member Member Member S E Murray Member Member Member Member C R Day Member Chairman Member IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2005 41 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Performance Evaluation During the year, in accordance with the Code and with the assistance of an external consultant, the Board formally reviewed and evaluated its performance, together with the performance of its Committees and individual Directors.
These reviews were conducted by way of separate detailed questionnaires, completed by the Directors and, in relation to certain matters, by the external Auditors.
A report on the performance of the Board as a whole and of the Board Committees was made to the Board at its meeting in September 2005.
Feedback on the performance of the Board Committees was shared with the relevant Committee chairman, whilst feedback on individual directors was discussed with the Chairman.
This in turn was followed by private feedback meetings between the Chairman and each of the Directors.
In addition, an opportunity was taken at the Board meeting in September 2005 for Mr A G L Alexander, the senior independent Non-Executive Director, to meet with the Non-Executive Directors as a group, without the Chairman present, to consider the performance of the Chairman.
After also taking account of the views of the Executive Directors and the results of the Chairmans formal performance evaluation, Mr A G L Alexander held a private feedback meeting with the Chairman.
During the course of the year the Chairman additionally held meetings exclusively with the Non-Executive Directors to consider the performance of the Executive Directors in the discharge of their duties.
Following these reviews the Board and its Committees are satisfied that they are operating and performing effectively, that there are no fundamental issues or training needs that require addressing and that each of the current Directors has sufficient time and commitment to contribute effectively to the Board and its Committees.
Accordingly, the Board is satisfied that Messrs D C Bonham, A G L Alexander, C R Day, G L Blashill, together with Dr P H Jungels should stand for re-election at the 2006 AGM.
The two key themes which emerged from the review related to succession planning and the make up of the Board in light of the ever increasing international nature of the business.
The Board will be implementing, during the course of the next financial year, a number of actions that have been identified in response to the points made during the reviews.
The Board plans to conduct evaluations on an annual basis and may employ alternative formats and approaches in future years.
Board Operations The Board is the principal decision making forum of the Group and manages overall control of the Groups affairs by the schedule of matters reserved for its decision contained in the Groups Corporate Manual.
These include responsibility for the Groups commercial strategy, the approval of financial statements and corporate plans, the overall corporate governance framework, acquisitions and disposals, treasury, tax and risk management policies and appointment and removal of Directors and the Company Secretary.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters and for ensuring Board procedures are followed and applicable rules and regulations complied with.
All Directors are equally accountable by law for the proper stewardship of the Groups affairs, with the Non-Executive Directors having a particular responsibility for ensuring that strategies proposed for the development of the business are critically reviewed.
This ensures that they act in the best long term interest of shareholders, take account of the wider community of interest represented by employees, customers and suppliers and that social, environmental and ethical issues are fully integrated into the Groups risk assessment processes.
In April 2005, the Board approved a key performance indicator framework of non-financial issues which might be material to the Group in any particular year.
The aim of this framework is to provide operational management and the Board with an important means of tracking and managing non-financial risk.
The Board regularly reviews the strategy and operating results of the business, as well as approving annual and medium-term plans.
Actual results of the Group are reviewed at each Board meeting, with monthly reports, including detailed commentary and analysis, being provided in the intervening periods.
This ensures that the Board is supplied with information on the progress of the business in a timely manner and that the Directors are properly briefed on issues arising at Board Meetings.
The Non-Executive Directors also play a leading role in corporate accountability and governance through their membership of the Remuneration Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Audit Committee.
The membership and remit of each Committee is considered below, together with a record of Directors attendance at Board and Board Committee meetings during the year.
The terms of reference for each of these Committees are available from the Company Secretary and are also published on the Imperial Tobacco website.
The terms of reference for each of the Committees were comprehensively reviewed in June 2005.
The Group has procedures in place to allow Directors to seek both independent professional advice, at the Groups expense, and the advice and services of the Company Secretary in order to fulfil their duties.
The Group maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of Directors and Officers liabilities.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2005 42 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Chief Executives Committee Over the financial year, the Chief Executives Committee, comprising the Executive Directors, the Director of Finance and Planning, the Group Sales and Marketing Director, the Group Human Resources Director and the Company Secretary, continued to meet on a regular basis to ensure appropriate control and management of day-to-day business matters.
Within the framework of the Chief Executives Committee, the Board delegates day-to-day and business control matters to the Chief Executive and Chief Executives Committee who, are responsible for implementing Group policy and monitoring the detailed performance of all aspects of the business.
They have full power to act subject to the reserved powers and sanctioning limits laid down by the Board and the Groups policy guidelines.
Between formal Board and Committee meetings, the Chairman and chairmen of the Board Committees communicate regularly with the Chief Executive and other members of the Chief Executives Committee.
Meetings of the Board, Board Committees and Shareholders Annual Audit Remuneration Nominations General Board Committee Committee Committee Meeting Total number of meetings in 2005 6 4 4 2 1 Number of meetings attended in 2005 Executive Directors G Davis 6 6 2 2 1 R Dyrbus 6 6 1 D Cresswell 6 6 1 B C Davidson 3 3 1 F A Rogerson 6 6 1 Non-Executive Directors D C Bonham 6 6 3 4 2 2 1 A G L Alexander 6 6 3 4 2 2 1 I J G Napier 6 6 3 4 4 4 2 2 1 S P Duffy 4 6 4 4 2 2 1 S Huismans 6 6 3 4 2 2 1 P H Jungels 6 6 2 4 4 4 2 2 1 D W Thursfield 5 6 4 4 2 2 1 S E Murray 4 4 1 1 1 C R Day 1 1 Notes B C Davidson resigned from the Board on 9 February 2005.
S E Murray was appointed to the Board on 8 December 2004.
C R Day was appointed to the Board on 25 July 2005.
Remuneration Committee The membership and responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are contained in the Directors Remuneration Report which appears on page 50.
This report, which has been approved by the Board and signed by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, outlines remuneration strategy and policy, details of the Committees activities over the financial year and contains full details of Directors emoluments.
Nominations Committee Membership The Nominations Committee, comprising all the Non-Executive Directors and the Chief Executive who will be stepping down from the Committee with effect from the AGM, with Mr D C Bonham as Chairman, met twice during the year.
Mr M R Phillips the Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2005 43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Responsibilities The responsibilities of the Committee include the evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board, the development of role specifications, the formulation of succession plans and the making of recommendations to the Board with regard to the appointment of Directors.
During the year, based on the results of a skills matrix questionnaire, the Committee formulated a profile of the competencies, experience and time commitment required of potential new Non-Executive Directors.
This profile has been used as the basis of instructions to external search consultancies to identify suitable candidates for appointment to the Board.
New Directors appointed by the Board must submit themselves for re-election by shareholders at the AGM following their appointment.
Thereafter all Directors, in accordance with the Code, are subject to re-election at least every three years.
Furthermore, it is the Companys practice that any Non-Executive Director having been in post for nine years or more is subject to annual re-election.
The Committee considers the performance of each Director before recommending such re-appointment.
Induction and Training Detailed training and briefing is provided to all Directors on appointment to the Board, taking into account their individual qualifications and experience.
This includes an induction programme provided by the Groups external lawyers, meetings with the Groups Auditors and with key Group personnel and site visits.
An element of the induction focuses on relevant corporate responsibility and corporate affairs issues.
Issues addressed include legal matters, product stewardship, occupational health and safety, environmental management, social impact, scientific and regulatory affairs and commercial risk management.
The opportunity exists for major shareholders to meet with new and existing Directors.
Directors also make themselves available to meet shareholders after the formal business of the AGM has been completed.
Where appropriate, ongoing training is made available to all Directors to meet their individual needs.
Regular briefings are also provided to Directors on relevant issues such as legislation and regulation changes and corporate governance developments.
Audit Committee Membership The Audit Committee, consisting exclusively of independent Non-Executive Directors, Mr A G L Alexander who will be stepping down from the Committee with effect from the AGM, Mr I J G Napier and Dr P H Jungels, with Mr S P Duffy who is retiring at the AGM as Chairman, met four times during the year.
All its members, with the exception of Dr P H Jungels, are qualified accountants or have held senior finance positions in PLCs and are therefore appropriately qualified to discharge the responsibilities that Audit Committee membership entails and are regarded as financial experts for the purposes of both the Code and section 407 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Following the retirement of Mr S P Duffy at the AGM, it is proposed that Mr C R Day will become a member of and assume the chairmanship of the Audit Committee.
It is also proposed that following the AGM Ms S E Murray will become a member of the Audit Committee.
Responsibilities The Committees terms of reference cover the matters recommended by the Code.
During the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report the Committee worked with a structured agenda of matters focused to coincide with key events of the annual financial reporting cycle, together with standing items that the Committee is required to consider at each meeting.
These duties included monitoring internal control throughout the Group, approving the Groups accounting policies and reviewing the interim and annual financial statements, together with the US filing on Form 20-F, prior to submission to the Board The Committee regularly monitors and reviews the programme of activity currently in place to enable the Group to meet the requirements with regard to section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, applicable to the Group for the financial year ending 30 September 2006.
The Committee reviews and approves, on an annual basis, the scope and content of the risk assessment and compliance programme implemented by the Group Compliance Function and monitors and critically reviews the authority, effectiveness and level of resource allocated to the activity.
The Finance Director, the Director of Finance and Planning, the Groups General Manager Compliance and other financial management attend each meeting of the Committee by invitation and a standing item on each agenda allows for the General Manager Compliance to meet formally with the Committee, without any Executive Director or other manager being present, in line with the Codes requirements.
In addition, the Groups Auditors attend each meeting and, as a further standing item on each agenda, also meet with the Committee members without the presence of any Executive Director or manager, providing a direct line of communication between the Auditors and Non-Executive Directors.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2005 44 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Auditor Independence Policy The Group has always maintained and continues to maintain a policy of strict separation between the auditing and consultancy functions of its external Auditors.
The Group regularly reviews its Auditor Independence Policy document, which provides clear definitions of services that the external Auditors can and cannot provide such that their independence and objectivity are not impaired.
The policy also establishes a formal authorisation process, including the tendering and pre-approval by the Audit Committee for allowable non-audit work that they may perform and establishes guidelines for the recruitment of employees or former employees of the external Auditors.
This policy is published on the Groups website www.
In accordance with best practice guidelines the rotation of the lead Audit Partner within  LLP PwC took place at the beginning of the financial year.
The Audit Committee also carried out bi-annual reviews of the remuneration received by PwC for audit services, audit related services and nonaudit work with the aim of seeking to balance objectivity, value for money and compliance with this policy.
The outcome of these reviews was not only that performance of the relevant non-audit work by PwC was the most cost-effective way of conducting the Groups business but also that no conflict of interest existed between such audit and non-audit work.
The fees for such non-audit work within the financial year were principally related to due diligence activity, tax advisory work associated with the reorganisation of legal entities within the Group, assistance with regard to the activity relating to Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 compliance and assistance in preparing the Group for compliance with International Financial Reporting Standards, which become effective for the financial year ending 30 September 2006.
In other situations, proposed assignments were subject to independent tendering with decisions taken on the basis of competence and cost-effectiveness.
Following a review during the year by the Audit Committee of the scope, efficiency and effectiveness of the audits performed by PwC it was agreed that the Group continues to receive an efficient, effective and independent audit service.
Internal control The Board acknowledges responsibility for the Groups system of internal control.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, reviews the effectiveness of the system in accordance with the guidance set out in Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull guidance from information and regular reports provided by management, the internally independent Group Compliance Function and external Auditors.
However, given the size and complexity of the Groups operations, such a system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance of meeting internal control objectives by managing rather than eliminating risk.
The Board, either directly, or through the Audit Committee which reports its findings for consideration by the Board, regularly reviewed the effectiveness of the key procedures which have been established to provide internal control and confirms that an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks operated throughout the year and up to the date of the approval of the Annual Report.
Whilst the Group has established control processes and procedures, primarily to ensure compliance with the best practice governance provisions as advocated by the Turnbull Guidance, it is recognised that there is also a requirement to comply with any relevant US governance and control provisions.
The provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act require US listed companies to adopt a generally accepted framework of control, advocating the Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission COSO as appropriate.
The Group considers its approach, methodology and actions in support of maintaining high standards of corporate governance satisfies the requirements of both Turnbull and COSO.
The following key features have operated to provide reassurance of both the reliability of information and the safeguarding of assets: Risk assessment: The Group clearly sets out its strategic objectives as part of its medium-term planning process.
These objectives are then incorporated as part of the annual planning cycle and are supported by the use of both financial and non-financial key performance indicators.
A detailed assessment of strategic risks is undertaken by the Executive Directors as part of the medium-term planning and annual and monthly forecasting reporting cycles.
All areas of the business are required to undertake risk-profiling exercises to formally review their principal areas of risk so that all major risks are reviewed at all levels across the Group.
This formal system is based on the annual submission of risk assessment summaries from each of the business operations identifying their major areas of business risk, together with the controls embedded in the business processes to mitigate such risks.
This review is ongoing throughout all business operations of the Group to ensure that there continues to be clear and consistent procedures for monitoring, updating and implementing appropriate controls to minimise the risk exposure so identified.
The Audit Committee has delegated responsibility for considering Group-wide operational, financial and compliance risks on a regular basis.
Formal reporting by the Group Compliance Function at each Audit Committee meeting on the outcome of its ongoing activities, including its programme of business reviews, supports the Audit Committee and the Board in assessing the effectiveness of internal controls within the business operations.
In this way, the Audit Committee seeks to satisfy itself that the Groups exposure to major business risks is minimised such that the levels of retained risk are acceptable to the Group.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2005 45 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Internal control continued Control environment and control activities: The Group is organised on a functional basis with manufacturing, sales and marketing and central support functions each having their own management and control structures which satisfy the Groups controls, accounting policies and regulatory responsibilities.
The Board continues to review the Groups organisational structure to ensure that clearly defined lines of responsibility with appropriate delegation of authority and segregation of duties exist, with personnel of the necessary calibre in place to fulfil their roles.
Such delegated authority ensures that decisions, significant either because of their value or impact on other parts of the Group, are taken at an appropriate level.
The Board has formally adopted, and recently reviewed, a schedule of matters of a strategic, financial, operational or compliance nature, which are required to be brought to it for decision.
The Group has an established framework of policies and procedures laid down by the Board to which personnel are expected to comply.
These cover key issues such as authorisation levels, segregation of duties, ethical compliance matters and legislation, physical and data security as well as regulatory, governance, and health, safety and environmental issues.
This framework of policies and procedures, which has been developed and issued, with consistent communication throughout the Group, is reviewed and updated on a periodic basis to ensure it continues to provide the requisite control guidance and remains pertinent to the Groups business activities.
A formal policy and arrangements for dealing in confidence with issues of genuine and significant concern raised by employees or others relating to perceived malpractice, improper business practices, management impropriety or other similar matters, whether financial or nonfinancial commonly referred to as whistleblowing arrangements operates throughout the Group.
The Group has an established and consistent methodology for ranking the level of risk from each of its business operations and identifying significant risk issues associated therewith.
Appropriate strategies have been implemented to deal with each significant risk that has been identified, including not only internal controls but also other external measures such as insurance and dual sourcing of supplies.
This approach was reviewed by the Audit Committee in June 2005 to ensure that it continued to accurately reflect the relevant risks and took into account necessary movements in the Groups risk profile consequent upon changes in business operations.
There are well-defined procedures for appraisal, approval, control and review of capital and strategic expenditure including acquisitions.
The Groups treasury function operates within a well defined policy designed to control the Groups financing arrangements and to minimise its exposure to interest rate and foreign exchange risks through treasury instruments.
Information and communication: Each area of the business is required to produce detailed financial plans prior to the start of each financial year, which are reviewed for robustness and realism.
A comprehensive system of controls, including regular periodic performance reviews for each area of the business, is in place to ensure that major variances against plan are promptly and thoroughly investigated.
These reviews are conducted at a detailed level within each function and at a high level by the Chief Executives Committee.
The achievement of business objectives, both financial and non-financial, is assessed on a regular basis using a range of key performance indicators.
These indicators are reviewed to ensure that they remain relevant and reliable.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2005 46 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Internal control continued Monitoring: A range of procedures is used to review the risk profile and monitor the effective application of internal controls across the Group.
These include independent reviews by the Group Compliance Function, together with self-assessment of risks and relevant controls.
Furthermore both the senior operational and financial managers of each business and function annually certify that effective systems of internal control, in accordance with the Groups policies and covering all business activities both financial and non-financial, have been maintained within their area of responsibility.
The Group Compliance Functions responsibilities include reporting at each Audit Committee Meeting on the effectiveness of internal control systems, focusing on those areas of greatest perceived risk to the Group.
Follow-up procedures ensure that there is an appropriate response to recommendations for any enhancement to risk controls as identified by the independent reviews of the Group Compliance Function.
As a consequence of its US Listing, the Group is required to comply with the provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act that apply to foreign issuers.
The Group continues to monitor its legal and regulatory obligations arising from this act and has taken actions to ensure compliance with those requirements that have already become effective.
Furthermore through a programme of activity, project managed by the Group Compliance Function, the Group is further enhancing its control documentation and testing its internal controls over financial reporting in order to fully satisfy the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, applicable for the Group for the financial year ending 30 September 2006.
The Audit Committee confirms it has reviewed and reported to the Board on the system of internal control for the financial year ended 30 September 2005 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
Through the procedural and reporting framework for monitoring business risks and controls, as set out above, and review of the Groups financial statements, it is satisfied there is sufficient information to enable it to review the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
Disclosure Committee: In line with recommendations issued by the US Securities & Exchange Commission and to meet developing corporate governance best practice in the UK, the Group also has a Disclosure Committee comprising appropriate senior executives: The Company Secretary Chairman General Manager Compliance Co-ordinator Senior Legal Counsel Head of Management Accounting The External Auditors together with other senior management attend by invitation.
In the context of the Groups disclosure obligations, the Committee, in accordance with its terms of reference, considers the significance of relevant information identified and reports on its evaluation to the Chief Executive, Finance Director and, as appropriate, the Audit Committee, in order to assist them in their evaluation of material issues for the purposes of any disclosure that may be required.
The terms of reference of the Disclosure Committee are reviewed on a regular basis and were comprehensively reviewed during the financial year.
Going concern The Directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to meet its operational needs for the foreseeable future and accordingly they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Pension fund The Groups main pension fund, the Imperial Tobacco Pension Fund, is not controlled by the Board but by Trustees, consisting of five nominees from the Company, one member chosen by employees and two by current and deferred pensioners.
The Trustees look after the assets of the pension fund, which are held separately from those of the Group and are managed by independent fund managers.
The pension fund assets can only be used in accordance with its rules and for no other purpose.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2005 47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT New York Stock Exchange Corporate Governance Requirements As a listed non-US issuer, the Group is required to comply with some of the New York Stock Exchanges NYSE listing standards relating to the corporate governance practices of listed companies, being exempt from others.
However there is an obligation to disclose any significant ways in which its corporate governance practices differ from those followed by US companies under the NYSE listing standards.
At this time, the Group believes that it is in compliance, in all material respects, with the relevant NYSE listing standards.
However, in respect of the NYSE standards relating to the composition of a Nomination Corporate Governance Committee, it is currently the Groups practice to include the Chief Executive, in addition to all of the Non-Executive Directors, on the Nominations Committee.
However he will step down from the Committee with effect from the forthcoming AGM.
Furthermore it is the Board, not this Committee, that develops, recommends and adopts the corporate governance principles to be applied throughout the Group.
It should also be noted that the role of an internal audit department is incorporated within the general remit of the internally independent Group Compliance Function.
Communication with shareholders Communication with all shareholders is given a high priority and a number of methods are used to promote greater understanding and dialogue with investment audiences.
The Chairman and Chief Executive ensure that the views expressed at any meetings with major shareholders are effectively communicated to the Board as a whole so that any issues or concerns are fully understood.
The Groups Annual Review, a summary financial statement, provides shareholders with the material information concerning Imperial Tobacco Group in a form more readily assimilated than the full Annual Report and Accounts.
Shareholders can also request the full Annual Report and Form 20-F. At the half year an Interim Report was published.
All of these documents are available online through the Imperial Tobacco website www.
com, together with all announcements, investor presentations and share price information.
During the year shareholders were kept informed of the progress of the Group through trading statements and other announcements of significant developments through regulatory releases, which were also made available on other news services and on the Groups website.
There was regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and participation in sector conferences.
This has been extended to ensure that major shareholders are given the opportunity to meet Non-Executive Directors, on appointment, and that the senior independent Non-Executive Director attends meetings with major investors, if so requested.
The Group regularly liaises with its major shareholders and their representative bodies on significant issues.
For example, as an integral part of the executive remuneration review undertaken in 2004, a consultation exercise with major shareholders was undertaken and the Company amended its initial proposals to take account of the feedback received.
The Group also met with Corporate Governance representatives of investors when requested.
The Board receives regular feedback from Executive Directors and external agents in respect of results presentations and other meetings with shareholders and analysts.
Additionally, there is an opportunity at the AGM for individual shareholders to receive presentations from the Chairman and Chief Executive on the Groups performance and current business activities and to question the Chairman and the chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees and other Directors.
It is the Groups practice to make arrangements to send the Annual Report and Accounts to shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the AGM.
All shareholders are offered the choice of submitting proxy votes either electronically or in paper format, including the ability to abstain if desired.
Historically the Group has indicated the level of proxy votes lodged in respect of each resolution proposed at its AGMs, together with the number of votes for and against each such resolution including details of abstentions, following each vote on a show of hands.
Subsequently the results were also published on the Companys website.
For the 2006 AGM onwards all resolutions at the AGM will be put to a poll, the result of which will be announced after the conclusion of the meeting through a Regulatory Information Service release and on the Companys website.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2005 48 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Statement of Directors responsibilities Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at the balance sheet date and of the profit or loss and the cash flows of the Group for that period.
The Directors consider that suitable accounting policies have been used.
These have been applied consistently.
They also confirm that reasonable judgements and estimates have been made in preparing the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 September 2005 and that applicable Accounting Standards have been followed.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any given time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Groups website.
Information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Statement of Auditors responsibilities Imperial Tobacco Group PLCs Registered Auditors,  LLP, are responsible for forming an independent opinion on the financial statements of the Group as presented by the Directors, on other elements of the Annual Report and Accounts as required by legislation or regulation and for reporting their opinion to shareholders.
Their report is set out on page 65.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2005 49 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT This Report has been prepared by the Remuneration Committee, in accordance with schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 and to meet the relevant requirements of the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
In particular, it describes how the Board has applied the principles of good governance relating to Directors remuneration set out in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
The Companies Act 1985 requires the Auditors to report to the Companys shareholders on the audited information within the Directors Remuneration Report the Report and to state whether, in their opinion, those parts of the Report have been prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
The Auditors opinion is set out on page 65 and those aspects of the Report which have been subject to audit have been clearly marked.
The Remuneration Committee, which met four times during the year and operates under clear written terms of reference available on the Companys website www.
com, confirms formally that it has been in compliance with the governance rules and best practice provisions relating to remuneration as set out in Section 1 of the Code throughout the year.
Remuneration Committee Membership The Remuneration Committee is comprised exclusively of Non-Executive Directors who have no personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the matters to be decided.
The members of the Committee during the year were: Mr I J G Napier Chairman : Mr D C Bonham who will be stepping down from the Committee at the Annual General Meeting the AGM : Mr S Huismans who is retiring from the Board at the AGM : Dr P H Jungels: and Mr D W Thursfield resigned 28 10 05 Mr G Davis, Chief Executive, attends by invitation to respond to questions raised by the Committee: however he is specifically excluded from any matter concerning the details of his own remuneration.
Mr M R Phillips, Company Secretary, also attends meetings as secretary to the Committee.
It is proposed that following the AGM Ms S E Murray will become a member of the Committee.
Advisers to the Remuneration Committee The Committee sets the remuneration package for each Executive Director and member of the Chief Executives Committee after taking advice principally from external sources, including remuneration consultants Hewitt Bacon & Woodrow Limited and Towers Perrin, both of whom are engaged by the Committee as required.
Hewitt Bacon & Woodrow Limited also review the Groups remuneration principles and practices against corporate governance best practice.
Neither provide any other services for the Group.
Executive remuneration data provided by KPMG engaged by the Committee as required and having provided tax and other consultancy services to the Group and Towers Perrin has also been used to assist in benchmarking processes ensuring the consistent application of the executive remuneration policy.
Ms K A Brown, Group Human Resources Director, Mr M R Phillips, Company Secretary and Mr D P Cuthbert, Group Compensation and Benefits Manager, also provide internal support and advice to the Committee.
Solicitors Allen & Overy LLP and Ashurst have also been retained by the Company to provide legal advice in respect of the Groups share schemes and to provide services to the Committee as and when required.
Both firms also provide other legal services to the Group as a whole.
The Company has appointed Alithos Limited to undertake Total Shareholder Return TSR calculations and provide advice on all TSR related matters.
Alithos Limited provides no other services for the Group.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2005 50 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Responsibilities The Board is ultimately responsible for the framework and cost of executive remuneration but has delegated to the Remuneration Committee responsibility for the following activities: Determining the remuneration levels and conditions of service for Executive Directors and members of the Chief Executives Committee: Overseeing the overall policy for senior management remuneration: and Overseeing the Groups employee share or cash based incentive schemes including approval of minor rule amendments, invitations and awards and the allocation or issue of shares or payments under any such schemes.
The Committees approach is fully consistent with the Groups overall remuneration strategy and philosophy that all employees should be competitively rewarded to attract and retain their valued skills in the business, as well as supporting corporate strategy, by directly aligning executive management with the Groups strategic business goals.
Remuneration strategy Imperial Tobacco Group PLC operates in an increasingly competitive, international environment.
For the Group to continue to compete successfully it is essential that the level of remuneration and benefits offered achieves the objectives of attracting, developing, retaining and motivating the necessary high quality pool of talented employees, at all levels, across the Group.
The Group therefore sets out to provide competitive remuneration to all its employees, appropriate to the business environment in those countries in which it operates.
As the Group develops internationally and integrates acquisitions, it continues to need to relocate employees from country to country as the requirements of the business dictate and has developed its remuneration arrangements accordingly.
The remuneration strategy is therefore designed not only to align with the Groups fundamental values of fairness, competitiveness and equity but also to support the Groups corporate strategy, as a significant contributor to its competitive advantage.
A cohesive reward structure across the Group is seen as critical in ensuring that all employees can associate with and strive for the Groups strategic goals.
This structure is consistently applied to all employees and well communicated to ensure each element of the package is understood and the links to corporate performance recognised.
To assist in this communication senior employees are issued with total reward statements.
The Group also seeks to align the interests of shareholders and employees at all levels by giving employees opportunities and encouragement to build a shareholding in Imperial Tobacco Group PLC.
Through a series of share plan initiatives, Sharesave arrangements and Share Matching Schemes, the vast majority of employees of the Company and its subsidiaries have been offered participation in one or more equity-based plans with in excess of 40 per cent of the eligible population taking advantage of those invitations.
Executive remuneration policy The remuneration package for Executive Directors and members of the Chief Executives Committee, as determined by the Remuneration Committee, is designed to attract and retain high quality executives, induce loyalty and motivate them to achieve a high level of corporate performance in line with the best interests of shareholders, while not being excessive.
The package is also in line with the Groups overall strategy, as detailed above, on pay and benefits and, as the Group extends its business internationally, it takes account of market practices outside the UK where the scope of a particular executives role warrants this approach.
The executive remuneration policy combines short term and long term rewards, focusing on performance-related elements that take into account individual, functional and corporate performance.
The main components are base salary, annual cash bonus, share matching scheme SMS, long-term incentive plan LTIP and pension benefits, with an increased weighting towards performance-related variable reward elements.
In the financial year to September 2005, base salary typically represented around 26 per cent of total remuneration for the Chief Executive and Finance Director and around 35 per cent of total remuneration for the other Executive Directors with annual bonus and awards vesting under SMS and LTIP schemes making up the balance.
Following approval of the revised share plans by shareholders at the 2005 AGM, for the financial year to September 2006 base pay will represent around 20 per cent of Executive Directors potential remuneration.
The executive remuneration policy is set to provide base salary at around the median level of its comparator group while providing the Executive Directors and Chief Executives Committee members with the capacity to earn upper quartile total compensation on achievement of superior business performance.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2005 51 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Percentage of Total Remuneration for the financial year to 30 September 2005 Mr G Davis Mr R Dyrbus Mr D Cresswell Dr F A Rogerson 0 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Salary Benefits Bonus SMS LTIP From the financial year to September 2004, more stringent performance criteria have been and continue to be applied to the performance-related elements as detailed in the annual cash bonus and LTIP sections below and on page 55 both of which form part of this policy statement.
In August 2005 the Remuneration Committee reviewed its executive remuneration policy, including reward policies, performance criteria, relevant comparator groups and vesting schedules and is satisfied that these remain appropriate and support the strategy and objectives of the Group, including the creation of shareholder value.
Base salary Base salary is reviewed annually and is determined by the Remuneration Committee following detailed consideration of a number of factors including individual responsibilities, performance and external market data.
It is set within a range around the market median of the comparator group to reflect the experience, responsibility, effectiveness and market value of the relevant executive.
The comparator group of companies chosen remains the FTSE 50 excluding companies in the Financial and Pharmaceutical sectors.
Base salary is the only element of the package used to determine pensionable earnings.
Annual cash bonus During the period under review, bonus targets related principally to the achievement of Group profit objectives set at the beginning of the financial year.
However, the specific targets are not disclosed since they are considered to be commercially confidential.
For the financial year ended 30 September 2005 the potential maximum bonus was 100 per cent of base salary for the Chief Executive and 2 Finance Director and 75 per cent for other Executive Directors.
For all Executive Directors potential bonus representing 66 3 per cent of base salary related to achievement of profit based performance criteria.
The attainment of bonus in excess of this level was subject to achievement of additional stretching and incremental performance criteria.
Performance in the financial year has resulted in bonuses, as detailed in the table on page 54, being awarded to Executive Directors.
These payments represented 76.6 per cent of base salary in respect of the Chief Executive and Finance Director and 69.6 per cent in respect of the other Executive Directors.
Cash bonuses were also earned by other senior executives for achieving performance targets for the financial year to 30 September 2005.
For the financial year ended 30 September 2006 the Remuneration Committee has determined that the potential maximum bonus is 100 per cent of base salary for the Chief Executive and Finance Director and 75 per cent per cent for other Executive Directors.
For all Executive Directors 2 potential bonus representing 66 3 per cent of base salary is related to achievement of profit based performance criteria.
The attainment of bonus in excess of this level is subject to achievement of additional stretching and incremental performance criteria.
No element of the bonus is guaranteed.
The Executive Directors may elect to invest some or all of their gross bonus in the SMS as detailed on page 58.
IMPERIAL TOBACCO GROUP PLC 2005 52 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT DIRECTORS EMOLUMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED 30 SEPTEMBER 2005 2005 2004 000 000 Executive Directors Salary 1,964 1,980 Benefits 76 220 Bonus 1,367 1,455 1 LTIP annual vesting 1,823 1,508 2 SMS vesting 1,650 1,512 6,880 6,675 Non-Executive Directors Fees 601 485 Benefits 7 7 Reemtsma Supervisory Boards 22 22 630 514 Former directors Consultancy fees to former executive director 100 125 Reemtsma Supervisory Boards 22 22 Salary of former Executive Directors 305 397 Bonus 258 Benefits 16 26 443 828 Fees of former Non-Executive Directors Company 12 Reemtsma Supervisory Boards 7 19 Total remuneration 7,953 8,036 Chief Executives Committee excluding Executive Directors Salary 877 Benefits 37 Bonus 609 1 LTIP annual vesting 273 2 SMS vesting 307 2,103 1 Value of LTIP shares vesting in the year, based on the closing share price on the day of exercise.
2 Value of SMS shares vesting on maturity based on the closing share price on the day of vesting.
2 LTIP and SMS represent the value of awards vesting and LTIP options exercised in the year on annual vesting.
3 Mr S T Painter retired from the Board on 31 May 2000 but receives fees on a consultancy basis and in connection with his appointments to Supervisory Boards within the Reemtsma Group.
4 Mr L W Staby resigned from the Board on 9 July 2003, but it was agreed that his remuneration continued until the expiry of his term of office on 1 February 2004.
5 Mr M A Hussler resigned from the Board on 9 July 2003 but remained an employee receiving his full contractual remuneration until his resignation from employment on 30 April 2005 6 Mr B C Davidson resigned from the Board on 9 February 2005 and subsequently left the Company on 30 April 2005.
7 Mr I J G Napier was appointed Joint Vice Chairman on 8 December 2004.
Ms S E Murray was appointed to the Board on 8 December 2004 and Mr C R Day was appointed to the Board on 25 July 2005.
8 No sums were paid to any Director by way of taxable expenses allowances.
9 Includes 10,000 in respect of Chairmanship of Board Committee.
10 Mr D W Thursfield resigned from the Board on 28 October 2005.
