Inchcape plc 36 Annual report and accounts 2005 Board report on remuneration Remuneration Committee Remuneration policy The Board has delegated responsibility to the Remuneration In establishing its remuneration policy and practice, the Committee Committee for determining and agreeing with the Board the had regard to the need to continue to support the Companys Companys policy and framework for executive remuneration.
business strategy, to allow the Company to motivate and retain It is also responsible for setting remuneration packages and its executive management whilst having regard to pay and terms of employment, including pension rights, for Executive conditions throughout the Group, and recruit executives of high Directors and certain senior executives.
The Committee was also guided by the following principles: performance incentive arrangements and approving allocations the package should be competitive i. e. at or around median under any long term incentive arrangements, including executive when compared with those in organisations of similar size, share options.
It is also responsible for determining the remuneration complexity and type: of the Chairman.
The members of the Committee are shown on page 29. there should be a clear link between the level of remuneration The Committee comprised wholly Independent Non-executive and the performance of the Group and the individual, to the extent Directors during the year and continues to do so.
The Chairman, the that performance related elements should form a significant part of Group Chief Executive and the Group Human Resources Director executives total remuneration package: attended meetings by invitation of the Committee.
the interests of the shareholders should be safeguarded Throughout 2005 the Company complied with the remuneration by aligning the remuneration package of the executives with provisions of the Combined Code the Code in respect of Directors.
shareholders interests: The contents of this report also comply with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 contained in Schedule 7A the package as a whole should be easy to understand and to the Companies Act 1985 and the relevant requirements of the motivating for the individual: and UKLA Listing Rules.
the composition of the package should reflect best practice among comparable companies.
Committee operation The Committee holds at least two meetings a year.
It has an The remuneration packages for the Executive Directors are annual meeting to review the compensation arrangements for each made up of both fixed and variable elements as described below.
Executive Director and certain senior executives, in advance of the In broad terms, if the Group meets its target levels of performance, annual salary review on 1 April.
It also holds a further meeting to the expected value of the variable elements will account for consider policy issues, and development in market best practice, approximately 48.0% to 52.0% of the Executive Directors including the monitoring of award levels and consequent Company total remuneration and, if the Group achieves outstanding results, liabilities.
In addition, ad hoc meetings are held as required.
If target performance levels are The number of meetings held and details of members attendance not met, then no pay out is made under the incentive plans.
As part are shown in the table on page 32.
Neither the Chairman, nor any of its annual review of market best practice to ensure that executive executive, is involved in deciding their own remuneration.
remuneration arrangements remain effective and appropriate to the The Committee has authority from the Board to obtain the Groups circumstances and prospects, the Committee has made services of external independent advisors, as it may require.
certain adjustments to Executives packages for 2006.
These are Towers Perrin provided advice to the Committee throughout highlighted in the relevant section of the report.
In addition, Towers Perrin provided advice to the Board on intends to conduct a more comprehensive review during 2006 to Non-executive fees and Board performance, and to the Group in ensure that the remuneration policy is aligned with the Companys connection with the adoption of International Financial Reporting future strategic goals.
Each year, the Chairman Total remuneration for these purposes comprises base salary, of the Committee reviews the use of advisors and he considers the annual bonus and long term incentives.
continued appointment of Towers Perrin as appropriate.
The remuneration packages of the Executive Directors are In addition to Towers Perrin, the Committee has been advised explained in detail below as they apply to 2005 and, as far as internally during the year by Peter Johnson, Group Chief Executive, possible, for subsequent years.
Any changes in policy for subsequent Andr Lacroix from 1 January 2006 following his appointment as years will be described in future reports on Directors remuneration.
Group Chief Executive, Roy Williams, Group Company Secretary and Nick Smith, Group Human Resources Director.
These external Base salary and internal sources of advice and data available to the Committee, Base salaries are set by the Committee, taking into account the together with consideration of the levels of pay increases for other individuals level of responsibility, experience, and performance, along employees and the remuneration policy outlined below, provide a with salary levels in comparable companies.
The comparator group framework for the decision making process.
is made up of twenty five general industry companies, almost all being companies in the FTSE mid 250 index.
Those companies were chosen because they are of a similar size and complexity measured in terms of revenues, market capitalisation, employee numbers and international scope as the Company.
Executive Directors salary increases in 2005 took into account the relevant median data from this comparative group, and the individuals performance.
Base salary is the only element of remuneration which is pensionable.
Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2005 37 Annual bonus Executive share option plan During 2005 the Executive Directors participated in a bonus plan Under the Plan, share options are granted to Executive Directors based 90.0% on profit before tax PBT.
A further measure, stock and certain other senior executives throughout the Group.
The option ageing and churn, was introduced to incentivise an improvement in price is calculated by rounding up the arithmetic average of the working capital.
This represented 10.0% of the annual bonus market quotations of a share for the three dealing days immediately opportunity.
In respect of 2005, the bonus plans for Peter Johnson preceding the date of grant.
The 2005 grant of share options and Andr Lacroix, who joined the Company on 1 September 2005, covered over 250 participants across the world.
Details of share yield a bonus of 40.0% of base salary if target performance is options granted to Executive Directors in 2005 are shown in note 3 achieved and higher payments for performance above target to a on pages 41 and 42. maximum of 90.0% of base salary.
The bonus payment for Andr Options granted following the 2004 AGM vest according to a Lacroix has been pro-rated from his date of joining.
Graeme Potts and sliding scale: 25.0% of the award will vest if earnings per share EPS Alan Fergusons bonus plans yield a bonus of 30.0% of base salary if growth of RPI 3.0% per annum is achieved over the initial three year target performance is achieved and higher payments for performance period, with all of the award vesting if EPS growth is RPI 8.0% per above target to a maximum of 70.0% of base salary.
The bonus annum or greater.
Options will vest on a straight line basis between payment for Alan Ferguson has been pro-rated to his date of leaving.
No options will vest if EPS growth is less than In 2005, the Company met its PBT performance targets set at the RPI 3.0% per annum.
There will be no retesting.
start of the year for the bonus plan and met 90.0% of the stock The Committee has retained EPS as the performance measure ageing and churn target.
The resultant bonuses for Peter Johnson, to ensure that Executive Directors only receive rewards if there is Andr Lacroix, Graeme Potts and Alan Ferguson are shown in the significant and sustained improvement in the underlying financial remuneration table on page 40. performance of the Company.
EPS will continue to be the headline Adjustments to Executive Directors bonus plans have been earnings per ordinary share, which excludes volatile one off matters made for 2006 to reflect market best practice.
Bonus will be based such as exceptional items.
In exceptional circumstances, the 70.0% on PBT, 20.0% on working capital and 10.0% on achievement Committee has the right to adjust the published EPS, as it considers of personal objectives.
For Andr Lacroix, his bonus plan will yield appropriate.
If this were to be the case, any adjustment would be a bonus of 50.0% of base salary if target performance is achieved disclosed in this report.
In light of changes to accounting standards, and higher payments for performance above target to a maximum the Remuneration Committee has made necessary adjustments to of 110.0% of base salary.
Graeme Potts bonus plan will yield a bonus ensure a consistent basis in respect of the EPS measure used to of 40.0% of base salary if target performance is achieved and a evaluate performance.
maximum of 90.0% of base salary for performance above target.
During the year, the Committee made annual grants of two In the course of revising Graeme Potts service contract, it was times base salary taking into account the Executive Directors and agreed that if he remains in employment on 30 June 2006, he will the Companys performance.
This grant level is necessary to keep also receive a cash bonus equivalent to the value on that date of the Companys long term incentive provision in line with the market.
2,500 fully paid ordinary shares of 150.0p in Inchcape plc and if he Grants in excess of the two times limit may be required in the remains in employment on 30 June 2007, he will receive a cash future in the event of new hires or developments in market practice.
bonus equivalent to the value on that date of 7,500 fully paid ordinary In this regard, the Committee has the flexibility under the Plan rules shares of 150.0p in Inchcape plc adjusted appropriately in the event to increase the maximum allowable annual grant level to four times of a reorganisation of Inchcapes share capital.
Deferred bonus plan SAYE share option scheme The Plan is a voluntary plan and is available to Executive Directors The Inchcape SAYE share option scheme is open to employees and certain other senior executives.
The purpose of the Plan is to give in the UK with at least three months service.
Participants make participants a share-linked reward that is related to the participants monthly savings for a three year period.
At the end of the savings commitment to maintaining a shareholding in the Company.
period share options become exercisable for a six month period.
Details of awards made to Executive Directors in 2005 under the Plan are shown in note 4 on pages 42 and 43.
Participants may invest a minimum of 10.0% and a maximum of 75.0% of any net of tax bonus award to acquire ordinary shares in the Company.
These shares will then be matched with a one for one matching share at the end of a three year period.
In addition, to comply with current best practice and to align Executive Directors rewards under the Plan to shareholders interests, there is a performance condition attached to the vesting of their matching shares.
That test is EPS growth of RPI 3.0% per annum, with no retesting.
EPS has been chosen because the Committee believes the key to the Company delivering value to shareholders is through continued strong earnings growth over the long term.
EPS will be measured in the same manner as for the Executive Share Option Plan.
Subject to that performance condition being met, the Directors shares being held in trust for three years and the Director remaining an employee of the Group, they will become entitled to be awarded shares to an amount equal to the gross amount of the bonus used to acquire ordinary shares in the Company.
Inchcape plc 38 Annual report and accounts 2005 Board report on remuneration continued Executive share ownership Taxable and other benefits To emphasise the importance the Committee places on executive These include such items as company car and medical and life share ownership, Executive Directors are expected to hold a fixed assurance premiums.
They are in line with the remuneration policy number of shares equivalent to 100.0% base salary.
They have up to framework outlined above.
five years from 2004, or date of appointment as an Executive Director if later, to reach this shareholding target.
Performance graph The following graph illustrates the Groups Total Shareholder Return At the end of the year, by reference to the share price at that date, TSR over a five year period, relative to the performance of the total Executive Directors share ownership levels are as follows: return index of the FTSE mid 250 group of companies.
TSR is essentially share price growth plus reinvested dividends.
The FTSE Share Ownership expressed as percentage mid 250 has been chosen as the most suitable comparator as it is Name of Director against base salary the general market index in which Inchcape plc appears.
Peter Johnson Historical TSR performance 100.0 holding retired as Group Chief Executive on 31 December 2005 194% Andr Lacroix appointed on 1 September 2005 37% 1200 Inchcape plc FTSE 250 excluding investment trusts Graeme Potts 109% 1000 800 Retirement benefits The Inchcape Group UK Pension Scheme provides benefits for 600 Executive Directors and certain other senior executives at the normal 400 retirement age of sixty, equal to a maximum of two-thirds of final base salary, subject to completion of twenty years service.
200 The Scheme is non-contributory for members who joined prior to 31 March 2005.
There is a 7.0% contribution and a retirement age 0 Dec 00 Dec 01 Dec 02 Dec 03 Dec 04 Dec 05 of sixty-five for new members from that date.
Pensions in payment are guaranteed to increase in line with Growth in the value of a hypothetical 100.0 holding over five years FTSE 250 the lesser of 5.0% and the increase in the RPI.
A lump sum benefit excluding investment companies comparison based on thirty trading day average values.
of four times base salary is provided on death in service, along with a spouses pension of two-thirds of the members pension.
Chairmans remuneration Childrens pensions may also be payable, up to one-third of the During the year the Chairmans remuneration was determined by members pension.
the Committee, taking advice from Towers Perrin on best practice In the case of Executive Directors and certain other senior and competitive levels, taking into account responsibilities and time executives appointed after 1 June 1989, the benefits under the commitment.
The Chairman is not eligible for pension scheme Inchcape Group UK Pension Scheme are in respect of capped base membership or participation in any of the Companys bonus, share salary.
For those Executive Directors and certain other senior option or other incentive schemes.
executives whose base salary is capped, or who are not members of the UK management pension scheme, a separate life assurance Non-executive Directors remuneration exists to supplement the approved life cover to a total lump sum The remuneration of Non-executive Directors consists of fees for benefit of four times base salary on death in service.
Executives their services in connection with Board and Committee meetings.
whose base salary is capped are paid a monthly cash supplement Non-executive Directors fees are determined by the Board, within to enable them to make their own pension arrangements.
the restrictions contained in the Articles of Association.
Fees are The Executive Directors who received such supplements in the reviewed annually, with the Board taking advice from Towers Perrin year are Peter Johnson until his retirement as Group Chief Executive on best practice and competitive levels, taking into account the on 31 December 2005, and Graeme Potts.
Details of the amounts individuals responsibilities and time commitment.
The Non-executive paid are shown in note1 on page 40.
Andr Lacroix, who joined Directors are not involved in deciding their fees.
the Company on 1 September 2005, received a cash supplement Non-executive Directors are not eligible for pension scheme of 40.0% of his base salary in lieu of formal pension provision.
membership or participation in any of the Companys bonus, share He is not a member of the UK Management Pension scheme.
option or other incentive schemes.
With the impending pensions legislation changes in 2006, the Committee has agreed to maintain its current pension arrangements.
Service contracts This means that there will be no increase in company cost risk and The Executive Directors have service contracts with a notice that executives are not receiving compensation for the changed period of one year.
During the year, Graeme Potts service contract tax situation.
was revised by agreement with him and the entitlement to special compensation if his employment is terminated without proper notice by the Group within six months of a change of control was removed.
Neither Andr Lacroixs nor Barbara Richmonds service contracts contain any such entitlement.
In the event of termination, the Company will seek fair mitigation of contractual rights.
Within legal constraints, the Remuneration Committee tailors its approach, in cases of early termination, to the circumstances of each individual case.
Neither Peter Johnson nor Alan Ferguson received severance payments upon their retirement and resignation respectively.
Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2005 39 Details of the Executive Directors service contracts are as follows: BR Incentive Plan Barbara Richmond has agreed to join the Group as Group Finance Name Date of contract Unexpired term Director on 3 April 2006 and her remuneration package will be in line with the policy set out in this report.
In order to compensate her Peter Johnson 1 January 1998 Retired on for the loss of existing benefits from her former employer, the 31 December 2005 Remuneration Committee considered it necessary, in these unusual Andr Lacroix 1 September 2005 To normal circumstances to establish a special long term incentive plan retirement age BR Incentive Plan, to facilitate her recruitment as the Group Alan Ferguson 1 January 1999 Resigned on Finance Director, in which she will be eligible to participate after 14 September 2005 she joins.
Barbara Richmond will be the sole participant in the Graeme Potts 10 September 2002 To normal BR Incentive Plan.
revised 25 July 2005 retirement age Under the terms of her plan, subject to Barbara Richmonds continuing employment and the percentage growth in the Companys Normal retirement age is sixty for Graeme Potts and sixty-five for earnings per share over the relevant performance period exceeding Andr Lacroix.
The Group changed its policy during 2005 so that all the rate of inflation over the same period by at least 3.0% per year, new joiners have a normal retirement age of sixty-five.
she will be eligible to receive two tranches of 3,666 Inchcape plc As explained in the Corporate Governance Report, Non-executive shares each, which would vest at the end of 2006 and 2007 Directors are appointed for an initial period of three years, which respectively, and a third tranche of shares, which would vest at the may be extended by agreement with the Board.
The number of shares under the final tranche is to be engaged on a service contract with the Company.
determined according to the share price on 31 March 2006.
Assuming a share price of 2512.0p the share price prevailing on AL Incentive Plan 3 March 2006, the last business day before the date of the To compensate Andr Lacroix for loss of existing benefits from accounts the maximum number of shares under the final tranche his former employer, the Remuneration Committee considered it would not exceed 10,154 and, on this basis, the maximum number necessary, in these unusual circumstances, to establish a special of Inchcape plc shares which Barbara Richmond could receive under long term incentive plan AL Incentive Plan, to facilitate his this plan would be 17,486. recruitment as the Group Chief Executive.
Andr Lacroix is the sole No amendment shall be made to Barbara Richmonds advantage participant in the AL Incentive Plan.
He became eligible to participate in respect of: the maximum amount of shares to be granted under in the AL Incentive Plan on 1 September 2005. the Plan or the basis for determining Barbara Richmonds entitlement Under the terms of this plan, subject to Andr Lacroixs to or terms of such shares or the adjustment thereof on a continuing employment and the percentage growth in the Companys capitalisation issue: rights issue or open offer: sub-division or earnings per share over the relevant performance period exceeding consolidation of shares or reduction of capital or any other variation the rate of inflation over the same period by at least 3.0% per year, of capital without prior approval of shareholders in general meeting Andr Lacroix will be eligible to receive three tranches of 6,500 except for minor amendments to benefit the administration of the Inchcape plc shares each, which will vest at the end of 2006, 2007 scheme, to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or and 2008 respectively.
The maximum grant of Inchcape plc shares maintain favourable tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment which Andr Lacroix could receive under this plan is therefore 19,500. for participants in the scheme or for the Company or for members No amendment shall be made to Andr Lacroixs advantage in of its group.
respect of: the maximum amount of shares to be granted under the Benefits under the scheme are not pensionable.
plan or the basis for determining Andr Lacroixs entitlement to or The proposed terms of the plan will be available for inspection terms of such shares or the adjustment thereof on a capitalisation from todays date until the close of the 2006 AGM at 22a St. Jamess issue: rights issue or open offer: sub-division or consolidation of Square, London SW1Y 5LP and at The Royal Automobile Club, shares or reduction of capital or any other variation of capital without 89-91, Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5HS for at least fifteen minutes prior approval of shareholders in general meeting except for minor before and during the 2006 AGM.
amendments to benefit the administration of the scheme, to take account of a change in legislation or to obtain or maintain favourable Policy on external appointments tax, exchange control or regulatory treatment for participants in the Inchcape recognises that its Executive Directors may well be invited scheme or for the Company or for members of its group.
to become Non-executive Directors of other companies and that this Benefits under the scheme are not pensionable.
additional experience is likely to benefit the Company.
Executive Full terms of the plan will be available for inspection from Directors are, therefore, allowed to accept one Non-executive todays date until the close of the 2006 AGM at 22a St. Jamess appointment two in the case of the Group Chief Executive as long Square, London SW1Y 5LP and at The Royal Automobile Club, as these are not likely to lead to conflicts of interest or undue time 89-91, Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5HS for at least fifteen minutes commitments.
The policy in respect of the Executive Directors before and during the 2006 AGM.
other commitments is kept under review by the Nomination Committee.
Any fees received for these duties may be retained by the Executive Director.
During 2005, Peter Johnson, was a Non-executive Director of Wates Group Limited, for which he received a fee of 32,000.
