Remuneration report This report is presented to shareholders by the Board and sets out achieve a successful turnaround of the business for the benefit of all the Boards remuneration policy and details of the remuneration of shareholders.
As a result of this review, the Committee has each director.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee is concluded that some parts of the current remuneration framework responsible for developing policy on executive remuneration and for should be modified.
Certain of these modifications apply either for approving the remuneration packages of individual executive the 2005 06 financial year only or for the duration of the directors.
The members of the Committee are Jean-Claude Guez transitional period until the Groups turnaround phase is completed.
Chairman of the Committee, Larry Farmer and Andrew Macfarlane, In approving these special arrangements, the Committee recognises each of whom has served throughout the year.
They are all that, as a UK listed company, Invensys should comply with the considered to be independent non-executive directors.
highest standards of UK remuneration practice wherever feasible and appropriate to do so and intends to return to a more The Committee takes advice, as appropriate, from independent conventional approach once the turnaround phase has been remuneration consultants and internally from relevant executives completed.
Specifically, the Committee has taken advice internally from the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Changes applying in 2005 06 only Senior Vice President Human Resources, the Vice President Shareholder consent is being sought at the AGM to modify, for Compensation and Benefits and the Company Secretary.
The 2005 06 only, the Invensys 1998 Senior Executive Long Term Committee continues to take remuneration consultancy advice from Incentive Plan LTIP to permit the granting of awards over shares New Bridge Street Consultants LLP.
This firm provides the principal worth in excess of the normal annual grant limit of two times salary, source of external advice to the Committee on issues relating to the up to a limit of three times salary.
remuneration of the executive directors.
The Committee has also received advice from Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer in their Changes applying on a transitional basis only capacity as lawyers to the Company on such issues, and from During the Groups turnaround period, the Committee wishes to be Punter Southall & Co Limited, which provided advice in relation to able to offer executives additional highly focussed bonus arrangements, executive directors pensions.
New Bridge Street Consultants LLP, and to do so in a way which clearly reflects the interests of which was appointed by the Committee, provided no other services shareholders.
The supplementary bonus arrangements described to the Company.
below will not be operated in respect of years after 2007 08.
The Committees terms of reference, together with the terms of The current Executive Bonus Plan the Plan, provides an New Bridge Street Consultants LLPs appointment, are available on opportunity to earn bonuses of up to 100% of salary if demanding the website www.
com corpgov or from the Company targets are achieved.
Whilst this is generally competitive, the Secretary.
Committee has concluded that, for this transitional period, a supplemental plan, the Turnaround Bonus Overlay the Overlay will The Committee meets at least four times each year and met on operate providing the opportunity to receive a supplemental bonus seven occasions during the year under review.
No non-Committee of up to a further 100% of salary in respect of any financial year.
member may attend other than by invitation of the Committee Chairman.
No directors are involved in deciding their own The Overlay will be subject to the same performance targets as the remuneration.
The adoption of this Remuneration report is subject Plan but any bonus will only commence where an above on-target to a separate shareholder resolution at the Annual General Meeting level of performance is achieved at on-target, no payment will be AGM and, to ensure that investors continue to support the made increasing, on a straight-line basis, to full payout if the full remuneration policy, there is regular dialogue with major stretch targets are achieved.
institutional shareholders and representative bodies such as the Association of British Insurers and Research, Recommendations and Any bonus earned under the Overlay will be delivered in shares that Electronic Voting.
The changes to the Companys policy for long will vest, as to 50% of the award, on the first anniversary of the term incentives were discussed with the Companys principal grant date, and, as to the other 50%, on the second anniversary.
institutional investors and with their representative bodies prior to Unvested shares will generally be subject to forfeiture if the the publication of this report.
executive leaves prior to the relevant anniversary.
Remuneration policy for executive directors Changes applying on a permanent basis The Invensys Group operates worldwide in the areas of automation, The Committee wishes to make two changes to the LTIP which will controls and process solutions.
The markets for executives and staff apply for the remainder of the plans life: within which it operates are, therefore, principally from these and related industries.
The area of executive remuneration remains First, awards under the LTIP effectively have a five-year life a threedynamic and the Committee keeps the position under review in light year performance period and a subsequent two-year holding of commercial needs, changes in competitive practices and period.
This does not reflect market practice and has proved a developments in UK corporate governance best practices.
barrier to recruitment, both in the UK and overseas.
Accordingly, shareholder consent is being sought to permit 50% of any shares The Committee is also responsible for setting the remuneration of vesting on satisfaction of the performance condition to be released the next most senior executives in the Group approximately 80 at that time with the other 50% being deferred for one year individuals, the fees of the Chairman and for the operation of the subject to the same good leaver rules as the Overlay, see page 27.
This change is being made in conjunction with the introduction of Shareholding Guidelines for executives as described on page 28.
1 Overview of changes to the remuneration framework During the year, the Committee undertook a comprehensive review Secondly, the Committee wishes to impose a different performance of the remuneration practices at Invensys in light of the current condition.
It considered a variety of performance conditions to challenges facing the Company.
Invensys needs to be able to attract determine what provides the clearest alignment between and retain a strong management team which is incentivised to management effort and the long-term interests of shareholders as it 26 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2005 felt that measuring Invensys total shareholder return TSR against The free cash outflow before legacy items in 2003 04 had the constituents of the FTSE Mid 250 did not provide this alignment.
been 40 million and the Committee wanted to provide a clear Following discussions with Invensys principal shareholders, the focus to executives on the need to move to a positive position Committee has decided to retain TSR as the principal performance on cash flow from ongoing operations.
Accordingly, it set the condition but, instead, to measure Invensys TSR against a bespoke Stretch Target 100% bonus as requiring a positive free cash inflow group of 12 global comparators.
from ongoing operations before legacy items of 15 million.
The actual free cash inflow from ongoing operations before The manner in which the Companys incentive arrangements will legacy items achieved in 2004 05 was 38 million, a year-on-year now operate going forward is set out in more detail below.
The second performance element required the Committee to be satisfied that the legacy liabilities 2 Base salary of the Company had been managed effectively and in accordance The Committee determines the level of salary for each executive with internal plans.
Base salaries are set at a level to take account of personal performance, salaries in comparable companies, internal Having rigorously reviewed the results achieved against these two relativities, wage inflation elsewhere in the Group and overall strategic performance elements, the Committee is satisfied that the affordability.
In establishing individual salary levels, the Committee is performance elements it set upfront were challenging and that the conscious that it should pay no more than is necessary to retain the bonuses awarded were earned by actual performance that was executive whilst ensuring business objectives are fulfilled.
There is no demonstrably exceptional.
automatic adjustment in respect of inflation.
The Committee confirms that it is not its policy to pay executive The Chief Executives salary is currently 660,000, the Chief directors transaction-related bonuses.
Operating Officers salary is currently 525,000 and the Chief Financial Officers salary is 400,000.
No increase has been awarded 4 Turnaround Bonus Overlay to any director in respect of the 2004 05 in the case of the Chief As explained earlier, the Committee has, on a transitional basis, Operating Officer, since his appointment to that position or introduced the Overlay which will only commence payment where 2005 06 years except in the case of promotion.
As explained on an above on-target level of performance is achieved.
At that point, page 2, it is envisaged that the Chief Operating Officer will become no payment will be due with the potential bonus increasing, on a Chief Executive on 22 July 2005 and that his salary will increase to straight-line basis, to 100% if the maximum cash bonus is earned 600,000 being less than the current incumbents salary on that under the Executive Bonus Plan.
The next review date will be 1 April 2006.
To align the interests of executive directors and shareholders, any 3 Executive Bonus Plan bonuses earned under the Overlay will be payable in shares with The Plan provides short-term incentivisation for the executive 50% of the shares awarded being released following the first directors in order to encourage the achievement of defined annual anniversary of those shares being awarded and the other 50% being financial objectives and focus on the most important measures of released following the second anniversary.
Release of the shares is business success, whilst rewarding them for outstanding generally subject to continued employment at the relevant date performance.
In this way, the Plan seeks to align the interests of although shares may be released early in defined good leaver cases shareholders and those participating in it.
or with the consent of the Committee.
Such shares will be subject to the Shareholding Guidelines explained further below.
For the forthcoming financial year, targets have been set related to free cash flow calculated on a per share basis and personal The Committee recognises that, while below practice in international objectives.
The Committee considers these targets to be appropriate, competitors, potential bonus levels are higher than normal UK as the prime focus for the Group over the period will be to ensure practice.
It is only intended to maintain bonus potential at this level that cash management from ongoing operations is effectively while the turnaround is ongoing and the Committee has committed managed.
that the Overlay will not be operated in respect of years after 2007 08.
Similarly, the quantum of the Plan remains unchanged with the threshold, target and maximum achievement levels, being 10%, 50% 5 Long Term Incentive and Option Schemes and 100% of base salary respectively.
i Long Term Incentive Plan Invensys currently uses the LTIP as its sole long term incentive.
Under For 2004 05 and future years, the Committee has decided to set out this plan, conditional awards of shares are granted, which vest after in its Remuneration report the basis on which bonuses have been three years subject to the achievement of performance conditions.
paid in relation to the targets set at the beginning of the financial The Committee intends to continue to make awards under this plan in year under review and disclose the actual targets which were set.
2005 06 and subsequently but with changes to its current operation.
This will ensure that shareholders will be able to assess the bonus targets and the link between bonuses payable and the performance After careful consideration and discussions with the Companys of the business.
principal shareholders and with representative bodies, the Committee considers that awards in 2005 06 and subsequently The bonuses paid to the executive directors in relation to the should be based on three-year TSR relative to a comparator group.
year under review are set out on page 30.
The targets set by the However, it no longer feels that the constituents of the FTSE Mid 250 Committee for executive directors for 2004 05 had two performance provide the most relevant comparator group.
Instead, a bespoke elements, with the objective of ensuring that cash from ongoing group of successful international industrial companies including operations was effectively managed both to develop the major competitors which each compete in at least one or other of ongoing operations and to manage legacy liabilities.
These factors the Groups core markets has been selected.
The companies are were considered to be critical as the basis for the Companys ABB, Eaton, Emerson, GE, Honeywell, Johnson Controls, Rockwell, recovery plan.
Schlumberger, Schneider, Siemens, Smiths Group and Yokagawa.
Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2005 27 Remuneration report continued As currently, there will be a sliding scale that would release 25% of Performance targets that are set will comply with prevailing shares at median rising, on a straight-line basis, to 100% of shares standards of best practice, for example there will be no being released for upper decile performance.
In addition, the opportunities to re-test performance conditions.
Committee will impose an additional requirement that awards will only vest if the Committee is satisfied that two underpins have been iii Savings Related Share Option Scheme SRSOS met: the first relating to achievement of stretching internal free cash The Company has an established SRSOS that has been operated in flow targets and the second relating to the efficient management of the UK and in a number of overseas countries where it has proved legacy liability items principally pension funding obligations, advantageous and practicable based on the number of eligible environmental claims, disputed taxes, ongoing litigation and employees and local legal and tax requirements.
It is based on a restructuring costs.
savings plan and offered to eligible full and part-time employees.
Options may be granted at up to a 20% discount to the market price The TSR calculations will be undertaken by New Bridge Street of the Companys shares immediately preceding the date of Consultants LLP on behalf of the Committee using the average TSR invitation.
Executive directors are eligible to participate in the of the Company and each comparator company over the three SRSOS.
The SRSOS operates in the UK within specific tax legislation month period preceding the date of an award and the three month and is, therefore, not subject to performance conditions.
average figures as at the end of the three-year performance period.
All figures will be converted into sterling using the then current iv Dilution limits exchange rates.
The Company has, at all times, complied with the dilution limits contained within its share plans principally a limit of 10% in 10 The Committee recognises that it may be appropriate to continue to years and the Committee reviews the position before any proposed evolve the performance conditions for future LTIP grants to ensure grants to ensure that this remains the position.
It is envisaged that that they complement the business strategy and will keep the the 2005 06 awards under the LTIP will involve maximum dilution of targets, and especially any underpins, under review.
approximately 2.4% which, when aggregated with the current potential of approximately 6.7% under subsisting awards, is well The LTIP has operated within an individual limit of two times salary.
within the Companys limit of 10% in any 10-year period.
Shares to The Committee believes such a limit remains appropriate in normal satisfy the Overlay will be purchased in the market.
However, to provide additional lock-in for key executives and to ensure greater focus on achievement of the 6 Shareholding Guidelines turnaround, the Committee considers that grant levels in 2005 06 Shareholding Guidelines, requiring executives to build and maintain should, on a one-off basis, be higher than this limit.
For 2005 06 a shareholding over time, have been introduced.
Under these only, anticipated award levels would be up to three times salary Guidelines, executives will be required to build and maintain with lower levels applying to below Board executives.
shareholdings using, except as required to meet their tax obligations, the entire share element of the Overlay and from the vesting of LTIP Although not strictly required under the plan rules, reflecting best awards until the minimum holding has been reached.
Only when the practice, shareholder approval is being sought for the proposed limit following levels of shareholding have been attained, will executives for 2005 06 and the Company will be seeking consent for this by be able to sell additional shares: way of a separate resolution at the AGM this year.
Going forward, the rules will provide a clear absolute grant limit rather than the Executive directors 200% of salary current indicative limit.
Presidents 100% of salary Other participants 25%-50% of salary The Company will also be seeking approval in that resolution to revise the two-year holding period that currently follows the threeThis policy is designed to replace the existing shareholding period year performance period.
Under the current rules, the performance under the LTIP.
The deferral and holding periods under the LTIP and conditions attached to an award are measured over a three-year the Overlay will also focus management attention on medium-term period and there is then an additional two-year holding period share price performance and therefore provide an appreciation that before awards are released: this five-year period does not reflect anything less than sustained Company performance will decrease the market practice and has proved a barrier to recruitment.
Instead, value of their original bonus.
the holding period will be adjusted to permit 50% of any shares vesting on satisfaction of the performance period to be released at 7 Pensions that time with the other 50% being deferred for one year subject to Details of the individual executive directors pension arrangements the same good leaver rules as the Overlay.
This change is being are set out on page 33.
Pensionable pay is defined as base salary made in conjunction with the introduction of Shareholding only: bonuses are not pensionable.
Guidelines for executives as described below.
Typical pension and life assurance benefits are provided to the The Committee may, in circumstances where it is not practicable executive directors, comprising either participation in the Companys for regulatory, taxation or other reasons to deliver shares, permit final salary pension on salaries up to the Inland Revenues earnings participants in the LTIP to be paid a cash amount equivalent to the cap 102,000 until 6 April 2005 and 105,600 from then onwards value of the shares to which they would otherwise have been entitled.
with appropriate top-up arrangements or entirely money purchase arrangements.
ii Executive Share Option Scheme The Company does not propose to operate the Executive Share The Committee is currently reviewing the impact of the changes to Option Scheme in relation to executive directors except by the tax treatment of UK pensions due to take effect in April 2006. exception, in the case of recruitment situations, where it may be It is not envisaged that the Company will meet any additional tax considered appropriate.
The number of shares over which options liabilities of executives and the review should, therefore, not result may be granted to each employee is determined by the Committee in an increase in overall cost to the Company.
according to prevailing market practice in the relevant country.
28 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2005 8 Other benefits In addition, Mr Hennah was entitled to, and received, a payment Other benefits provided for executive directors comprise the of 250,000 on 5 April 2004 and remains entitled to a payment of provision of a company car, a cash allowance or the use of a pool 250,000 on 5 October 2005 provided he remains employed on car, and health care.
On appointment, and where circumstances so that date.
This was agreed as a term of his joining the Company warrant, certain relocation costs are also met.
reflecting the then value of entitlements from his previous employer that he lost as a result of his decision to join the Company.
9 Service contracts i Policy Mr Henrikssons service contract will ultimately require 12 months The Combined Code and guidelines issued by institutional investors notice on either side and without any enhanced notice provisions in recommend that notice periods of no more than one year be set as the event of a change of control or otherwise and, at the Companys an objective for executive directors and that any payments to a option, the choice of pay in lieu of notice or phase payment the departing executive director should be determined having full Company may elect to pay the amount due in lieu of notice as regard to the duty of mitigation.
It is the Companys policy to a single lump sum or pay the first six months worth on departure achieve these objectives, wherever possible.
and then on a phased basis at six-monthly intervals with appropriate reduction in the event that he finds alternative employment.
ii Specific contracts However, as part of his agreement on joining the Company, his Richard Haythornthwaite, Adrian Hennah and Ulf Henriksson are contract initially provides for 24 months notice on either side, employed under service contracts with the Company dated 24 July reducing to 18 months with effect from the first anniversary of his 2001 and amended on 19 May 2004, 29 July 2002 and amended joining which, in turn, reduced to the agreed 12 months on the on 19 May 2004 and 28 April 2004 respectively.
second anniversary of his joining.
It is intended that the terms of this contract wherever possible without an initial increase in the The following summary sets out certain provisions that applied at 12-month term, which take account of development in best the end of the year.
practice regarding mitigation, should form the model for any future contracts with executive directors.
All of the contracts terminate automatically on the executive directors 60th birthday.
Following the end of the financial year in question, the Board accepted Mr Haythornwaites request to stand down with effect from 22 July Mr Haythornthwaites contract provides that it may be terminated 2005.
The Board decided the following provisions would apply: by either party giving one months notice and with no provision for liquidated damages in any circumstances.
i Mr Haythornthwaite would step down as Chief Executive following the AGM.
Mr Haythornthwaite would be entitled to the following When Mr Hennah was recruited as the new Chief Financial Officer at contractual provisions at that time: the end of 2002, the Committee determined that it was important that his services be obtained for the Company on an immediate For the period from 1 April 2005 to the date of termination, basis and that his service contract and benefits should adequately Mr Haythornthwaite would remain eligible to participate in the compensate him for the benefits that he had foregone by leaving his Executive Bonus Plan.
Any bonus in respect of this period will be previous employment.
His contract reflected the practices applicable calculated pro rata based on time employed to date of termination at that time.
and based on actual performance achieved against the bonus scorecard.
This will not be assessed until May 2006 and any bonus As reported in previous years, Mr Hennahs contract can be paid in June 2006. terminated by either party giving the other not less than 12 months written notice and does not contain any pay in lieu of notice The award under the LTIP granted in June 2003 would not lapse but provisions.
Accordingly, if his contract is terminated other than for be preserved pro rata, and remain subject to performance conditions cause, any termination payment will be negotiated subject to measured over the entire three-year performance period.
normal subsequent holding period would be reduced to one month.
In certain constructive dismissal situations following a change of All other payments of salary, pension and benefits will cease at the control circumstances, Mr Hennahs contract would entitle him to an date of termination and any other awards under any of the amount in cash equal to: i one years annual base salary: plus ii Companys executive share and share option arrangements will lapse the amount if any of his expected award calculated at the target in accordance with the rules of the relevant plans.
bonus level under the Executive Bonus Plan for the preceding fiscal year if such award has not already been paid: plus iii a pro rata ii Mr Henriksson will assume the role of Chief Executive once share calculated at the target bonus level whether or not Mr Haythornthwaite has stepped down.
All current terms as performance is at target level at the termination date of his provided for under Mr Henrikssons Service Agreement will remain expected award under the Executive Bonus Plan calculated in the same except for the following: respect of the period from the beginning of the fiscal year in which his employment terminates to the date his employment terminates: change in specified role: plus iv the amount, if any, of the supplementary cash payments, salary to increase from 525,000 to 600,000 on assumption as described in the next paragraph, that remain to be paid to him.
of the new role: and This payment is not subject to any discount or reduction for early notice period to reduce to a 12 month rolling period with effect payment and the director is not under any duty to mitigate his from assumption of the new role.
losses in connection with this payment.
In addition, the Company will continue to provide Mr Hennah with pension and certain other benefits for up to 12 months.
Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2005 29 Remuneration report continued Non-executive directors External directorships The Chairman and other non-executive directors do not have service The executive directors are encouraged to hold not more than one contracts or contracts for services save that Martin Jays letter of external non-executive directorship in order to broaden their appointment dated 28 May 2003 requires, except in the case of experience for the benefit of the Company.
Such appointments are dismissal for cause, 12 months notice by either party: on early subject to approval by the Board and the director may retain any termination at the request of the Company any compensation will fees paid in respect of such directorship.
Details of any such fees are be subject to mitigation and offset.
They are appointed under the included in the notes to the table below.
Companys Articles of Association under which they are required to seek re-election not later than the third annual general meeting Performance graph following their last election and are subject to review by the Companies are required to include a graph indicating their total Nominating Committee prior to being considered for election or shareholder return performance that is, share price growth re-election by shareholders.
They do not participate in any bonus assuming reinvestment of any dividends over the last five years plan or any of the Groups share incentive, option or pension relative to a recognised equity index.
Any director aged 70 or over there are none currently graph shows the Companys performance relative to the FTSE 100, is required to be re-elected each year.
which the Committee considers an appropriate index for comparison purposes as the Company had been a constituent Fees for non-executive directors other than the Chairman are during most of that period.
determined by a committee of the Board comprising the Chairman and the executive directors.
Fee levels are determined taking Total shareholder return account of time commitments and responsibilities.
Non-executives do not receive any form of performance-related pay.
The Committee is responsible for reviewing the Chairmans fees.
The fees currently paid to the Chairman and the other non-executive directors, which are subject to the limits set in the Articles of Association, were set in 1999 and have not been increased since that date.
The Chairmans fees are set at 250,000 per annum.
The Chairman is not entitled to any attendance fees.
The basic fees for a non-executive director are fixed at 28,000 per annum.
An additional fee of 5,000 is payable to the chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees, and all members of the Boards standing committees receive a fee of 750 30-Mar-01 29-Mar-02 31-Mar-03 31-Mar-04 31-Mar-05 31-Mar-00 for each meeting attended.
The fees of each non-executive director This graph shows the value, by 31 March 2005, of 100 invested in Invensys on 31 March 2000 compared with the value for the year are set out in the table on page 31. of 100 invested in the FTSE 100 Index.
The other points plotted are the values at intervening financial year-ends.
Source: Thomson Financial As set out in the Corporate governance report on page 23, Mr Farmer undertook, at the special request of the Board and for a limited period, additional non-executive oversight and advisory responsibilities in relation to a review of the Process Systems business.
The fees received by him are set out on page 31 and were set by the Board based on the number of days devoted by Mr Farmer in carrying out his additional responsibilities and using as an external benchmark the typical daily fees paid to non-executives of UK companies.
Directors remuneration The remuneration of the executive directors excluding defined benefit pension entitlements for the year ended 31 March 2005 was as follows: Supplementary pension Other Total Total Salary Benefits payment payments Bonuses 2005 2004 Notes Current directors R N Haythornthwaite 1, 2, 3 660,000 20,743 105,600 660,000 1,446,343 988,591 A N Hennah 4 400,000 34,703 250,000 400,000 1,084,703 717,525 U C I Henriksson 2, 4, 5 451,635 372,553 158,072 750,000 451,500 2,183,760 4,714,806 1,706,116 Notes 1.
Mr Haythornthwaite received a cash supplementary pension payment of 105,600 in lieu of certain benefits being based on final salary as set out in note 1 following the table headed Directors pension entitlements on page 33.
The emoluments of the highest paid director, Mr Henriksson, excluding pension rights were 2,183,760 2004: 988,591 paid to Mr Haythornthwaite.
Mr Haythornthwaite received fees of 46,000 as a non-executive director of Imperial Chemical Industries PLC for the year ended 31 March 2005.
The Other payments to Mr Hennah and Mr Henriksson relate to contractual arrangements agreed prior to their joining the Company reflecting the then value of entitlements from their previous employers lost as a result of their leaving those employments.
Mr Henriksson joined the Company with effect from 21 May 2004 as Chief Operating Officer and subsequently joined the Board of directors on 21 July 2004.
His emoluments relate to the period from 21 May 2004 to 31 March 2005.
The amount in Benefits includes payment of reasonable costs of relocating his family and permanent home from the US to the UK.
He received a cash allowance in lieu of pension provision equal to 35% of basic salary per year.
30 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2005 Value The fees paid to the non-executive directors for the year ended 31 March 2005 were as follows: Total Total Total Total 2005 2004 2005 2004 Notes Notes Current directors Former directors L E Farmer 1 59,250 142,750 Sir Philip Beck 11,687 M J B Green 2 8,500 R L Brjesson 30,435 J-C Guez 40,500 35,893 Lord Marshall 77,564 M Jay 250,000 180,838 S M Robertson 3 27,680 31,000 A E Macfarlane 44,250 39,000 27,680 150,686 402,500 398,481 Notes 1.
Mr Farmers total fees of 59,250 comprise his basic non-executive directors fee of 39,250 and further fees of 20,000 in respect of his additional responsibilities set out on page 23.
Mr Green was appointed to the Board of directors on 1 January 2005 and his fees relate to the period from this date to 31 March 2005.
Mr Robertson retired from the Board of directors on 19 January 2005 and his fees relate to the period from 1 April 2004 to this date.
The aggregate emoluments of all directors for the year ended 31 March 2005 was 5,144,986 2004: 2,255,283.
Directors interests Ordinary and deferred shares The interests of the current directors in the shares of the Company are set out below: At 1 April 2004 or at date of appointment At 31 March 2005 if later Ordinary shares Deferred shares Ordinary shares Deferred shares of 1p each of 24p each of 1p each of 24p each L E Farmer 3,250 3,250 2,000 M J B Green J-C Guez 167,330 R N Haythornthwaite 406,250 406,250 250,000 A N Hennah 182,776 U C I Henriksson 1,000,000 M Jay 33,333 A E Macfarlane 12,187 12,187 7,500 Notes 1.
The mid-market price of an ordinary share on 31 March 2005 was 15.50p.
Between 1 April 2004 and 31 March 2005, the highest mid-market price was 21.75p and the lowest mid-market price was 11.25p.
During the year, all deferred shares of 24p each were cancelled in accordance with their terms of issue and hence the directors holdings reduced to nil.
All interests referred to above are beneficial.
There have been no changes in the interests of directors in ordinary shares between 31 March 2005 and 18 May 2005.
Full details of the directors interests in the Companys shares are contained in the Register of Directors Interests which is kept by the Company and is open to inspection in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
This includes rights granted under the Companys various share schemes as detailed in the following section.
No options were exercised by directors or shares released under the LTIP during the years ended 31 March 2004 and 31 March 2005.
The details of the share schemes, including performance conditions which apply if any, are set out in the following notes 4, 5, 6 and 7.
There have been no changes in the interests of directors over share options or LTIP awards between 31 March 2005 and 18 May 2005.
As reported last year, on the appointment of Mr Henriksson as Chief Operating Officer on 21 May 2004, recognising the scale of the long term share awards held at his previous employer and seeking to provide fair but not excessive compensation for the loss of those awards, which were not subject to performance conditions, the Company has established an individual arrangement pursuant to Rule 13.13A of the UKLA Listing Rules.
Under this arrangement, on 1 June 2004, he was granted an option in respect of five million shares on the terms described in the Share options table on page 31 and an award of four million restricted shares, which will vest 18 months after his joining in respect of 50% of the shares and 36 months after his joining in respect of the other 50%.
The vesting of restricted shares and the exercise of the option is contingent on continued employment until the relevant date or, at the discretion of the Committee, leaving in certain compassionate circumstances.
The restricted shares must be retained until the second anniversary of their vesting except as necessary to meet his tax liabilities.
Like the awards they replaced, the option and restricted shares are not subject to performance conditions.
Other than Mr Henriksson, the above Executive options were granted under the Invensys 1998 Senior Executive Share Option Scheme.
Options granted under this scheme are normally exercisable between the third and tenth anniversaries of the date of grant provided that the relevant performance condition has been met.
The performance conditions which apply to grants made under this scheme are as follows: i for grants made between 25 July 2001 and 16 June 2002, no options may be exercised unless, over the measurement period commencing with the financial year in which the options were granted, EPS growth is equal to or in excess of RPI plus 12% over three years or RPI plus 16% over four years or RPI plus 20% over five years.
If not achieved after five years, the options will lapse: and ii for grants made on or after 17 June 2002, no option may be exercised unless a performance condition based on TSR is met.
TSR is calculated as the percentage variance in the price of shares and the value of reinvested net dividend payments over the performance period compared to that of a group of comparator companies Peer Group selected at the discretion of the Committee.
The performance period will be the period of three, four or five years commencing on the date of grant of the option.
On the third anniversary of the date of grant, each constituent of the Peer Group will be ranked in descending order of TSR.
The TSR ranking of Invensys against the TSR of the Peer Group will determine the number of shares awarded.
Invensys must rank at the median position in order for 40% of the shares under option to become exercisable, rising to all of the shares if the upper quartile position is achieved.
Between these positions, the shares under option will vest on a straight-line basis.
If the Company does not meet the performance condition in full at the first measurement, then it will be re-tested, from a fixed base, in years four and five.
If the median position has not been achieved by the end of the fifth year, the option will lapse.
The Peer Groups for the grants made on or after 17 June 2002 are the companies that comprise the FTSE 100 Index on the dealing day preceding the date of grant.
The Sharesave options were granted under the Invensys Savings Related Share Option Scheme.
These options are not subject to a performance condition as this is an all-employee share scheme governed by specific tax legislation.
The LTIP awards granted under the Invensys 1998 Senior Executive Long Term Incentive Plan are normally subject to a three-year performance period, commencing on the date of award, followed by a two-year retention period.
The vesting of awards made prior to 28 May 2003 are subject to Invensys TSR being ranked against a Peer Group, selected at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, at least at the median position over the performance period with no re-testing opportunities.
Additionally the Remuneration Committee must determine that the underlying financial performance of Invensys over the performance period is satisfactory.
On completion of the performance period, Invensys TSR must rank at the median position when the Peer Group is ranked in descending order of TSR in order for 50% of the shares that are subject to the award to be available subject to the retention period, rising to all of the shares if the upper quartile position is achieved.
Between these positions, the number of shares that will be available will be calculated on a straight-line basis.
If Invensys does not achieve at least the median position the whole award will lapse.
The vesting of awards made after 28 May 2003 is subject to Invensys TSR being ranked against a Peer Group, selected at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee, at least at the median position over the performance period with no re-testing opportunities.
Additionally the Remuneration Committee must be satisfied that there has been a sustained delivery over the performance period, regarding the trading performance of continuing operations, disposal proceeds and reduction in Group indebtedness.
On completion of the performance period, Invensys TSR must rank at the median position when the Peer Group is ranked in descending order of TSR in order for 25% of the shares that are subject to the award to be available subject to the retention period, rising to all of the shares if the upper decile position is achieved.
The Peer Groups selected for the above grants are as follows: Award dated 25 July 2001: GKN, Smiths Group, BAE Systems, Marconi, ABB, Schneider Elte, Siemens, Emerson Electric, Honeywell International, Rockwell International, Johnson Controls and Tyco International: Award dated 4 December 2002: the companies that comprised the FTSE 100 Index on the dealing day preceding 4 December 2002: Award dated 20 June 2003: the companies that comprised the FTSE Mid 250 Index on 20 June 2003: and Award dated 24 June 2004: the companies that comprised the FTSE Mid 250 Index on 24 June 2004.
32 Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2005 Directors pension entitlements Executive directors participate in defined benefit Mr Hennah, cash allowances are specified in the notes to the Directors and defined contribution cash allowance Mr Henriksson or remuneration table on page 30.
The following table gives details combination Mr Haythornthwaite pension arrangements sponsored of the individual directors pensions values for the year ended by the Company.
The defined benefit schemes provide benefits 31 March 2005, including the disclosures required by the Listing based on salary at or near retirement and are part externally Rules of the UK Listing Authority: funded and part reserved for within the Company.
The amounts of Change in Transfer Transfer value transfer value Increase value of Accrued of accrued over year in accrued increase pension at Increase in Transfer value pension less any pension, a less any year ended accrued of accrued at end of contributions excluding contributions 31 March 2005 pension pension previous year made inflation a made Notes per annum per annum 000 000 000 per annum 000 R N Haythornthwaite 1 12,529 3,669 142 93 49 3,394 38 A N Hennah 28,114 10,977 301 171 130 10,446 112 Notes 1.
The benefits shown for Mr Haythornthwaite relate to his participation in the approved pension scheme up to the Inland Revenue earnings limit.
With respect to his earnings above that limit, 158,400 was paid to an unapproved money purchase scheme together with the supplementary pension payment as set out in the table headed Directors remuneration on page 30.
The changes in transfer values over the year reflect any changes in pensionable pay and the service of each director.
They also take into account changes in the actuarial assumptions, particularly those related to equity and bond returns.
All benefits are due at age 60.
Pensions in payment are guaranteed to increase by the level of inflation subject to a maximum increase of 5% per annum.
For death before retirement a spouses pension of two-thirds of the members prospective pension is payable, if applicable, plus a capital sum of four times the members salary.
For death after retirement a spouses pension of two-thirds of the members pension is payable plus the balance of a five year guarantee if applicable.
In the event of death after leaving service but before commencement of pension a spouses pension of two-thirds of the accrued preserved pension is payable plus a capital sum of five times the accrued preserved pension.
In all circumstances childrens allowances are also payable if applicable.
Auditable information The directors Remuneration report was approved by the Board of The information in the Remuneration report subject to audit directors on 18 May 2005 and signed on its behalf by: pursuant to the Directors Report Regulations 2002 is that included in the tables and related notes in the sections relating to directors Jean-Claude Guez remuneration, directors interests over shares, share options and long term incentive awards and directors pension entitlements.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Invensys plc Annual report & accounts 2005 33
