Directors Remuneration Report This report has been prepared in conflicts of interest arising from crossmarket position and to reward them for accordance with the Directors directorships or day-to-day involvement enhancing value to shareholders.
Remuneration Report Regulations 2002. in running the business.
The Committee It also meets the relevant requirements makes recommendations to the Board.
There are five main elements of the of the Listing Rules of the Financial Other directors attend meetings when remuneration package for Executive Services Authority and describes how the invited by the Committee and the Directors and senior management: Board has applied the Principles of Good Company Secretary acts as secretary to Governance relating to directors the Committee.
No director plays a part Basic annual salary and benefits: remuneration.
As required by the in any discussion about his or her own Performance related bonuses: Regulations, a resolution to approve the remuneration.
Pension arrangements: report will be proposed at the Annual Share options which it is proposed General Meeting of the Company at which The Committee has appointed New shall be replaced by a Performance the financial statements will be approved.
Bridge Street Consultants LLP NBSC Share Plan: to provide advice on structuring directors Share Matching Plan.
The Remuneration Committee remuneration packages.
NBSC did not The Committee is chaired by Mr S J provide any other services to the The Executive Directors have a one-year Waugh, an independent Non-Executive Company in 2005.
The terms of rolling contract.
The most recently Director, and in 2005 comprised two other engagement between the Company and executed contracts for Mr T J Bowdler, independent Non-Executive Directors, Mr NBSC are displayed on the Companys Mr S R Paterson and Mr D Cammiade are P E B Cawdron and Mrs M A King.
It is website in the Investor Relations section.
dated 27 June 2003, 24 May 2001 and required to meet at least annually and as 27 February 2006 respectively.
During the period it met on six Mr S J Waugh succeeded Lord Gordon as event of termination, the Executive occasions, three meetings being held by Chairman of the Committee on 29 April Directors would be entitled to salary, telephone.
All its members were present 2005.
He attended meetings as an benefits and pensionable service for the for each meeting apart from one meeting observer in advance of his appointment.
notice period, subject to mitigation.
which Mrs M A King was unable to attend.
Mr S J Waugh has undertaken a detailed In advance of that meeting the Chairman training programme involving a uniquely Executive Directors service contracts, sought her views on the agenda items to designed course run by NBSC, detailed which include details of remuneration, will be discussed.
discussions with the Company Secretary be available for inspection at the Annual and a range of externally run seminars.
The Committee is charged with The specification for this programme was recommending the remuneration of the arranged by the Board.
The appointments of Non-Executive Chairman and Executive Directors as Directors of the Company are terminable well as changes to employment As explained on page 34, the Board at will, subject to a three month notice conditions, the Executive Share Option undertook an evaluation of its period.
It is the Committees policy that Schemes, Share Incentive Plan, Share performance during the year.
This included any future Board appointments will be Matching Plan and to the Save as you a review of the effectiveness of this made on the same terms.
The NonEarn Scheme, as well as the introduction Committee considering its composition, Executive Directors have letters of of any new incentive or remuneration chairmanship, whether it fulfilled its role as appointment dated: schemes.
The performance outlined in the terms of reference, its measurement of the Executive Directors reporting and overall performance.
This Mr R G Parry 27 June 2003 and the determination of their annual evaluation process was undertaken by the Mr P E B Cawdron 25 January 2002 remuneration packages are undertaken Committee itself as well as by all Mr F P M Johnston 25 January 2002 and approved by the Committee.
The results of this Mr H C M Johnston 25 January 2002 Committee is consulted on, and notified process were positive and confirmed the Lord Gordon of, all senior management appointments effectiveness of the Committee.
of Strathblane 25 January 2002 and related remuneration.
It is also Mrs M A King 25 April 2003 consulted on major organisational The terms of reference of the Committee Mr S J Waugh 25 April 2003 changes.
are displayed on the Companys website Mr L Hinton 16 March 2005 in the Investor Relations Section.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive A copy of the standard letter of Directors, other than the Chairman, is Remuneration Policy appointment for the Chairman and Nondetermined by the Executive Directors Executive remuneration packages are Executive Directors is displayed on the and ratified by the Board.
None of the prudently designed to attract, motivate Companys website in the Investor Committee has any personal financial and retain directors of the high calibre Relations section.
interest other than as shareholders, needed to maintain the Groups strong Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 43 Directors Remuneration Report continued The Companys policy is that a substantial packages of the Executive Directors and, appropriate bonus parameters the proportion of the remuneration of the in particular, to make them more Committee, having taken advice, takes Executive Directors should be competitive with their sector peers.
In into account the Companys internal performance related.
As described below, addition, the Committee wished to make budgets and analysts expectations for Executive Directors may earn annual the packages more performance-related.
The Committee incentive payments together with the believes that this ties any incentive benefits of participation in share schemes.
The Committee also decided to redesign payments to the interests of shareholders.
the incentive pay mix, to make it more The structure of the bonus scheme has Executive Directors are entitled to accept relevant to different executive tiers and to been revised from 1 January 2006 to up to two Non-Executive appointments produce a better line of sight between make the bonus potential more outside the Company providing the executive performance and reward.
This comparable with companies of a similar Chairmans permission is obtained.
The led the Committee to decide that, for less size, but with tougher targets than Remuneration Committee decides senior executives, annual bonus should hitherto.
Effective from the same date, all whether any fees are retained by the play a greater role than long-term Executive Directors are required to invest director.
In addition, the Executive incentives.
Further details of the review at least 40% of their bonus in the Share Directors are entitled to accept any and proposals are set out in the circular Matching Plan.
positions connected with the newspaper attached to this Report.
industry or any businesses in which the For the 2005 calendar year, the maximum Company holds an investment.
Before finalising these recommendations, bonus for the Executive Directors was the Committee has consulted with the 80% of salary, but the scheme was split In 2005, Mr T J Bowdler and Mr S R Companys major shareholders who have into two parts.
Four fifths, or 64% of the Paterson held external non-executive indicated their general support for the 80%, related to a profit based target.
posts and received 69,000 and nil in proposals.
This report covers the fees respectively.
remuneration policy operated during 2005 The target was set by the Board on the and the revised policy for 2006, assuming recommendation of the Remuneration With the assistance of NBSC, the this is approved at the Annual General Committee and on achievement of this Committee recently conducted a Meeting.
target half the maximum potential bonus full review of the remuneration of the was payable.
Additional sums were Executive Directors and of the incentive Basic Salary payable above the target on a sliding arrangements for all executives, An Executive Directors basic salary is scale up to the maximum of 64%.
The taking into account the Companys determined by the Committee prior to target for payment of the maximum bonus circumstances and objectives, market the beginning of each calendar year and was dependent on market conditions at practice, investor guidelines and changes when an individual changes position or the beginning of the year and was in accounting standards.
In deciding appropriate considered by the Committee to be levels, the Committee considers the Group challenging.
If the profit target was not As part of the review, the Committee as a whole and relies on objective achieved, bonus would be lost at twice benchmarked the Executive Directors research carried out by its external the rate of the sliding scale on the upside.
remuneration against its peers in the consultants which gives up-to-date media sector and against groups of information on comparator groups of The remaining element, 16% out of the companies of broadly comparable size companies.
As a benchmark, it aims to 80%, was based on an increase in likeacross a variety of sectors.
This showed pay broadly at the median level.
for-like total revenues comparing 2005 that the total remuneration of the with 2004.
For achievement of the revenue Executive Directors was significantly In addition to basic salary, the Executive growth target, which was based on the below the median of its sector peers and Directors receive certain benefits-in-kind, Companys internal budgets, half the those of the FTSE 101-150.
It also principally a car or a cash buyout and maximum bonus was payable with a revealed that fixed pay salary, benefits private medical insurance.
sliding scale for achievement above and and pension constituted a higher below that target.
Once again, the sliding proportion of the remuneration package Following the benchmarking exercise scale of the downside was twice that of than in most of the comparator referred to above, with effect from 1 the upside.
January 2006 the salaries of Mr T J Bowdler, Mr S R Paterson and Mr D The Board retains the discretion to The Committee was also mindful that the Cammiade are 540,000, 340,000 and recognise performance outside this Company has a successful and highly 305,000 respectively.
arrangement where exceptional regarded management team, whose circumstances apply, but any such retention is vital to the Companys future.
Performance Related Bonus discretion is restricted to a total bonus, The Committee establishes the objectives including the performance related element, The Committee decided, therefore, that it that must be met for each financial year if of 25% of salary.
is appropriate to improve the remuneration a cash bonus is to be paid.
In setting the 44 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 In 2005, the revenue target set by the The Companys policy is to grant options and the Share Matching Plan until the Board was not achieved and no bonus at the discretion of the Committee value of their holding of shares in the was paid on that element.
However, a taking into account the Group and Group reaches 100% of salary.
Full proportion of the profit-based element was individual performance.
The policy is details of the new Performance Share paid, which amounted to 23% of salary.
reviewed by the Committee from time to Plan are to be found in the circular time.
Currently, the grant of options to which is enclosed with this Report.
With effect from 1 January 2006, it is the Executive Directors and all proposed that the maximum bonus level participants in the Scheme in any year b A SAYE Share Option Scheme for eligible be increased to 100%.
Of this amount, is based on a percentage of salary for employees under which options may be 75% will be based on a profit target, achieving the Group profit target and an granted at a discount of up to 20% of which will be set by the Board on the individual profit target, with the market value.
Consistent with the recommendation of the Remuneration allocation increasing for performance legislation and normal practice, the SAYE Committee.
The structure of the profit above target up to a maximum level.
Option Scheme does not require the related part will follow that of the 2005 The maximum annual grant under this imposition of performance conditions.
The policy is 1.5 times salary for Mr T J remaining 25% of the bonus will be based Bowdler and 1.2 times salary for Mr S R c A Share Matching Plan which applies on individual key performance targets.
to the Executive Directors and certain These will be specific and clearly Senior Executives.
The exercise price of the options arrangements the participants granted under the Executive Share are invited to invest all or part of their Share Schemes Option Scheme is equal to the market annual bonus in buying shares in the The Company operates a number of Share value of the Companys shares at the Company and they have the prospect of Schemes and these are described below.
time when the options are granted.
receiving extra matching shares after three years, paid for by the Company.
a An Executive Share Option Scheme In the event of a change in control of The matching ratio ranges from with grants being shown below and in the Company, any options granted are 0.5 times to 1.5 times the number of note 31 to the financial statements.
exercisable within one month of the shares that could have been acquired Certain former and current Executive option holders being notified of the with the pre-tax equivalent of the annual Directors have already participated in change in control.
In such bonus invested, subject to achieving the Scheme.
The Remuneration circumstances the performance compound real growth in the Groups Committee reviews each grant of conditions will apply.
However, in underlying earnings per share of options to Senior Executives on the exceptional circumstances the between 3% to 8% per annum over a recommendation of the Chief Executive Committee may, at its discretion, treat fixed three year period.
All options are granted for nil the performance condition as satisfied Directors are currently required by the consideration.
These options are only taking into account the underlying Committee to invest at least one third of capable of being exercised if the performance of the Company up until their annual bonus into the Plan.
compound real growth in the Groups the relevant event.
underlying earnings per share is The Plan currently does not permit any between 3% to 5% depending on the The Board is proposing that no further dividends to vest on the element of level of the grant.
The Committee has grants will be made under the Executive matching shares.
decided that there will be no retesting of Share Option Scheme.
It will be replaced performance on any options granted by a Performance Share Plan which will From 2006, it is proposed to increase after 1 January 2004 and performance be considered by shareholders at the the maximum matching ratio for awards will be measured over a single three Annual General Meeting.
If this scheme granted under the Share Matching Plan year period.
For options granted prior to is approved, Performance Shares will be from 1.5 times to 2 times.
In addition, 31 December 2003, performance is granted to Senior Executives on an the proportion of bonus paid that must always tested from a fixed base over a annual basis.
Initially, the maximum be invested by Executive Directors into period of at least three years and may value of Performance Shares awarded the Share Matching Plan is proposed not be retested after the fifth will be 100% of salary but the scheme to increase to 40% and no more than anniversary of the option grant.
rules will permit 125% as a normal 60% of bonus may be invested at any maximum.
50% of the Performance one time.
In order to exercise a grant above 0.5 Shares will vest based on EPS growth, times or above 1 times salary, the with the remaining 50% vesting on TSR When any grant of matching shares is growth in the Groups underlying performance relative to the FTSE 350 approved, the Company purchases earnings per share must exceed the Media Companies.
It is also proposed sufficient shares to cover the maximum growth in the retail price index by more that the Executive Directors will be match by all Executives.
These shares than 4% or 5% points per annum expected to retain at least 50% of the are held in the Johnston Press plc respectively.
vested shares after tax under this Plan Employee Share Trust, which is Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 45 Directors Remuneration Report continued administered by Hill Samuel in Jersey.
Employee Share Trust holds the shares to thirds of salary based on a 45th accrual The only other shares held by the Trust meet options under c and shares are rate or a full 2 3rds at retirement date, a relate to the award of Restricted Shares purchased in the open market to satisfy members contribution of 10.5% of salary to Mr T J Bowdler referred to in the the Free Shares award within d. with a spouses pension of a third of pension arrangements section below.
pensionable salary in the event of death in The number of shares held by the Trust It is currently intended that awards service.
There are no provisions for on 31 December 2005 was 395,117, of granted under the proposed Performance beneficial rights on early retirement.
which 310,166 related to the Share Share Plan will also be satisfied using The employee and employer contributions Matching Plan.
The balance related to shares acquired by the Companys have increased during 2005 to increase the Restricted Share Award made to Employee Share Trust in the open market.
the funding level of the scheme which is Mr T J Bowdler as shown on page 49. currently in deficit.
At 31 December 2005 the total amount of d A Share Incentive Plan SIP for all options granted, less lapsed, over new Mr T J Bowdler participates in the JPPP eligible employees.
The SIP is in two issued shares under all option schemes for a pension of two-thirds of the earnings parts: a Partnership Scheme, which over the previous 10 years was 3.8% of cap.
He also receives a contribution to an allows employees to purchase shares in the issued share capital with a maximum unapproved scheme which is a total cost the Company on a monthly basis limit of 10%.
to the Company of 50% of salary per in a tax efficient manner.
The second annum including the tax cost, equivalent element is a Free Shares Scheme, Pension Arrangements to a contribution of 27% of salary per which provides employees who have Throughout 2005, the Group operated annum.
These pension provisions were joined the Scheme with free shares.
The one pension scheme for employees, the revised during 2002 and in order to shares are held in a Trust, administered Johnston Press Pension Plan JPPP, compensate Mr Bowdler for the changes by Halifax plc, and after a period of five with defined benefit and defined to his detriment, the Annual General years the shares will be available to be contribution sections.
The defined Meeting in that year approved an award of held beneficially by employees free of benefit section is closed to new 169,896 Restricted Shares to Mr Bowdler.
any tax and national insurance.
There was another live He is entitled to acquire a proportion of Shares, the Committee sets a minimum scheme throughout 2005, the Regional these shares every six months for a cost Group profit target and a base fund to Independent Media Pension Plan, which of 1 until 2009.
No performance be utilised to purchase shares in the only had deferred members and conditions apply to the Restricted Shares Company.
Performance above the pensioners who had protected rights and as they were granted to replace reduced target generates additional amounts who could not be transferred under the pension rights.
Mr Cammiade is a member payable into the fund on a sliding scale legislation in force at the time of the of the JPPP and was prior to the up to a maximum payout.
The legislation was introduction of the earnings cap Shares are allocated to employees updated in 2005 and this scheme was restriction.
Mr S R Paterson does not based on hours worked and are not merged into the JPPP on 3 January participate in the JPPP and the Company pro rata to salary.
The assets of the JPPP are totally has agreed instead to make a contribution achievement did not meet the maximum separate from the assets of the equivalent to 20% of his basic salary into target set by the Committee and Company and of the Group, and are his private pension scheme.
This therefore a restricted award was made.
invested by independent fund managers.
contribution increases to 25% from his A professional independent trustee and 50th birthday.
With effect from 1 January The Company Secretary is responsible for member nominated trustees are appointed 2005, the Company has also agreed to ensuring the exercise criteria are met for to the pension scheme.
A firm of external match any additional annual contribution all the Share Schemes and this is verified actuaries and consultants act as advisers.
made by Mr S R Paterson, up to a by the Committee.
The performance Pension scheme members receive a maximum of 5% of salary.
criterion, which applies to all Executive report from the trustees and a statement Directors to whom options have been of their actuarial benefits each year.
The Committee is reviewing the impact of granted under the Schemes except the the impending changes to the pension SAYE Share Option Scheme, was chosen The Group inherited a number of small regime which are due to come into effect as it requires significant improvement in pension schemes with the various in April 2006 and will ensure that any financial performance before options can acquisitions in 2005.
These are currently changes which are required do not result be exercised.
The Committee will ensure being reviewed and UK employees will in an increase in the overall cost of that EPS is calculated on as consistent a have the option of joining the JPPP.
pension provision for the Group.
Contributions to the JPPP are at a rate of Non-Executive Directors Options under a and b above are 17% for all members.
The executive All Non-Executive Directors have specific satisfied by the issue of new shares.
As section of the Plan provides for a terms of engagement and their indicated above, the Companys retirement age of 62, a pension of two remuneration is determined by the Board 46 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 within the limits set by the Articles of Remuneration Committee based on management below Board level.
In the Association and based on independent individual roles and responsibilities.
The case of the tier immediately below the surveys of fees paid to non-executive targets for the performance related Executive Directors, they will receive a directors of similar companies.
bonuses are primarily profit related but salary determined by the Executive The basic annual fee paid to each Nonalso include personal performance based Directors after consultation with the Executive Director is 35,000.
The maximum bonus for 2005 Remuneration Committee based on Executives receive further fees for was 60% of salary.
Most of the Executives individual roles and responsibilities: a additional work performed for the are members of the final salary section of maximum bonus of 75% of salary, of Company in respect of the chairing of the JPPP, but the Company contributes a which 20% must be invested in the Share the Remuneration Committee and Audit maximum of 12% of salary to those who Matching Plan: Performance Shares Committee, together with the are members of the defined contribution awarded up to a maximum of 50% of responsibilities as Chairman and Senior scheme.
The Executive Share Option salary, with identical vesting conditions to Independent Director.
Non-Executive Scheme and Share Matching Plan benefits the Executive Directors: and grants under Directors cannot participate in the bonus are as described for the Executive the Share Matching Plan, with the plans or in any of the Companys Share Directors except the maximum level of increased match of up to 2:1.
The policy Schemes and are not eligible to join the share option grant has been 85% of salary.
for the other two tiers of Executives Companys pension schemes.
follows a similar pattern, although the It is proposed to amend the remuneration maximum levels of the different elements Senior Executives Below Board Level policy for the Senior Executives below of remuneration are lower.
In the case of The five elements of the remuneration Board level.
Again this follows the these Executives, the vesting conditions package are described on page 43.
The benchmarking exercise carried out by for the performance shares will be based salaries are determined by the Executive NBSC.
The various elements of entirely on EPS growth.
Directors after consultation with the remuneration vary for the three tiers of Performance Graph The following graph shows the Companys performance, measured by total shareholder return, compared with the performance of the FTSE 350 and FTSE Media Sector also measured by total shareholder return.
The FTSE 350 and FTSE Media Sector have been selected for this comparison because the former measures the performance of stocks in general and the latter measures the performance of companies operating in the same sector as the Group.
5 Year Return Index for Johnston Press as at 31 December 2005 200 Total Shareholder Return 180 Johnston Press 160 Total Shareholder Return 140 FTSE Media Sector 120 Total Shareholder Return 100 FTSE 350 80 60 40 20 0 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 47 Relative TSR Directors Remuneration Report continued Directors Remuneration - Audited Section a The total amounts for Directors remuneration and other benefits were as follows: 2005 2004 000 000 Emoluments 1,614 1,539 Gains on exercise of share options 658 1,053 Money purchase contributions 190 174 2,462 2,766 All of the gains on the exercise of share options were cashless with the gain, after taxation, being converted into increased shareholdings for the executive directors.
c Pension Benefits The following Directors had accrued pension benefits under the Groups defined benefit scheme: Total Increase in Total Transfer value of Increase in Years of accrued accrued Transfer accrued total accrued value of pensionable pension at pension value of pension at pension at pension service 31.12.04 during year increase 31.12.05 31.12.04 31.12.05 during year 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 T J Bowdler 12 54 5 42 59 793 991 198 H C M Johnston 12 16 1 3 17 241 285 44 Mr H C M Johnston was a member of the Group Pension Schemes before the introduction of the pensionable salary cap in May 1989.
The pension arrangements for Mr T J Bowdler were varied in 2002 and the above figures now only represent his total final salary benefit.
Further details of his pension provision are explained on page 46.
In addition to the above, the Group funded 130,000 and 60,000 into defined contribution schemes for Mr T J Bowdler and Mr S R Paterson respectively.
All Executive Directors have life cover of four times basic salary.
The matching awards granted within the Share Matching Plan are exercisable for a nominal total payment of 1 as shown below.
The matching factor ranges from 0.5 times to a maximum of 1.5 times the number of shares granted in line with the performance criteria outlined in the Directors Remuneration Report.
39,673 between 30.05.2006 and 29.05.2013 - market price on grant 399.50p 54,258 between 22.03.2007 and 21.03.2014 - market price on grant 498.25p 37,296 between 21.03.2008 and 20.03.2015 - market price on grant 540.00p The options or matching awards granted as listed above, other than those in the Restricted Share Scheme, are only exercisable subject to the level of achievement of the performance criteria denoted in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The middle market price of the Ordinary Shares was as follows: On 1 January 2005 542.00p Highest price during year 576.00p On 31 December 2005 465.50p Lowest price during year 449.00p This Report was approved by the Board of Directors on 8 March 2006 and signed on its behalf by: Simon Waugh Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 49
