In addition to the major risk review process, the Internal Control Group operates under an established internal The Board is responsible for the Groups system of control framework, the key features of which internal controls and for reviewing its include clearly defined reporting lines and effectiveness.
Throughout the year under review authorisation procedures and a comprehensive and up to the date of this report the Board has budget and monthly reporting system.
operated procedures to meet the requirements of the Code as set out in the Internal Control The Board has carried out an annual assessment Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code of the Groups risk management and internal published in September 1999. control system for the year to 31 December 2005 by considering reports from both the Audit The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for Committee and the Risk Committee.
the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the Audit Committee and Auditors risk of failure to achieve business objectives and Information relating to the Audit Committee is set can only provide reasonable and not absolute out in the Report of the Audit Committee on page assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The report details the Companys compliance with the Codes requirements with regard to audit There is an ongoing process for identifying, matters.
The Terms of Reference of the Audit evaluating and managing the Groups significant Committee are available on the Companys risks through a Risk Committee which reports website at www.
The Risk Committee comprises the Executive Going Concern Directors.
The Risk Committee is responsible for identifying, evaluating and managing any The Directors consider, after making appropriate material risks which might threaten the Groups enquiries at the time of approving the Financial business objectives.
In undertaking this work, it Statements, that the Company and the Group receives regular risk reviews and an annual risk have adequate resources to continue in assessment report carried out by the head of each operational existence for the foreseeable future, business unit.
From this information, the Risk and accordingly, that it is appropriate to adopt the Committee has compiled a Register which going concern basis in the preparation of the identifies the Groups key risk areas, the Financial Statements.
probability of these risks occurring and the impact they would have.
In addition, the Risk Register identifies the controls that exist to Relations with shareholders manage and, where possible, minimise or Dialogue with Shareholders eliminate those risks.
The Risk Register is used to The Board is accountable to shareholders for the direct action programmes to test the Companys continued success.
The Board effectiveness, including independent audit accordingly places great emphasis on assessment, of those controls.
This process is maintaining good communications with regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee on shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Finance behalf of the Board.
Marshalls plc Annual Report 2005 35 Corporate Governance continued The Chairmen of the Nomination, Audit and Director meet regularly with major shareholders Remuneration Committees usually attend the to discuss the Groups performance, strategic Annual General Meeting and are available to issues and shareholder investment objectives.
All Directors normally attend Reports of these meetings and any shareholder the meeting.
communications during the year, are reported to the Board.
The Board welcomes questions from shareholders who have an opportunity to raise issues The regular announcements of significant events informally or formally before or at the Annual affecting the Group and the frequent updates on General Meeting.
current trading emphasises the Boards commitment to keeping the Companys investors The Company counts all proxy votes and the informed of developments affecting the Group.
Chairman informs shareholders of the level of The Company does, periodically, arrange site visits proxies lodged on each resolution.
The votes for for investors.
and against each resolution, together with the number of abstentions, are given following the If requested, the Non-Executive Directors are show of hands.
The Company Secretary ensures available to attend meetings with major that votes cast are properly received and shareholders.
The Board regularly receives copies recorded.
of analysts and brokers briefings.
The Annual and Interim Reports, together with the Marshalls website, are substantial means of communication with all shareholders during the year.
Constructive Use of the Annual General Meeting The Notice of Annual General Meeting is despatched to shareholders, together with explanatory notes or a circular on items of special business, at least 20 working days before the meeting.
It is the Companys practice to propose separate resolutions on each substantially separate issue.
A presentation is made on the progress and performance of the business prior to the formal business of the meeting.
36 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2005 Directors Remuneration Report In its deliberations the Committee gives full The Report is divided into two sections, unaudited consideration to the principles of good and audited information in accordance with governance and the code of best practice within Schedule 7A of the Companies Act 1985.
The the Combined Code on Corporate Governance audited information commences on page 40. the Code.
The Committee has its own terms of reference, which are approved by the Committee and the Board.
These were reviewed during the The Remuneration Committee year, to ensure compliance with the Code, and are During the year the Remuneration Committee displayed on the Companys web site.
Andrew the Committee members were Andrew Allner, Allner is available to shareholders to discuss who chairs the Committee, and Richard Scholes remuneration policy.
both of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors.
Bill Husselby, also an independent NonExecutive Director, was appointed a member of General Policy the Committee with effect from 7 March 2005.
The Committee and the Board recognise that in Members of the Committee have no personal order to attract, retain and motivate talented financial interest in the Company other than as Senior Executives it is necessary to operate a shareholders and the fees paid to them as Noncompetitive pay and benefits structure.
They are not involved in the Committee seeks to ensure that Executives are day-to-day running of the Group.
provided with appropriate incentives to encourage enhanced performance.
It aims to Both the Chairman and Chief Executive, although reward Executives fairly and responsibly for their not members of the Committee, on occasions, and contribution to the Companys performance but for matters not related to themselves, attend to avoid paying more than necessary to achieve meetings and participate in discussions on salary this objective.
It has been the Committees policy to set the remuneration package at median for median Role of the Committee performance, and upper quartile for exceptional The Committee is responsible for determining, on performance.
The intention is to continue to behalf of the Board, the framework of follow this policy.
In setting all elements of remuneration for the Executive Directors and remuneration the Committee is advised by reviewing the on-going appropriateness and independent consultants and uses data from relevance of the policy.
The Committee approves external research into the salaries and benefits the general recruitment terms, remuneration paid by companies in the FTSE 250.
During the benefits, employment conditions, pension rights, year, the Committee has taken advice from Mercer compensation payments and service terms for the Human Resource Consulting Mercers on Executive Directors.
It also approves the rules and executive pension arrangements.
The Committee associated guidelines for share based award took advice from Mercers and Eversheds LLP on schemes.
the Marshalls plc 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan the LTIP which was approved by shareholders at The Committee has no authority in relation to the the AGM in May 2005.
In each case the advisers remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors were appointed by the Committee.
During the whose fees are determined by the Board, after year a separate, specialist team in Mercers have consultation with external advisers.
The provided advice to the Company on pension remuneration of the Chairman is determined by issues.
the Board following a recommendation of the Committee.
Marshalls plc Annual Report 2005 37 Directors Remuneration Report continued The Committee does receive and consider general Remuneration of Executive information on pay and employment conditions Directors around the Group.
In reviewing Executive Directors Basic Salary salaries, consideration is given to the levels of The Committee seeks to pay salaries which take increase granted to other employees within the account of individual performance and are similar to Group.
Basic salaries are generally reviewed annually those paid in comparable companies.
Each year the or when a change of responsibility occurs.
Executive Directors, along with all employees, receive a cost of living increase.
Further increases will be Performance Related Pay awarded on merit, increased responsibility or to take account of changes in comparable companies.
The The policy of the Committee is to align Directors Committee uses comparisons with caution to avoid interests with those of shareholders and to give these increasing remuneration levels without a Executives incentives to perform at the highest levels.
Basic To achieve this it seeks to link a significant proportion salary is reviewed at 31 December each year.
of the remuneration package to the financial performance of the Group.
Annual Performance Bonus The performance related elements of the The principle behind the 2005 annual performance remuneration package are the annual bonus and the bonus was to align clearly shareholder interests with LTIP.
Executive Director remuneration and reward these Executives for creating shareholder value.
As a matter of policy Executive Directors are encouraged to hold shares in Marshalls plc.
The Executive Directors have a maximum bonus target, which was set in 2004, is for the Chief Executive opportunity of 100 per cent of salary.
The median to hold shares equal in value to twice his salary and and maximum bonus entitlements were set, for the remaining Executive Directors to hold shares following a review by Mercers in 2004, having equal in value to their annual salary.
Progress was considered the awards made in other FTSE 250 made during the year towards those targets, as set companies and to reflect the compulsory deferral of out in the table below.
The table also shows the half of the bonus award under the LTIP.
value of annual bonus, 50 per cent of which must be invested in the Marshalls plc 2005 LTIP later this year.
Each of the Executive Directors have indicated that they intended to invest voluntarily the full amount of their bonus into the LTIP this year.
The shareholdings of the Executive Directors together with details of their target shareholdings are set out in the table below : Number of Percentage Number of Percentage 2005 Bonus shares held on of target shares held on of target investment in 31 December 31 December LTIP 2004 2005 000 Ian Burrell 10,500 17.8 26,716 46.1 95 Graham Holden 169,942 88.2 214,106 95.4 184 David Sarti 3,482 6.7 16,429 33.1 81 Notes a The share price on 31 December 2004 was 297 pence and on 31 December 2005 was 312 pence.
b The share price on 10 March 2006 was 322.5 pence.
c David Sarti joined the Board on 30 November 2004.
The target calculation is based on his salary for 2005.
38 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2005 As explained above Executive Directors, subject to The annual bonus target for 2005 comprises 15 per a minimum threshold, must invest 50 per cent of cent for the achievement of a cash target and up to their annual bonus into the LTIP.
They may elect to a maximum of 85 per cent for meeting a profit invest the full value of their annual bonus into the target based on the budget for the year.
For the LTIP on a voluntary basis.
For 2006, the Executive 2005 bonus, performance in line with budget would Directors have indicated that they will be applying attract an award, based on the profit target, of 35 per 100 per cent of their 2005 annual bonus to the LTIP.
cent with up to 85 per cent being awarded for exceptional performance above the budget.
The annual bonus investment will be used to purchase investment shares.
There will be an The bonus scheme for 2006 is set on similar opportunity for the Executive Directors to receive principles.
up to two times the number of investment shares, subject to the achievement of a three year Under the rules of the LTIP half of any annual earnings per share performance target.
The share bonus award will, subject to a minimum match will be dependent on an improvement in threshold, be compulsorily invested for a period of earnings per share measured using International three years.
Details of this Long Term Incentive Financial Reporting Standards of:- Plan are set out below.
RPI 2 per cent per annum : 50 per cent match Marshalls plc 2005 Long Term RPI 3 per cent per annum : 100 per cent match Incentive Plan the LTIP RPI 6 per cent per annum : 200 per cent match Shareholders approved the LTIP at the Annual Any shares awarded as a result of the share match General Meeting in May 2005. will have to be held for a further two years.
These shares will be purchased in the market.
Five Year Total Shareholder Return 160 140 120 Marshalls plc 100 80 60 FTSE 250 Index 40 20 Rebased to 100 on Prepared by: Hemscott 1 January 2001 0 Jan-01 Jan-02 Jan-03 Jan-04 Jan-05 Dec-05 This graph shows the Groups total shareholder return TSR performance compared to the FTSE 250 Index for the period from 1 January 2001 to 31 December 2005.
TSR is defined as share price growth plus reinvested dividends.
This provides a basis for comparison as a relevant equity index in which Marshalls plc is a constituent member.
Marshalls has a TSR for the five year period of 53.0 per cent compared to a TSR provided by the FTSE 250 Index of 39.3 per cent.
In the opinion of the Directors the FTSE 250 Index is considered the most appropriate index against which the TSR of the Group should be measured because it represents a wider index of investments against which the Company is competing.
Marshalls plc Annual Report 2005 39 Directors Remuneration Report continued Audited Information Directors Remuneration Salary Performance Benefits Total fees related remuneration bonuses excluding pensions 2005 2004 000 000 000 000 000 Chairman Mike Davies 125 - - 125 31 Executive Directors Ian Burrell 181 95 16 292 249 Graham Holden 350 184 14 548 400 David Sarti 155 81 16 252 14 Non-Executive Directors Andrew Allner 40 - - 40 75 Bill Husselby appointed 7 March 2005 25 - - 25 - Richard Scholes 40 - - 40 103 Former Directors - - - - 256 916 360 46 1,322 1,128 Notes to Directors Remuneration a The salaries, fees, performance related bonuses and benefits all relate to the year ended 31 December 2005. b The highest paid Director in the year was Graham Holden.
c Benefits are the provision of a fully expensed company car and medical insurance.
d With effect from 1 January 2006 the salaries of the Executive Directors are as follows: Graham Holden 360,000, Ian Burrell 186,000 and David Sarti 170,000.
The Non-Executive Directors receive a fixed fee of 30,000 with an additional fee of 10,000 for the Chairmanship of a Board Committee.
The Chairman receives a fixed fee of 125,000.
The fees for the Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman are subject to review in July 2006. e The total amount paid to Directors during the year was 1,322,000 2004: 1,128,000. d During 2004, Christopher Burnett and John Marshall both resigned as Directors.
Their fees for that year were 191,000 and 65,000 respectively.
Service Contracts Each of the Executive Directors has a service contract with the Company which is terminable by the Company on not more than twelve months notice and by the Director on six months notice.
If a contract is to be terminated, the Committee will determine such mitigation as it considers fair and reasonable in each circumstance and the compensation that may be paid.
It will take into account the best practice provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance and it will take legal advice on the Companys liability to pay compensation and the appropriate amount.
The Committee does, periodically, consider what compensation commitments the Executive Directors contracts would entail in the event of early termination.
The Companys practice is to appoint the Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, under letters of appointment.
Their appointment is usually for three years.
Andrew Allner and Richard Scholes will complete their first three year term this Summer and both have indicated that they are willing to serve for a second three year term.
40 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2005 Details of the Directors Service Contracts are as follows: Appointment date Notice period Ian Burrell June 2001 1 year Graham Holden August 1992 1 year David Sarti November 2004 1 year Appointment date Term of appointment Mike Davies October 2004 3 years Andrew Allner July 2003 3 years Bill Husselby March 2005 3 years Richard Scholes July 2003 3 years Pension Benefits Defined Benefit Scheme Graham Holden is a member of the Groups Defined Benefit Scheme which provides him with a pension of up to two thirds of pensionable salary upon retirement at age 60, subject to his having completed at least twenty years service with the Group.
This Defined Benefit Scheme is now closed to new entrants, including Directors.
In addition, the Defined Benefit Scheme provides for a pension for dependents and, in the event of death within the first five years following the date of retirement, a lump sum payment equal to the balance of the pension entitlement for that five year period.
The Remuneration Committee have reviewed pension provision in response to the Pensions Act 2004 and Tax Simplification legislation.
Age at Years of service Accrued Increase in accrued Transfer value of 31 December 2005 entitlement entitlement earned pension increase or date of retirement 31 December 2005 during the year earned in year see Note a see Note b see Note c 000 000 000 Graham Holden 46 19 134 32 311 Notes to Pension Entitlements a The pension entitlement shown is that which would be preserved in the Defined Benefit Scheme if the member had left service on 31 December 2005. b The increase in accrued entitlement during the year is net of any increase for revaluation in deferment.
c The transfer value has been calculated in accordance with Actuarial Guidance Note GN11 less Directors contributions.
d No accrued lump sum is payable unless part of the accrued pension is commuted.
Details of accrued pension valued on a transfer basis as required under the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 are as follows:- Transfer value as at Transfer value as at Increase in 31 December 2005 31 December 2004 transfer value less member contribution over the year see Note a 000 000 000 Graham Holden 1,429 980 422 Notes to Pension Entitlements a The increase in the transfer value less Directors contributions is the increase in the transfer value of the accrued benefits during the year after deducting the Directors personal contribution to the Defined Benefit Scheme.
