16 Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2003 Operational excellence.
Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2003 17 Compact flight displays Too much information as well as too little can be dangerous as any pilot will tell you.
Thats why Meggitt cockpit displays not only withstand the physical constraints of the most agile fighter jets, they counter the sensory overload that pilots can experience during a critical mission.
"Readiness: -40C in winter to 90C in a desert summer Vibration tolerance: aerodynamic, gunfire and g forces to the limit of human endurance Agility: rolling up to 400 per second, at altitudes of 60,000 feet Before Meggitt: four or more mechanical gauges After Meggitt: one 3"" digital display Meggitt simplifying complexity."
expertise that will increase the Operational Excellence programmes Meggitts Operational Excellence performance of their products.
However, as the Group programme aligns shareholder with increases in size, you will find business customer value.
Using all the modern A recent programme success was recorded improvement experts working within management toolsLean, Six Sigma, the at Whittaker Controls.
The task was to and across divisions, cross-fertilising 5Ss and Kaizenthe programme starts improve the introduction of new products and standardising values.
Continuous from the customers perspective: we use from a market acceptable range of improvement is a given within Meggitt.
the tools to solve their biggest problems.
By re-engineering the process through the application of Lean By wrapping improved services around Todays customers focus on speed and and Six Sigma, Whittaker successfully our products, which continually exceed our performance.
They demand services in reduced it to a market-leading four to customers expectations, our programme the form of shorter product development five monthsa 300% increase in new is winning new business and enhancing cycles, improved maintenance and repair product introduction.
turnaround times and engineering 18 Meggitt PLC Report and Accounts 2003 Thermal management system The worlds most advanced tankthe M1A2 SEP Abramsis armed with more than weaponry and highly trained personnel.
It comes with sophisticated electronics that provide the knowledge needed for the increasingly network-centric battlefield.
To function in extreme conditionslike desert environments in which temperatures can soar as high as 60C, hatches battened and the crew in full protective gearour thermal management systems protect sensitive electronics from heat overload and crew members from heat exhaustion.
Meggitt protecting personnel and advanced combat systems.
