Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING SPECIAL RESOLUTIONS 12 Subject to the passing of resolution 11 above THAT the power conferred on the directors by article 4 C of the Companys Articles of Association be renewed for the period expiring 15 months after the passing of the resolution and for that period the section 89 amount is 4,240,589 approximately 14,135,296 ordinary shares being 5% of the ordinary share capital in issue on 18 February 2004.
13 THAT the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make one or more market purchases within the meaning of s163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary shares of 30p in the capital of the Company provided that: a the maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares authorised to be purchased is 28,270,594 representing 10% of the ordinary share capital in issue on 18 February 2004 : b the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is 30p: c the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share is an amount equal to 105 per cent of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from The London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which that ordinary share is purchased: d this authority expires at the conclusion of the next annual general meeting of the Company to be held in 2005 or within 15 months from the date of the passing of this resolution whichever is earlier: and e the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under this authority before the expiry of the authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of the authority, and may make a purchase of ordinary shares in pursuance of any such contract.
By order of the Board Registered Office Victoria House Victoria Road Horley Surrey RH6 7AF UK Tony Potter Director 18 March 2004 NOTES 1 Any member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting convened by the above Notice may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy is enclosed for use, if desired.
Completion of a form of proxy does not preclude a member from attending and voting at the meeting in person.
2 To be valid, forms of proxy must be lodged with the Companys Registrars, Lloyds Bank Registrars, The Causeway, Worthing, West Sussex, BN99 6ZL not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting.
3 There are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company, Victoria House, Victoria Road, Horley, Surrey, RH6 7AF, during normal business hours on each business day, copies of all service contracts between the directors and the Company or its subsidiaries.
These documents will also be available for inspection at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the Annual General Meeting.
4 The register of directors interests kept by the Company under section 325 of the Companies Act 1985 will be produced at the commencement of the meeting and remain open and accessible during the continuance of the meeting to any person attending the meeting.
5 The directors have no current intention to exercise the right to allot shares given by resolution 12 set out above or to acquire shares pursuant to the authority granted by resolution 13.
Authority to allot shares is sought to enable the directors to respond to opportunities as and when they arise.
Share purchases would only be made where the directors believed that they are in the best interests of the Company taking into account other available investment opportunities and the overall financial position of the Group.
6 The Company, pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertified Securities Regulations 2001, specifies that only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company as at 6.00pm on 4 May 2004, shall be entitled to attend or vote at the aforesaid general meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant register of securities after 6.00pm on 4 May 2004 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
