Accounting policies ACCOUNTING CONVENTION INCENTIVE SCHEMES The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost The cost of rights to acquire shares under the Groups Share Plans convention, in accordance with applicable accounting standards is charged as an operating cost over the period of performance and the accounting policies set out below.
of the employee in respect of which the rights are granted.
The Group operates Inland Revenue approved SAYE schemes CHANGES IN ACCOUNTING POLICY together with equivalent schemes for overseas employees that The Group has adopted FRS 17 Retirement Benefits in these allow the grant of share options at a discount to the market price financial statements.
The adoption of this Standard represents at the date of invitation.
The Group and Company have made use a change in accounting policy and the 2002 comparative figures of the exemption under UITF Abstract 17 revised 2000 not to have been restated accordingly note 36. recognise any compensation charge in respect of these options.
BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION The Groups financial statements consolidate the financial PENSIONS statements of Misys plc and its subsidiary undertakings and include The Group operates a number of defined contribution pension the Groups share of the net assets and results of associated schemes covering the majority of its employees.
The costs of undertakings to 31 May 2003. these pension schemes are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
In addition, the Group operates a funded defined No profit and loss account is presented for Misys plc as permitted benefit pension scheme for a small group of UK employees, as well by section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985. as a number of other smaller defined benefit arrangements.
Full Subsidiary undertakings acquired during the year have been included independent actuarial valuations are carried out on at least a in the financial statements using the acquisition method of accounting triennial basis and updated to each balance sheet date.
The assets from the date of acquisition.
Subsidiary undertakings disposed of of the schemes are held separately from those of the Group.
are included in the financial statements up to the date of disposal.
Pension scheme assets are measured using market values.
Pension Accordingly, the profit and loss account, statement of total scheme liabilities are measured using a projected unit method and recognised gains and losses and statement of cash flows include discounted at the current rate of return on a high quality corporate the results and cash flows for the period of ownership.
Associated bond of equivalent term and currency to the liability.
The pension undertakings are accounted for using the equity method.
scheme surplus to the extent that it is recoverable or deficit is REVENUE RECOGNITION recognised in full on the balance sheet net of deferred tax.
Any Turnover represents amounts invoiced to customers net of sales current or past service cost is recognised within operating profit.
taxes, for goods and services.
Revenue from system sales is The net of the expected increase in the present value of the recognised when a signed contract exists, delivery to a customer schemes liabilities, and the Groups long term expected return has occurred with no significant vendor obligations remaining on its schemes assets, are included in the profit and loss account and where the collection of the resulting receivable is considered as other finance income costs.
Any difference arising from probable.
In instances where a significant vendor obligation exists, experience or assumption changes and differences between the revenue recognition is delayed until the obligation has been satisfied.
expected return on assets and those actually achieved are recognised No revenue is recognised for multiple deliveries or multiple element in the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
products if an element of the contract remains undelivered and is essential to the functionality of the elements already delivered.
LEASES Fixed assets held under finance leases are capitalised in the balance Revenue on certain larger composite contracts is recognised on a sheet and are depreciated over their useful lives.
The capital percentage of completion basis over the period from delivery of the elements of future obligations under leases are included as liabilities product to customer acceptance.
The degree of completion of a in the balance sheet.
The interest elements of the lease obligations contract is measured using the costs incurred to date or milestones are charged to the profit and loss account over the period of the reached method, depending upon the nature of the individual lease.
Rentals paid under operating leases are charged to the profit contract and the most appropriate measure of the percentage of completion.
Losses on contracts are recognised as soon as a loss and loss account on a straight line basis over the lease term.
is foreseen by reference to the estimated costs of completion.
ONEROUS PROPERTY CONTRACTS Maintenance fees are recognised rateably over the period of the Provision for onerous lease commitments is made based on the contract.
EDI and remote processing services transaction Directors best estimate of the net unavoidable lease payments on processing are recognised as the services are performed.
these properties, being the difference between the rental due Revenue from professional services, such as implementation, training and any income expected to be derived from the properties being and consultancy, is recognised as the services are performed.
The provisions are discounted at an appropriate rate to take into account the effect of the time value of money.
Within the Financial Services Division, commission revenue received from insurers based on gross premiums written is presented gross DEFERRED TAXATION of commission payable to Independent Financial Advisors IFAs Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing differences and is recognised when earned.
Annual fees received from certain that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date IFAs for industry training, compliance support and access to Misys where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will networks listing of insurance providers and products are result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less, tax in recognised over the relevant subscription period.
Resultant deferred tax assets are recognised only to the RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT extent that it is considered more likely than not that there will be Research and development expenditure, including the cost of suitable taxable profits from which the underlying timing software products developed in-house, is expensed in the year in differences can be deducted, or where there are deferred tax which it is incurred.
liabilities against which the assets can be recovered.
54 Misys Annual Report 2003 Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates the operating business to which it relates and is retranslated as part that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences of the retranslation of the balance sheets of overseas subsidiaries, reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted at the balance with exchange differences taken to reserves.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions prior to 1 June 1998 has been set off against reserves in the year of acquisition as a matter of FOREIGN CURRENCIES accounting policy.
Merger relief offered by section 131 of the The results and cash flows of overseas undertakings are translated Companies Act 1985, representing the excess of fair value over into sterling at the average rates of exchange ruling throughout the the nominal value of the shares issued in connection with the period.
The balance sheets of overseas undertakings are translated acquisition of subsidiary undertakings, was credited to a merger into sterling at the rates ruling at the balance sheet dates.
The merger reserve so created was used to write off differences arising on consolidation are taken directly to reserves.
goodwill up to the level of the reserve.
On disposal of a previously Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are converted acquired subsidiary undertaking any attributable goodwill at the rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet date or at rates previously set off against reserves is written back to reserves specified in related derivative instruments.
brought forward and charged through the profit and loss account.
Transactions in foreign currencies are converted at the rate ruling at the date of each transaction or at rates specified in related derivative CONTINGENT CONSIDERATION instruments.
Exchange differences are included in the profit and Where part or all of the amount of purchase consideration loss account where they relate to trading transactions.
Exchange is contingent on future events, the cost of acquisition initially differences arising on foreign currency borrowings, to the extent that recorded is a reasonable estimate of the fair value of amounts they are used to provide a hedge against foreign equity investments, expected to be payable in the future.
The cost of acquisition is are taken directly to reserves, together with the exchange differences adjusted when revised estimates are made, with corresponding on the carrying amount of the related investments.
adjustments continuing to be made to goodwill until the ultimate outcome is known.
These liabilities are reported under provisions DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS for liabilities and charges in the balance sheet.
Derivative instruments are used by the Group solely to reduce or eliminate exposure to foreign exchange and interest rate risks.
TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS Derivative instruments used include forward currency rate Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated agreements, currency swaps, interest rate caps and currency depreciation.
Depreciation is calculated on a straight line basis so options.
Derivative instruments are considered to be hedges as to write off the cost, less estimated residual value of each asset, because they are used to reduce the risk profile of an existing over its expected useful life.
The rates applied from the date of underlying exposure in accordance with the Groups risk purchase are: management policies.
When instruments are used for hedging purposes, the Group defers the instruments impact on profit until Freehold and long leasehold property 2% pa it recognises the underlying hedged item in the profit and loss Short leasehold property over lease term account.
Premiums or discounts arising on the purchase of derivative Computer and other equipment 10% 25% pa instruments are amortised over the shorter of the life of the Fixtures and fittings 10% 25% pa instrument or the underlying exposure.
IMPAIRMENT OF INTANGIBLE AND TANGIBLE ASSETS Where a forward rate agreement is used to hedge an on balance The need for any tangible fixed asset or goodwill impairment writesheet item, the balance sheet item is translated at the rate of down is assessed by a comparison of the carrying value of the asset exchange contained within the hedge.
Where the instrument is with the higher of net realisable value and value in use.
The value used to hedge against future transactions, gains and losses are in use is determined from estimated discounted future cash flows.
deferred until the transaction occurs.
Discount rates used are based on the circumstances of the relevant Where an instrument ceases to be a hedge, either as a result of individual businesses.
the underlying exposure which it was hedging being extinguished, or because a future transaction is no longer likely to occur, the STOCKS instrument is cancelled either by termination of the instrument Stocks and contract work in progress are valued at the lower of cost or by matching it against a new exposure.
The cost of termination and net realisable value.
In respect of contracts where revenue is is recognised in the profit and loss account in the period of recognised on a percentage of completion basis, work in progress termination.
Where the instrument is matched by a new instrument, represents the costs associated with the ongoing contract net of both are valued at the appropriate market rate and any resultant amounts invoiced to date, to the extent they are recoverable.
gain or loss is recognised in the profit and loss account.
BORROWINGS INTANGIBLE ASSETS GOODWILL Borrowings are initially stated as the net proceeds, being the Goodwill on acquisitions comprises the excess of the fair value principal loan element, net of issue and finance costs.
Issue costs of the purchase consideration over the fair value of identifiable together with finance costs are allocated to the profit and loss assets and liabilities acquired.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions account over the term of the facility at a constant rate on the after 1 June 1998 is recognised within fixed assets in the year of carrying value of net debt.
Accrued finance costs attributable to acquisition.
Amortisation is calculated on a straight line basis so borrowings where the maturity at the date of issue is less than as to write off the goodwill over its economic life, depending on 12 months are included in accrued charges within creditors due the nature of the acquisition, for a period normally not exceeding within one year.
For all other borrowings, accrued finance charges ten years.
Goodwill is denominated in the functional currency of and issue costs are included in the carrying value of those borrowings.
