Notes to the pro forma financial statements 1.
Basis of preparation The Mitchells & Butlers group was created on its separation from Six Continents on 15 April 2003. significant changes were made to the nancing structure of the Group on separation which resulted in the replacement of inter company balances owed to Six Continents with external debt.
In addition, the Mitchells & Butlers group no longer benefited from the Six Continents group tax arrangements that were in place prior to the separation.
These pro forma financial statements therefore present the Mitchells & Butlers groups results on the basis that the post separation nancing and taxation structure had been in place since 1 October 2001.
However, because of the nature of pro forma financial statements, they cannot give a complete picture of the financial position of the Mitchells & Butlers group.
The Mitchells & Butlers group pro forma financial statements do not comprise statutory accounts within the meaning of Section 240 of the Companies Act 1985 and are unaudited.
They have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modied by the revaluation of certain tangible fixed assets, and, except as mentioned above, in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
The audited statutory financial statements of the Mitchells & Butlers group for the year ended 30 September 2003 are shown on pages 24 to 49.
Finance charge The pro forma finance charge has been calculated to reect the post separation capital structure of the Mitchells & Butlers group as if the structure had been in place since 1 October 2001.
The charge for the periods before separation has been calculated by reference to the average indebtedness that would have arisen from this capital structure using the interest rates that would have applied under the Groups post separation external borrowings arrangements.
Taxation The pro forma tax charge has been calculated to reect the pro forma finance charge and excludes the benets arising from the tax arrangements of the Six Continents group.
The effective tax rate implied by the pro forma tax charge is 32.3% 2002 32.2%.
Earnings per share Pro forma earnings per ordinary share are calculated by dividing the pro forma profit for the financial year of 135m 2002 136m by 735m 2002 734m shares, being the weighted average number of ordinary shares of Mitchells & Butlers plc in issue during the year, assuming that the number of shares issued on separation of 734m was the number of shares in issue prior to separation.
