Accounting Policies 31 March 2003 Accounting Convention The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention as modified by the revaluation of certain freehold and long leasehold properties.
The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable United Kingdom accounting standards.
Basis of Consolidation The consolidated Profit and Loss Account and Balance Sheet include the financial statements of MITIE Group PLC and all its subsidiary undertakings.
The results of the subsidiary undertakings acquired or sold are included from or up to the effective date of acquisition or sale.
Goodwill and Intangible Fixed Assets Goodwill is calculated as the surplus of fair value of purchase consideration over fair value attributed to the net assets of subsidiary undertakings acquired.
Following the introduction of FRS 10, goodwill in respect of acquisitions made after the financial year ended 31 March 1998 has been capitalised and amortised over its estimated useful economic life of up to 20 years.
For acquisitions made before 1 April 1998, goodwill was written off directly to reserves as a matter of accounting policy.
In the event of a disposal of the businesses concerned, this goodwill will be included in determining the gain or loss on disposal in the Profit and Loss Account.
Tangible Fixed Assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost or valuation, less depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is provided on tangible fixed assets on a straight line basis over the expected useful lives.
No depreciation is provided on land.
Freehold and long leasehold buildings 50 years Plant 3-14 years Vehicles 4 years Financial Instruments The Group uses financial instruments to hedge its exposure to foreign currency risk.
To the extent that such instruments are matched against an underlying asset or liability, they are accounted for using hedge accounting.
Gains or losses and premiums or discounts are matched to the underlying transactions being hedged.
Investments Shares in Group companies are stated at cost less provision for impairment in value.
Current asset investments are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Leased Assets Assets acquired under finance leases are included in tangible fixed assets and depreciated in accordance with the above policy.
Outstanding future lease obligations are shown in creditors.
The finance element of the rental payments is charged to the Profit and Loss Account over the period of the lease.
Operating lease rentals are charged to the Profit and Loss Account in equal instalments over the lease term.
30 MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 Accounting Policies 31 March 2003 Work in Progress and Stocks Work in progress and stocks are valued at the lower of cost, including appropriate overheads, and net realisable value.
Provision is made for foreseeable losses.
Costs represent materials, direct labour and overheads.
Net realisable value is based upon estimated selling price, less further costs expected to be incurred to completion and disposal.
Provision is made for obsolete, slow moving or defective items where appropriate.
Long term contracts are dealt with in accordance with SSAP 9 revised.
A prudent level of profit is taken based on estimated percentage completion if the final outcome can be reliably assessed.
All bid costs are expensed as incurred until the stage is reached where it is virtually certain that the contract has been awarded.
Deferred Tax Deferred tax is provided in full on timing differences that result in an obligation at the balance sheet date to pay more tax, or a right to pay less tax, at a future date, at rates expected to apply when they crystallise based on current tax rates and law.
Timing differences arise from the inclusion of items of income and expenditure in tax computations in periods different from those in which they are included in financial statements.
Deferred tax is not provided on timing differences arising from the revaluation of fixed assets where there is no commitment to sell the asset, or on unremitted earnings of subsidiaries and associates where there is no commitment to remit these earnings.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded as more likely than not that they will be recovered.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
Turnover Turnover represents the total amount, excluding sales taxes, receivable in respect of goods and services supplied and contract work completed in the year.
Intra Group transactions are excluded.
All turnover arose within the United Kingdom.
Pensions The Group operates two defined benefit pension schemes.
The amounts charged to operating profit are the current service costs and gains and losses on settlements and curtailments.
The Group also operates a fully insured defined contribution pension scheme, the assets of which are held in independently administered funds.
In respect of this scheme, the pension cost charge represents contributions payable by the Group in the year.
The Group has continued to account for pensions in accordance with SSAP 24 as illustrated above.
In November 2000, the Accounting Standards Board ASB issued FRS 17 Retirement Benefits, replacing SSAP 24 Accounting for Pension Costs.
In November 2002, an amendment to FRS 17 was published which allowed an extension to the transitional arrangements of FRS 17.
The probability of implementation is uncertain and partly dependent upon proposals from the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The Group will take advice to ensure that it continues to adopt the best practice in respect of accounting for retirement benefits.
The Group is in the second year of the transitional arrangements under FRS 17.
Provisions Provision is made for outstanding insurance claims incurred at the balance sheet date.
MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 31
