Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Sixty Seventh Annual General Meeting of MITIE Group PLC will be held at The Stable Block, Barley Wood, Wrington, Bristol, BS40 5SA on Thursday, 18 September 2003 at 12 noon for the following purposes: Ordinary business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following Resolutions which will be proposed as Ordinary Resolutions: 1.
That the Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2003 and the Reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon be received.
That the Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 March 2003 contained in the Accounts be approved.
That a final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2003 of 1.1p per Ordinary Share of 2 2p each be declared.
That David Malcolm Telling be re-elected as a Director.
That Sir John Southwood Jennings be re-elected as a Director.
That Colin Stewart Acheson be re-elected as a Director.
That David Charles Ord be elected as a Director.
That Ruby McGregor-Smith be elected as a Director.
That Cullum McAlpine be elected as a Director.
That Deloitte & Touche LLP be reappointed as Auditors of the Company until the conclusion of the next general meeting before which accounts are laid and that their remuneration be fixed by the Directors.
Special business To consider and if thought fit, pass the following Resolutions which will be proposed as Special Resolutions: 11.
That the Directors be generally empowered, pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985, to allot equity securities within the meaning of Section 94 of the said Act for cash as if sub-section 1 of Section 89 of the said Act did not apply to any such allotment, provided that this power shall be limited:- 1 a to the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue in favour of the holders of Ordinary Shares of 2 p each where 2 the equity securities respectively attributable of the interests of all such Shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective number of Ordinary Shares held by them but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the Directors may deem necessary or expedient to deal with any legal or practical problems under the laws of any overseas territory or the requirements of any regulatory body or any stock exchange in any territory or in relation to fractional entitlements: and b to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 375,000 approximately 5% of the issued share capital : and this authority shall expire 15 months after the date of the passing of this Resolution or at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company, whichever comes first, save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer or agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003 49 Notice of Meeting continued 12.
That the Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the 1 Companies Act 1985 of Ordinary Shares of 2 p each in the Company, on such terms and in such manner as the Board of Directors of 2 the Company may from time to time determine, provided that: a the maximum number of Ordinary Shares which may be purchased is 30,000,000 approximately 10% of the issued share capital : 1 b the minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is 2 p, exclusive of expenses: and 2 c the maximum price which may be paid for an Ordinary Share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotation of an Ordinary Share of the Company as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange on the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the Ordinary Share is purchased, exclusive of expenses: and this authority shall expire 15 months after the date of the passing of this Resolution or at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company, whichever comes first, except in relation to purchases of shares the contract for which was concluded before the expiry of this authority and which might be executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
By order of the Board Registered Office: 35 Duchess Road Rutherglen Glasgow Corina K Ross G73 1AU Company Secretary 4 July 2003 Notes: 1.
Any member entitled to attend and vote at this meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him or her.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
To be effective, forms of proxy duly completed must be received by the Companys Registrars, Computershare Investor Services PLC, PO Box 1075, Bristol, BS99 3FA not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or any adjournment thereof.
Completion of a form of proxy does not preclude a member from attending the meeting and voting in person.
The Company, pursuant to regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, specifies that only those members registered in the Register of Members of the Company as at 6.00pm on 16 September 2003 shall be entitled to attend and or vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the Register of Members after 6.00pm on 16 September 2003 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
The following documents will be available for inspection at the Registered Office and Head Office of the Company during normal business hours on any weekday public holidays excepted from the date of this Notice until the date of the meeting, and at the place of the meeting from 11.30 am until its conclusion: The Register of Directors interests in the share capital of the Company kept pursuant to Section 325 of the Companies Act 1985: and Copies of the Directors service agreements.
The total number of options to subscribe for Ordinary Shares that were outstanding as at 3 July 2003 was 9,433,450, representing approximately 3.1% of the issued share capital of the Company.
This would represent 3.5% of the issued share capital if the maximum number of Ordinary Shares were purchased under the authority proposed under Resolution 12.
On 1 August 2003, Deloitte & Touche will transfer their business to Deloitte & Touche LLP, a limited liability partnership incorporated under the Limited Liability Partnerships Act 2000.
The Company has given its consent to treating the reappointment of Deloitte & Touche as extending to Deloitte & Touche LLP with effect from 1 August 2003.
Accordingly, although the Accounts were signed in the name of Deloitte & Touche, a Resolution for the reappointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
50 MITIE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2003
