qxd 4 6 03 1:38 pm Page 47 The Group is committed to employment policies that follow best Community Involvement practice, based on equal opportunities for all and recognises that a During the financial year, the Group made donations to charitable diverse workforce is a strength in a competitive marketplace.
The and community organisations totalling 444,000 of which 77,000 Company has also made a significant commitment by appointing a was made from UK-based Group Companies.
As in previous years, Diversity Champion at Executive Committee level, and all of the no political donations were made.
Further details regarding the Groups business units are implementing action plans to improve Companys involvement in the community are set out in the corporate workforce diversity.
This approach extends to the fair treatment of responsibility section of this report on pages 22 and 23. people with disabilities in relation to their recruitment, training and development.
Full consideration and every effort are given to the Auditors retention of people who become disabled during employment.
Following the transfer of substantially all of the business of the O UK is a member of the Employers Forum on Disability.
UK rm of , the Companys auditors, to a 2 limited liability partnership on 1 January 2003,  Policy on the payment of suppliers resigned on 27 February 2003 and the Directors appointed the new The Group aims to pay all of its creditors promptly.
The payment rm,  LLP with effect from 28 February terms for major contracts are agreed at the same time as other 2003.
Resolutions concerning the appointment of the auditors and terms are negotiated with individual suppliers.
It is the Groups policy authorising the Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed to make payments for other purchases within 30 working days of at the Annual General Meeting.
the invoice date, provided that the relevant invoice is presented in a timely fashion and is complete.
Annual General Meeting The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be The Group had 39 days purchases outstanding as at 31 March 2003 held on Wednesday, 30 July 2003, together with explanatory notes, 2002: 37 days based on the average daily amount invoiced by appear in the separate Notice of Annual General Meeting sent to all suppliers during the year.
Corporate governance By Order of the Board A report on corporate governance is set out on pages 48 to 50.
Philip Bramwell Company Secretary and General Counsel 20 May 2003 Registered Ofce: Wellington Street, Slough, Berkshire SL1 1YP Registered number: 4190833 Statement of directors responsibility Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to the Group for that period.
ensure the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the In preparing these financial statements the Directors are required to: Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for select suitable accounting policies and then apply them the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity state whether applicable accounting standards have been of the Group website.
The Directors understand that uncertainty followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and regarding legal requirements is compounded as information explained in the financial statements.
published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements relating to the preparation and The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above dissemination of financial statements.
requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The financial statements have complied with UK disclosure requirements in this By Order of the Board report in order to present a consistent picture to all shareholders.
Philip Bramwell Company Secretary and General Counsel www.
