NEXT PLC NOTICE OF MEETING Notice is hereby given that the first Annual General Meeting of NEXT plc will be held at One Great George Street, Westminster, London, SW1P 3AA on Tuesday 13 May 2003 at 11.00 a. m. at which the following resolutions will be proposed: resolutions 1 to 14 as Ordinary Resolutions and 15 to 16 as Special Resolutions.
Ordinary business 1 To receive and adopt the accounts and reports of the directors and auditors for the period ended 1 February 2003.
2 To approve the directors remuneration report for the year ended 1 February 2003.
3 To declare a final dividend of 21p per share in respect of the period ended 1 February 2003.
4 To re-elect Christos Angelides as a director who retires according to Article 97 having been appointed by the Board during the year.
5 To re-elect John Barton as a director who retires according to Article 97 having been appointed by the Board during the year.
6 To re-elect Ann Burdus as a director who retires according to Article 97 having been appointed by the Board during the year.
7 To re-elect David Jones as a director who retires according to Article 97 having been appointed by the Board during the year.
8 To re-elect David Keens as a director who retires according to Article 97 having been appointed by the Board during the year.
9 To re-elect Alistair Mitchell-Innes as a director who retires according to Article 97 having been appointed by the Board during the year.
10 To re-elect Derek Netherton as a director who retires according to Article 97 having been appointed by the Board during the year.
11 To re-elect Andrew Varley as a director who retires according to Article 97 having been appointed by the Board during the year.
12 To re-elect Simon Wolfson as a director who retires according to Article 97 having been appointed by the Board during the year.
13 To re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors and authorise the directors to set their remuneration.
Biographies of directors seeking re-election are shown on page 8 of the Annual Report.
Special business To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions, of which resolution 14 will be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution and resolutions 15 and 16 as Special Resolutions.
14 That the directors be and they are hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act to exercise all powers of the Company to allot relevant securities as defined in the said Section up to an aggregate nominal amount of 10,100,000 such authority to expire on 13 May 2008 but to be capable of previous revocation or variation by the Company in general meeting and of renewal from time to time by the Company in general meeting for a further period not exceeding five years provided that: a the Company may make any offer or agreement before the expiry of this authority that would or might require relevant securities to be allotted after this authority has expired: and b all previous authorities to allot securities conferred by resolution of the Company pursuant to Section 80 of the Act or otherwise be and they are hereby revoked to the extent that they have not been previously utilised.
15 That the directors be and they are hereby empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot equity securities as defined in Section 94 of the said Act pursuant to the authority conferred by resolution 14 set out in the Notice of this meeting for cash as if Section 89 1 of the said Act did not apply to any such allotment provided that this power shall be limited to: a the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue in favour of ordinary shareholders where the equity securities respectively attributable to the interests of all ordinary shareholders are proportionate as nearly as may be to the respective numbers of ordinary shares held by them but subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the directors may deem fit to deal with fractional entitlements or any legal or practical problems arising under the laws of any territory, or requirements of any regulatory body or stock exchange in any territory: and b the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub-paragraph a above of equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 1,400,000 being less than 5% of the issued ordinary share capital outstanding at 24 March 2003 and shall expire on 13 May 2008 save that the Company may before such expiry make an offer agreement which would or might require equity securities to be allotted after such expiry.
forty-nine NEXT PLC NOTICE OF MEETING 16 That in accordance with Article 46 of the Articles of Association of the Company and Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act, the Company be hereby granted general and unconditional authority to make market purchases as defined in Section 163 of the Act of any of its own ordinary shares provided that the authority conferred by this resolution shall: i be limited to the lesser of 42,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each or 15% of the issued ordinary share capital outstanding at the date of the Annual General Meeting: ii the minimum price which may be paid for ordinary shares is 10p per ordinary share: iii the maximum price which may be paid for each ordinary share is an amount not more than 5 per cent over the average of the middle market price of the ordinary shares of the Company according to the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: iv the authority hereby conferred shall expire on whichever is the earlier of: a 18 months after the date on which this resolution is passed, and b the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company held in 2004: v the Company may make a contract to purchase ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority.
W R Barnes, Secretary Registered Office Desford Road, Enderby Leicester, LE19 4AT 10 April 2003 Attendance and voting All members who hold ordinary shares are entitled to attend and vote at the meeting.
Members who are entitled to attend and vote may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him, and a proxy need not also be a member.
A proxy may vote on any other business which may properly come before the meeting.
A form of proxy is enclosed.
If you do not intend being present at the meeting please sign and return it so as to reach the Companys registrar at least 48 hours before the meeting.
The return by a member of a fully completed form of proxy will not preclude any such member from attending in person and voting at the meeting.
The Company pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, specifies that only those shareholders registered in the register of members of the Company as at 1am on 12 May 2003 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the aforesaid general meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant register of securities after 1am on 12 May 2003 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
Electronic proxy appointment through CREST CREST members who wish to appoint a proxy or proxies through the CREST electronic proxy appointment service may do so for the Annual General Meeting to be held on 13 May 2003 and any adjournment s thereof by using the procedures described in the CREST Manual.
CREST Personal Members or other CREST sponsored members, and those CREST members who have appointed a voting service provider s, should refer to their CREST sponsor or voting service provider s, who will be able to take the appropriate action on their behalf.
In order for a proxy appointment or instruction made using the CREST service to be valid, the appropriate CREST message a CREST Proxy Instruction must be properly authenticated in accordance with CRESTCos specifications and must contain the information required for such instructions, as described in the CREST Manual.
The message, regardless of whether it relates to the appointment of a proxy or to an amendment to the instruction given to a previously appointed proxy must, in order to be valid, be transmitted so as to be received by the issuers agent ID 7RA01 by the latest time s for receipt of proxy appointments specified in the notice of meeting.
For this purpose, the time of receipt will be taken to be the time as determined by the timestamp applied to the message by the CREST Applications Host from which the issuers agent is able to retrieve the message by enquiry to CREST in the manner prescribed by CREST.
CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service providers should note that CRESTCo does not make available special procedures in CREST for any particular messages.
Normal system timings and limitations will therefore apply in relation to the input of CREST Proxy Instructions.
It is the responsibility of the CREST member concerned to take or, if the CREST member is a CREST personal member or sponsored member or has appointed a voting service provider s, to procure that his CREST sponsor or voting service provider s take s such action as shall be necessary to ensure that a message is transmitted by means of the CREST system by any particular time.
In this connection, CREST members and, where applicable, their CREST sponsors or voting service provider s are referred, in particular, to those sections of the CREST Manual concerning practical limitations of the CREST system and timings.
The Company may treat as invalid a CREST Proxy Instruction in the circumstances set out in Regulation 35 5 a of the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001.
Directors service contracts Copies of directors contracts of service are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company during the usual business hours and will be available at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
