co. uk Registered in England and Wales Website: www.
com No 471864 Principal paying and conversion agent and Auditors registrar to the convertible bond holders Deloitte & Touche J P Morgan Chase Bank 1 Chaseside Merchant bankers Bournemouth N M Rothschild & Sons Limited Dorset BH7 7DA Stockbrokers Hoare Govett Limited Cazenove & Co Ltd 48 | Company information Northern Foods plc Our business Northern Foods is a leading UK food producer.
We operate in eight core product areas which benefit from long term demographic and lifestyle trends favouring high quality foods that are convenient to eat.
Our focus is on serving the leading retailers and we have strong market positions in the supply of high quality chilled foods under their retail names.
We also have successful brands in biscuits, frozen food and savoury products.
Contents 01 Financial highlights 02 Chairmans statement 03 Chief executives statement 04 Financial review 06 Report of the directors 10 Directors remuneration report 19 Independent auditors report 20 Consolidated profit and loss account 21 Consolidated balance sheet 22 Consolidated cash flow statement 23 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt Statement of total recognised gains and losses Reconciliation of movements in equity shareholders funds 24 Company balance sheet Designed and produced by 25 Accounting policies Fitch:London 27 Notes to the accounts 45 Five year record Front cover photography Nick Sinclair 46 Investor information 47 Shareholder analysis Printed in England by 48 Company information the colourhouse Northern Foods plc Annual report 2003 Northern Foods plc Annual report 2003 www.
co. uk Northern Foods plc Annual review 2003 www.
co. uk Our business Company Annual Northern Foods is a leading UK food producer.
We operate information report in eight core product areas which benefit from long term demographic and lifestyle trends favouring high quality foods that are convenient to eat.
Registered office The Northern Foods Annual review 2003 aims to give shareholders Beverley House a clear and concise overview of the groups business and prospects.
St Stephens Square For this reason the review contains a summary financial statement Our focus is on serving the leading retailers and we Hull HU1 3XG rather than the full accounts.
Telephone: 01482 325432 have strong market positions in the supply of high Facsimile: 01482 226136 The Annual review does not contain sufficient information to allow Website: www.
co. uk for as full an understanding of the results and state of affairs of the group as would be provided by the Northern Foods Annual report 2003. quality chilled foods under their retail names.
We also Registered in England and Wales If you would like to receive a copy of the Annual report, please contact: No 471864 have successful brands in biscuits, frozen food and Public relations department Auditors Northern Foods plc savoury products.
Deloitte & Touche Beverley House St Stephens Square Merchant bankers Hull HU1 3XG N M Rothschild & Sons Limited Telephone: 01482 325432 Stockbrokers Hoare Govett Limited Cazenove & Co Ltd Registrar to the ordinary shareholders Computershare Investor Services PLC PO Box 435 Owen House 8 Bankhead Crossway North Edinburgh EH11 4BR Telephone: 0870 702 0134 Email: web.
com Principal paying and conversion agent and registrar to the convertible bond holders J P Morgan Chase Bank 1 Chaseside Bournemouth Dorset BH7 7DA Contents 01 Financial highlights 02 Our core product areas 04 Chairmans statement 06 Chief executives statement 08 Operating review 18 Recognising our social responsibilities 21 Financial review 24 Board of directors 25 Summary report of the directors Independent auditors statement 26 Summary directors remuneration report 31 Consolidated profit and loss account 32 Consolidated balance sheet 33 Consolidated cash flow statement Designed and produced by Analysis of activities Fitch:London 34 Five year record Principal photography 35 Financial calendar Directors Bill Robinson Investor information Food products Jean Cazals People manufacturing Nick Sinclair 36 Principal operations Company information Printed in England by Annual report the colourhouse Financial highlights 2003 Continuing sales up 5.0% to 1,421.2m driven by Convenience up 7.9% Continuing operating profit up 0.6m to 115.6m: disappointing performance in biscuits offsets good progress elsewhere Convenience up 8.5% Grocery down 9.7% Earnings per share up 6.5% to 14.81p benefits from lower tax charge and share buyback programme Dividend increased 6.1% to 8.7p per share: dividend cover increased Profit on sale of Ski and Munch Bunch brands less operational costs lifts FRS 3 pre-tax profit by 27.5% and earnings per share by 61.9% Net debt reduced by 90.1m: 100.1m returned to shareholders through dividends and share buybacks disposal proceeds 145m strong operational cash generation Biscuit stabilisation and recovery plans in place: accelerated new product development programme cost reduction initiatives price increases successfully implemented Further group-wide initiatives to reduce cost base Figures quoted before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
Northern Foods plc Financial highlights | 01 Our core 1 Recipe dishes 2 Chilled savoury products 3 Speciality bread The UK market leader in high quality Manufacturing savoury products A leading manufacturer of fresh chilled recipe dishes, developing under the Pork Farms, Bowyers and and frozen speciality bread products product and manufacturing products which Hollands brands and major retailers for the retail and foodservice sector.
include a wide range of Italian pasta labels.
Products include hot and Principal product lines include rolls, areas meals and snacks, Indian, Chinese and cold-eating pies, pasties, sausage baps, muffins, burger buns, scones, other international dishes, together rolls, quiches, flans and Scotch eggs.
doughnuts, tea cakes, fruited bread, with traditional British specialities.
croissants, baguettes, panettone and other speciality loaves.
13 24 02 | Our core product areas Northern Foods plc 4 Bread-based snacks the countrys largest manufacturer 7 Biscuits 8 Frozen foods Manufacturing fresh chilled of both branded and retailer label Foxs is the UKs largest Producing deep pan, thin and crispy sandwiches, filled rolls and pizzas Christmas puddings.
manufacturer of premium quality and speciality frozen pizzas under under the labels of major retailers.
The complementary the Goodfellas brand and retailers 6 Fresh chilled dairy products Elkes business produces everyday labels.
Dalepak manufactures 5 Cakes and puddings Manufacturing fresh chilled dairy and everyday treat biscuits, mainly grillsteaks, burgers and a growing The UKs leading supplier of own products including dairy desserts, under retailers labels.
label cakes to the major retailers and yogurt, fromage frais and cottage cheese for major retailers labels.
57 68 Northern Foods plc Our core product areas | 03 Chairmans statement Peter Blackburn Aim Framework Progress for success Creation of Clear strategy Increased focus shareholder value on core areas Co-ordinated group action Operational improvements Increased competitiveness Market challenges, particularly biscuits 04 | Chairmans statement Northern Foods plc Trading results were below our original plan, primarily due to disappointing results in biscuits.
Progress in other key areas resulted in earnings per share growth, despite tightening market conditions, disposal dilution and significant cost pressures.
We are responding to the challenges of our market place through Strategic priorities determined and co-ordinated action.
We are driving operational In a climate of intense food retailer competition, it is more important than improvements throughout the group, notably by a greater focus on ever that Northern Foods leverages its scale advantages in procurement and leveraging synergies in productivity, procurement and systems.
Specific ensures that best practice in productivity, food technology and systems is action is being taken to stabilise and improve our performance in applied throughout the group.
We are working with increasing dedication biscuits.
We will continue to review our portfolio to ensure that we and effectiveness to ensure that we maximise these opportunities, and deliver concentrate on activities where we can achieve and retain competitive the planned returns on our investments.
The sale of Ski and Munch Bunch advantage and a strong customer franchise.
has demonstrated our willingness to adjust our portfolio when appropriate, and we will continue to examine all aspects of our business to ensure that Results we focus on activities where we have a real competitive edge as the base Continuing sales grew by 5.0 per cent to 1,421.2 million, driven by strong for delivering shareholder value.
progress in our Convenience chilled food operations, though total sales were 2.6 per cent lower as a result of the disposal of the Ski and Munch Bunch The board brands to Nestl UK in April 2002.
Underlying sales trends, excluding the Following extensive changes to the non-executive directorate in 2002, we effects of divestments and currency movements, improved in the last three further improved the strength and balance of the board with the appointment months of the financial year, after a slower performance in the third quarter.
of two new executive directors in January 2003.
Matthew Gribbin, 45, has been with Northern Foods for over 20 years and Howard Sims, 55, joined Continuing operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional the company in 1998 on the acquisition of Cavaghan & Gray plc, of which items was up 0.5 per cent at 115.6 million, with improved results from our he was Chief executive.
Convenience operations offset by a decline in Grocery as a result of our poor performance in biscuits.
Dilution from disposals and the cost of the share Corporate social responsibility buyback programme depressed profit before taxation, goodwill amortisation Northern Foods has a long tradition of sensitivity to social issues and of and exceptional items, which was 3.5 per cent lower at 97.5 million.
supporting the disadvantaged in our society.
During the year we have taken The reduction in share capital, together with a lower underlying tax charge, further steps to clarify the principles on which we conduct our relations with resulted in enhanced earnings per share before goodwill amortisation all our stakeholders: shareholders, employees, customers and consumers, and exceptional items, which improved by 6.5 per cent to 14.81 pence.
suppliers, the communities in which we operate, and the wider environment.
The disposal of Ski and Munch Bunch generated a 54.0 million exceptional Outlook profit, which has been partially offset by 42.6 million of reorganisation costs Sales in the first seven weeks of the current year are up 7.6 per cent overall, and asset impairment.
As a result, on an FRS 3 basis, pre-tax profit increased and up 9.5 per cent with our five largest customers.
This strong start was by 27.5 per cent to 105.8 million, and earnings per share by 61.9 per cent assisted by the timing of Easter and recent new business gains, although we to 18.73 pence, compared with the previous year.
anticipate that progress may moderate in the months ahead.
In a demanding trading climate, we are pursuing a range of initiatives to enhance efficiencies Dividend and share buyback and returns across the group.
Action is being taken in our biscuit businesses The board recommends an increased final dividend of 5.45 pence per to recover inflation, reduce costs and accelerate new product development: share 2002: 5.15 pence.
Together with the increased interim dividend this is helping to arrest the trend of the second half of last year, though of 3.25 pence paid in March, this makes a total dividend for the year of biscuit trading is expected to dampen Grocery performance in the first half.
We remain committed to a progressive The entire Northern Foods team shares my determination that the group dividend policy, taking account of the long term earnings potential and will fulfil its potential by delivering appropriate returns on our investments cash flow of the group.
and maximising the potential of our strong positions in the growing convenience food market.
In addition, we continued to make market purchases of our shares for cancellation, acquiring a total of 36.4 million shares, representing Peter Blackburn 6.5 per cent of our equity, at a cost of 55.5 million.
This brings the Chairman total to 106.5 million since we began our share buyback programme in February 2000.
28 May 2003 Northern Foods plc Chairmans statement | 05 Chief executives statement Jo Stewart Strategy Framework Progress for success Product focus on Matching products Strong Convenience high added value to lifestyle trends sales growth Customer focus on Market growth Grocery sales major UK food in eight core growth reduced by retailers product areas biscuit performance Operational focus Growth in Continued growth to increase major retailers with our five largest competitiveness market share customers Investment and Major investment rationalisation projects complete Development Initiatives to realise of synergies synergy benefits underway 06 | Chief executives statement Northern Foods plc Our aim remains the creation of shareholder value as the most effective added value food manufacturer addressing the UK retail market.
By focusing on the supply of added value products to the major retailers, Synergy development and on innovation and the highest food standards, we have positioned Central to the Northern Foods proposition is the belief that each of our ourselves to benefit from the key long term trends in our market activities should have bespoke strategies tailored to their precise market place.
Organisational and strategic refinement, combined with prudent type, positioning and customer profile.
We then seek to overlay scale and investment, are designed to drive further improvements in our synergy benefits that reflect the size and strength of our group.
concentrated in six key areas: Market environment market development and customer relations, including the identification In a time of increasing economic uncertainty, the food market stands out of market trends and opportunities and the exploitation of group strengths for its long term overall stability.
The sectors on which we have chosen to to drive category management for our key customers: focus continue to outperform the market as a whole, driven by consumer productivity, with an emphasis on continuously improving the effectiveness demand for increasing convenience and quality.
The UK retailing of our manufacturing activities and supply chain: environment, always demanding, awaits the outcome of the competition authorities review of the various options for further consolidation.
However procurement, ensuring that correct standards are applied and cost this finally unfolds, we believe that Northern Foods is strongly placed as a reduction strategies developed to optimise value in use of the materials well-invested business capable of meeting retailer needs for innovation, we purchase: quality assurance, service and value.
food technology, applying the latest scientific advances in a practical way to aid innovation and productivity across the business: Retailer consolidation will inevitably be matched by rationalisation of their supply base, and some players will not survive this process.
This may lead systems, both in management processes and information technology, to some instability, but this should correct itself as a more stable supply base to provide a common platform for use within our business activities: emerges.
We are confident that Northern Foods will be a winner from the people, including recruitment, training and development, and the effective further consolidation of food manufacturing in the UK.
Business focus Over the last year, we have placed particular emphasis on productivity We continuously review our portfolio to ensure that we have the right and procurement.
We have a common group-wide approach to the profile to achieve the returns and value generation we seek.
The changes measurement and improvement of manufacturing performance, utilising we have made in recent years, through acquisitions, disposals and a lean manufacturing template to drive efficiencies in our factories.
This investments in new facilities, have been designed to drive Northern Foods is accompanied by the strengthening of our group buying disciplines for further up the scale of both added value and convenience.
Good examples raw materials and packaging, which will enhance consistency and quality of this include the development of new facilities to manufacture chilled as well as delivering cost savings.
ready meals and stonebaked pizzas, and our withdrawal from van sales of savoury pastry products.
We remain confident that our recent major These initiatives are assisted by our investment in systems, with the roll-out investment and restructuring projects have been accurately targeted of a common SAP platform for all our companies well advanced and poised and will deliver the expected returns.
In the near term, we anticipate levels to deliver further benefits in the future.
of capital expenditure to be similar to last year as we concentrate on delivery from these past initiatives.
Prospects We will continue to refine our portfolio to ensure that it is attuned both Trading to market trends and to our core competencies as a group.
Relationships Our Convenience businesses have delivered good top line growth, based with our key retailer partners will continue to be fostered to ensure we on the positive consumer and retailer trends we had identified.
This has also become even closer and more proactive, with a high priority accorded to been translated into strong profit progress.
Clearly performance in Grocery innovation, and synergies between our businesses exploited ever more has been disappointing, chiefly as a result of intense competitor activity in systematically.
Our ability to cope with testing times has been strengthened biscuits, including the entry of new players from the confectionery sector by the strategy and investments we have put in place, and our teams have and significant increases in cocoa costs.
Despite these well-publicised issues, demonstrated great resilience and dedication in defending and building our Foxs remains one of the strongest and most profitable brands in its sector, business, and seeking new opportunities for growth.
and urgent action is being taken to stabilise the business through accelerated new product development, price increases and cost reductions.
Our other Jo Stewart Grocery businesses, principally in the frozen foods sector, have continued Chief executive to perform well.
Northern Foods plc Chief executives statement | 07 Convenience Manufacturing challenges Chilled product Manufacturing Framework Progress characteristics challenges for success report Short shelf life Frequent Sophisticated production of full customer order and Product variety portfolio data collection Product complexity systems Short production Low stock levels runs Productivity improvement Limited opportunity for automation Multi-skilled teams Just in time Cost control distribution 08 | Operating review | Convenience Northern Foods plc The pace of change in chilled The manufacturing processes demand food production continues to a firm focus on cost and variance grow.
Product diversification and control to drive efficiencies.
Innovation innovation to satisfy sophisticated in advanced food technology provides consumer tastes are increasing a competitive edge, which is reliant operational challenges for marketupon the flexibility and expertise leading manufacturers.
The key characteristic of chilled convenience food is its short shelf life which necessitates short, frequent production cycles of a complex product portfolio.
Using technology to replicate authentic Waste reduction through electronic data capture cooking methods Using technology to overcome manufacturing challenges, electronic tagging of work in progress allows automatic shop floor data collection Mirroring traditional Chinese wok cooking, a unique in-line induction and transmission, increasing visibility and control and leading to wok has been developed and installed at Pennine Foods.
The continuous reduced cost and wastage.
wok process combines steam, microwave and induction cooking and was developed by our engineering and technical teams on site We have piloted a radio frequency identification RFID system at to provide product taste and texture authenticity.
our Pork Farms Bowyers site in Nottingham with direct interfaces to our SAP system.
The RFID tags are attached to each raw material Sales of Chinese recipe dishes made at Pennine Foods for Marks container, and these containers are then tracked through the processes & Spencer increased by 15 per cent during the year, underpinned of cleaning, ingredient weighing, and chilling.
Data is automatically by the companys culture of technical and product innovation.
added and stored on the tag at each stage, then read and compared against standard recipe requirements and production plans.
In conjunction with our suppliers and customers, RFID technology can potentially be used to track raw material and product movements throughout the supply chain.
Efficiency of distribution channels The constraints of short shelf life products necessitate speed and efficiency of distribution.
Our distribution agreement with Kerry and the sale of our Pork Farms van sales operation, completed at the end of last year, has reduced our distribution costs, increased efficiencies and enabled the business to focus successfully on the growth of the Pork Farms brand with major retailers.
Growth in the cold pie market sector accelerated during the year to 9 per cent, and the Pork Farms brand advanced within this to over 23 per cent of this market.
Brand sales to Asda were particularly strong, exceeding budgeted levels by almost 60 per cent.
Balancing taste, nutrition and efficiency The Cavaghan & Gray fish businesses have further developed production methods this year, harnessing new technology and product innovation to match increasing consumer demand for high quality fish products.
Investment in a new fish frying process at Cavaghan & Gray in Grimsby was completed in the fourth quarter.
The new frying process produces a very light batter coating, in tune with consumer trends towards healthier eating, and the factory has subsequently gained over 7 million of coated fish business from Marks & Spencer.
Against a background of reductions in North Sea fishing quotas and rising raw fish prices, an advanced grading, weighing and freezing system has been installed in Aberdeen.
Processing and freezing times have been reduced from 2-3 hours to less than 10 minutes, with corresponding improvements in efficiency and product quality.
Northern Foods plc Operating review | Convenience | 09 Convenience continued Sales, profit and efficiency gains from restructuring Following our 16 million restructuring and investment in dedicated production facilities which we completed in 2001, our Tesco pizza and savoury products factories have made very good progress this year.
The Pizza Factory achieved substantial sales and profit growth, with annual sales of the thin and crispy range up by 25 per cent to March 2003.
Core sales growth has been accompanied by a successful new product development programme including smaller size 8 inch thin and crispy pizzas in April 2002, an ultra thin range in September 2002, healthy living pizzas in January 2003 and a new deep pan range in March 2003.
At Trafford Park Bakery, a culture of continuous improvement has continued to increase sales and deliver profit growth.
The highly automated production of folded pastry products and quiche is supported by cross-functional action teams.
These action teams focus on increasing efficiency and reducing waste and are accompanied by weekly good manufacturing practice audits and a joint communications initiative with union officials.
Improvements in systems, planning and plant maintenance have increased process reliability and reduced downtime, with the consequent increase in service levels leading to further sales growth.
10 | Operating review | Convenience Northern Foods plc Effective category management Successful category management is dependent upon a clear analysis and understanding of consumer shopping patterns.
Consumers are likely to shop for a variety of eating occasions, from childrens tea-time to a lunchtime buffet, a quick snack, or a late supper.
This analysis underpins range development and extension, with portion sizes, packaging, convenience and taste all reflecting the intended eating occasion.
Riverside Bakery has worked closely with Sainsburys during the year to further develop the Taste the Difference premium quiche range.
The addition of new flavours and sizes has seen sales rise by over 50 per cent.
Efficiency improvements at Cavaghan & Gray Cavaghan & Grays Hull factory has continued to build sales of Safeway recipe dishes with relaunched American, traditional British, eat smart and vegetable accompaniment ranges.
The site is Safeways category owner for traditional recipe dishes, and now manufactures every product in this category.
Traditional category sales grew by over 50 per cent to March 2003, building on a successful relaunch programme in Autumn 2002.
Sales in the growing vegetable accompaniments sector have also increased dramatically following the Autumn launch of Safeways Additions range.
The factory has seen good improvement in efficiencies, with significant increases in labour and materials utilisation during the year and the systematic implementation of Northerns four primary, operational key performance indicators which are common throughout the group.
The sites continued focus is to increase sales to reach profitable levels within the planned timeframe.
Cost control at Eden Vale Following the disposal of Ski and Munch Bunch in April 2002, we began to reshape the remaining Eden Vale chilled desserts facility in Minsterley.
We have reduced the cost base and won some additional business from Marks & Spencer and Safeway.
The factory began production of Marks & Spencers Count on us yogurt range in November 2002, followed by the Whisp range of lightly whipped yogurt in January 2003, and both ranges are showing good sales growth.
The restructuring of the business has included a reduction in the workforce, the closure of the dairy ingredients operation, and the creation of new operational teams to match the changing business focus.
These actions have more than halved the overhead costs of the business.
The Minsterley factory also produces a range of Mars desserts, including Galaxy, Milky Way and Starburst.
Mars and Bounty desserts were added in September 2002.
Further business gains are needed in order to utilise the factorys capacity and increase profitability from its restructured cost base to the required level.
Northern Foods plc Operating review | Convenience | 11 Grocery Northern Foods Grocery division The key grocery markets for consists of our businesses Northern Foods of biscuits, frozen manufacturing frozen and ambient pizza and grills, offer branded product Manufacturing products.
These products are opportunities and success in these characterised by a longer shelf life markets requires high levels of challenges and the consequent ability to hold commercial expertise.
In turn this leads to longer this year has been strong in our production runs and the opportunity frozen foods sector.
Profitable mature biscuit market has seen very production is underpinned by high high levels of branded promotional levels of operational efficiency activity.
These difficult market and cost control in well-invested, conditions have been reflected automated facilities.
in the disappointing performance of our biscuit companies.
Frozen ambient Manufacturing Framework Progress product challenges for success report characteristics Longer shelf life Longer production Operational runs efficiency Higher sales per product line Further opportunity Investment for automation in automation Branded product opportunities High promotional Commercial activity expertise Able to hold stock Warehouse stock Cost control distribution 12 | Operating review | Grocery Northern Foods plc Biscuit company plans for recovery Difficult trading in the biscuit market affected the performance of Elkes and Foxs Biscuits this year.
Each of our biscuit businesses has pursued a differentiated and well defined long term strategy to compete in this mature market, however trading conditions this year have led to profit reductions at both companies.
The factors contributing to these difficult trading conditions include a decline in the chocolate biscuit bar, everyday and treat biscuit sectors of the market in which our companies compete.
In addition, fierce branded competitor activity and aggressive promotional campaigns, particularly in the chocolate biscuit bar sector, have been compounded by the entry of confectionery manufacturers into the market.
A third contributing factor during the year was a rise in cocoa prices, which reduced margins at Foxs Biscuits, particularly in the second half.
Against this background, Foxs Biscuits is continuing to defend its premium niche market position.
Cocoa cost inflation has now largely been recovered through price increases and a programme of cost reduction will also have a positive impact on profitability.
Sales growth for Foxs Biscuits will continue to be driven through innovation, and a new range of mini biscuits was launched in March 2003 to build on the strength of the Rocky brand.
Rocky Rounds, a bite-size variant packaged in mini bags, will capitalise on the growing consumer trend to eat outside of the home.
The mini biscuits are produced at Foxs Biscuits in Kirkham.
Operational excellence at Elkes Biscuits underpins the companys primary activity in the private label biscuit market.
Investment in highly automated plant, long production runs and high efficiencies are key to Elkes profit performance.
The private label sector within the biscuit market has declined by 6 per cent during the year, and over-capacity in the market has further intensified competition.
Elkes sales fell during the year, with a corresponding profit reduction.
Elkes has responded to the market challenges in a number of ways including a major cost reduction initiative.
The team is also continuing to develop strong relationships with its key retailer customers, and has been successful in winning additional business.
In order to differentiate its product offering, two character licensed chocolate biscuit bars featuring The Simpsons were launched in October 2002, and sales are exceeding expectations.
The character licensing concept has been well supported by our retailer customers and further developments are planned.
Northern Foods plc Operating review | Grocery | 13 Grocery continued Streamlining processes and strengthening Commercial expertise in brands core product sales at Dalepak In a highly competitive market place, Goodfellas pizzas gained share during the year following a full brand relaunch in October supported A project to streamline production at Dalepaks Leeming Bar factory by a strong television advertising and marketing campaign.
was completed during the year, with new freezing equipment, revised factory layout and a segregated meat-free production area delivering The thin and crispy, deep pan and ciabatta style pizzas made at Green significant production efficiencies.
Isles Naas and Longford factories were all upgraded and relaunched.
As a result, Goodfellas has now achieved the leading brand position The simplification of factory processes has been accompanied by a in the frozen pizza market, with a market share of 19 per cent.
comprehensive branded relaunch of Dalepak products.
The new brand identity covers a focused range of core meat and meat-free products in premium sectors of the frozen grills and burgers markets.
Dalepaks focus on a smaller number of core products has driven good year round sales performance with all retailers, underpinned by non-promotional sales growth, particularly with Tesco and Asda.
This focus on simplification of process and products combined with overhead cost control helped achieve a significant increase in Dalepaks profitability for the year.
1 brand position in frozen pizza 14 | Operating review | Grocery Northern Foods plc Synergy benefits Northern Foods has a devolved The group has identified six key areas management structure which of synergy in which group activities ensures that each of our operating add value to the performance of in key spheres companies formulates and drives our operating companies.
These six a tailored strategy for growth areas cover market development of activity based on a clear and accurate and customer relations, productivity, understanding of its source people, systems, procurement of competitive advantage within and technology.
Our framework for success recognises the contribution that the development of these group synergies can make to well defined and well executed operating company strategies.
Development of Framework Progress group synergies for success report Markets and Identification of market trends and customer relations development of key customer relationships Productivity Increased efficiency and productivity People Employee skills, commitment and motivation Systems Common systems to optimise ways of working Procurement Increasing value-in-use and ensuring robust traceability systems Technology Innovation and advancement in food production Northern Foods plc Operating review | Synergy benefits | 15 Synergy benefits continued Responsiveness and innovation Increasing procurement value, ensuring robust traceability systems The challenge for successful food manufacturers is to continue to develop products which match the needs and lifestyles of consumers.
Northerns partnership with suppliers is fundamental to our Increasingly busy lifestyles have led to a reduction in the amount commitment to food safety, traceability and quality.
We have of time consumers choose to spend in the kitchen, and also to an continued to consolidate our supply base, working with a reducing increase in the number of snacks eaten outside the home.
These twin number of suppliers and developing strategic partnerships for the facets of convenience and snacking are driving growth in Northerns supply of key materials.
These partnerships are built upon Northerns core market segments.
Consumer demand for premium quality and Code of Practice for suppliers, detailing our food safety and food taste also underpin this growth in high added value product markets.
management standards, and are backed by terms and conditions of supply designed to minimise business risk.
Reflecting these trends towards increased convenience and premium products, we supported Marks & Spencers Christmas individual During the year 2002 2003, Northerns specialist team increased customer order programme for meal accompaniments, en croute the efficiency of the procurement of non-saleable materials.
Supply products, party food and desserts.
At Evesham Foods and Cavaghan and service level agreements have been negotiated for engineering & Gray Carlisle, all customer order sales estimates were far exceeded and non-consumable items, improving effectiveness in these areas.
in a short pre-Christmas period, making accurate and flexible planning of labour and production essential.
Other innovative premium Christmas products included cocktail glass shots developed by Park Cakes.
These four flavours of small alcoholic mousses packaged in glass, capitalised on the factorys high technical and operational competency and exceeded rate of sale forecasts.
Developing key customer relationships Our ability to identify and respond to market trends is an important component of our relationships with our retail customers.
We continue to develop partnerships with the major food retailers and sales to our top five customers made up over 70 per cent of our total sales during the year.
The total market share of those top five customers also continues to grow, and currently represents over 60 per cent of retail food sales.
Employee skills, commitment and motivation Northern has long identified people as an essential driver of performance.
We therefore continue to invest in the development of our people, we focus on communicating effectively and we recognise the importance of employee commitment to the business.
This year we have continued to develop the key skills, knowledge and experience necessary to support our business initiatives.
In particular, we are supporting the development of lean manufacturing through a strengthened programme of development for operations managers.
We have redefined and relaunched our management competency framework, and managers are recruited, appraised and developed in line with this.
Communication continues to be an important focus, both at group and operating company levels.
We are undertaking an evaluation and review of our employee forums to ensure their effectiveness as a method of communication and consultation.
Improvements in methods of communication with all employees will be influenced by the views expressed by employees in a second biennial group-wide survey carried out in Spring 2003.
We have continued to evolve our voluntary employee benefits schemes, using the breadth of the group to add value for employees and pensioners.
We have also introduced a group programme to recognise long-serving employees.
Following a detailed review of our pension scheme, we announced in June 2002 our intention to continue to operate the final salary scheme for all employees.
With the costs of pension provision rising due to increasing longevity and lower stock market returns, employee contributions to the defined benefits scheme were raised by 2 per cent in August 2002.
16 | Operating review | Synergy benefits Northern Foods plc Increasing efficiency and productivity Further improvements in productivity and operational effectiveness have been secured across our operating companies this year, with a groupwide improvement of over 6 per cent in overall effective efficiency.
This has been secured through a number of complementary initiatives, coordinated by senior operations directors within our companies.
We have a robust framework of key performance indicators KPIs in place across all of our sites and a group template for manufacturing improvement.
Sites have developed individual manufacturing improvement plans drawing upon the tools and techniques of lean manufacturing.
These plans are being implemented by dedicated manufacturing improvement managers and line managers.
Multi-skilled teams driving productivity gains The development of methods of knowledge sharing and team working has been a key theme across the group, with cross-functional working parties contributing to real efficiency improvements.
Close links between planning, technical, production and development functions and the involvement of all levels of employees have improved product quality, speed and efficiency of production in the cookhouse at Riverside Bakery in Nottingham.
These efficiency gains have been brought about as a result of new training methods and a streamlined process of product development, developed by the working party.
Systems The full benefits of an integrated KPI reporting and measuring system will be realised once our phased rollout of SAP is complete.
By the end of September 2003, the SAP implementation of our core financial, sales and distribution systems will cover all of our companies.
The second phase of our SAP rollout has implemented common manufacturing systems in a third of our companies and will be complete by the end of 2004.
Innovation and advancement in food production Food safety and quality carry the highest priority across Northern Foods.
Our technical standards are backed by a robust audit programme of both our own sites and our raw materials suppliers.
We pursue a culture of continuous technical improvement through the expertise and knowledge of our people, investment in high quality technical facilities and a critical attention to detail throughout all elements of the manufacturing process.
Ideas, innovation and best practice are shared throughout the business, and operational problem solving can be supported through specific research projects.
During this year, a steering group has formalised a technical competency framework, defining the knowledge and experience necessary for successful technical management.
Investing in technology The opening of a new technical centre at Smiths Flour Mills in January 2003 demonstrates Northerns commitment to technical innovation.
The centre houses evaluation and test equipment to replicate manufacturing processes and will be used by both group and external customers.
The facility will be used in the process of new product development and will help to extend Northerns expertise in cereal technology.
Our chilled savoury products business at Palethorpes has also completed the development of technical facilities during the year as part of a 3 million extension project.
The centre will facilitate new product development processes, building on close co-operation between the companys development chefs, retailer customers and factory teams.
Northern Foods plc Operating review | Synergy benefits | 17 Recognising our social responsibilities Our stakeholders Framework Progress for success report Shareholders Creating shareholder value Employees Making the most Customers of all our people Suppliers Developing The community responsible relationships The wider throughout the environment supply chain with both customers and suppliers Contributing to local communities Measuring and managing our impact on the environment 18 | Social responsibility Northern Foods plc Northern Foods has always We have a responsibility for the recognised the importance of its impact our business has on the wider relationships with major stakeholders.
We are working hard We have a firm commitment to to manage this impact and have creating value for our shareholders, continued to develop environmental and we recognise the crucial role initiatives during this year.
that employees and suppliers play in fulfilling that commitment.
Our relationships with local community groups have also continued to develop Our customers and consumers rely this year.
The interdependence of on our competency and integrity and our factories, employees and members fulfilling this responsibility well is key of the community underlines the to the groups long term success.
importance of local links and the facilitation of these links has provided the main thrust of Northerns community involvement this year.
Measuring and managing our impact Contributing to our local communities on the environment We continue to support communities near to our operating companies, through donations, employee secondments and employee fundraising.
Northern Foods manages its impact on the environment by reducing Cash donations are made through the Northern Foods Social emissions and increasing efficiency in the use of resources.
Responsibility Committee and through a growing network of siteA clear policy framework has been drawn up at group level and based local charity committees.
These cash donations totalled communicated throughout our operating companies.
We have made 266,000 in the year, and included support for agencies working considerable efforts to improve our measurement and recording in the developing world.
Our participation in the seventh Business in the Community We also continue to offer graduate trainee managers the opportunity Corporate Environment Engagement Index showed an improvement to carry out a two week assignment with a local community of 17 percentage points from the previous year.
organisation, and last year about a third volunteered to do so.
Northern Foods met its group target for energy efficiency Many other employees are active in their local communities, in a wide improvement in line with the Climate Change Levy Agreement.
variety of roles such as mentors, trustees and fundraisers.
Creative The majority of our qualifying sites exceeded the required 2 per fundraising ideas and on-going commitment have helped to build and cent reduction in energy consumption per tonne of product, and the extend good links between our sites, employees and local communities.
group will continue to qualify for a climate change levy discount until at least 2005.
We have developed a computerised programme Principal donations to help all of our factories monitor energy consumption and Addiction Rehabilitation Centre, Manchester performance against target.
Apex Trust, North West Our focus on the efficient use of resources has ensured that we Barnardos, Sheffield continue to meet all of our obligations under the Packaging Childrens University, Hull Waste Regulations.
We have investigated the commercial viability Citizens Advice Bureau, Grimsby of alternatives to landfill for the disposal of biodegradable food Common Purpose, Hull waste and have undertaken pilot composting and anaerobic Disability Rights Advisory Service, Hull digestion projects.
Fairbridge, Salford Family Service Unit, Sheffield We have continued our development of an environmental Farm Africa management system.
Gunstones Bakery, our initial pilot programme, Foyer Federation, Sheffield reached Acorn level 5 at both sites, following an external audit and Hope for the Homeless, Worksop certification by the British Standards Institute.
Hull Compact Hull Independent Housing Aid Centre Lifeshare Limited, Manchester Lifestyle, Hull Manor Reborn, Sheffield Developing responsible relationships throughout Minshull Street Day Centre, Manchester the supply chain New Bridge Nottingham on Board Northern Foods has a long history of trading fairly and responsibly Oxfam throughout the supply chain.
With the increasing consolidation of Park Lane College, Leeds our supply base, we have continued to work closely with suppliers to Princess Royal Trust for Carers, Accrington ensure that they can consistently match all of Northerns high standards.
REACH These include our raw material product standards, commercial Samaritans standards, technical standards and animal welfare standards.
Sobriety Project, Yorkshire We are working towards monitoring the ethical standards of our Tim Parry Johnathan Ball Trust, Warrington suppliers and collaborating with other parts of the supply chain to ensure Young People in Bassetlaw that monitoring is carried out efficiently and to appropriate standards.
Young Potential, Nottinghamshire Northern Foods plc Social responsibility | 19 Recognising our social responsibilities continued Making the most of all of our people Developing for the future The groups responsibilities to its employees are undertaken seriously Northern continues to invest in training and development activities and proactively.
We have strong health and safety policies and to ensure the skills and knowledge of our employees match current practice, we are committed to fair employment and provide varied and future business needs.
training and development opportunities across our sites.
The development of future business leaders has been a key focus this We have many positive partnerships and joint initiatives with the year, with the creation of two new group-wide business management trade unions who represent our employees, and we also promote good courses for senior and younger managers.
We have also worked consultation and communication with employees who are not trade in partnership with Cranfield University to develop a tailor-made union members.
programme for senior operations managers.
The Northern Foods Manufacturing Management Postgraduate A safe working environment Certificate has been updated with the assistance of the accrediting Northern is committed to providing a safe place of work for our body, Sheffield Hallam University.
It continues to provide a flexible, employees.
We recognise the important role that team leaders play modular training programme with business benefits accruing from in promoting health and safety in our factories and have developed work-related projects which form part of the curriculum.
a Supervising for Safety programme to underpin that commitment.
An innovative training programme supported by a practical tool In support of changing business needs, our operating companies kit helps team leaders to carry out their day to day responsibilities.
have also undertaken a wide range of employee training.
Initiatives The programme has reached over 400 supervisors this year, include literacy and numeracy training and a range of national delivered through specially trained health and safety managers and vocational qualifications NVQs for line operatives.
Many of Northerns operating companies have been Bakery, all supervisors have been offered the opportunity to study presented with awards for health and safety performance, with for NVQ level 3 in Supervisory Management.
Pennine Foods, Walter Hollands and Palethorpes each receiving a gold Our operating companies commitment to accessible learning award from The Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents.
Elkes is demonstrated by the creation of learning resource centres at Biscuits received an award from the Health and Safety Executive for a number of sites.
Each resource centre is available to employees a successful and original programme of on-site activities in support and is equipped with training equipment, audio visual facilities, of European Week of Safety and Health held in October 2002. networked computer systems and a library.
We recognise that our responsibility for the provision of a safe working Fair employment environment extends to contractors employees working at our sites, and we therefore pioneered the development of a Safety Passport Northern has always had a firm commitment to the principles of fair Scheme accredited by the Chartered Institution of Occupational employment.
We monitor employment patterns of gender, race and Safety and Health.
We work in partnership with contractors, providing disability across the group and we continue to run group-wide equal support and training to ensure that our health and safety standards opportunities training courses to reinforce this commitment.
are met by all workers at all Northerns sites.
As a result, hundreds A diversity working party of senior personnel directors from across of contractors employees have been awarded safety passports the group was set up in August 2002 to assist in the evolution on completion of the training programme.
and promotion of equal opportunities for all employees.
Cultural awareness and the reconsideration of work life balance issues are the first projects underway.
Some practical steps have already been taken in order to promote cultural awareness for the benefit of employees and the business.
At Pennine Foods in Sheffield, changes in working practices have been implemented to take account of the religious needs of ethnic minority employees.
Changes were supported by management and supervisor training and full briefings were given to all employees.
Such steps have helped Pennine to attract skilled candidates from diverse backgrounds in a competitive recruitment market.
20 | Social responsibility Northern Foods plc Financial review Sean Christie Financial strategy Framework Progress for success Maximise financial Earnings growth Growth dampened returns for equity by biscuit trading Return on total investors capital invested Share buybacks, higher than cost efficient funding of capital and disposals improved returns Post-tax return on average equity funds invested five year trend, Earnings per share and dividend five year trend, before before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items % goodwill amortisation and exceptional items p 16 14 14 12 12 10 10 8 8 6 6 4 4 2 2 EPS Dividends 0 0 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 Northern Foods plc Financial review | 21 Difficult trading in biscuits held back the results of our Grocery division, but performance in almost all other areas was strong, with returns on past investments coming through.
The reduced capital base following the disposal of Ski and Munch Taxation Bunch to Nestl, means that ROIC increases, despite operating profit Taxation on profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items for being below our original target.
The WACC continues to fall, resulting in the year was 18.4 per cent.
This is lower than the basic UK tax rate primarily an improved margin over the cost of funds, one of our two key financial because of the low rates of corporation tax which apply to our operations performance measures.
The other metric, growth in earnings per share in Ireland, discounting of the deferred tax liability and the tax efficient before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items was 6.5 per cent, structuring of our funding arrangements, including a non-recurring element with the trading uplift boosted by share buybacks and a lower tax charge.
of 1.5 million relating to exchange losses.
Excluding this item, the underlying charge was 19.9 per cent.
Sales continuing operations Sales were up 5.0 per cent, driven by our Convenience operations.
Price Earnings per share increases averaging 0.5 per cent were achieved, recovering input cost Earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items were inflation.
Third quarter sales were below our forecasts, but we saw improved up 6.5 per cent at 14.81 pence, with share buybacks and the lower tax charge trends in the final quarter.
On an FRS 3 basis, earnings per share were up 61.9 per cent at 18.73 pence, with profit on sale from the disposals less the Convenience associated restructuring costs boosting the result.
Sales were up 7.9 per cent to 1,014.1 million, despite the effects of the poor summer and the quieter third quarter, with particularly strong performances Exceptional items and goodwill in recipe dishes, chilled pizza and fresh chilled dairy products.
There was a post-tax exceptional net credit of 24.2 million versus a charge of 10.1 million in the previous year.
The main features of this years credit Grocery were profit on disposal of businesses of 54.0 million after charging goodwill Overall sales were down 1.6 per cent at 407.1 million.
Biscuits were the previously written off totalling 65.0 million, less restructuring costs key problem, with sales down overall despite the Foxs brand making volume of 42.6 million, the main element of which was a charge relating to asset progress.
Dalepaks sales of frozen ready meals were also lower, but there impairment at Eden Vale of 29.2 million.
This followed a full review of the were strong uplifts in frozen pizza and Dalepaks core grills and burgers range.
carrying value of the remaining assets at Minsterley following the Ski and Munch Bunch sale.
Other exceptional costs relate to redundancy, disruption Operating profit continuing operations, before goodwill and asset write-offs following the disposals.
Goodwill amortisation on past amortisation and exceptional items acquisitions was 3.1 million versus 2.9 million last year.
Operating profit was up 0.5 per cent, with growth in Convenience just outweighing the Grocery shortfall.
Both divisions had to cope with a near Distributions to shareholders doubling of insurance costs, which rose by 7.0 million across the group.
During the year we returned 100.1 million to shareholders via share buybacks and dividends.
Convenience Convenience operating profit was up 8.5 per cent to 70.0 million, despite Buybacks start-up costs in recipe dishes and losses in the remaining Eden Vale business We bought 36.4 million shares back during the year 6.5 per cent of our following the sale of the Ski and Munch Bunch brands to Nestl at the start equity at a cost of 55.5 million, which represented an average price of of the year.
Significant profit uplift came from the restructuring of our 152 pence per share.
This was the largest annual programme we have Tesco pizza and quiche operations and increased manufacturing throughput undertaken so far and helped mitigate the earnings dilution from disposals.
at Pork Farms as a result of our deal with Kerry Foods in the prior year.
We intend to continue to buy shares in the market as opportunities arise.
Speciality bread also performed well.
When Solway, our associate company, is added to our continuing businesses, the Convenience operating profit shows an increase of 10.0 per cent.
Margin over costs of funds % Grocery Grocery operating profit declined by 4.9 million to 45.6 million.
Biscuits 12 more than accounted for this shortfall, which resulted from a combination of manufacturer driven promotional activity coupled with increases in cocoa 10 prices.
Elsewhere in Grocery we made reasonable profit progress with Green 8 Isle doing well and Dalepak turning round the first half deficit and making profit progress for the year.
6 Discontinued operations 4 Return on average These were the main cause of sales and profit shortfall, with turnover invested capital ROIC 2 reduced by 105.4 million and operating profit before goodwill amortisation Weighted average cost and exceptional items by 10.1 million as a result of the disposals.
The key of capital WACC 0 elements were the divestment of the Ski and Munch Bunch brands and 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 of our van sales operations to Kerry Foods.
The Lift lemon tea brand and our Vanderheul biscuit business in Holland were also sold during the previous year.
ROIC quoted before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 2003 ROIC stated after reducing 2002 invested capital by 87 million to reflect Pre-tax profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items the sale of the Ski and Munch Bunch brands and associated assets on 2 April 2002.
Pre-tax profit was down 3.5 million to 97.5 million, with the discontinued activities showing a net deficit of 3.2 million operating profit foregone less the interest benefit on 145 million of disposal proceeds and the share buyback programme increasing interest costs by 1.8 million.
Our associate Solway made strong profit progress, with our share up 1.0 million to 1.4 million as it recovered from the prior years factory commissioning problems.
Interest costs reduced by 5.0 million primarily as a result of the disposals.
22 | Financial review Northern Foods plc Dividends Balance sheet We propose a final dividend of 5.45 pence making a total of 8.70 pence for Shareholders funds increased from 288.2 million to 366.1 million over the the year, up 6.1 per cent on last years figure of 8.20 pence.
Dividend cover, year, primarily as a result of the disposals.
Borrowings fell from 413.7 million before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, increases to 1.8 times to 323.6 million, resulting in gearing of 88.4 per cent last year: 143.5 per due to the reduced shareholder base.
cent and interest cover, before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items, rising to 6.0 times last year: 5.1 times.
Acquisitions and divestments The only divestment was the sale of the Ski and Munch Bunch brands plus Return on investment before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items the Cuddington factory to Nestl for 145 million in April 2002.
We made Adjusting the opening invested capital for the Ski and Munch Bunch disposal, no acquisitions.
which completed on 2 April 2002, our ROIC post-tax return on average invested capital rises from 9.9 per cent last year to 10.0 per cent in the year Capital expenditure to March 2003.
The cost of debt and equity capital continued to fall, reducing Tight control of capital was a key theme during the year.
Our facilities our WACC weighted average cost of capital, which resulted in the margin are well-invested following expenditure over the last few years and capital over cost of funds rising to 3.7 percentage points last year: 2.6 percentage expenditure totalled 79.4 million compared with 123.6 million in the points.
We will continue to manage both sides of the equation, improving prior year.
This spend was 1.3 times the depreciation charge of 62.7 million.
ROIC whilst keeping our cost of capital down to maximise the return to The largest project in the year other than replacement capital was the equity investors.
continuing drive to implement SAP in all companies, the main phase of which will be completed in the current year.
Pensions The changes we have made to our pension funding arrangements have been Cash flow an important factor behind this years results.
Depressed equity markets Cash flow was very encouraging with a 90.1 million reduction in net debt, and increasing life expectancy are putting great strains on company despite 100.1 million being returned to shareholders.
The disposal proceeds pension funds.
We have taken steps to ensure the latter does not become of 145.0 million were the largest single contributor to this, but strong an increasing burden to the company.
We decided to keep our final salary operational cash generation was also an important factor.
The working capital scheme but have increased contributions for all employees by 40 per cent outflow of only 11.9 million was caused primarily by the difference between from 5 to 7 per cent of earnings and removed a number of company the actuarial based cash contributions to the pension fund and the SSAP 24 funded early retirement provisions for future service.
Our fund is relatively basis used in the profit and loss account.
All of this meant trading cash flow immature, with almost twice the level of contributions going in as pensions was far stronger than last year.
paid out, which leaves us able to take a long term view of investment returns.
We continue to charge pension costs against profits based Treasury management on SSAP 24.
These results incorporate the latest triennial valuation as at The treasury function of the group operates within a policy framework March 2002 and the increased employee contributions have offset the approved and regularly reviewed by the board.
The department is not run increased cost.
The variation credit due to the amortisation of past surpluses as a profit centre and is subject to internal audit review.
Its activities are reduces the pension charge by 2.4 million.
routinely reported to the board.
Whilst each business in the group is responsible for its own cash management, all resulting cash flows and The potential effects of adopting FRS 17 are that the post-tax balance sheet balances are managed by the central treasury to minimise borrowings deficit rises to 143.5 million last year: deficit 47.0 million reflecting the and interest costs.
trends seen in the equity markets.
The effect on pre-tax profit would have been a reduction of 5.5 million made up of the loss of the SSAP 24 credit Bank facilities and other calculation differences between the two methodologies.
It is our The group has a 450 million, five year, revolving credit facility which, intention to continue to report profits under SSAP 24 until the new standard together with the 90 million fixed rate bond, form the committed is implemented.
core of our funding arrangements.
Information technology One of the major capital projects has been the introduction of SAP across Liquidity the group, permitting a move to state of the art systems for both financial The group operates a policy of maintaining certainty of funding over reporting and operational control.
Our decentralised IT arrangements the medium term by a combination of committed floating and fixed rate have been replaced with a central structure.
It is our intention, subject to facilities supplemented by uncommitted facilities.
The policy is to ensure consultation, to take all remaining IT staff out of our operating companies that forecast net borrowings plus a reasonable operating headroom in the coming year, saving costs and improving service.
Another benefit are covered by committed facilities, which mature at least 12 months from the implementation of SAP is that, again subject to consultation, we after the year end.
plan to centralise all financial accounting and reporting across the group.
We propose to roll out the changes in the first half and expect the benefits Interest rates to build steadily over the next two years.
The group manages its exposure to interest rate fluctuations on its borrowings by operating with a mix of fixed and floating rate borrowings.
Sean Christie The objective is to operate with fixed rate borrowings within a range Finance director of 20 per cent to 50 per cent of total borrowings over the medium term, although the group may operate outside of that range during the year.
Currency The group operates primarily in the UK with only approximately 13.6 per cent of sales arising from companies operating in currencies other than sterling, principally the euro.
Group policy is to hedge against transactional risk, by spot and forward foreign exchange contracts.
We do not hedge against translation.
Northern Foods plc Financial review | 23 Board of directors 1 Peter Blackburn CBE 62, Chairman Joined the board in 2001 and was previously Chairman and Chief executive 1 2 of Nestl UK Limited.
He is a non-executive director of SIG plc and Compass Group PLC, and is past President of the Food and Drink Federation.
He was awarded the CBE in 2003 for services to the food and drink industry.
He chairs the nomination committee.
2 Jo Stewart 53, Chief executive Joined Northern Foods in 1988 as Managing director of Foxs Biscuits, having previously held a number of senior posts at United Biscuits.
He was appointed to the board in 1994 as Managing director of Prepared Foods, and became Chief executive of Northern Foods in March 1998.
He is a non-executive director of Enterprise Inns plc.
3 4 3 Tony Hobson 55, Deputy chairman Joined the board on 28 May 2002.
He is a non-executive director of HBOS plc, Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc and Glas Cymru.
A chartered accountant, he was the Group finance director of Legal & General Group plc for 14 years until his retirement from the board in 2001.
He was previously the senior independent director of Thames Water plc until its acquisition by RWE in 2000.
He chairs the remuneration committee.
4 Sean Christie 45, Finance director Joined Northern Foods in 1979 and was Finance director of Pork Farms and Foxs Biscuits, and subsequently of Northern Foods Prepared Foods activities, 5 6 prior to his appointment to the board in 1996.
He is a non-executive director of Kingston Communications Hull PLC.
5 Matthew Gribbin 45 Joined Northern Foods in 1981 and has held a number of senior positions within the Northern Foods group.
He is a Council member of the Federation of Bakers.
6 Howard Sims 55 Joined Northern Foods in 1998 upon the acquisition of Cavaghan & Gray Group plc, of which he was Chief executive.
He had been employed by 7 8 Cavaghan & Gray since November 1971.
7Colin Dyer 50, Joined the board in 1997.
He is Chief executive officer of WorldWide Retail Exchange and was formerly Chief executive officer of Courtaulds Textiles plc.
He chairs the audit committee.
8 Orna Ni-Chionna 47, Joined the board on 28 May 2002.
She is a former partner of McKinsey & Company.
She is a non-executive director of Bank of Ireland UK Holdings plc, Bristol & West plc, BUPA and is a trustee of the Soil Association.
9 9 Julian Wild 50, Company secretary Joined Northern Foods in 1979.
He is a non-executive director of Newlands Scientific plc and is a board member of the Yorkshire Cultural Consortium.
He is also a commissioner with the Independent Football Commission.
Non-executive director Remuneration committee member Audit committee member Nomination committee member 24 | Board of directors Northern Foods plc Summary report Independent of the directors auditors statement Principal activities and business review To the members of Northern Foods plc This report should be read in conjunction with the Chairmans statement, the We have examined the summary financial statement which comprises the Chief executives statement and the Financial review, which together include Summary directors remuneration report, profit and loss account, balance information about group activities, the financial performance during the year sheet and cash flow statement.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in Dividend accordance with section 251 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our work An interim dividend of 3.25 pence per share was paid on 28 March 2003 has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members and the directors recommend a final dividend of 5.45 pence per share to be those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and paid on 29 August 2003 to shareholders on the register on 25 July 2003. for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and Directors the companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, for The directors are listed on page 24, together with their biographical details, our audit report, or for the opinions we have formed.
and were directors of the company throughout the year except for AJ Hobson and O G Ni-Chionna, who were appointed on 28 May 2002, Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors MTGribbin and H R Sims, who were appointed on 27 January 2003, and The directors are responsible for preparing the summarised Annual review J M Fry and H A Alexander, who resigned on 28 May 2002 and 31 December in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law.
to report to you our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement with the full annual accounts, the Report of the directors and In accordance with the companys articles of association, P H Blackburn, the Directors remuneration report, and its compliance with the relevant CDyer, A J Hobson, O G Ni-Chionna and A J Stewart retire and, being eligible, requirements under section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and the offer themselves for re-election.
We also read the other information contained in the summarised Annual review as described in the contents section, M T Gribbin and H R Sims, having been appointed directors since the 2002 and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any Annual general meeting, offer themselves for election.
apparent mis-statements or material inconsistencies with the summary financial statement.
Corporate governance Throughout the year ended 31 March 2003 Northern Foods has been Basis of opinion in compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined We conducted our work in accordance with bulletin 1999 6 The auditors Code on Corporate Governance annexed to the Listing Rules issued by statement on the summary financial statement issued by the United the Financial Services Authority.
In accordance with the principles of good corporate governance, the Opinion company has the following main committees: In our opinion, the summary financial statement is consistent with the full annual accounts, the Report of the directors and the Directors remuneration Audit committee report of Northern Foods plc for the year ended 31 March 2003 and the Executive committee Companies Act 1985, and the regulations made thereunder.
Nomination committee Remuneration committee Deloitte & Touche Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the groups system of internal control for the year ended 31 March 2003 and the period 28 May 2003 to 28 May 2003 in line with the publication Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
Notes Annual general meeting An audit does not provide assurance on the maintenance and integrity of the The notice convening the companys Annual general meeting to be held website, including controls used to achieve this, and in particular on whether at 12.30 pm on Thursday, 17 July 2003 is contained in the circular sent to any changes may have occurred to the financial statements since first shareholders with this review.
These matters are the responsibility of the directors but no control procedures can provide absolute assurance in this area.
Auditors Deloitte & Touche have expressed their willingness to continue in office Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and as auditors of the company and a resolution proposing their re-appointment dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other will be submitted to the companys Annual general meeting.
By order of the board Julian Wild Company secretary 28 May 2003 Northern Foods plc Summary report of the directors | Independent auditors statement | 25 Summary directors remuneration report Introduction Remuneration policy for executive directors The board has prepared this report in accordance with the requirements of The remuneration committee aims to ensure that the companys the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002.
The report also meets executive directors are fairly rewarded for their individual contributions the relevant requirements of the Combined Code annexed to the Listing to the companys overall performance.
The remuneration committees Rules issued by the Financial Services Authority.
policy is to offer remuneration packages, which are capable of attracting, retaining and motivating executive directors of high calibre, to ensure that It covers the remuneration policy, the level and components of directors the company is managed effectively to the benefit of shareholders.
The remuneration, a number of formal disclosures relating to individual directors remuneration committee also takes account of the remuneration awarded remuneration and a performance graph of the companys performance.
to managers throughout Northern Foods, in setting the remuneration As required by the Regulations, a resolution to approve the report will be of the executive directors.
proposed at the Annual general meeting of the company.
The remuneration committee is currently reviewing the policy on total The Regulations require the auditors to report to the companys members remuneration for executive directors.
It continues to aim for a structured on the audited element of the Directors remuneration report and to state and balanced remuneration package for each executive director by whether, in their opinion, that part of the report has been properly prepared in looking at each element as well as the package as a whole.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the Regulations.
The remuneration committee believes that an increasing proportion of the Remuneration committee total remuneration of a director should be performance related and proposes The members of the remuneration committee were J M Fry Chairman changes to both the short and long term incentive arrangements.
Changes resigned 28 May 2002, A J Hobson Chairman appointed 28 May 2002, to the annual incentive plan will be introduced for 2003 2004.
The increase H A Alexander resigned 31 December 2002, P H Blackburn, C Dyer and in annual bonus opportunity for executive directors is set against the O G Ni-Chionna appointed 28 May 2002.
All were independent nonintroduction of stretching annual performance objectives, in addition to the executive directors.
The committee makes recommendations to the board.
current target of growth in earnings per share.
A proportion of any annual No director plays a part in any discussion about his or her remuneration.
bonus earned will be paid as deferred shares through the new Share bonus plan, encouraging executive directors to grow their personal shareholding in The remuneration committee has been formally delegated the authority the group.
Changes to the long term incentive arrangements proposed for by the board of directors to establish policy in respect of all terms of 2004 2005 will include a review of performance targets, ensuring continued employment for executive directors.
alignment of individual and shareholder interests.
Advisers to the remuneration committee Salary will continue to be set by reference to the median level of the relevant The remuneration committee appointed Hewitt Bacon & Woodrow to employment market.
The remuneration committee has used annual surveys provide advice on matters of future remuneration policy during the year.
conducted by external remuneration consultants to provide information They are also scheme actuaries to the Northern Foods Pension Scheme.
on market practice, focusing on comparisons with companies which are Linklaters provided legal advice on share schemes and related matters of a similar size and which share similar characteristics.
The remuneration and they also advise the company secretarial function.
The remuneration committee consults with the Chief executive about its proposals relating committee appointed DLA to advise on matters relating to the revision to the remuneration of other executive directors and senior management.
DLA also provided specific employment law advice to the companys legal department.
The five main components of the remuneration package for executive directors and senior management in 2003 2004 are: In determining directors remuneration for the year and in considering proposals for the future, the committee consulted A J Stewart, Chief basic annual salary executive.
The secretary to the remuneration committee is E Cockburn, the possibility of an annual cash bonus based upon performance Personnel executive, who also provided information on pay practice in of the individual and the group respect of executive directors and senior management.
a deferred annual bonus, where a cash bonus is paid participation in long term incentive plans with returns based upon Remuneration policy the group and individual performance The groups remuneration policy is designed to support the recruitment, pension and other benefits.
motivation and retention of employees.
Remuneration is considered within Share and bonus schemes are structured to provide a strong alignment the overall context of the sector of which the group is a part and the groups of interest between the individual and the shareholder.
The objective continues to be to pay at the relevant mid-market level with a package designed to align interests of the employees In order to encourage and reward performance, there is a significant with shareholders, and with a reasonable proportion of total remuneration proportion of potential reward dependent upon company and individual dependent upon individual and group performance.
The policy is described performance.
As shown below, nearly 40 per cent of directors total in more detail below for directors.
remuneration is dependent upon target performance with a maximum percentage at grant of 45 per cent.
Remuneration policy for non-executive directors Fees for the non-executive directors are recommended by executive directors The overall balance of the fixed and variable pay at current value for and then approved by the board, based upon a range of external information 2003 2004, exclusive of pension benefits, is illustrated below.
The table is and set within the aggregate limits contained in the articles of association.
a theoretical model and assumes that on target performance is achieved There is no other remuneration, except where the company meets authorised for both short and long term incentives.
The value of the long term incentive expenses of non-executive directors incurred on Northern Foods activities.
is calculated using Black Scholes methodology.
The share price used is as at They are not eligible for pension scheme membership and do not participate 31 March 2003 and an average option life of six and a half years is assumed.
in any of the groups annual or long term incentive schemes.
26 | Summary directors remuneration report Northern Foods plc Basic salary Variable pay The targets for M T Gribbin and H R Sims were based equally upon growth as proportion as proportion over the year in Northern Foods earnings per share, together with profit of total of total after interest of the operating companies for which the individual director remuneration remuneration was responsible.
The payment for reaching target was set at 25 per cent of salary with a maximum potential bonus of 35 per cent.
M T Gribbin and M S Christie 62% 38% H R Sims were not executive directors in 2001 2002.
An accrued bonus in M T Gribbin 62% 38% respect of 2002 2003 will be paid in June 2003 and is included in Table 1 H R Sims 62% 38% on page 29.
A J Stewart 62% 38% Long term incentive share plans Salary The groups long term incentive grants have been developed to reflect Salaries of executive directors are reviewed annually at the beginning of market practice and to provide long term management focus and motivation.
each financial year by the remuneration committee, taking into account any The remuneration committee believes that a significant element of changes in the individuals responsibilities, performance and development, executive remuneration should be linked to the delivery of above average the companys overall performance and external factors.
The remuneration long term returns for shareholders.
Executives interest in both relative committees objective is, and will continue to be, to maintain salaries at and absolute share price performance is important, and this is facilitated around the median level of the relevant employment market.
by share schemes and the encouragement to grow a significant personal shareholding in the group.
Salaries were reviewed for the Chief executive and Finance director in March 2003 with increases taking effect from 1 April 2003.
Salaries for the Long term incentives are provided to executive directors in the form of two newly appointed executive directors, M T Gribbin and H R Sims, were restricted shares and share options.
Executive directors and senior executives considered in January 2003 and took effect from 27 January 2003.
They are eligible to receive awards under only one of these arrangements in any will not be reviewed until April 2004. one financial year.
In addition to basic salary all the executive directors receive certain benefits, Long term incentive arrangements for executive directors are currently being principally a car, private medical insurance and a pension.
Salary is the only reviewed by the remuneration committee with the objective of seeking pensionable remuneration.
shareholder approval for the introduction of any new arrangements in 2004.
Until such review is concluded, the policy for the 2003 2004 financial period Annual incentive plan is set out below.
The remuneration committee believes that achieving annual performance targets is a high priority for the executive directors.
Incentive targets for Executive share options executive directors are set each year by the remuneration committee to Participation in the executive option scheme is at the discretion of the take account of current business plans.
Executive directors are eligible to receive a grant of options if they hold, at the time of any grant, unexercised options worth The remuneration committee has reviewed the annual incentive plan, and on aggregate less than four times salary.
Options are granted at market the target and the maximum potential award for 2003 2004 have been value under either the company share option plan Inland Revenue approved increased for this year, better to reflect current market practice for or executive share option scheme unapproved.
The target incentive for an executive director is now 40 per cent of basic salary for good performance.
In the case of exceptional Directors can exercise options in the seven year period following the third results the incentive payment may increase up to a maximum of 60 per cent anniversary of grant and before the tenth anniversary subject to satisfaction of basic salary.
One quarter of any annual incentive earned will be paid as deferred shares Consistent with best practice, it is the remuneration committees intention through the companys Share bonus plan.
Shares acquired through the Share that grants will continue to be made annually to executive directors in the bonus plan will be purchased in the market and held in trust for the executive future.
Such grants will normally be equivalent to one times salary.
for a period of three years.
These shares will be forfeited should the executive director leave prior to the third anniversary.
During this retention period the In making option grants, the remuneration committee sets the performance participants will not be entitled to dividends on the shares.
target to be achieved before such options can be exercised.
The performance condition requires that the remuneration committee must be satisfied that The target set for 2003 2004 is made up of both financial and business over the three year performance period the real growth in earnings per performance measures.
The financial element includes profit performance share is greater than 3 per cent per annum compound.
If the performance and earnings per share growth targets.
The business element is related condition is not satisfied after the initial three year performance period, the to a small number of commercially sensitive strategic objectives for each period will be extended and performance will be re-tested at the end of year individual and the senior management team overall.
The performance four and, if necessary, again at the end of year five against the full period targets selected are considered appropriately stretching by the remuneration from grant.
The options will lapse if the performance condition has not been committee.
met by the end of year five of the performance period.
The targets for the Chief executive and the Finance director in 2001 2002 The remuneration committee believes that the performance condition for and 2002 2003 were based upon growth over the year in Northern Foods the long term incentive arrangements should align the interests of directors earnings per share.
There is a threshold below which no payment is made.
The remuneration committee also believes The payment for reaching target was set at 25 per cent of salary with a that real growth in earnings per share will only be achieved through the maximum potential bonus of 35 per cent.
No annual bonuses were paid delivery of both the commercial and financial objectives of the company.
to executive directors in respect of 2001 2002.
An accrued bonus in Furthermore, executives will only benefit from the plan if real growth in the respect of 2002 2003, will be paid in June 2003 and is included in Table 1 earnings per share target is achieved and there is growth in the share price.
Grants were made on 2 December 2002 to the executive directors.
The aggregate of all share options is shown in note 2 on page 30.
Northern Foods plc Summary directors remuneration report | 27 Summary directors remuneration report continued Long term incentive plan All employee share schemes The plan is designed to align the interests of senior management with An approved savings-related share option scheme is open to all eligible the interests of shareholders.
The benefits available to senior management employees in the UK and overseas.
Executive directors interests in savingsparticipating in the plan will only accrue to them if the company has related options are included in note 2 on page 30. delivered significant benefits to shareholders over a three year period.
Participation in this incentive plan is at the discretion of the remuneration Pension arrangements committee.
Executive directors are members of the company pension scheme.
Their dependants are eligible for dependants pensions and the payment Under the plan, the remuneration committee awards shares in the company of a lump sum in the event of death in service.
The pension arrangements to senior management conditional upon the achievement of corporate provide for a pension on retirement at age 60 of two thirds basic annual performance targets over a period of three years.
The number of shares salary after 20 or more years eligible service, subject to Inland Revenue conditionally awarded to each participant is determined by the remuneration rules.
No other payments to directors are pensionable.
None of the current committee.
The market value of shares which may be conditionally directors benefits from the company scheme are restricted by current awarded to a participant in any year will be limited to a maximum Inland Revenue limits and there are no additional payments, unfunded of 75 per cent of salary.
Performance is assessed against two criteria: by comparing the growth Additional directorships in total shareholder return, in terms of share price growth and dividends, Executive directors are encouraged to hold a maximum of one nonto that of the total shareholder return of the companies comprising the executive directorship in a listed business in a non-competing sector.
FTSE Food Producers Index, excluding Unilever: and by assessing the Fees for such directorships are retained by the executive director.
underlying performance of Northern Foods by reference to the real growth in earnings per share over the same period.
Directors contracts It is the companys policy that executive directors should have secure The total shareholder return performance is assessed by reference to a vesting agreements with an indefinite term providing for a maximum of one scale, whereby for the full award to qualify for vesting, the total return to the years notice.
All executive directors have contracts, which are subject companys ordinary shareholders during the three year performance period to one years notice by either party.
places it in the top quartile of the comparator group.
If the companys performance is ranked at 50 per cent or lower, all of the conditional awards will In the event of early termination, the directors contracts provide for lapse.
Where the company is placed between 50 per cent and the top quartile, compensation up to a maximum of basic salary, company car, private the maximum number of shares available for vesting will be calculated on medical insurance and pension for the notice period.
a straight line basis with 25 per cent of the conditional award being available when the company is placed at 51 per cent and the entire award being The details of the directors contracts are summarised in the table below: available where the company is placed in the top quartile.
Date of contract Notice period The remuneration committee assesses the underlying performance of the M S Christie 1 April 1996 12 months company, as measured by growth in earnings per share, to determine the M T Gribbin 1 April 2003 12 months proportion of the available shares that will vest.
H R Sims 1 April 2003 12 months A J Stewart 1 April 1996 12 months The remuneration committee believes that the performance condition for the long term incentive arrangements should align the interests of directors The contracts for A J Stewart and M S Christie have been amended from with those of shareholders.
The remuneration committee selected the the previous arrangements where they benefited from a two year contract relative total shareholder return, compared with companies in the FTSE Food reducing in length over the succeeding year, being renewed to the full two Producers Index, excluding Unilever, as a measure that reflects corporate year period on 1 April each year.
performance relative to companies with similar characteristics and subject to similar market conditions.
Unilever is excluded from the comparator group M T Gribbin and H R Sims, who are proposed for election to the board, and on the basis of size and product diversity.
The remuneration committee also A J Stewart who is proposed for re-election at the Annual general meeting, believes that real growth in earnings per share is an appropriate measure have service contracts which provide for a notice period of one year.
of the underlying financial performance of the company.
P H Blackburn, C Dyer, A J Hobson and O G Ni-Chionna, who are also proposed for re-election, being non-executive directors, do not have a service The companies currently comprising the FTSE Food Producers Index are: contract.
They are appointed for a three year term, at the end of which any extension is considered and decided upon by the full board.
They stand for Associated British Foods Northern Foods re-election by the shareholders annually.
Cadbury Schweppes Robert Wiseman Dairies Dairy Crest Sygen Devro Tate & Lyle Geest Uniq The three year performance period for the 1999 plan ended on 31 March 2002.
The committee assessed the extent to which the performance condition had been achieved and 30 per cent of the conditional awards made under the plan vested on 26 July 2002.
The balance of the conditional award lapsed.
Shares awarded under the plan will be retained in trust on behalf of the participants for a further two years.
During this retention period the participants will be entitled to dividends on the shares and to instruct the trustee how to vote.
At the end of the retention period, the shares will be transferred to participants from the trust.
28 | Summary directors remuneration report Northern Foods plc Performance graph In accordance with the requirements of the Directors Remuneration Total shareholder return 1 April 1998 to 31 March 2003 Report Regulations 2002, the graph opposite shows the companys 140 five year performance measured by total shareholder return, compared with the performance of the FTSE 250 Index also measured by total 120 shareholder return.
100 80 The FTSE 250 Index has been selected as an appropriate comparison 60 because it represents a broad equity market index, of which Northern Foods 40 Northern Foods is a constituent.
20 FTSE 250 Index 0 Total shareholder return measures share price growth with any dividends 1998 1999 2000 2002 deemed to be reinvested gross on the ex-dividend date.
The total shareholder 2001 2003 return shown is based on daily spot prices.
1 Directors remuneration and pension entitlements The following table shows an analysis of the salary, benefits and bonus elements of remuneration of the directors holding office during the year ended 31 March 2003 Table1.
Pension entitlements and interests under long term incentive arrangements are shown on page 30.
Benefits: Benefits include private medical insurance and company car.
Annual bonus: No annual bonus was paid to executive directors in respect of 2001 2002.
A bonus will be paid in June 2003 in respect of 2002 2003.
There was nil compensation for loss of office paid to or receivable by any director nor any other payments paid to or receivable by any director in connection with the termination of qualifying services.
Share option gains No options were exercised during the year.
Northern Foods plc Summary directors remuneration report | 29 Summary directors remuneration report continued 1 Directors remuneration and pension entitlements continued Table 2 Directors pension entitlements 2003 2002 Aggregate company contributions in respect of directors to money purchase pension schemes Number of directors with retirement benefits accruing under money purchase schemes defined benefit schemes 4 2 2 Directors interests in shares The interests of the directors in the share capital of the company at 1 April 2002 and 31 March 2003 are detailed below.
Ordinary shares Share options LTIP number number number Description 31 March 1 April 31 March 1 April 31 March 1 April of interest 2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002 Executive directors M S Christie Beneficial 70,628 43,666 478,028 356,259 157,674 289,846 M T Gribbin appointed 27 January 2003 Beneficial 410,688 410,566 204,291 204,291 82,604 82,604 H R Sims appointed 27 January 2003 Beneficial 38,895 38,895 170,771 170,771 100,465 100,465 A J Stewart Beneficial 126,707 85,574 802,231 594,578 240,697 442,336 Non-executive directors P H Blackburn Beneficial 40,000 15,000 C Dyer Beneficial 10,000 10,000 A J Hobson appointed 28 May 2002 Beneficial 4,000 O G Ni-Chionna appointed 28 May 2002 Beneficial 4,000 Notes to the table Balance at 1 April 2002 or at date of appointment.
M S Christie, M T Gribbin, H R Sims and A J Stewart qualified, as did all employees with over four years service, to participate in the companys previous profit sharing scheme and their beneficial holdings of ordinary shares shown above include their current entitlements under this scheme.
The companys register of directors interests, which is available for inspection in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985, contains full details of directors shareholdings, options and long term incentive plan LTIP awards.
The mid-market price of the companys shares was 174.5p at 28 March 2002 and 123.5p at 31 March 2003.
During the year the market price ranged between 112.0p and 187.0p.
At 31 March 2003, the executive directors of Northern Foods plc as potential beneficiaries of the Northern Foods Employee share ownership trust, were interested in 4,212,749 ordinary shares held by the Trustee.
By order of the board Tony Hobson Chairman Remuneration committee 28 May 2003 30 | Summary directors remuneration report Northern Foods plc Consolidated profit and loss account for the year ended 31 March 2003 Before Before goodwill Goodwill goodwill Goodwill amortisation amortisation amortisation amortisation and and and and exceptional exceptional exceptional exceptional items items Total items items Total 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2003 2003 2003 2002 2002 2002 m m m m m m Group turnover continuing 1,421.2 1,421.2 1,353.8 1,353.8 discontinued 105.4 105.4 Group turnover 1,421.2 1,421.2 1,459.2 1,459.2 Cost of sales 1,023.3 31.9 1,055.2 1,069.6 21.5 1,091.1 Gross profit 397.9 31.9 366.0 389.6 21.5 368.1 Net operating expenses 282.3 13.1 295.4 264.5 3.0 267.5 Operating profit before goodwill amortisation continuing 115.6 42.6 73.0 115.0 15.9 99.1 discontinued 10.1 6.4 3.7 115.6 42.6 73.0 125.1 22.3 102.8 Goodwill amortisation 2.4 2.4 2.2 2.2 Operating profit 115.6 45.0 70.6 125.1 24.5 100.6 Share of associated undertakings 1.4 0.7 0.7 0.4 0.7 0.3 Profit on disposal of businesses 54.0 54.0 7.2 7.2 Profit on ordinary activities before interest 117.0 8.3 125.3 125.5 18.0 107.5 Net interest payable 19.5 19.5 24.5 24.5 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 97.5 8.3 105.8 101.0 18.0 83.0 Taxation on profit on ordinary activities 17.9 12.8 5.1 23.6 5.0 18.6 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 79.6 21.1 100.7 77.4 13.0 64.4 Equity dividends 44.9 44.9 45.1 45.1 Retained profit for the year 34.7 21.1 55.8 32.3 13.0 19.3 Basic earnings per ordinary share 14.81p 18.73p 13.91p 11.57p Diluted earnings per ordinary share 18.02p 11.37p Dividend per ordinary share 8.70p 8.20p Average number of shares million 537.6 556.4 Analysis of earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA Operating profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 115.6 125.1 Add: associate 1.4 0.4 depreciation 62.7 63.7 EBITDA before exceptional items 179.7 189.2 Northern Foods plc Consolidated profit and loss account | 31 Consolidated balance sheet as at 31 March 2003 31 March 31 March 2003 2002 m m Fixed assets Intangible fixed assets 41.4 42.3 Tangible fixed assets 670.6 695.9 Investments 21.5 22.9 733.5 761.1 Current assets Stocks 85.1 83.0 Debtors 211.6 194.8 Investments 10.6 9.1 Cash at bank and in hand 33.5 22.9 340.8 309.8 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year 322.1 303.7 Net current assets 18.7 6.1 Total assets less current liabilities 752.2 767.2 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year Convertible subordinated bonds 2008 90.5 90.3 Loans and other creditors 232.5 324.6 323.0 414.9 Provisions for liabilities and charges 63.1 64.1 Net assets 366.1 288.2 Capital and reserves Called-up share capital 130.8 139.8 Share premium account 57.4 57.0 Revaluation reserve 3.9 4.3 Capital redemption reserve 19.1 10.0 Other reserves 6.7 6.7 Profit and loss account 148.2 70.4 Equity shareholders funds 366.1 288.2 A J Stewart Director M S Christie Director 28 May 2003 32 | Consolidated balance sheet Northern Foods plc Consolidated cash flow statement for the year ended 31 March 2003 31 March 31 March 2003 2002 m m Net cash inflow from operating activities 151.6 117.8 Returns on investments and servicing of finance net interest paid 18.6 27.8 Taxation 9.4 11.0 Purchase of tangible fixed assets net 76.0 113.4 Net cash outflow from capital expenditure and financial investment 76.0 113.4 Net cash inflow outflow from acquisitions and disposals 140.6 4.0 Equity dividends paid 45.1 43.3 Cash inflow outflow before management of liquid resources and financing 143.1 81.7 Purchase of own shares 55.0 9.3 Issue of equity share capital net of costs 0.5 2.1 Exchange adjustments 1.7 0.2 Amortisation of bond and financing costs 0.2 0.2 Movement in net debt in the year 90.1 89.3 Analysis of activities for the year ended 31 March 2003 Operating Operating profit before profit before goodwill goodwill amortisation amortisation and and Net Net External External exceptional exceptional operating operating turnover turnover items items assets assets 2003 2002 2003 2002 2003 2002 Area of activity m m m m m m Continuing operations Convenience 1,014.1 940.2 70.0 64.5 533.7 552.8 Grocery 407.1 413.6 45.6 50.5 257.1 239.9 1,421.2 1,353.8 115.6 115.0 790.8 792.7 Discontinued operations Convenience 100.3 10.0 14.7 Grocery 5.1 0.1 105.4 10.1 14.7 Total group 1,421.2 1,459.2 115.6 125.1 790.8 807.4 Northern Foods plc Consolidated cash flow statement | Analysis of activities | 33 Five year record Profit and loss account 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 Turnover Continuing m 1,145.6 1,203.1 1,256.1 1,353.8 1,421.2 Discontinued m 140.3 136.0 121.8 105.4 Total m 1,285.9 1,339.1 1,377.9 1,459.2 1,421.2 Operating profit Continuing m 97.4 103.2 108.9 115.0 115.6 Discontinued m 12.4 14.2 14.0 10.1 Total m 109.8 117.4 122.9 125.1 115.6 % of turnover % 8.5 8.8 8.9 8.6 8.1 Share of associated undertakings m 1.9 0.2 1.4 0.4 1.4 Net interest payable m 17.2 17.4 20.2 24.5 19.5 Profit before taxation m 94.5 100.2 104.1 101.0 97.5 Profit after taxation m 69.9 74.8 79.2 77.4 79.6 Exceptional items after taxation m 21.3 5.5 10.1 24.2 Goodwill amortisation m 1.3 2.1 2.9 3.1 Profit after taxation FRS 3 m 69.9 52.2 82.6 64.4 100.7 Earnings per share before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items p 11.8 12.6 13.7 13.9 14.8 after goodwill amortisation and exceptional items p 11.8 8.8 14.3 11.6 18.7 Dividend per share p 6.8 7.3 7.7 8.2 8.7 Dividend cover times 1.7 1.8 1.8 1.7 1.8 Asset analysis Operating assets m 554.4 637.2 695.2 807.4 790.8 Other liabilities and provisions m 105.7 95.4 96.2 105.5 101.1 Trading capital employed m 448.7 541.8 599.0 701.9 689.7 Accumulated goodwill written off m 304.8 306.1 308.2 308.5 246.6 Total invested capital m 753.5 847.9 907.2 1,010.4 936.3 Net borrowings m 176.0 276.9 324.4 413.7 323.6 Total equity funds invested m 577.5 571.0 582.8 596.7 612.7 Equity shareholders funds m 272.7 264.9 274.6 288.2 366.1 Net gearing % 64.5 104.5 118.1 143.5 88.4 Interest cover times 6.5 6.8 6.2 5.1 6.0 Capital expenditure m 110.5 88.0 78.3 123.6 79.4 Shareholder value analysis Profit before interest m 111.7 117.6 124.3 125.5 117.0 Attributable taxation m 29.9 30.6 31.0 30.9 23.8 Normalised operating profit after tax NOPAT m 81.8 87.0 93.3 94.6 93.2 Return on average invested capital ROIC % 11.7 10.9 10.6 9.9 10.0 Weighted average cost of capital WACC % 8.0 7.6 7.3 7.3 6.3 Margin over cost of funds % 3.7 3.3 3.3 2.6 3.7 Post-tax return on average equity funds invested % 12.5 13.0 13.7 13.1 13.2 Stated before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
Stated after reducing the 2002 invested capital by 87m to reflect the sale of the Ski and Munch Bunch brands and associated assets on 2 April 2002.
The years ending 1999 to 2001 have been restated to comply with FRS 19 Deferred tax.
34 | Five year record Northern Foods plc Financial Investor calendar information 2003 Shareholder services and helpline Shareholders who change address, want to have their dividends paid directly 28 May Final results announcement into their bank account, have a query regarding their shares, or who otherwise require some information about their holding should contact the Registrar, 13 June Annual report and Annual review issued Computershare Investor Services PLC, on the dedicated Northern Foods shareholder information telephone line: 0870 702 0134.
Alternatively, 15 July Latest date for receipt of forms of proxy they should write to the Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, at PO Box 435, Owen House, 8 Bankhead Crossway North, Edinburgh EH11 4BR, 17 July Annual general meeting or email their enquiry, indicating that they are a Northern Foods shareholder, to web.
23 July Shares quoted ex-dividend Shareholder information on the internet 25 July Record date for final dividend The Northern Foods website: www.
co. uk provides shareholder information including copies of the Annual report and Annual review.
The 8 August Half-yearly interest payment on convertible site also contains information on recent trends in the companys share price.
subordinated bonds Shareholders can gain access to their individual shareholder details via a link to our Registrars website and will then be required to pass an identity 29 August Final dividend payment on ordinary shares check to access their personal shareholding.
Alternatively, shareholders can gain access directly to the Registrars website: www.
November Interim results announcement From either site, shareholders can download stock transfer, dividend mandate and change of address forms.
2004 Dividend mandates Shareholders may choose to have dividends paid electronically into their 8 February Half-yearly interest payment on convertible bank or building society account, using the BACS system.
This process ensures subordinated bonds that the amount of the dividend is passed directly into their account, as cleared funds, on the date the payment is due.
Confirmation of payment March Interim dividend payment on ordinary shares is contained in a dividend tax voucher which is posted to shareholders registered addresses at the time of payment.
This voucher should be kept 31 March Financial year end safely for future reference.
Any shareholder wishing to adopt this method of payment should complete a dividend mandate form, which can be found attached to the last dividend warrant.
Alternatively, a form can be downloaded from the Registrars website or requested by calling the above telephone helpline.
Capital gains tax The base cost of a Northern Foods ordinary share at 31 March 1982 for capital gains tax purposes is 75.8 pence.
This figure is the adjusted price to reflect the effect of the rights issue in January 1992, the one-for-one capitalisation issue in August of the same year, and the demerger of Express Dairies plc on 30 March 1998.
Any gain arising on disposal may also need to be adjusted to take account of indexation allowances and, since these adjustments will depend on individual circumstances, shareholders are recommended to consult their financial advisers.
Northern Foods plc Financial calendar | Investor information | 35 Principal operations Northern Foods Head Office Cakes and Puddings Beverley House, St Stephens Square, Hull HU1 3XG Ashton Road, Oldham OL8 2ND Telephone: 01482 325432 Telephone: 0161 633 1181 Technical Services Operations at Park Cake Bakeries, Oldham and Bolton Farnsworth House, Lenton Lane, Nottingham NG7 2NS and Matthew Walker, Heanor Telephone: 0115 986 8231 Riverside and Evesham Foods Eden Vale Crossgate Drive, Nottingham NG2 1LW Station Road, Minsterley, Shropshire SY5 0BN Telephone: 0115 986 6462 Telephone: 01743 791301 Operations at Nottingham and Evesham Foxs Biscuits PO Box 10, Batley WF17 5JG Telephone: 01924 444333 Pork Farms Bowyers Queens Drive, Nottingham NG2 1LU Operations at Batley and Kirkham Telephone: 0115 986 6541 Operations at Nottingham, Trowbridge and Binghams, Sheffield Elkes Biscuits Dove Valley Bakeries, Cheadle Road, Uttoxeter ST14 7BT Telephone: 01889 563131 Premium Savoury Products Maer Lane, Market Drayton TF9 3AW Green Isle Food Group Telephone: 01630 655095 I. D. A.
Industrial Estate, Naas, Co Kildare, Ireland Telephone: 00 353 45 876511 Operations at Palethorpes, Market Drayton, Trafford Park Bakery, Manchester, The Pizza Factory, Nottingham and Dorset Chilled Foods, Shaftesbury Operations at Naas, Boyle, Gurteen, Portumna and Longford Walter Hollands Dalepak Foods Baxenden, nr Accrington BB5 2SA Dale House, Leeming Bar, Northallerton DL7 9UL Telephone: 01706 213591 Telephone: 01677 424111 The Recipe Dish Company Operations at Leeming Bar and Emile Tissot, Telford Drakehouse Crescent, Waterthorpe, Sheffield S20 7JG Telephone: 0114 247 6864 Smiths Flour Mills Operations at Pennine Foods, Sheffield and Fenland Foods, Grantham PO Box 3, Eastgate, Worksop S80 1QY Telephone: 01909 472216 Cavaghan & Gray Operations at Worksop, Langley Mill and Holbeach Brunel House, Brunel Way, Carlisle CA1 3NQ Telephone: 01228 518200 NFT Distribution Operations at Carlisle, Aberdeen, Grimsby and Hull Azalea Close, Clover Nook Industrial Estate, Somercotes Alfreton DE55 4QX Telephone: 01773 523523 Fletchers Kara Grain DOr Claywheels Lane, Sheffield S6 1LY Operations throughout the country Telephone: 0114 234 8171 Operations at Fletchers Bakeries, Sheffield, Kara, Manchester Batchelors and Grain DOr, Harlesden 72-74 Bannow Road, Cabra West, Dublin 7, Ireland Telephone: 00 3531 8380133 Gunstones Bakery Operations at Dublin and Athy Stubley Lane, Dronfield, Sheffield S18 6PF Telephone: 01246 414651 Foxs Confectionery Operations at Dronfield and La Baguette Dore, Barnsley Sunningdale Road, Braunstone, Leicester LE3 1UE Telephone: 0116 287 3561 36 | Principal operations Northern Foods plc Our business Company Annual Northern Foods is a leading UK food producer.
com Principal paying and conversion agent and registrar to the convertible bond holders J P Morgan Chase Bank 1 Chaseside Bournemouth Dorset BH7 7DA Contents 01 Financial highlights 02 Our core product areas 04 Chairmans statement 06 Chief executives statement 08 Operating review 18 Recognising our social responsibilities 21 Financial review 24 Board of directors 25 Summary report of the directors Independent auditors statement 26 Summary directors remuneration report 31 Consolidated profit and loss account 32 Consolidated balance sheet 33 Consolidated cash flow statement Designed and produced by Analysis of activities Fitch:London 34 Five year record Principal photography 35 Financial calendar Directors Bill Robinson Investor information Food products Jean Cazals People manufacturing Nick Sinclair 36 Principal operations Company information Printed in England by Annual report the colourhouse Northern Foods plc Annual review 2003 www.
