REPORT OF THE AUDITORS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Independent auditors report to the members of Northgate plc We have audited the financial statements of Northgate plc for Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it the year ended 30 April 2003 which comprise the consolidated does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Board's profit and loss account, the balance sheets, the consolidated statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or cash flow statement, the statement of total recognised gains form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's corporate and losses, the accounting policies and the related Notes 1 governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
to 25 together with the reconciliation of net cash flow to We read the Directors Report and the other information movement in net debt and the notes to the consolidated contained in the annual report for the above year as cash flow statement.
These financial statements have been described in the contents section including the unaudited prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We part of the Directors remuneration report and consider the have also audited the information in the part of the Directors implications for our report if we become aware of any remuneration report that is described as having been audited.
apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a financial statements.
body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act Basis of audit opinion 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom state to the Companys members those matters we are required auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment report, or for the opinions we have formed.
of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Respective responsibilities of Directors in the preparation of the financial statements and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Directors and auditors circumstances of the Company and the Group, consistently As described in the Statement of Directors responsibilities, applied and adequately disclosed.
the Companys Directors are responsible for the preparation We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the of the financial statements in accordance with applicable information and explanations which we considered necessary in United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable also responsible for the preparation of the other information assurance that the financial statements and the part of the contained in the annual report including the Directors Directors remuneration report described as having been audited remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion, we described as having been audited in accordance with relevant also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of United Kingdom legal and regulatory requirements and information in the financial statements and the part of the auditing standards.
Directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial Opinion statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report In our opinion: described as having been audited have been properly prepared the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 30 April 2003 you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent and of the profit of the Group for the year then ended: and with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept the financial statements and that part of the Directors proper accounting records, if we have not received all the remuneration report described as having been audited have information and explanations we require for our audit, or if been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act information specified by law regarding directors remuneration 1985. and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
Deloitte & Touche We review whether the corporate governance statement Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors reflects the Company's compliance with the seven provisions Leeds of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing 1 July 2003 22 Northgate plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 Northgate plc Annual Report & Accounts 2003 23
