18 PHS Group plc Earnings per share Basic and diluted Tax on adjusted profit has been calculated earnings per share have increased from at an effective rate of 29.5%.
effective rate of tax charge for the year The movement is influenced by a number ended 31 March 2003, which should not of transactions in the year ended 31 March be significantly different to that charged in 2002, caused by the Companys flotation the previous year had the one-off deferred in June 2001.
After adjusting for these tax credit of 4.8m from the recognition transactions, basic earnings per share would of a previously unrecognised deferred tax have been 3.95p.
These adjustments lead asset not arisen.
to a more comparable basic earnings per share for the previous year as a consistent Financing The Group has generated cash capital and debt structure is assumed for of 46.8m from its operating activities, the whole of that year and the effect of the representing a 113.6% conversion of its exceptional loss on disposal of subsidiaries 41.2m operating profit.
This conversion of 969,000 is discounted.
rate is an improvement on the 106.8% Had the increase in issued share capital achieved in the previous year, where that took place on flotation been in place operating profit of 33.6m was converted for the whole of the previous year, the to cash of 35.9m.
Net capital expenditure weighted average number of shares used represents 21.6% of the operating cash in the calculation of basic earnings per inflow generated in the year, compared to share for that year would have been 22.1% in the previous year.
The Groups strategy of funding its The adjusted net profit for the acquisitions through a combination of previous year would have been operating cash flows and external 20,437,000 instead of the 17,656,000 borrowings contributed towards the overall presented in the financial statements.
cash balances of the Group falling by 3.5m A reconciliation between these two amounts through the year.
Additional net debt of is presented below.
only 18.4m arose in the year to fund the The adjustments relating to interest Groups 37.5m spend on acquisitions, payable and other charges assume that bringing the total net debt to 87.9m at the bank borrowings of 67,818,000 net of 31 March 2003.
The resulting net gearing the issue costs incurred on raising this debt has moved from 28.5% to 33.0%.
of 771,000 were in place at the start of the financial year.
The interest rate and non-utilisation fees that would have been applied to these borrowings under the loan agreement in place has been used to calculate the interest that would have been charged for the period to flotation.
Year ended 31 March 2002 000 000 Financial review Profit before taxation per financial statements 17,656 Add back of relevant costs: continued Loss on disposal of subsidiary undertakings 969 Interest payable on borrowings repaid at flotation 11,555 12,524 Deduct additional costs on debt for the pre-flotation period 1 Interest on bank loans 1,150 2 Amortisation of issue costs 41 1,191 Adjusted profit before taxation 28,989 Tax on adjusted profit before taxation at 29.5% 8,552 Adjusted net profit 20,437 Weighted average number of shares 517,045 Adjusted basic earnings per share 3.95p Year ended 31 March 2003 Basic earnings per share 4.91p Percentage increase in adjusted basic earnings per share 24.3% 1 Interest on bank loans is calculated applying an interest rate of 6.5% p. a. for one month and 6.25% p. a. for two months on 68,589,000 and applying non-utilisation fees of 0.5% for three months on the unutilised facility of 38,411,000.
2 Amortisation of issue costs is the additional amortisation of the issue costs of 771,000 to make the interest charge equal to a full years amortisation.
The issue costs are being amortised over five years and an interest charge of 113,000 is recognised in the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2002.
19 PHS Group plc Treasury management The Group operates The Group is in compliance with all the a central treasury function which manages covenants relating to these facilities, none of liquidity and interest rate risks with the which are restrictive to funding or investment ultimate objective of ensuring the provision policy.
The Board continually monitors actual of sufficient cost-effective financing.
This function is ultimately responsible to the Board who will sanction all treasury Interest on borrowings Borrowings policies adopted.
The policies in place to under the facilities referred to above account manage these risks are unchanged from for the large majority of the Groups debt.
those in use at the previous year-end and it These borrowings are at floating rates of remains the Groups policy that no trading interest because the Board believes that the in financial instruments shall be undertaken.
current environment of low gearing and high The Group does not undertake any interest cover make the resulting level of significant transactions in foreign currency interest rate risk acceptable.
nor have any assets or liabilities denominated Other borrowings comprise outstanding in foreign currency.
loan notes at floating rates of interest that have been issued to fund selected Liquidity The Groups policy on liquidity is acquisitions and hire purchase or finance to ensure a balance between continuity of leases at fixed rates of interest.
Capital assets funding and flexibility.
Operating cash flows are purchased outright rather than through are reinvested in acquisitions and other hire purchase or finance leases due to the capital expenditure as far as possible whilst availability of funds at a more beneficial retaining adequate funds to finance ongoing interest cost than is generally available on activities.
Adequate uncommitted loan such leases.
Those hire purchase or finance facilities are maintained to supplement these leases included in the balance sheet were cash flows when required.
acquired along with various acquisitions.
At 31 March 2003, the Group had Interest cover remains strong, being sterling bank-borrowing facilities totalling covered eight times by operating profit.
140.0m, of which 68.4m expires on 29 June 2004, and the remainder on Accounting policies The Board has reviewed 29 June 2006.
44.3m of these facilities the accounting policies used in the preparation were unutilised at the balance sheet date, of these financial statements and believe each although subsequently, an additional to be the most appropriate.
The principal 20.0m has been drawn down to partially accounting policies are set out in note 1 to fund the acquisitions made in that period.
There have been no The Board is currently considering options to changes to accounting policies in the year.
refinance these facilities but do not envisage any difficulties in achieving this.
John Skidmore Finance Director 20 PHS Group plc John Murray Allan Jan Gunnar Astrand Board of Directors Non-executive director age 54 Non-executive director age 56 From left to right John Allan joined the Board of PHS as a Jan Astrand joined the Board of PHS non-executive director in June 2001 and as a non-executive director in June 2001. is Chief Executive of Exel plc.
He joined He is also Chairman of Car Park Group AB Ocean Group plc, as Chief Executive, in Sweden and a non-executive director in September 1994 and in May 2000 of Northgate plc.
Prior to this, he was Ocean Group and Exel formerly NFC President and Chief Executive of merged to form Exel plc.
Prior to joining Axus International Inc. from 1994 Ocean Group, he was a main board Director to 1999.
He is a non-executive director of Finance Director for Hertz Europe Ltd. Wolseley Plc, Vice Chairman of Freight Between 1986 and 1988, he worked for Forwarding Europe Trade Association Commodore International Ltd initially as and President of the Freight Transport Vice President of Finance for Europe and Association.
John is also a member of ultimately as Chief Financial Officer.
the CBI President's Committee.
21 PHS Group plc Peter James Cohen Robert David Mackenzie John Fletcher Skidmore Chief Executive age 50 Non-executive Chairman age 50 Finance Director age 36 Peter Cohen joined PHS as Chief Executive Robert Mackenzie joined the Board of John Skidmore joined the Board of PHS in April 1998.
Prior to joining PHS he PHS as non-executive Chairman in as Finance Director in October 2002 held the position of Chief Executive of September 2000.
Prior to joining PHS, following the resignation of Keith Bland Holt Lloyd Group Limited, a manufacturer he was Chairman and Chief Executive of from that post.
Before this, he held the and marketer of consumer care products, National Parking Corporation Limited, and post of Group Financial Controller for from 1991 to 1998.
He was President Chairman of Greenflag Limited.
Before joining PHS, he was of Power Conversion Inc. Crompton Group Finance Director of BET Plc from an audit manager with Deloitte & Touche, Eternacell from 1989 to 1991 and before 1991 to 1994 and Group Finance Director where he had previously qualified as that he was Managing Director of of Storehouse plc and Chief Executive of a Chartered Accountant.
Crompton Vidor Limited and Hawker Retail Operations from 1989 to 1990.
From 1986 to 1989 he was a Financial Comptroller for Hanson plc.
22 PHS Group plc Financial statements 23 Directors report 25 Remuneration report 28 Corporate governance 30 Statement of Directors responsibilities 31 Independent auditors report 32 Consolidated profit and loss account 33 Balance sheets 34 Consolidated cash flow statement 35 Notes to the financial statements 53 Five-year summary 54 Notice of meeting 56 Shareholder information 23 PHS Group plc Directors report for the year ended 31 March 2003 The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2003.
Principal activity and business review The Group is engaged in the provision of workplace services on customers premises.
There are five core business areas that have been operating throughout the year: washroom services, dust mat services, live and replica plants, point of use water dispensers and specialist crate rental.
The vast majority of customers have rental, service and maintenance contracts.
A review of the Groups business and discussion of likely future developments is provided in the Chairmans statement, Chief Executives review and Financial review on pages 2 to 19.
Results and dividends Operating profit for the year was 41,216,000 2002: 33,567,000.
The result for the year after taxation was a profit of 25,402,000 2002: 18,443,000.
The Board recommends the payment of a final dividend of 0.38p per ordinary share 2002: 0.29p and paid an interim dividend of 0.17p per ordinary share 2002: 0.13p on 28 January 2003.
Subject to approval by shareholders of the final dividend, a total dividend of 0.55p per ordinary share will be paid in respect of the year at a total cost of 2,844,000.
If approved, the Group will pay the final dividend on 20 August 2003 to all shareholders registered on 25 July 2003.
Post balance sheet events Details of all material post balance sheet events are given in note 31 to these financial statements.
Directors The Directors of the Company at 31 March 2003 are listed on page 56.
K Bland also served on the Board from the start of the year until resigning on 1 October 2002.
Details of the Directors remuneration, service contracts and interests in shares, share options and debentures are shown in the Remuneration report on pages 25 to 27.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, J F Skidmore having been appointed by the Board to fill a vacancy on 1 October 2002 will retire at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer himself for re-election.
Biographical details of each Director are given on pages 20 and 21.
Details of the role of the Board, including the role of non-executive directors, are given in the Corporate governance statement on pages 28 and 29.
Policy on the payment of creditors It is Group policy to comply with terms of payment negotiated with suppliers.
Where payment terms are not negotiated, the Group endeavours to adhere to the suppliers standard terms.
The Company does not trade and consequently cannot disclose an average creditors payment period.
The Groups average payment period in the year for the continuing businesses was 47 days 2002: 55 days.
Substantial shareholdings As at 16 May 2003, the Group had been notified under Section 198 of the Companies Act 1985 of the following substantial shareholdings in the ordinary share capital of PHS Group plc.
Name of shareholder Interest in ordinary share capital FMR Corp Fidelity International 15.00% Merrill Lynch Investment Managers 11.56% SG Asset Management 6.30% Morley Fund Management 4.46% Threadneedle Asset Management 4.38% Legal & General Investment Management 4.21% Axa Investment Managers UK Limited 4.11% Abbey National Asset Management 3.44% Deutsche Asset Management MGAM UK 3.12% Authority to make purchases of own shares The Board recognises that under certain circumstances, it may be in the best interests of the Company to make purchases of its own shares.
With this in mind, the Board received shareholder approval at the previous Annual General Meeting held on 12 July 2002 to make market purchases of its own shares up to a maximum of 51,704,545 shares being 10% of the Companys ordinary share capital at the date of passing the resolution within a specified price range.
This authority expires at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting, due to be held on 11 July 2003.
No purchases have been made or are planned under this authority.
It is the intention to introduce a special resolution at this next Annual General Meeting to extend this authority until the end of the following Annual General Meeting.
This authority will relate to a maximum of 51,704,739 shares being 10% of the Companys ordinary share capital on similar price restrictions.
The Board are requesting this authority to allow them to respond rapidly to changes in market conditions where it becomes beneficial to shareholders generally to engage in market purchases of the Companys shares.
Corporate social responsibility The major part of our business is registered for ISO 9001, the international standard for managing quality and for ISO 14001, the international standard for environmental management systems.
Whilst we are not currently registered, we are working towards compliance with OHSAS 18001, the international health and safety standard.
The Group employs six permanent staff whose primary responsibility is to monitor the Groups performance in respect of these standards.
Corporate social responsibility also involves companies going beyond their legal obligations and economic and business aims.
We are developing our approach slowly whilst carefully monitoring the international standards, which are continuously evolving.
24 PHS Group plc Directors report continued Employees It is Group policy to ensure that employees are provided with information on all matters of concern to them.
Accordingly, appropriate steps are taken to ensure that employees or their representatives are aware of the financial and economic factors affecting the Groups performance, are consulted wherever necessary and are encouraged generally to be involved in the Groups overall performance.
It is established Group policy to offer the same opportunities to disabled people as to all others in matters of recruitment and career advancement, provided they have the abilities to perform the tasks required, with or without training, and to provide retraining where necessary in cases when disability arises during employment with the Group.
Research and development Technical development is considered an important part of the Groups ongoing advancement.
Resources are employed in the development of new products or improving existing products to continuously improve the range and quality that we offer our customers.
All such expenditure is charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
Auditors Following the conversion of the Groups auditors  to a Limited Liability Partnership LLP from 1 January 2003,  resigned on 19 May 2003 and the Directors appointed its successor,  LLP, as auditors.
Having expressed a willingness to continue in office as auditors, a resolution to reappoint  LLP as auditors to the Company in accordance with Section 385 of the Companies Act 1985 will be proposed at the next Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board John Skidmore Company Secretary 4 June 2003 25 PHS Group plc Remuneration report Compliance This report has been prepared in accordance with the Directors Remuneration Regulations 2002 and the Combined Code, appended to the Listing Rules, as issued by the Financial Services Authority.
The regulations require the auditors to report to the Companys members on the auditable part of this report and to state whether, in their opinion, that part of the report has been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 as amended by the regulations.
This report is unaudited with the exception of the two sections headed Directors remuneration and Directors interests in shares and share options.
Remuneration committee The Remuneration committee is responsible for developing the Groups remuneration policy and determining the remuneration packages of the executive directors.
It is composed of all three non-executive directors and chaired by J G Astrand.
No member of the committee has any personal financial interest other than as a shareholder, conflicts of interests arising from cross-directorships or day-to-day involvement in running the business.
No Director plays a part in discussions about his own remuneration.
Remuneration policy Executive directors remuneration the committee makes recommendations to the Board on the Groups framework of executive remuneration and its cost after giving full consideration to compliance with the matters set out in the Combined Code.
Where appropriate, reference is made to independent and authoritative surveys.
The committees policy is to provide salary, bonuses, pension and other benefits to executive directors and other key senior management that are competitive with regard to those on offer at other comparable companies.
The packages provided are intended to attract, retain and motivate each executive director to meet the Groups objectives and so enhance shareholder value.
The committee will always have regard that it should avoid paying more than necessary for this purpose.
A strong link between the level of remuneration and individual performance against agreed targets is maintained by including a performance-related element within the remuneration package.
The bonus can vary between nil and 30% of each executive directors basic salary, so giving them considerable incentive to perform at the highest levels for the ultimate benefit of the shareholders.
Employee remuneration most employees, particularly sales and service staff, are incentivised by reference to their individual performance within the framework of the Companys overall performance.
All permanent employees are eligible for the Savings-related share option scheme and, in addition, the Company operates an Executive share option scheme for employees who may, from time to time, be selected to participate by the Remuneration committee.
Non-executive directors remuneration the remuneration of non-executive directors is a matter specifically reserved for the collective decision of the Board, subject to the limitations set out in the Articles of Association.
The total remuneration for non-executive directors may not exceed 400,000 per annum.
Executive directors remuneration and service contracts Both executive directors have a rolling service agreement that is terminable by 12 months notice from either party.
Other than for reasons of gross misconduct, if either service agreement is terminated by the Company giving less than 12 months notice, the Company is liable for the payment of a sum equal to the Directors salary and benefits at the time of termination in lieu of the required period of notice.
Alternatively, the Company may continue to provide the benefits during the period.
Any bonus entitlement in respect of any period of notice shall be calculated as though the Director had remained employed during the period of notice and shall be paid at such time as though the Director had remained employed.
Executive directors service contracts will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
The present remuneration package for executive directors comprises: Basic salary this is reviewed and determined annually by the Remuneration committee.
Consideration is given to basic salaries paid by comparable companies and the performance of the executive.
Annual incentive bonus each executive director is contractually entitled to an annual bonus in respect of each financial year.
The bonus can vary between nil and 30% of the Directors basic annual salary dependent upon the audited profit and cash generation achieved by the Group against targets predetermined by the Board.
Other benefits these comprise health insurance, provision of a company car or car allowance and payment for private fuel.
Pensions Both executive directors are members of the Groups defined contribution pension scheme to which the Group makes regular contributions of 15% of each Directors pensionable earnings in the previous financial year.
Pensionable earnings comprise only basic salary and annual incentive bonus.
Non-executive directors remuneration and terms of appointment R D Mackenzie was appointed for an initial term of three years with effect from 18 September 2000.
The appointment continues thereafter unless and until terminated by not less than three months written notice from either the Company or Mr Mackenzie.
The other non-executive directors were appointed for an initial term of three years with effect from 6 June 2001.
Both appointments may be terminated earlier by the Company giving six months written notice or by either Director at any time.
In both cases, there is no entitlement to compensation for termination of the appointment for any reason.
The remuneration of all non-executive directors was determined by the Board, commensurate with their experience and contribution to the Group, and remains fixed for the duration of the initial three year term.
Neither the Chairman nor non-executive directors participate in the Groups pension scheme or bonus plans nor are they entitled to any benefits from the Company other than their agreed fees and reimbursement of reasonable expenses incurred in carrying out their duties.
26 PHS Group plc Remuneration report continued Directors remuneration Audited section The emoluments of the Directors of the Company for the years ended 31 March are disclosed below: 2003 2002 Basic salary Annual Other 2003 2002 Pension Pension or fees bonus benefits Total Total payments payments 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Non-executive Chairman R D Mackenzie 75 75 73 Executive directors P J Cohen 190 16 13 219 199 29 45 K Bland 48 8 56 114 9 15 J F Skidmore 5092 61 4 Non-executive directors J M Allan 60 60 49 J G Astrand 60 60 49 483 2523 531 484 42 60 Highest paid Director.
K Bland resigned as Director with effect from 1 October 2002 and was replaced on that date by J F Skidmore.
No compensation for loss of office or any other payment connected to his termination from office was paid to Mr Bland other than the remuneration to which he was entitled for the period to 1 October 2002 under the terms of his service contract, which contained similar provisions to the current executive directors contracts.
J M Allan applied three years annual fees paid in advance to purchase ordinary shares at flotation.
If J M Allan ceases to be a Director before the expiry of the period for which his fees were paid in advance, a specified portion of the ordinary shares for which he subscribed using these annual fees will be liable to be repurchased for an aggregate price of 1.
None of the Directors has waived any part of their emoluments during the year.
Pension contributions up to the Inland Revenue cap were made to the Groups defined contribution scheme.
Payments in excess of this cap are paid to the executive directors as a taxable emolument but disclosed as pension contributions in the above table because they are paid on the express basis and understanding that payment is for the purpose of pension contributions.
Executive share option scheme The Company operates a discretionary executive share option scheme, which is only available to employees and full-time Directors who may, from time to time, be selected by the Remuneration committee to participate.
The committee regard this scheme as the principal long-term incentive for the Groups senior management.
The scheme is divided into two sections, Section A and Section B, under which options can be granted.
Section B is an Inland Revenue approved scheme and grants to individuals are subject to the limit imposed by the Finance Act 1996 on the value of shares placed under option, currently 30,000.
Any grants in excess of this limit are made under the unapproved Section A scheme.
No eligible employee is entitled as of right to participate in the discretionary scheme.
No payment is required on the grant of an option, which is always at the market value on the date of the grant.
No options under the scheme were granted to executive directors during the year and no options under the scheme have been granted to executive directors since the scheme was approved by shareholders in June 2001.
In relation to other employees who were selected to participate in the scheme by the Remuneration committee, options over 1,136,581 shares were granted in December 2001 at 88p per share, of which 54,598 lapsed in the year.
An additional 2,139,880 options were granted during the year, of which 2,053,918 were at 94.5p per share and the remaining 85,962 at 79.5p.
All options are subject to a performance criteria that they will only be exercisable if the Companys earnings per share over a three-year period exceeds the increase in the Retail Prices Index plus 2% per annum over the same period.
Savings-related share option scheme The PHS Group Savings-Related Share Option scheme is eligible to all employees, including executive directors.
When a contract is initiated, options are granted to acquire the number of shares that the total savings will buy when the contract matures three years into the future.
Employees make fixed monthly contributions of up to 250 per month over the three-year contractual period.
At the end of this period employees have the right to buy shares in the Company at the price fixed at the time of the option grant.
The price per share at which options may be granted is not less than 80% of the mid-market price on the last day of dealing before the offer date.
27 PHS Group plc Directors interests in shares and share options Audited section The beneficial interests of the Directors and their families in the ordinary shares of the Company at 31 March are set out below: Interest in ordinary shares of the Company 31 March 2003 31 March 2002 Number Number R D Mackenzie 2,045,452 2,045,452 J F Skidmore 506,250 506,250 P J Cohen 7,500,000 7,290,000 J M Allan 134,756 134,756 J G Astrand 60,000 60,000 Or date of appointment if later.
No Director has been granted any option over the shares of the Company or other Group company in respect of qualifying service.
P J Cohen has a beneficial interest in the Company through the Groups savings-related share option scheme.
An option over 13,644 shares was granted to Mr Cohen on 1 December 2001 at 71p per share, exercisable at any time from 1 December 2004 onwards.
There has been no change in the interests stated between 31 March 2003, and the date on which these financial statements were signed on behalf of the Board.
Total shareholder return The performance graph below illustrates the total shareholder return TSR delivered by the Group since its admittance to the London Stock Exchange in June 2001, in comparison to the TSR delivered by the FTSE 350 Support Services Index.
TSR is the measure of the returns provided by the Group to its shareholders, reflecting movements in share price and assuming reinvestment of dividends when paid.
After due consideration and taking into account the size of the Group and its mix of activities, the Board decided that the FTSE 350 Support Services Index is the most appropriate index against which the TSR of the Group should be measured because it is an index of similar size companies operating in the same business sector as the Group.
The graph demonstrates that since its flotation in June 2001, the Group has significantly outperformed the FTSE 350 Support Services Index.
140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 27 06 01 27 09 01 27 12 01 27 03 02 27 06 02 27 09 02 27 12 02 27 03 03 PHS Group FTSE 350 Support Service Source: Datastream Approval This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 4 June 2003 and signed on its behalf by: J F Skidmore Company Secretary 28 PHS Group plc Corporate governance Combined code The Group is committed to achieving the highest standards of corporate governance and acting with the utmost integrity in all dealings.
This statement, together with the Remuneration report on pages 25 to 27, explains the manner in which the Group has applied the provisions of the Combined Code for Corporate Governance the code in order to meet its commitments.
Throughout the year ended 31 March 2003 the Board believes that the Group has complied with the code.
Board of Directors The Board comprises three non-executive including the Chairman who is responsible for running the Board and two executive directors including the Chief Executive who is responsible for running the Groups business.
The biographies of all Directors are detailed on pages 20 and 21, and demonstrate that the Board contains sufficient experience and ability to provide effective leadership.
All three non-executive directors bring a range of business, finance and other relevant experience to the Group.
Each makes a significant contribution to the functioning of the Board by applying his judgement and bringing his experience to bear in all decision-making processes.
The Board considers both J G Astrand and J M Allan to be independent of management and J G Astrand has been appointed as the Senior Independent Director.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its collective decision.
This schedule includes any question regarding the appointment or removal of any Director or Company Secretary: the composition and terms of reference of each of the Remuneration, Nomination and Audit committees: strategic policy: approval of all material acquisitions and divestments: and approval of annual budgets and forecasts.
On appointment, all Directors are given an induction programme designed to give them appropriate training to properly fulfil their roles.
This programme includes meetings with, and presentations from, appropriate senior management combined with visits to a number of operational depots.
Additional training is arranged at any time when a Director requires it to assist in the proper discharge of his duties.
The Articles of Association provide that any Director appointed by the Board must retire from office, but may submit him or herself for re-election, at the first subsequent Annual General Meeting.
In addition, any Director who, at the date of the notice convening any Annual General Meeting, will have held office for more than 30 months since appointment, or reappointment at a General Meeting, must retire from office at that Annual General Meeting, but may submit him or herself for re-election.
The Board met nine times during the current financial year, supplemented by frequent contact between meetings and additional strategic discussions.
All Directors have the right to seek external professional advice in the furtherance of their duties at the expense of the Group and have unfettered access to the advice of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that all applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
At least one week before every Board meeting, each Director is supplied with an agenda and sufficient supporting papers that provide the appropriate information required for him to properly discharge his duties.
Included within these papers are detailed monthly accounts, which include in depth reports on the performance of each operating division.
The accounts are supplemented by written reports from the executive directors and appropriate financial analysis.
Other papers presented deal with the cash flow position of the Group and proposals regarding future potential acquisitions.
The monthly accounts and analysis are also circulated in months where no Board meeting is held.
The papers may not always be sufficient to provide the Board with all the information they require.
In such instances, senior management are always available to answer any further questions that may arise.
The Board constantly reviews the quality, nature and presentation of information provided and requests changes that they believe will offer more appropriate information.
The three principal committees of the Board are the Remuneration committee, Audit committee and Nomination committee.
Each committee has its own terms of reference that have been approved by the Board.
Remuneration committee The composition and work of the Remuneration committee is set out in the Remuneration report on pages 25 to 27.
Nomination committee The Nomination committee comprises all three non-executive directors and is chaired by J M Allan.
A minimum of one meeting per financial year is held with additional meetings called as and when requested by any member.
The committee makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Directors and the management of Board succession.
The committee operates according to written terms of reference.
These include consideration of the size and structure of the Board: the appointment and duties of executive directors and their continuation or not in service: the appointment and reappointment of non-executive directors: and whether Directors retiring in accordance with the Articles of Association should be put forward for re-election.
The Nomination committee continuously reviews the composition of the Board to ensure that it contains the necessary skills, knowledge and experience to properly discharge its duties.
Following the resignation of K Bland during the year, the Nomination committee undertook a detailed search to identify the best available replacement of the appropriate calibre.
This search included the involvement of external consultants.
As a result, the committee recommended the appointment of J F Skidmore in the role of Finance Director until the next Annual General Meeting.
The committee has reviewed his performance in this role and recommends that he be put forward for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Audit committee The Audit committee comprises all three non-executive directors and is chaired by R D Mackenzie.
Meetings are routinely held twice annually with additional meetings held at the request of either the Chairman or external auditors.
The committee assists the Board in determining whether it is properly discharging its responsibilities for financial reporting and corporate governance including matters pertaining to the Groups internal control systems.
These include reviewing the scope and results of the audit: its cost-effectiveness: and the auditors independence and objectivity.
The committee also maintains a review of the volume of non-audit services provided in order to balance the objectivity of the auditors with value for money.
The committee has the authority to invite executive directors and representatives of the external auditors to meetings as necessary.
Access to the advice of the external auditors without the presence of the executive directors is available.
The Audit committee will review the interim and annual financial statements before submission to the Board for approval.
The review will consider but is not limited to the accounting policies adopted: areas where major judgements have been exercised: and compliance with accounting standards, stock exchange, legal and other regulatory requirements.
The committee will also consider any matters arising from any audit, whether communicated verbally or in writing, and give due consideration to any action recommended.
As part of the terms of reference of the Audit committee, it is responsible for monitoring managements commitment to establishing and operating a sound system of internal control.
It is also responsible for reviewing, at least annually, the effectiveness of the internal control system including financial, operational, compliance controls and risk management.
29 PHS Group plc Internal control The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Internal control is defined in the Code as all controls, including financial, operational, compliance, and risk management.
The Directors procedures for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control have been in place throughout the year and to the date of approval of the financial statements.
Any such system of internal control can, however, only provide reasonable, but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control in place during the year.
The key features of the Groups system of internal control which have been established are as follows: Identification and evaluation of the key risks applicable to each area of business is monitored and assessed on a continuous basis at executive committee and Board level.
This is supplemented by the annual process of preparing business plans and detailed budgets, and the half-year budget review process: The production of accurate and timely financial management information reported against budget and forecast to the Board: The control of key financial risks through clearly laid down authorisation levels and proper segregation of accounting duties: Regular executive committee meetings of the Groups most senior managers and executive directors: The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high recruitment standards and subsequent training courses.
High quality personnel are seen as an essential part of the control environment: Capital expenditure is restricted to amounts approved in the annual budget and half-year budget review process.
Any significant over-spend can only occur after approval from the Board: Detailed written proposals are submitted to the Board before any decision is made on authorising investment in acquisitions.
Due diligence reviews are always performed by the Groups own staff along with extensive use of external advisers: and Regular reviews of the systems and procedures in place at each remote location are performed.
Independence of auditors  LLP currently act as the Groups auditors.
Both the Audit committee and the auditors themselves have safeguards in place to ensure that the objectivity and independence of the auditors is maintained.
In addition to the annual appointment of the auditors by the shareholders, the Audit committee regularly reviews their performance and fees charged to ensure that the Group continues to receive value for money.
Non-audit work in respect of taxation and the due diligence process before significant acquisitions is also carried out by  LLP, as the Board believes that it is in the Groups best interests to make use of their extensive knowledge of the business.
The Board continuously monitors the quality and volume of this work and will, where appropriate, use other accounting firms or other appropriately qualified organisations.
Details of the fees for both audit and non-audit work are given in note 3 to the financial statements.
Shareholder communication Communication with shareholders is given a high priority by the Group with designated members of the Board meeting regularly with institutional investors, analysts and other parties.
Private investors have the opportunity to meet and question the Directors at the Annual General Meeting.
It is Group policy to respond to any written requests from shareholders throughout the year.
It is the Groups policy to propose a separate resolution on each substantially different issue at the Annual General Meeting.
The level of proxies lodged, together with the number for and against each resolution, will be announced once dealt with by a show of hands at the meeting.
The Chairman of the Board will make every effort to ensure that the respective chairs of the Remuneration, Nomination and Audit committees will be present at the Annual General Meeting and available to take relevant questions from the floor.
co. uk, provides additional information for both shareholders and the general public.
Going concern The Board has reviewed and approved the Groups budget for the financial year ending March 2004 and projections for future years.
After taking account of the cash flow implications, including proposed capital expenditure and considering the availability of borrowing facilities, the Board has concluded that it is appropriate to prepare the accounts of both the Group and Company on the going concern basis.
30 PHS Group plc Statement of Directors responsibilities Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Groups website.
Uncertainty regarding legal requirements is compounded as information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements relating to the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
31 PHS Group plc Independent auditors report to the members of PHS Group plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise the consolidated profit and loss account, consolidated balance sheet, Company balance sheet, consolidated cash flow statement and the related notes.
We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 contained in the Directors remuneration report the auditable part.
Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the Directors remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the Statement of Directors responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors remuneration report in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements, United Kingdom Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only for the Companys members as a body in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or in to whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors remuneration report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the financial statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans statement, Chief Executives review, Financial review, the unaudited part of the Directors remuneration report, Directors report and Corporate governance statement.
We review whether the Corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company or Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
Basis of opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with Auditing Standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the auditable part of the Directors remuneration report.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and auditable part of the Directors remuneration report are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion: The financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group at 31 March 2003 and of the profit and cash flows of the Group for the year then ended: The financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and Those parts of the Directors remuneration report required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
 LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Cardiff 4 June 2003 32 PHS Group plc Consolidated profit and loss account for the year ended 31 March 2003 Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2003 2002 Notes 000 000 Turnover 2 Continuing operations excluding Teacrate 134,139 114,665 Acquisitions Teacrate only see below 5,763 Continuing operations 139,902 114,665 Discontinued operations 402 139,902 115,067 Operating profit loss 2,3 Continuing operations excluding Teacrate 39,434 33,569 Acquisitions Teacrate only see below 1,782 Continuing operations 41,216 33,569 Discontinued operations 2 41,216 33,567 Loss on disposal of subsidiary undertakings 969 Interest receivable and similar income 31 Interest payable and similar charges 5 5,182 14,973 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 36,034 17,656 Tax on profit on ordinary activities 6 10,632 787 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 25,402 18,443 Dividends paid and proposed 7 2,844 2,172 Retained profit for the year 22 22,558 16,271 Earnings per share 8 Basic earnings per share 4.91p 4.18p Diluted earnings per share 4.91p 4.18p The Group has no recognised gains or losses other than those disclosed above and therefore no separate statement of total recognised gains and losses has been presented.
Continuing operations include the results of acquisitions made during the year.
Other than in the case of the acquisition of Teacrate Rentals Limited, it is not practicable to determine the post-acquisition turnover and operating profit of businesses acquired during the year.
This is because the trade and assets of the companies or businesses acquired are incorporated into the existing trade and assets of the Group and their results are not separately identifiable post-acquisition.
33 PHS Group plc Balance sheets at 31 March 2003 Group Company 2003 2002 2003 2002 Notes 000 000 000 000 Fixed assets Intangible assets 9 345,238 307,990 Tangible assets 10 31,832 26,894 Investments 11 324,288 312,586 377,070 334,884 324,288 312,586 Current assets Stocks 12 3,827 2,701 Debtors 13 38,555 34,135 14,458 5,182 Cash 5,938 9,418 19,099 873 48,320 46,254 33,557 6,055 Creditors: Amounts falling due within one year 14 29,588 34,005 8,699 1,851 Net current assets 18,732 12,249 24,858 4,204 Total assets less current liabilities 395,802 347,133 349,146 316,790 Creditors: Amounts falling due after more than one year 15 91,450 67,963 91,323 67,931 Provisions for liabilities and charges 18 249 249 Accruals and deferred income 19 37,874 35,251 Net assets 2 266,478 243,919 257,574 248,610 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 21 51,705 51,705 51,705 51,705 Share premium account 22 187,725 187,724 187,725 187,724 Profit and loss account 22 27,048 4,490 18,144 9,181 Equity shareholders funds 23 266,478 243,919 257,574 248,610 The financial statements were approved by the Board of Directors on 4 June 2003 and were signed on its behalf by: P J Cohen J F Skidmore Director Director 34 PHS Group plc Consolidated cash flow statement for the year ended 31 March 2003 Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2003 2002 Notes 000 000 Reconciliation of operating profit to net cash inflow from operating activities Operating profit 41,216 33,567 Depreciation 8,016 6,454 Loss Profit on disposal of tangible fixed assets 99 324 Increase in stocks 776 3 Increase in debtors 2,589 5,444 Increase in creditors 853 1,671 Net cash inflow from operating activities 46,819 35,921 Returns on investments and servicing of finance 24 5,052 38,457 Taxation paid 7,544 1,970 Capital expenditure 24 10,090 7,950 Acquisitions and disposals 24 45,894 17,911 Equity dividends paid 2,379 672 Cash outflow before financing 24,140 31,039 Financing 24 20,660 39,969 Decrease Increase in cash 25 3,480 8,930 35 PHS Group plc Notes to the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2003 1 Principal accounting policies Basis of preparation The financial statements are prepared under the historical cost convention in accordance with applicable Accounting Standards in the United Kingdom and, except for the treatment of the amortisation of goodwill described below, comply with the Companies Act 1985.
An explanation of this departure from the requirements of the Companies Act is given below.
All existing accounting policies have been reviewed in detail during the year and are considered to be the most appropriate to the circumstances of both the Company and the Group.
No change to any accounting policy has been made in the year.
A summary of the more important accounting policies is set out below.
Use of estimates The preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts shown in the financial statements.
Actual amounts could differ from those estimates.
Basis of consolidation The financial statements have been consolidated under the acquisition accounting method.
The Company has taken advantage of the exemption from presenting its own profit and loss account as permitted by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
Income recognition Turnover comprises the invoiced value of goods sold which is recognised on despatch and the rentals receivable on operating leases as described further below, exclusive of value added tax.
Operating leases i As lessor Assets on hire to customers are capitalised and depreciated as noted below.
Rentals receivable are credited to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis, over the lease term.
Income is recognised from the day of inception of the lease.
Amounts received in advance are shown in the balance sheet as deferred income.
ii As lessee Lease payments are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Research and development Research and development expenditure is charged to the profit and loss account in the year in which it is incurred.
Tangible fixed assets The cost of tangible fixed assets is their purchase cost, together with any incidental expenses that are directly attributable to the acquisition.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost of tangible fixed assets on a straight-line basis over the expected useful economic lives of the assets concerned.
The principal annual rates of depreciation used are as follows: Freehold land Not depreciated Freehold property 50 years Short leasehold property Over the lease term Equipment installed at customers premises 1 to 10 years Other equipment and vehicles 3 to 10 years Tooling 4 years Goodwill Purchased goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities acquired.
Goodwill in respect of acquisitions made is shown as an asset and, in accordance with FRS 10 Intangible assets and goodwill, each acquisition is assessed to determine the useful economic life of the business and the goodwill.
For the types of business acquired by the Group to date, the Board considers that the goodwill is an inseparable part of the total value of the relevant business.
These are service businesses that are not subject to high volatility in fashions or markets and demand for these services is likely to continue for the foreseeable future.
Such businesses, if properly managed, should grow in value over the years and hence neither the value of the business nor the goodwill has a measurable economic life.
Where it is considered that the value of the business or its goodwill does have a measurable economic life, any related goodwill would be amortised through the profit and loss account by equal instalments over such useful economic life.
In this context, the useful economic life of the businesses and goodwill are reviewed annually and revised where appropriate.
In the event that the useful economic life does not exceed 20 years, goodwill would be subject to an impairment review at the end of the year of acquisition and at any other time when the Directors believe that impairment may have occurred.
Where the goodwill is assigned a useful economic life that is in excess of 20 years or is indefinite, the value of the relevant businesses and goodwill is assessed for impairment against carrying values on an annual basis in accordance with FRS 11 Impairment of fixed assets and goodwill.
Any impairment is charged to the profit and loss account in the period in which it arises.
The Group has acquired a number of businesses in the year as detailed in note 28.
The Directors have reviewed these acquisitions and consider that these businesses and the associated goodwill have an indefinite useful economic life and the goodwill is therefore not being amortised.
This treatment represents a departure from the requirements of the Companies Act 1985, which does not permit an indefinite useful economic life.
The departure is, however, in the opinion of the Directors, necessary for the financial statements to give a true and fair view in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
If this goodwill were amortised over a 20 year period, the profit before tax for the year ended 31 March 2003 would be reduced by 16,739,000 2002: 14,682,000, with a corresponding reduction in reserves and intangible assets.
The cumulative amount that would have been written off against reserves is 53,724,000.
36 PHS Group plc Notes to the financial statements continued 1 Principal accounting policies continued Investments Investments held as fixed assets are stated at cost less provision for any impairment in value.
Stocks Stocks are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value, which takes account of any provision necessary to recognise damage and obsolescence.
Cost is based on a FIFO measure and includes labour, materials, transport and directly attributable overheads.
Financial liabilities and issue costs All borrowings are initially stated at the fair value of the consideration received after deduction of issue costs.
Issue costs are charged to the profit and loss account together with the coupon, as finance costs, on a constant yield basis over the term of the borrowings, or over a shorter period where the lender can require earlier payment.
Finance leases Leasing agreements including equivalent hire purchase or finance agreements which transfer to the Company substantially all the benefits and risks of ownership of an asset are treated as if the asset had been purchased outright.
The assets are included in fixed assets and the capital element of the leasing commitments is shown as obligations under finance leases.
The lease rentals are treated as consisting of capital and interest elements.
The capital element is applied to reduce the outstanding obligations and the interest element is charged against profit in proportion to the reducing capital element outstanding.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the useful economic lives of the equivalent owned assets or period of lease if shorter.
Deferred taxation A deferred tax liability is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date.
A deferred tax asset is recognised only when, on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits against which to recover carried forward tax losses and from which the future reversal of underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured at the average tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
Foreign exchange Transactions expressed in foreign currencies are translated at the rate of exchange ruling at the date of the transaction.
Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated at exchange rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Any differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
Government grants Grants in respect of expenditure on fixed assets are included as deferred income and recognised in the profit and loss account over the expected useful economic lives of the related assets.
Revenue based grants are recognised in the profit and loss account in the period to which they relate.
Pension costs The Group operates a defined contribution pension scheme for eligible employees.
Pension costs represent contributions payable to the scheme for the year.
37 PHS Group plc 2 Turnover and segmental reporting An analysis of the Groups turnover is set out below: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2003 2002 000 000 Continuing operations Rental operating leases 122,777 102,428 Sales 17,125 12,237 139,902 114,665 Discontinued operations Rental operating leases 402 139,902 115,067 An analysis of the Groups turnover and operating profit, by class of business, is set out below: Year ended 31 March 2003 Year ended 31 March 2002 Operating Operating Turnover profit loss Profit Turnover profit loss Profit 000 000 margin 000 000 margin Continuing operations PHS Washrooms: Washroom services 99,459 46,006 46.3% 83,785 39,970 47.7% PHS Treadsmart: Dust mat services 14,419 3,940 27.3% 13,524 3,370 24.9% PHS Greenleaf: Live and replica plants 13,183 2,010 15.2% 14,065 1,984 14.1% PHS Waterlogic: Point of use water dispensers 7,078 2,580 36.5% 3,291 862 26.2% Teacrate: Crate rental 5,763 1,782 30.9% 139,902 56,318 40.3% 114,665 46,186 40.3% Central costs Normal 14,261 11,712 Exceptional 841 905 139,902 41,216 29.5% 114,665 33,569 29.3% Discontinued operations 402 2 139,902 41,216 29.5% 115,067 33,567 29.2% Turnover and operating profit loss from continuing operations are principally earned and sourced from the United Kingdom.
Turnover and operating loss from discontinued operations relate solely to the operations of PHS Inc and PHS Protector BV, which were sold in the year ended 31 March 2002.
Exceptional central costs comprise expenditure on the integration of acquisitions into the Groups existing operations including redundancy costs, payments for termination of leases and other restructuring costs.
An analysis of the Groups net assets at 31 March, by class of business, is set out below: 2003 2002 000 000 PHS Washrooms: Washroom services 293,922 269,222 PHS Treadsmart: Dust mat services 14,469 14,221 PHS Greenleaf: Live and replica plants 16,701 16,479 PHS Waterlogic: Point of use water dispensers 15,422 12,710 Teacrate: Crate rental 17,730 358,244 312,632 Less: Group net debt 87,916 69,536 Less: Proposed dividends 1,965 1,500 Less Add: Taxation 1,885 2,323 266,478 243,919 Net assets are principally located in the United Kingdom.
38 PHS Group plc Notes to the financial statements continued 3 Net operating expenses and operating profit An analysis of the Groups net operating expenses is set out below: Year ended 31 March 2003 Year ended 31 March 2002 Continuing Acquisitions Continuing Discontinued operations Teacrate only Total operations operations Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Change in stocks 755 755 39 42 3 Own work capitalised 2,402 2,402 1,280 1,280 Raw materials and consumables 12,388 12,388 12,875 62 12,937 Employee costs note 4 44,689 1,899 46,588 40,844 251 41,095 Depreciation 7,613 403 8,016 6,427 27 6,454 Other operating charges 31,662 1,679 33,341 22,191 106 22,297 94,705 3,981 98,686 81,096 404 81,500 Included within depreciation above is 100,000 2002: 40,000 of depreciation on assets held under hire purchase or finance leases.
Operating profit is stated after charging crediting : Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2003 2002 000 000 Rentals under operating leases: Land and buildings 1,426 762 Plant and machinery 4,891 3,706 Other assets 6 422 Fees paid to auditors: Audit services Company: nil 93 75 Other services 53 95 Property rents receivable 92 108 Grant income 80 Loss Profit on disposal of tangible fixed assets 99 324 In addition to the amounts noted above, fees of 336,000 2002: 723,000 have been paid to the Groups auditors for non-audit services.
336,000 2002: 173,000 of these fees were paid and capitalised within goodwill in respect of acquisitions during the year and nil 2002: 550,000 were paid and written off against the share premium account in respect of the flotation.
4 Directors and employees Directors emoluments for the year comprise: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2003 2002 000 000 Salaries for management services 313 293 Fees 195 171 Other emoluments including benefits in kind 23 20 531 484 Contributions to money purchase pension schemes 42 60 573 544 Further details of Directors emoluments and of the highest paid Director are given in the Remuneration report on pages 25 to 27 which forms part of these financial statements.
The average monthly number of persons including executive directors employed by the Group during the year was: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2003 2002 Number Number Administration 460 391 Sales 447 385 Service 1,445 1,355 2,352 2,131 39 PHS Group plc 4 Directors and employees continued Employee costs for the above persons were: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2003 2002 000 000 Wages and salaries 42,063 36,969 Social security costs 3,734 3,381 Other pension costs 791 745 46,588 41,095 5 Interest payable and similar charges Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2003 2002 000 000 In respect of borrowings repaid in the year ended 31 March 2002 Interest payable on secured senior debt 3,714 Interest payable on unsecured subordinated loan notes 3,559 Amortisation of issue costs 3,220 Exceptional interest rate swap cancellation fee 1,062 11,555 Other interest payable On bank loans and overdrafts 4,805 3,050 Amortisation of issue costs 223 113 On acquisition loan notes 120 251 On hire purchase or finance leases 34 4 5,182 3,418 5,182 14,973 Bank interest payable and receivable have been netted off to reflect the substance of the Groups banking arrangements.
No interest has been capitalised during the year 2002: nil.
Included within interest paid in the year ended 31 March 2002 were exceptional items comprising 2,576,000 in respect of the write-off of previously unamortised issue costs related to the borrowings repaid in the year and 1,062,000 for the cancellation of an interest rate swap.
6 Tax on profit on ordinary activities a Analysis of charge credit in the year The taxation charge credit is made up as follows: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2003 2002 000 000 Current tax UK corporation tax on profits for the year 9,583 4,043 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 135 27 9,448 4,016 Deferred tax Origination and reversal of timing differences 1,184 4,803 10,632 787 40 PHS Group plc Notes to the financial statements continued 6 Tax on profit on ordinary activities continued b Factors affecting the current tax charge for the year The tax assessed for the year is lower than the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK.
The differences are explained below: Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2003 2002 000 000 Profit before taxation 36,034 17,656 Profit multiplied by the standard rate of corporation tax in the UK of 30% 10,810 5,297 Effects of: Temporary differences between taxable and accounting profit: Accelerated capital allowances 964 1,562 Losses 183 Other short-term timing differences 39 Prior year credit 135 27 Permanent differences 41 308 Current tax charge for the year note 6 a 9,448 4,016 The deferred tax asset liability is made up as follows: Group Company 2003 2002 2003 2002 000 000 000 000 Accelerated depreciation over capital allowances 1,982 3,505 Capital gains revaluations 249 249 249 249 Tax losses carried forward 1,362 1,545 3,095 4,801 249 249 The movement on the deferred tax asset liability is as follows: Group Company 2003 2002 2003 2002 000 000 000 000 At 1 April 4,801 249 Transferred in from acquired company 522 2 Profit and loss account 1,184 4,803 249 At 31 March 3,095 4,801 249 249 7 Dividends paid and proposed Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2003 2002 000 000 Equity Ordinary shares of 10p each Interim dividends paid: 0.17p 2002: 0.13p per ordinary share 879 672 Final dividends proposed: 0.38p 2002: 0.29p per ordinary share 1,965 1,500 2,844 2,172 There are no arrangements under which any shareholder has agreed to waive an entitlement to receive dividends.
8 Earnings per share Basic and diluted earnings per share has been calculated in accordance with FRS 14 Earnings per share.
The data used in the calculations is as follows: Basic EPS Dilutions Diluted EPS Year ended 31 March 2003 Profit after taxation 000 25,402 25,402 Weighted average number of shares in issue 000 shares 517,047 180 517,227 Earnings per share 4.91p 4.91p Year ended 31 March 2002 Profit after taxation 000 18,443 18,443 Weighted average number of shares in issue 000 shares 440,847 191 441,038 Earnings per share 4.18p 4.18p The adjustments between the basic and diluted EPS reflect the grant of share options in 2001 under the Groups savings related share option scheme see note 21.
41 PHS Group plc 9 Intangible fixed assets Purchased Goodwill Group 000 Cost and net book value At 1 April 2002 307,990 Adjustments to prior year provisional fair values 33 Additions 37,281 At 31 March 2003 345,238 Additions to purchased goodwill represent the purchase of goodwill associated with the Groups acquisition of subsidiary undertakings and unincorporated businesses during the year, as detailed in note 28.
Goodwill arising on a number of the acquisitions made in the year can be determined only on a provisional basis because the fair values of the purchase consideration and net assets acquired cannot yet be finally determined.
Adjustments to prior year provisional fair values comprise revisions to the fair values of both the net assets acquired and consideration paid recognised at 31 March 2002.
The revisions to the fair values of the net assets relate to alignment of accounting policies with acquisitions undertaken in the latter part of the year to 31 March 2002 where final information was not available at the time of preparing the financial statements for that year.
During the year ended 31 March 2003, the Group acquired a number of businesses.
The Directors have reviewed these acquisitions along with the Groups underlying business and in accordance with the policy described in note 1, consider that these businesses and associated goodwill have an indefinite useful economic life and consequently the goodwill is not being amortised.
The net book value of assets held under hire purchase or finance leases is 280,000 2002: 111,000.
42 PHS Group plc Notes to the financial statements continued 11 Investments Shares in Loans to subsidiary subsidiary undertakings undertakings Total Company 000 000 000 Cost and net book value At 1 April 2002 200 312,386 312,586 Additions 11,702 11,702 At 31 March 2003 200 324,088 324,288 The principal subsidiary undertakings of the Company are set out below.
The Directors consider that to give full particulars of all subsidiary undertakings would lead to a statement of excessive length.
A full list of subsidiary undertakings at 31 March 2003 will be annexed to the Companys next Annual Return.
Name Class of capital Proportion of shares held Principal activity Personnel Hygiene Services Limited 1 ordinary shares 100% indirect Provision of workplace services at customer premises PHS Western Limited 1 ordinary shares 100% direct Intermediate holding company PHS All Clear Limited 1 ordinary shares 100% indirect Clinical waste collection and disposal PHS Holdings Limited 1 ordinary shares 100% direct Intermediate holding company 1 preference shares 100% indirect PHS Investments Limited 10p deferred shares 100% indirect Intermediate holding company $0.05 ordinary shares 100% indirect Teacrate plc formerly PHS Rentals plc 1 ordinary shares 100% indirect Intermediate holding company Teacrate Rentals Limited 10p ordinary shares 100% indirect Specialist crate rental formerly Teacrate plc Companies are incorporated in the United Kingdom and registered in England and Wales.
12 Stocks 2003 2002 Group 000 000 Raw materials 272 225 Finished goods 3,555 2,476 3,827 2,701 13 Debtors Group Company 2003 2002 2003 2002 000 000 000 000 Falling due within one year: Trade debtors 32,445 26,477 Amounts owed by group undertakings 14,366 5,023 Other debtors 463 128 92 14 Recoverable deferred tax 300 575 Prepayments and accrued income 2,452 2,055 145 35,660 29,235 14,458 5,182 Falling due after more than one year: Recoverable deferred tax 2,795 4,226 Prepayments and accrued income 100 674 38,555 34,135 14,458 5,182 43 PHS Group plc 14 Creditors: amounts falling due within one year Group Company 2003 2002 2003 2002 000 000 000 000 Bank and other borrowings see note 16 2,404 10,991 Trade creditors 7,050 6,597 Amounts owed to group undertakings 3,806 125 Dividends payable 1,965 1,500 1,965 1,500 Other creditors 7,126 7,967 227 223 Corporation tax 4,980 2,478 2,701 3 Other taxation and social security 6,063 4,472 29,588 34,005 8,699 1,851 15 Creditors: amounts falling due after more than one year Group Company 2003 2002 2003 2002 000 000 000 000 Bank and other borrowings see note 16 91,450 67,963 91,323 67,931 16 Bank and other borrowings Group Company 2003 2002 2003 2002 000 000 000 000 Amounts falling due within one year: Acquisition loan notes 2,249 10,883 Obligations under hire purchase or finance leases 155 108 2,404 10,991 Amounts falling due after more than one year: Bank loan 91,323 67,931 91,323 67,931 Obligations under hire purchase or finance leases 127 32 91,450 67,963 91,323 67,931 The bank loan and acquisition loan notes are secured by a guarantee and debenture dated 29 June 2001.
Under the terms of the guarantee the security granted by the Group can be summarised as follows: Asset Nature of security Value of security All freehold and leasehold land and buildings held at 29 June 2001 First legal mortgage Unlimited All freehold and leasehold land acquired subsequent to 29 June 2001 First fixed charge Unlimited All plant and machinery First fixed charge Unlimited All book debts, securities, goodwill, uncalled capital, intellectual property rights and cash First fixed charge Unlimited All other assets Floating charge Unlimited The bank loan bears interest at LIBOR plus a margin that may vary between 0.9% and 1%.
The debt is repayable in two instalments, the first falling in June 2004, and the other in June 2006.
The acquisition loan notes were issued as partial consideration for a number of the Groups acquisitions made in the three years to 31 March 2003.
The ultimate redemption date of each loan note falls within either 2003 or 2004 but each is capable of redemption at the option of the holder within one year of the balance sheet date.
Of the total balance of acquisition loan notes, 1,400,000 pays interest at 1.5% below LIBOR and 849,000 at 1% below LIBOR.
Each hire purchase and finance lease is secured on the assets under lease and bears interest at an implicit fixed rate that varies between 7% and 11% per annum.
44 PHS Group plc Notes to the financial statements continued 17 Financial instruments The principal financing and treasury exposures facing the Group relate to working capital management, the financing of acquisitions and tangible fixed assets, the management of interest rate positions and the investment of surplus cash.
The Groups functional and reporting currency is sterling.
Since the Group has no operations based overseas and little trade in other currencies, the currency exposures faced are minimal.
The Group has a continuing strategy of not holding any hedging for foreign exchange management.
The Group borrows at both fixed and floating rates of interest with the objective of managing interest rate risks.
The most substantial borrowings currently attract interest at rates linked to LIBOR.
In the current environment of low gearing and high interest cover, the Directors consider that the level of interest rate risk is acceptable and do not believe it to be appropriate to hedge this risk at this time.
The Group has a strategy of using a combination of these borrowings and internally generated cash to finance its acquisitions.
The Group also has financial instruments in the form of short-term debtors and creditors that arise in the normal course of business.
Short-term debtors and creditors have been excluded from the disclosures that follow.
a Interest rate and currency risk profile of financial liabilities and assets The fixed and floating interest rate profile of the Groups financial liabilities and assets was as follows: 31 March 2003 31 March 2002 Fixed Floating Fixed Floating rate rate Total rate rate Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 Financial assets 5,938 5,938 9,418 9,418 Financial liabilities 282 93,572 93,854 2,122 76,832 78,954 282 87,634 87,916 2,122 67,414 69,536 Financial liabilities and assets are denominated in sterling.
b Interest rate profile of borrowings and finance leases The interest profile of the borrowings and finance leases is set out in note 16.
The Group receives interest on its cash balances at floating rates of interest linked to money market rates.
The weighted average interest rate and weighted average period for which the rate is fixed, on the fixed rate financial liabilities is shown below: Fixed rate financial liabilities weighted Fixed rate financial average period for liabilities weighted which rate is fixed average interest rate 2003 2002 2003 2002 Years Years % % Sterling borrowings 2.1 0.7 8.6 5.1 The weighted average period is based on the maturity of the respective debt.
c Borrowing facilities and liquidity risk The Group had undrawn committed borrowing facilities at 31 March 2003, consisting of a 13,600,000 working capital facility 2002: 6,542,000, and a 30,720,000 auxiliary facility 2002: 17,547,000.
These undrawn committed borrowing facilities expire on 29 June 2004. d Fair values of financial liabilities and financial assets The following table provides a comparison by category of the carrying values and fair values of the Groups financial liabilities and financial assets at 31 March.
Fair value is the amount at which a financial instrument could be exchanged in an arms length transaction between informed and willing parties other than a forced or liquidated sale and excludes accrued interest.
The fair values of short-term borrowings and cash approximates to the carrying value because of the short maturity of these investments.
The fair value of long-term borrowings approximates to the carrying value because substantially all of these borrowings attract interest at a floating rate.
31 March 2003 31 March 2002 Book value Fair value Book value Fair value 000 000 000 000 Primary financial instruments held or issued to finance the Groups operations Short-term borrowings 2,404 2,404 10,991 10,991 Long-term borrowings 91,450 91,450 67,963 67,963 Cash at bank and in hand 5,938 5,938 9,418 9,418 87,916 87,916 69,536 69,536 45 PHS Group plc 17 Financial instruments continued e Maturity profile of financial liabilities The maturity profile of the carrying amount of the Groups financial liabilities, excluding short-term trade creditors and accruals, at 31 March was as follows: 31 March 2003 Within 1 year Between Between In 5 years or on demand 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years or more Total 000 000 000 000 000 Bank loans 23,244 68,079 91,323 Acquisition loan notes 2,249 2,249 Obligations under hire purchase or finance leases 155 86 41 282 2,404 23,330 68,120 93,854 31 March 2002 Within 1 year Between Between In 5 years or on demand 1 and 2 years 2 and 5 years or more Total 000 000 000 000 000 Bank loans 67,931 67,931 Acquisition loan notes 10,883 10,883 Obligations under hire purchase or finance leases 108 32 140 10,991 32 67,931 78,954 f Currency risks All assets and liabilities of the Group at both 31 March 2003 and 31 March 2002 are denominated in sterling.
18 Provisions for liabilities and charges Provisions for liabilities and charges arising in the Company are wholly in respect of deferred taxation as explained in note 6.
19 Accruals and deferred income 2003 2002 Group 000 000 Accruals 4,435 3,491 Deferred income 33,439 31,760 37,874 35,251 Deferred income represents the unearned proportion of rentals receivable from customers in advance and will normally be credited to turnover within one year.
20 Pensions The Group operates a defined contribution scheme for eligible employees.
Contributions by the Group are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
The total pensions costs for the year are shown in note 4.
46 PHS Group plc Notes to the financial statements continued 21 Called up share capital 2003 2002 Group and Company 000 000 Authorised 695,000,000 ordinary shares of 10p each 69,500 69,500 Allotted, issued and fully paid 517,047,388 2002: 517,045,452 ordinary shares of 10p each 51,705 51,705 During the year, 1,936 ordinary shares were issued at 71p per share following the exercise of an option granted in 2001 under the terms of the savings related share option scheme.
At 31 March 2003, the following options had been granted and remain outstanding in respect of the Companys 10p ordinary shares under the Companys share option schemes.
Number of 10p ordinary shares Year Exercise Date normally granted price exercisable 2003 2002 Savings related share option schemes 2001 71p 20042005 1,842,503 2,292,706 2002 76p 20052006 574,700 Discretionary share option scheme 2001 88p 20042011 1,081,983 1,136,581 2002 94.5p 20052012 2,053,918 2002 79.5p 20052012 85,962 22 Statement of movement on reserves Group Company Share Profit Share Profit premium and loss premium and loss account account account account 000 000 000 000 At 1 April 2002 187,724 4,490 187,724 9,181 Premium on issue of shares 1 1 Retained profit for the financial year 22,558 8,963 At 31 March 2003 187,725 27,048 187,725 18,144 A profit of 11,807,000 on ordinary activities after taxation arose in the Company 2002: 11,335,000.
23 Reconciliation of movements in shareholders funds deficit Group Company 2003 2002 2003 2002 000 000 000 000 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 25,402 18,443 11,807 11,335 Dividends paid and proposed 2,844 2,172 2,844 2,172 Retained profit for the financial year 22,558 16,271 8,963 9,163 New share capital subscribed 1 250,000 1 250,000 Write-off of expenses and commission on the public issue of shares 12,491 12,491 22,559 253,780 8,964 246,672 Opening shareholders funds deficit 243,919 9,861 248,610 1,938 Closing shareholders funds 266,478 243,919 257,574 248,610 47 PHS Group plc 24 Analysis of other headings in the cash flow statement Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2003 2002 000 000 Returns on investments and servicing of finance Interest received 31 Interest paid on secured senior debt 7,708 Interest paid on unsecured subordinated loan notes 25,254 Exceptional interest rate swap cancellation fee 1,062 Interest paid on bank loans and overdrafts 4,681 3,022 Issue costs incurred in respect of borrowings subsequently paid 416 Issue costs incurred in respect of outstanding bank loans 188 771 Interest paid on acquisition loan notes 149 251 Interest paid on hire purchase or finance leases 34 4 5,052 38,457 Capital expenditure Purchase of equipment installed at customers premises 7,567 6,028 Purchase of other tangible fixed assets 2,702 2,865 Proceeds of sale of tangible fixed assets 179 943 10,090 7,950 Acquisitions and disposals Acquisition of subsidiaries and other businesses 45,564 18,071 Acquisition expenses 1,257 720 Net cash acquired 927 684 Disposal of subsidiaries 577 Disposal expenses 220 Net cash disposed 161 45,894 17,911 Financing Receipt of bank loans 23,357 68,589 Receipt of secured senior debt 2,700 Repayment of bank loans 2,414 Repayment of secured senior debt 146,085 Repayment of unsecured subordinated loan notes 122,655 Proceeds from issue of ordinary shares 1 250,000 Expenses and commission paid in respect of the issue of ordinary shares 12,491 Repayment of capital element of hire purchase or finance leases 284 89 20,660 39,969 Other than in the case of the acquisition of Teacrate Rentals Limited, the trade and assets of acquisitions made during the year have been amalgamated into the existing trade of the Group and therefore their effects on the reported cash flows cannot be determined.
The cash flows included above and relating to the post acquisition activities of Teacrate Rentals Limited are summarised below: Year ended 31 March 2003 000 Net cash inflow from operating activities 1,893 Returns on investment and servicing of finance 11 Taxation paid 779 Capital expenditure 305 Financing 89 Increase in cash 709 48 PHS Group plc Notes to the financial statements continued 25 Movements in net debt Acquisitions At 1 April excluding cash Other non-cash At 31 March 2002 Cash flow and overdrafts changes 2003 000 000 000 000 000 Cash at bank and in hand 9,418 3,480 5,938 Debt due within one year Bank loans 2,414 2,414 Acquisition loan notes 10,883 10,151 1,517 2,249 Obligations under hire purchase or finance leases 108 284 426 95 155 10,991 12,849 2,840 1,422 2,404 Debt due after more than one year Bank loans 67,931 23,169 223 91,323 Obligations under hire purchase or finance leases 32 95 127 67,963 23,169 318 91,450 Net debt 69,536 13,800 2,840 1,740 87,916 26 Reconciliation of net cash flow to movement in net debt 2003 2002 000 000 Decrease Increase in cash during the year 3,480 8,930 Cash flow from increase decrease in debt and lease financing 10,320 224,699 Change in net debt resulting from cash flows 13,800 233,629 Bank loans and leases acquired with subsidiaries 2,840 145 Changes in net debt resulting from non-cash changes 1,740 13,934 Movement in net debt in the year 18,380 219,550 Net debt at 1 April 69,536 289,086 Net debt at 31 March 87,916 69,536 Non-cash changes comprise 223,000 of amortisation of debt issue costs and 1,517,000 of acquisition loan notes issued as partial consideration for acquired businesses.
27 Capital commitments The Group had capital commitments of 54,000 at 31 March 2003 2002: nil.
The Company had no capital commitments at 31 March 2003 2002: nil.
28 Acquisitions During the year, the Group has acquired the entire issued share capital of a number of companies as well as the trade and net assets of a number of unincorporated businesses.
The acquisitions that the Directors believe to have been individually material to the Group are identified below: Total consideration Acquired entity Nature Acquisition date 000 Teacrate Rentals Limited formerly Teacrate plc Company 8 April 2002 14,572 The Well Corporation Limited Company 3 May 2002 5,697 Hygeni-Care Limited Company 20 September 2002 3,195 Redland Hygiene Limited Company 18 October 2002 2,269 Britannia Hygiene plc Company 2 December 2002 3,769 Other companies and businesses 7,968 Total for all acquisitions 37,470 For each material acquisition, a table showing the book value, fair value adjustments and fair values of each class of asset and liability acquired is provided.
The tables also analyse the fair value of the consideration paid and set out the purchased goodwill arising.
49 PHS Group plc 28 Acquisitions continued Alignment of Book value accounting policies Fair value Teacrate Rentals Limited 000 000 000 Intangible fixed assets 2,475 2,475 Tangible fixed assets 2,497 2,497 Debtors 1,430 14 1,416 Cash 423 423 Total assets 6,825 2,489 4,336 Bank loan 2,156 2,156 Other creditors 1,570 57 1,627 Provision for liabilities and charges 511 511 Net assets liabilities 2,588 2,546 42 Purchased goodwill 14,530 Consideration 14,572 Satisfied by Cash 13,526 Deferred cash consideration 500 Acquisition expenses 546 14,572 Teacrate plc made a profit after tax of 553,000 from 1 July 2001 to the date of acquisition and a profit after tax of 1,094,000 in the previous financial year.
Fair value adjustments comprise adoption of Group policies in respect of provision against irrecoverable debtor balances, recognition of liabilities and writing off acquired goodwill.
Alignment of Book value accounting policies Fair value The Well Corporation Limited 000 000 000 Tangible fixed assets 279 56 223 Stocks 15 15 Debtors 805 805 Cash 68 68 Total assets 1,167 56 1,111 Creditors 625 625 Net assets liabilities 542 56 486 Purchased goodwill 5,211 Consideration 5,697 Satisfied by Cash 5,300 Deferred cash consideration 300 Acquisition expenses 97 5,697 The Well Corporation Limited made a loss after tax of 768,000 from incorporation on 15 January 2001 to the date of acquisition.
This was the first accounting period of the company.
Fair value adjustments comprise adoption of Group policies in respect of fixed asset recognition and depreciation.
50 PHS Group plc Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Acquisitions continued Alignment of Book value accounting policies Fair value Hygeni-Care Limited 000 000 000 Tangible fixed assets 71 47 24 Stocks 111 109 2 Debtors 129 6 135 Cash 190 190 Total assets 501 150 351 Creditors 204 59 263 Net assets liabilities 297 209 88 Purchased goodwill 3,107 Consideration 3,195 Satisfied by Cash 3,100 Deferred cash consideration 23 Acquisition expenses 72 3,195 Hygeni-Care Limited made a profit after tax of 311,000 from 1 August 2001 to the date of acquisition and a profit after tax of 219,000 in the previous financial year.
Fair value adjustments comprise adoption of Group policies in respect of fixed asset and stock recognition, depreciation, provision against irrecoverable debtor balances and accounting for deferred income.
Alignment of Book value accounting policies Fair value Redland Hygiene Limited 000 000 000 Intangible fixed assets 321 321 Tangible fixed assets 85 62 23 Stocks 238 238 Debtors 954 954 Total assets 1,598 383 1,215 Bank overdraft 205 205 Bank loan 233 233 Creditors 653 33 686 Net assets liabilities 507 416 91 Purchased goodwill 2,178 Consideration 2,269 Satisfied by Cash 1,673 Loan notes 520 Acquisition expenses 76 2,269 Redland Hygiene Limited made a profit after tax of 24,000 from 1 January 2002 to the date of acquisition and a profit after tax of 81,000 in the previous financial year.
Fair value adjustments comprise adoption of Group policies in respect of fixed asset recognition, depreciation, accounting for deferred income and writing off acquired goodwill.
51 PHS Group plc 28 Acquisitions continued Alignment of Book value accounting policies Fair value Britannia Hygiene plc 000 000 000 Tangible fixed assets 23 21 2 Stocks 19 15 4 Debtors 144 34 110 Cash 118 118 Total assets 304 70 234 Creditors 65 478 543 Net assets liabilities 239 548 309 Purchased goodwill 4,078 Consideration 3,769 Satisfied by Cash 3,688 Acquisition expenses 81 3,769 Britannia Hygiene plc made a loss after tax of 128,000 from 1 September 2002 to the date of acquisition and a profit after tax of 79,000 in the previous financial year.
Fair value adjustments comprise adoption of Group policies in respect of fixed asset recognition, depreciation, lessor accounting on operating leases, accounting for deferred income and provision against irrecoverable debtor balances.
Alignment of Book value accounting policies Fair value Other acquisitions 000 000 000 Tangible fixed assets 780 587 193 Stocks 182 56 126 Debtors 635 66 701 Cash 333 333 Total assets 1,930 577 1,353 Bank loan 25 25 Other creditors 1,274 263 1,537 Net assets liabilities 631 840 209 Purchased goodwill 8,177 Consideration 7,968 Satisfied by Cash 6,689 Deferred cash consideration 343 Loan notes 593 Acquisition expenses 343 7,968 Fair value adjustments comprise adoption of Group policies in respect of fixed asset recognition, depreciation, lessor accounting on operating leases, accounting for deferred income and provision against irrecoverable debtor balances.
52 PHS Group plc Notes to the financial statements continued 28 Acquisitions continued An analysis of cash and cash equivalents in respect of each acquisition is provided below: Teacrate The Well Redland Britannia Rentals Corporation Hygeni-Care Hygiene Hygiene Limited Limited Limited Limited plc Others Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Cash consideration including acquisition expenses 14,072 5,397 3,172 1,749 3,769 7,032 35,191 Cash at bank and in hand acquired 423 68 190 118 333 1,132 Bank overdraft acquired 205 205 Net outflow of cash and cash equivalents 14,495 5,465 3,362 1,544 3,887 7,365 36,118 In addition to the above, 11,630,000 was paid in respect of acquisitions made in prior years.
This was mainly as a result of the conversion of loan notes or the realisation of deferred consideration.
29 Operating lease commitments At 31 March, the Group was committed to making the following annual payments during the next year in respect of non-cancellable operating leases: 2003 2002 000 000 Land and buildings Operating leases which expire: Within one year 145 14 Within two to five years 447 289 After five years 702 491 1,294 794 Other Operating leases which expire: Within one year 382 296 Within two to five years 3,567 3,751 After five years 113 3,949 4,160 30 Related party transactions Where appropriate the Company and Group have taken advantage of the exemption available not to disclose any related party transactions and balances with other 90% owned, or greater, Group companies for the financial year.
31 Post balance sheet events The Group has made seven acquisitions since the year-end, purchasing the entire issued share capital of Airstream Services Limited for cash consideration of 25.0m, the entire issued share capital of Alphasan Limited for cash consideration of 2.4m, the entire issued share capital of Specialised Waste Services Limited for cash consideration of 1.1m and four smaller companies and businesses for cash consideration of 0.3m.
These acquisitions were partly funded by borrowing an additional 20.0m through our existing facilities as described in note 17.
53 PHS Group plc Five-year summary Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 000 000 000 000 000 Turnover 56,779 77,874 97,068 115,067 139,902 Operating profit 11,780 15,397 26,744 33,567 41,216 Net interest payable 1,979 20,510 30,386 14,942 5,182 Loss on disposal of subsidiary undertakings 969 Profit Loss on ordinary activities before taxation 9,801 5,113 3,642 17,656 36,034 Taxation on profit loss on ordinary activities 2,644 45 300 787 10,632 Profit Loss on ordinary activities after taxation 7,157 5,158 3,342 18,443 25,402 Equity minority interests 43 1 Profit Loss for the year 7,200 5,159 3,342 18,443 25,402 Dividends 2,172 2,844 Retained profit loss for the year 7,200 5,159 3,342 16,271 22,558 Basic earnings loss per share 1.63p 1.18p 0.75p 4.18p 4.91p Basic earnings loss per share has been calculated as if the weighted average number of shares in issue for the year ended 31 March 2002 had been effective in each of the three years ended 31 March 2001.
The results for the year ended 31 March 2000 are derived by combining the audited financial statements of PHS Group plc for the period from incorporation on 7 July 1999 to 31 March 2000, with the results prior to 7 July 1999 of the holding company acquired by PHS Group plc on 7 July 1999.
54 PHS Group plc Notice of meeting NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the Companys Registered Office, Western Industrial Estate, Caerphilly CF83 1XH on Friday, 11 July 2003 at 1:00 pm for the following purposes: Ordinary business Resolution Number 1 To receive and adopt the Report of the Directors and the Financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2003.
Resolution Number 2 To approve the Directors Remuneration report for the year ended 31 March 2003.
Resolution Number 3 To approve the declaration of a final dividend for the year ended 31 March 2003 of 0.38p per ordinary share, to be paid on 20 August 2003 to all shareholders registered at the close of business on 25 July 2003.
Resolution Number 4 To re-elect Mr J F Skidmore as a Director.
Resolution Number 5 To reappoint  LLP as auditors of the Company having previously been appointed by the Board to fill the casual vacancy arising by reason of the resignation of , to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration.
Special business Resolution Number 6 Ordinary resolution In accordance with Article 6 of the Companys Articles of Association, the Directors be generally and unconditionally authorised to allot relevant securities within the meaning of Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 17,062,564 being 33% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at 31 March 2003.
Such authority shall expire on 10 July 2008 and all previous authorities under Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 be revoked.
Resolution Number 7 Special resolution Subject to the passing of the previous resolution 6 and in accordance with Article 7 of the Companys Articles of Association, the Directors be empowered pursuant to Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 the Act and the authority conferred by said resolution 6, to allot equity securities for cash as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply to the allotment, provided that such power is limited to: i the allotment of equity securities in connection with a rights issue: ii the allotment of equity securities in satisfaction of the valid exercise of options pursuant to the Companys executive and savingsrelated share option schemes: and iii the allotment other than in connection with a rights issue of equity securities having a nominal amount not exceeding 2,585,237 being 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital at 31 March 2003.
This power shall expire on 10 July 2008 and all previous authorities under Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 be revoked.
55 PHS Group plc Resolution Number 8 Special resolution The Company be generally and unconditionally authorised to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of, and to cancel, ordinary shares of 10p each in the ordinary share capital of the Company provided that: i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby authorised to be purchased is 51,704,739 being 10% of the Companys ordinary shares in issue at 31 March 2003 : ii the minimum price that the Company may pay is 10p per share and the maximum price that the Company may pay is 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the Daily Official List of the UK Listing Authority for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary share is purchased, in both cases exclusive of expenses: iii the authority hereby conferred unless previously revoked or varied shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company, but before such expiry, the authority shall allow the Company to enter into a contract to purchase ordinary shares which may be executed wholly or partly after the expiry of such authority.
By order of the Board John Skidmore Company Secretary 11 June 2003 Notes: 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting is entitled to appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, vote instead of him or her.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
A form of proxy is enclosed which holders of ordinary shares in the Company are invited to complete and return in the envelope provided.
To be valid, forms of proxy must be deposited with Computershare Investor Services, P O Box 1075, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, Bristol BS99 7NH not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the meeting.
Completion and return of the proxy form in accordance with the instructions thereon does not prevent such shareholders from attending and voting at the Annual General Meeting in person.
The register of interests of Directors and their families together with copies of the Directors service contracts will be available at the Companys registered office on weekdays Saturdays and public holidays excepted during usual business hours from the date of this notice until the date of the Annual General Meeting and will, on the date of the Annual General Meeting, be available for inspection at the venue of the meeting from 15 minutes prior to and until the conclusion of the meeting.
Only those members registered in the register of members at close of business on 9 July 2003 will be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting in respect of the number of shares registered in their name at that time.
Changes to entries on the register after that time will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
56 PHS Group plc Shareholder information Directors, secretary, registered office and advisers Solicitors Morgan Cole Directors Bradley Court Robert David Mackenzie Non-executive Chairman Park Place Peter James Cohen Chief Executive Cardiff CF10 3DP John Fletcher Skidmore Finance Director John Murray Allan Non-executive director Registered Auditors Jan Gunnar Astrand Non-executive director  LLP One Kingsway Company secretary Cardiff CF10 3PW John Fletcher Skidmore Principal Bankers Registered and head office Bank of Scotland plc Western Industrial Estate PO Box 39900 Caerphilly CF83 1XH Bishopsgate Exchange Stockbroker Level 7, 155 Bishopsgate Merrill Lynch International London EC2M 3YB 20 Farringdon Road Registrars London EC1M 3NH Computershare Investor Services plc PO Box 82 The Pavilions Bridgwater Road Bristol BS99 7NH Financial calendar and web site Interim results published December 2003 Dividend payment dates: Final 20 August 2003 Interim January 2004 provisional Web site www.
co. uk Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar PHS Group plc Annual Report 2003 9346 R&A 2003 - Cover 18 6 03 2:55 pm Page 1 PHS Group plc PHS Group plc Annual Report 2003 Western Industrial Estate Caerphilly South Wales CF83 1XH Tel 029 2085 1000 Fax 029 2086 3288 www.
