DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE PREPARATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS For each accounting period the directors are required to present financial it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business.
statements which comply with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985 and The directors confirm that they have complied with the above give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the company requirements in preparing the financial statements.
as at the end of the accounting period and of the profit or loss of the Group The directors are also responsible for maintaining proper accounting for that period.
In preparing the financial statements, suitable accounting records, safeguarding the assets of the Group and taking reasonable policies, framed by reference to reasonable and prudent judgements steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
and estimates, are used and applied consistently.
Applicable accounting The maintenance and integrity of the Pilkington website is the standards are followed subject to any material departures being disclosed responsibility of the directors.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing and explained in the notes to the financial statements.
The directors are the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from required to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless legislation in other jurisdictions.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF PILKINGTON plc We have audited the financial statements which comprise the profit and loss companys compliance with the seven provisions of the Combined Code account, the balance sheets, the cash flow statement, the statement of total specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services recognised gains and losses, the accounting policies and the related notes.
Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider We have also audited the disclosures required by Part 3 of Schedule 7A to whether the boards statements on internal control cover all risks and the Companies Act 1985 contained in the report on directors remuneration controls, or to form an opinion on the effectiveness of the companys or the auditable part.
Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the report on We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards issued by the directors remuneration and the financial statements in accordance with Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of applicable United Kingdom law and accounting standards are set out in the evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements statement of directors responsibilities.
and the auditable part of the report on directors remuneration.
It also Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the auditable includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made part of the report on directors remuneration in accordance with relevant by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of legal and regulatory requirements and United Kingdom Auditing Standards whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys and the issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
This report, including the opinion, Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
has been prepared for and only for the companys members as a body in We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us purpose.
We do not, in giving this opinion, accept or assume responsibility with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown statements and the auditable part of the report on directors remuneration or in to whose hands it may come, save where expressly agreed by our are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other prior consent in writing.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements.
a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the auditable part of the report on directors remuneration have been properly prepared OPINION: in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in In our opinion: our opinion, the directors report is not consistent with the financial the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs statements, if the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we of the company and the Group at 31st March 2003 and of the profit and have not received all the information and explanations we require for our cash flows of the Group for the year then ended.
audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with and transactions is not disclosed.
the Companies Act 1985: and We read the other information contained in the annual report and consider those parts of the report on directors remuneration required by Part 3 of the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 have been properly prepared in misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
The accordance with the Companies Act 1985. other information comprises only the directors report, the unaudited part of the report on directors remuneration, the chairmans statement, the chief  LLP executives review, the review of operations, the corporate social responsibility Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors report, the finance directors review and the corporate governance statement.
London We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the 29th May 2003 14 PILKINGTON DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003
