REPORT ON DIRECTORS REMUNERATION CONTINUED Deferred Bonus Plan The following directors held awards to acquire, at no additional cost, the following number of shares under the plan.
The executive directors participated in the Deferred Bonus Plan up to 2000 and before the introduction of LEAP.
Shares purchased by the executive directors for the Deferred Bonus Plan are included in the list of directors shareholdings on page 13.
Paolo Scaroni participated in the plan in 1999 and 2000 on the basis described above except that all his annual bonus before tax had to be used in connection with the acquisition of the companys shares and he did not have a cash alternative.
In his case only, the shares relating to his bonus were in the form of a grant of awards and are included in the table.
The company has made a provision of 114,000 for national insurance contributions based on UITF 25 in respect of the exercise of awards in the future.
Pilkington North America Long-Term Incentive Plan Warren Knowlton participated in the Pilkington North America Long-Term Incentive Plan which was approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting in July 2000 and is now closed as the term of the plan was from October 1999 to September 2002.
He was not eligible to participate in LEAP or any other long-term incentive plan at the same time.
Payments under the plan were made in the form of the companys shares.
Following the end of the first performance period in September 2001, Warren Knowlton became eligible for an award of 1,204,000, which was reported last year.
The award was paid in shares based on a share price of 98.65p.
Certain of these shares were transferred immediately to Warren Knowlton, with the balance remaining in trust.
The shares held in trust were released to Warren Knowlton in November 2002 according to the original timetable and as part of his termination agreement.
The final performance period under this plan ended in September 2002 and no award was made in respect of this period.
10 PILKINGTON DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 Executive directors share options Executive directors do not currently receive grants under the senior executives share option schemes, as they participate in LEAP.
They can participate in the savings-related scheme.
The summary of the executive directors share options is set out in the table below.
1st April 2002 or date of appointment Name No.
No share options were exercised during the year.
PILKINGTON DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 11
