EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION CONTINUED both profit and cash generation targets.
Other benefits set out in the executive directors remuneration table on No annual bonus was paid to Paolo Scaroni and Warren Knowlton in page 8 incorporate all tax assessable benefits arising from employment by respect of 2003. the company.
The major benefits are the provision of a company car and Warren Knowlton was based in the United States of America and his private healthcare for Paolo Scaroni, Stuart Chambers, Iain Lough and Pat remuneration took account of practice in the United States.
In addition, because Pat Zito is an expatriate based in the United included 18,000 for the provision of accommodation in Toledo, Ohio and Kingdom, he receives further benefits in accordance with Group policy 10,000 for healthcare coverage.
including 70,000 for the provision of accommodation.
Warren Knowltons service agreement, which had been signed on The benefits for Andrew Robb include private healthcare and a 25th March 1999, was terminated from 30th July 2002, as a result of the cash allowance of 16,000 in lieu of the provision of a company car.
elimination of Pilkingtons geographical reporting structures.
In accordance For Stuart Chambers the targets set for his annual bonus at the start of with the terms of his service agreement, which provided for two years the year related to the performance of the Group and the Building Products notice, the total cost of compensation including salary, pension business line.
Following his appointment as group chief executive, the contribution, healthcare and other benefits amounted to 1,800,000. targets were changed to relate to Group performance only.
For Andrew During the year ended 31st March 2003 Stuart Chambers received an Robb and Iain Lough the targets set for their annual bonus plan relate to amount of 15,000 in respect of his services as a non-executive director Group performance.
For Pat Zito the targets set for his annual bonus plan of Associated British Ports Holdings plc and Andrew Robb received an relate to the performance of the Group and the Automotive business line.
amount of 32,000 in respect of his services as a non-executive director In all cases, business performance measures for annual bonus plans include of Alfred McAlpine plc.
Leadership Equity Award Plan The following directors held core awards to acquire, at no additional cost, the following number of shares under LEAP.
Stuart Chambers, Andrew Robb, Iain Lough and Pat Zito participated in core award for each director is shown in the above table.
LEAP in 2001 and 2002 and, with the exception of Andrew Robb, who Shares purchased by the executive directors for the LEAP are included is due to retire, will be eligible to participate in 2003.
Paolo Scaroni in the list of directors shareholdings on page 13. participated in 2001 but following his resignation his entitlement to receive The company has made a provision of 34,000 for national insurance coneither a core or performance award lapsed.
The number of shares in the tributions based on UITF 25 in respect of the exercise of awards in the future.
PILKINGTON DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 9
