ACCOUNTING POLICIES CONTINUED RETIREMENT BENEFITS Other plant and machinery 5% to 20% per annum The pension cost relating to defined contribution schemes operating in the Vehicles 20% per annum UK and overseas is the amount of the contribution payable in the respective The Group reviews its depreciation rates regularly to take account of financial year.
technological changes, intensity of use over the life of the asset and market The pension cost relating to defined benefit schemes operating in the UK requirements.
is assessed in accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries.
The amounts so determined include the regular cost of providing IMPAIRMENT OF FIXED ASSETS the benefits under the plans, which it is intended should remain at a level If events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of percentage of current and expected future earnings of the employees fixed assets may not be recoverable, the need for any fixed asset covered under the plans.
Variations from the regular pension costs are impairment provision is assessed by comparing the carrying value of the spread on a systematic basis over the estimated average remaining service asset against the higher of its net realisable value and its value in use.
The lives of current employees in the plans in accordance with SSAP 24. value in use is determined by discounting estimated future cash flows Retirement plans of non-UK subsidiaries are accounted for in expected to be derived from the asset, or if more applicable, the income accordance with local conditions and practice.
These subsidiaries recognise generating unit, to net present value.
The discount rate used is based on the the expected cost of providing pensions on a systematic basis over the Groups weighted average cost of capital.
average remaining service lives of employees in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries.
LEASES The policy in respect of the cost of providing healthcare benefits to retired Assets held under finance leases are included in tangible fixed assets at cost employees, principally in the USA, accords with UITF 6, and is similar to that and are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term or their useful used to account for pension obligations.
The annual charge to the profit and economic life.
Obligations relating to finance leases, net of finance charges loss account is determined on a systematic basis over the service lives of in respect of future periods, are included as appropriate under creditors due employees in accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries.
Finance charges are allocated to accounting periods The notes to the financial statements contain additional information on over the lease term to reflect a constant rate of interest on the remaining retirement benefits as required by FRS 17. balance of the obligations.
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS AND DEPRECIATION Tangible fixed assets are stated at historical cost.
Cost includes the original STOCKS, WORK IN PROGRESS AND LONG-TERM CONTRACTS purchase price of the asset and the costs attributable to bringing the asset to Stocks and work in progress are valued at the lower of cost and net its working condition for its intended use.
When the Group builds an realisable value.
Cost includes all direct expenditure and works overhead entirely new major plant the initial commissioning costs, bringing the plant expenditure incurred in bringing goods to their current state under normal to a status prior to production of goods of saleable quality, are capitalised as operating conditions.
Net realisable value is based on anticipated selling part of the fixed asset.
All subsequent costs are written off to the profit and price less the cost of selling such goods and any sales incentives.
Profit on long-term contracts, principally in relation to the building of In the case of businesses acquired by the Group, the fair value attributed new float line projects, is recognised once the projects outcome can be to the tangible fixed assets at the date of acquisition is treated as their cost assessed with reasonable certainty, usually when the project is 75 per cent to the Group.
The profit is calculated by applying the percentage completion at Gross interest costs relating to major tangible fixed assets under the balance sheet date to the expected contract profit.
Any losses envisaged construction are included in the cost of such assets and are depreciated as on long-term contracts are provided as soon as they are foreseen regardless part of the total cost.
Capitalisation of such costs ceases when the asset is of the extent of completion.
Long-term work in progress is stated net of commissioned.
The Groups float lines are subject to regular repair.
All hot repair costs on glass tanks incurred while the furnace is alight are written off to the DEFERRED TAXATION profit and loss account.
When the float tank is rebuilt every ten to 15 years Deferred taxation is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have the cost of the re-build is capitalised as fixed assets and depreciated over originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or the life of the tank until the next re-build.
events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to Freehold land is not depreciated.
Depreciation is charged on all other pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
categories of tangible fixed assets so as to write off the cost by equal Deferred tax assets are regarded as recoverable and recognised in the annual instalments over the expected useful economic lives of the assets at financial statements when, on the basis of available evidence, it is more the following rates: likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the Freehold buildings 2% to 5% per annum future reversal of the timing differences can be deducted.
The recoverability Long leasehold buildings 2% to 5% per annum of tax losses is assessed by reference to forecasts which have been prepared Improvements to short and approved by the board.
leasehold buildings over the life of the lease Float glass tanks 7% to 10% per annum No timing differences are recognised in respect of: Glass making plant 4% per annum fair value adjustments to acquired tangible fixed assets where there is no Glass processing plant 6% to 7% per annum commitment to sell the asset, 16 PILKINGTON DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003
