gains on the sale of assets where those assets have been rolled over into SHARE BASED INCENTIVE PLANS replacement assets, and The Groups share based incentive plans are accounted for in accordance additional tax which would arise if the profits of overseas subsidiary with Urgent Issues Task Force UITF Abstract 17 Employee Share Schemes.
undertakings, joint ventures and associates were distributed, in excess of The cost of shares acquired by the trust operating the Groups employee those dividends that had been accrued.
share ownership plans is charged to the profit and loss account over the The deferred tax assets and liabilities are not discounted.
period to which the employees performance relates.
Where awards are contingent upon future events, other than continued employment, an DEBTORS assessment of the likelihood of these conditions being achieved is Provisions against the non-recovery of debtors are made specifically made at the end of each period and an appropriate accrual made.
Additionally, a general provision is made against all trade debts excluding those already specifically provided, FINANCIAL DERIVATIVES those which are insured, those which are covered by confirmed irrevocable The Group uses cross currency swaps and forward currency contracts to letters of credit and those with major vehicle manufacturers or government manage its exposure to foreign currency exchange risks and hedge its departments unless a specific provision is deemed necessary.
investments in overseas subsidiaries and investments designated in foreign The Group discounts without recourse certain factored debts.
Such financial instruments are treated as hedges against the returnable amount of the factoring arrangement is deducted from the trade underlying assets or liabilities.
All gains or losses are taken to the statement debtors.
The debt factoring charge in the year is disclosed as part of net of total recognised gains and losses until the instrument and the underlying interest payable and similar charges.
hedged investments are sold, when the profit or loss arising is taken to the profit and loss account as realised.
PROVISIONS In addition, the Group uses interest rate swaps to manage the balance Provisions in respect of liabilities are made in accordance with FRS 12 and of its fixed and floating rate debt.
The net interest income or expense on an are discounted where the effect is material.
Specifically: interest rate swap is recognised as interest in the Groups profit and loss The provision for post-retirement healthcare and life insurance benefits is account over the life of the transaction.
assessed annually by independent qualified actuaries using the projected Where there is a legal right of set-off between a deposit and a loan, the unit credit method.
two are offset within the financial statements.
Where the Group guarantees or warrants a product from defect at the The Group excludes all short-term debtors and creditors from its time of sale, a warranty provision is set up to cover the likely costs of derivatives and financial instrument disclosures other than those on potential claims, calculated by reference to historic experience and the currency risk relating to monetary assets and liabilities.
duration of the warranty period.
Provisions for redundancies and restructuring costs are made once a SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS PARENT COMPANY detailed formal plan has been prepared and approved and the Group is The company carries its investment in subsidiary undertakings at cost less irrevocably committed to implementing the plan.
PILKINGTON DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 17
