39 PENSIONS AND SIMILAR OBLIGATIONS CONTINUED m The analysis of the amount that would be charged to net interest and similar charges as other finance charge for the year to 31 March 2003 is as follows: Interest on pension scheme liabilities 1 The movement in the deficit over the year to 31st March 2003 is as follows: Deficit at beginning of the year 11 Current service cost Employer contributions Past service cost 1 Other finance charge 1 Total amount recognised in the STRGL Deficit in scheme at end of the year 13 2003 2002 Net assets statement company m m Net assets of the company excluding additional pension liabilities page 20 1,084 1,103 Add back pension liabilities already provided in the financial statements under SSAP 24 13 11 Deduct net pension liabilities as determined under FRS 17 13 11 Net assets of the company including pension adjustments 1,084 1,103 The profit and loss reserve of Pilkington plc at 31st March 2003 would therefore remain unchanged at 111 million 2002 133 million.
2003 2002 Joint Associates Joint Associates ventures ventures 40 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS m m m m Sales by Pilkington Group 31 63 3 Purchases by Pilkington Group 40 2 32 1 The Groups related party transactions with joint ventures are principally with Pilkington Glass France SAS and Cebrace, and with associates are principally with Vitro Plan SA fide CV.
Amounts owed by and owed to joint ventures and associates are shown in notes 21 and 24.
The Group has taken advantage of the FRS 8 exemption not to disclose any transactions or balances between Group undertakings that have been eliminated on consolidation.
PILKINGTON DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 51 PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES IN THE PILKINGTON GROUP The following list of subsidiary undertakings comprises those companies that principally affect the financial statements of the Group.
The Groups percentage beneficial holding in subsidiary undertakings relates to equity shares unless otherwise specified.
All holdings are through Pilkington Brothers Limited or Pilkington Italy Limited, both of which are direct subsidiaries of the parent company, unless otherwise stated.
Undertakings indicated are audited by professional accountants other than  LLP and, added to the joint ventures and associates appearing in notes 17 and 18, represent approximately seven per cent of the Groups assets employed.
All subsidiary undertakings account to 31st March 2003.
Country of operation % Equity Product or activity SUBSIDIARY UNDERTAKINGS and incorporation held Europe Pilkington United Kingdom Limited UK 100 Glass manufacturing and processing Pilkington Automotive Limited UK 100 Safety glass Pilkington Aerospace Limited UK 100 Aircraft transparencies Pilkington Deutschland AG Germany 95 Glass manufacturing and processing Pilkington Automotive Deutschland GmbH Germany 95 Safety glass Pilkington Austria GmbH Austria 100 Glass processing Pilkington Norge AS Norway 100 Glass processing Pilkington Schweiz AG Switzerland 100 Glass processing Pilkington Floatglas AB Sweden 100 Glass manufacturing and processing Pilkington Automotive Sweden AB Sweden 100 Safety glass Pilkington Automotive Finland OY Finland 100 Safety glass Pilkington Lahden Lasitehdas OY Finland 100 Glass manufacturing Pilkington France SA France 100 Glass processing Pilkington Danmark A S Denmark 100 Glass processing Pilkington International Glass Poland Sp.
z o. o. Poland 100 Glass processing Pilkington Polska Sp.
z o. o. Poland 100 Glass manufacturing Pilkington Italia SpA Italy 100 Glass manufacturing and safety glass North America Pilkington North America Inc USA 100 Glass manufacturing and safety glass Libbey-Nippon Holdings Inc USA 50 Safety glass L-N Safety Glass SA fide CV Mexico 100 Safety glass Pilkington Aerospace Inc USA 100 Aircraft transparencies Rest of the world Pilkington Australia Limited Australia 100 Glass manufacturing and safety glass Vidrieria Argentina S. A. Argentina 51 Glass manufacturing Vidrios Lirquen S. A. Chile 26 Glass manufacturing Pilkington Automotive Argentina S. A. Argentina 100 Safety glass Pilkington Brasil Limitada Brazil 100 Glass processing and safety glass Pilkington New Zealand Limited New Zealand 100 Glass processing Guilin Pilkington Safety Glass Co Limited China 60 Safety glass Changchun Pilkington Safety Glass Co Limited China 51 Safety glass Holding and finance companies Pilkington Holdings Inc USA 100 Holding company Pilkington Nederland Holdings BV UK Netherlands 100 Holding company Pilkington Germany Holdings BV UK Netherlands 100 Holding company Pilkington Nederland No 1 BV Netherlands 100 Holding company Pilkington Nederland No 2 BV Netherlands 100 Holding company Pilkington Nederland No 3 BV Netherlands 100 Holding company Pilkington International Holdings BV Netherlands 100 Holding company Pilkington Finance Limited UK 100 Finance management Pilkington Forex Limited UK 100 Finance management Pilkington Holding GmbH Germany 100 Holding company Pilkington Holding GmbH preference shares Germany 99 Dahlbusch AG Germany 99 Investment and property company Vidrios Lirquen SA is owned 51% by a 51% owned subsidiary of Pilkington Nederland No 2 BV.
Pilkington Nederland Holding BV and Pilkington Germany Holdings BV operate in the UK but are incorporated in the Netherlands.
52 PILKINGTON DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 GROUP FINANCIAL RECORD For the years ended 31st March 2003 2002 2001 2000 1999 m m m m m Turnover 2,754 2,805 2,820 2,707 2,709 Profits Operating profit Group companies 175 189 196 72 146 Operating profit joint ventures and associates 42 49 53 51 50 Exceptional items 4 12 5 8 1 Group profit before taxation and exceptionals 144 173 177 60 117 before taxation and after exceptionals 140 161 172 52 118 after taxation and after exceptionals 91 100 104 7 76 Group profit loss attributable to shareholders of Pilkington plc 68 74 77 4 54 Dividends 63 62 62 55 55 Assets employed Intangible fixed assets 158 163 174 91 103 Tangible fixed assets 1,520 1,498 1,585 1,508 1,601 Investments in joint ventures, associates and other undertakings 181 239 218 225 197 Net current assets 252 274 259 148 259 Total assets less current liabilities 2,111 2,174 2,236 1,972 2,160 Financed by Total shareholders funds 684 707 722 667 742 Minority interests 97 301 320 341 355 Creditors over one year, provisions and deferred income 1,330 1,166 1,194 964 1,063 Funds invested 2,111 2,174 2,236 1,972 2,160 Cash flow from Operating activities 367 262 321 271 195 Dividends from joint ventures and associates 24 926 9 17 Returns on investments and servicing of finance 73 73 81 71 79 Taxation paid 22 44 38 15 29 Capital expenditure net 161 154 182 154 180 Acquisitions and disposals 3 5 40 24 18 Dividends 58 45 47 65 35 Liquid resources 20 21 22 1 16 Financing 74 45 44 14 32 Decrease increase in cash 14 16 19 16 45 Key figures Capital expenditure on tangible assets 164 172 190 194 193 Operating profit to total turnover 7.9% 8.5% 8.8% 4.5% 7.2% Earnings loss per share 5.4p 6.0p 6.5p 0.4p 5.0p Earnings per share excluding exceptional items 5.8p 6.8p 6.8p 0.4p 5.1p Dividends per share declared 5.0p 5.0p 5.0p 5.0p 5.0p Dividend cover 1.1 1.2 1.2 0.1 1.0 Share price high 119p 122p 130p 118p 148p low 43p 89p 65p 63p 50p as at 31st March 49p 114p 106p 73p 83p Following the changed treatment of redundancy and restructuring costs described in note 1, the operating profit Group companies, operating profit joint ventures and associates, exceptional items, Group profit before taxation and exceptionals, the operating profit to total turnover and earnings per share excluding exceptional items for the years 1999 to 2002 have been re-presented.
The items marked in respect of 2001 have been restated to reflect the adoption of FRS 19 on deferred taxation.
All the years prior to 2001 have not been adjusted.
The EPS figures have also been adjusted in that year and subsequently to comply with FRS 14.
PILKINGTON DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 53 PILKINGTON RESULTS EXPRESSED IN EURO 2003 2002 GROUP PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH 2003 m m Turnover continuing operations Group turnover 3,766 4,003 Share of joint ventures and associates turnover 530 541 Turnover including joint ventures and associates 4,296 4,544 Operating profit continuing operations Group 273 306 Share of joint ventures and associates operating profit 65 79 Operating profit before exceptional items 338 385 Exceptional items 6 19 Profit before investment income and interest 332 366 Investment income 2 2 Net interest payable and similar charges 115 107 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 219 261 Taxation 77 99 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 142 162 Minority interests 36 42 Profit attributable to shareholders 106 120 Dividends 98 100 Retained profit of the Group 8 20 Earnings per share eurocent basic 8.4 9.7 Fully diluted earnings per share eurocent basic 8.4 9.6 Dividends per share eurocent 7.8 8.1 Profit before exceptional items and taxation 223 280 Earnings per share excluding exceptional items eurocent 8.9 11.3 The 2002 profit and loss account has been re-presented as described in note 1.
The euro accounts on pages 54 and 55 do not form part of the audited accounts.
54 PILKINGTON DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 2003 2002 SUMMARY GROUP BALANCE SHEET AS AT 31ST MARCH 2003 m m ASSETS EMPLOYED Fixed assets Intangible fixed assets 229 267 Tangible fixed assets 2,204 2,456 Joint ventures, associates and trade investments 263 393 2,696 3,116 Current assets Stocks 555 676 Debtors 673 749 Investments marketable 48 21 Cash at bank and in hand 61 72 1,337 1,518 Creditors amounts falling due within one year 972 1,069 Net current assets 365 449 Total assets less current liabilities 3,061 3,565 FINANCED BY Creditors amounts falling due after more than one year 1,150 1,027 Provisions for liabilities and charges 748 853 1,898 1,880 Deferred income 30 33 1,928 1,913 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 913 1,028 Reserves 79 131 Total equity shareholders funds 992 1,159 Minority interests including non-equity 141 493 3,061 3,565 SUMMARY GROUP CASH FLOW FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31ST MARCH 2003 Net cash inflow from operating activities 572 424 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 37 14 Net cash outflow from returns on investments and servicing of finance 114 118 Taxation paid 34 71 Net cash outflow from capital expenditure 251 249 Net cash inflow outflow from acquisitions and disposals 5 8 Net cash inflow outflow before dividends, management of liquid resources and financing 215 8 Equity dividends paid by parent company 91 73 Net cash inflow outflow before use of liquid resources and financing 124 81 Management of liquid resources 31 33 Net cash outflow inflow from financing loans and finance leases 115 74 Decrease increase in cash 22 26 PILKINGTON DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 55 SHAREHOLDER CONTACTS Contact Address Telephone E-mail Facsimile SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES Registrars: PO Box 82 0870 702 0000 web.
com investorcentre uk Computershare The Pavilions computershare.
for information on shareholdings Investor Services PLC Bridgwater Road Textphone: co. uk or downloadable forms Bristol 0870 702 0005 BS99 7NH SHARE DEALING SERVICE Low cost postal dealing service NatWest Corporate and Helpline: contactces@ 020 7895 5256 Stockbrokers Limited Employee Services 0870 600 2050 natwest.
com 55 Mansell St Enquiries by London e-mail should E1 8AN quote Pilkington Shareholder PILKINGTON plc David Roycroft Pilkington plc 01744 692837 david.
com Head of Corporate Affairs Prescot Road or pilkington.
com and Investor Relations St Helens 020 7747 6000 WA10 3TT John McKenna 01744 692451 john.
lennon@ 01744 730577 Assistant Company Secretary pilkington.
com FINSBURY LIMITED Financial PR advisers Rupert Younger 52-58 Tabernacle St 020 7251 3801 youngerr@ 020 7251 4112 www.
com EC2A 4NJ The Registrars can be contacted by Textphone which allows speech and hearing impaired people who have access to a Textphone to contact Computershare direct without the need for an intermediate operator.
Specially trained operators are available during normal business hours.
56 PILKINGTON DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003  CorporateEdge.
com PRINTED Wace Corporate Print PILKINGTON plc DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 www.
com Head Ofce and Registered Ofce Prescot Road St Helens WA10 3TT Telephone: 01744 28882 Fax: 01744 692660 www.
com Company Number 41495 ANNUAL REVIEW 2003 Glass for the worlds buildings and vehicles GLASS FOR THE WORLDS BUILDINGS AND VEHICLES OUR BUSINESS Pilkington plc is one of the worlds largest manufacturers of glass and glazing products for the building and automotive markets.
Employing 25,200 people we have manufacturing operations in 24 countries and sales in over 130.
With our joint ventures and our associates, we have the widest geographical reach of any glassmaker, enabling us to respond to customers whose operations are increasingly global.
Geographically, over half our sales are in Europe, more than a third are in North America, and the rest are primarily in South America and Australasia.
Our operations centre on two worldwide business lines: BUILDING PRODUCTS supplying original equipment and refurbishment glass for the worlds buildings: and AUTOMOTIVE PRODUCTS supplying glass and glazing systems to the original equipment and replacement glazing markets.
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Robust results, in challenging markets Operating profit of 217 million 2002: 238 million Profit before goodwill amortisation, exceptional items and taxation of 153 million 2002: 183 million Cash inflow before dividends of 138 million 2002: 5 million outflow : strongest cash performance for a decade North American Step Change showing through in results: efficiency and productivity improvements on track to deliver $35 million in annual benefits by March 2004 Earnings per share before exceptional items of 5.8 pence 2002: 6.8 pence, basic earnings per share of 5.4 pence 2002: 6.0 pence Final dividend 3.25 pence, maintaining 5.0 pence in total for the full year.
Turnover Operating profit Profit before goodwill Cash flow Cash flow before including share including share amortisation, from operations dividends, use of of joint ventures of joint ventures exceptional items liquid resources and associates and associates and tax and financing MILLION MILLION MILLION MILLION MILLION Non-statutory disclosures are reconciled to the statutory disclosures in note 2 to the Summary Financial Statement on page 39.
Operating profit, including joint ventures and associates, was 217 million 2002 238 million.
produced against the backdrop of continuing depressed trading Profit before goodwill amortisation, exceptional items and taxation conditions in most of the Groups major markets.
Pressure on was 153 million 2002 183 million, a decrease of 16 per cent.
selling prices in Europe and North America pulled operating profits, After deducting goodwill amortisation of 9 million 2002 10 including joint ventures and associates, down to 217 million million, and exceptional losses arising from the disposal of businesses 2002 238 million.
Despite the lower operating profits, our and investments of 4 million, profit before tax was 140 million emphasis on cash generation enabled Pilkington to generate cash 2002 161 million.
inflow before dividends of 138 million 2002 5 million outflow, Following the collapse of the Argentinean peso in 2002, hyperinflationary the Groups strongest cash performance for a decade.
conditions prevail in Argentina and, as a result, Pilkington has adopted the indexation rules set out under UITF 9 in preparing the Groups results.
These results demonstrate Pilkingtons resilience and provide further This has had the effect of reducing the Groups operating profit in 2003 by evidence of the transformation of the Group into one of the most efficient 6 million, compared to that computed under historical accounting rules.
and innovative glass producers in the world.
The step change in performance achieved over the past few years has enabled Pilkington to regain its Earnings and dividends position as an industry leader in operational performance, through its focus Earnings per share before exceptional items decreased from 6.8 pence on improving efficiency and minimising overheads, to match its continuing to 5.8 pence.
Basic earnings per share have decreased from 6.0 pence technological leadership.
to 5.4 pence, a reduction of ten per cent.
The board is recommending a Further progress has been made in improving the Groups productivity final dividend of 3.25 pence per share, bringing the total for the year to levels and in reducing overhead costs.
Trading performance in the UK 5.0 pence per share, the same as last year.
The dividend is more than twice has been strong, helped by rising sales of Pilkington K Glass resulting covered by cash flow.
Subject to the approval of shareholders at the annual from legislative changes requiring the use of energy-saving glass.
The general meeting, the final dividend will be paid on 1st August 2003 to Automotive business continues to consolidate its position as supplier of shareholders on the register at 13th June 2003. choice of glass and glazing systems for the worlds carmakers and has won profitable new business.
Furthermore, the restructuring Step Change programme in North America is continuing to provide positive results, Cash flow and borrowings and is on track to deliver annual benefits of $35 million by March 2004.
Operating cash flow has improved significantly from 262 million to 367 million, an increase of 40 per cent, demonstrating our success in FINANCIAL RESULTS focusing attention on the generation of cash.
Cash flow before dividends As announced at the presentation of the Groups annual results for also improved, from an outflow of 5 million in 2002 to an inflow of the year to 31st March 2002, Pilkington has changed its treatment of 138 million in 2003.
After payment of 58 million for dividends, redundancy and restructuring costs such that these items are no longer the net cash inflow before financing for the year was 80 million.
disclosed separately as an exceptional component of operating profit.
Given Net borrowings at 31st March 2003 were 861 million, increased from the regular nature and amounts of redundancy and restructuring costs, the 704 million at 31st March 2002, principally because of the scheduled board considers the revised disclosures set out in the profit and loss account redemption of 216 million of minority preference shares and their and in the notes to the financial statements to be more appropriate.
Further replacement with bank borrowings.
Taking into account the preference details of the re-presentation are included in note 1 to the financial statements.
shares with net borrowings at 31st March 2002, debt has reduced by Turnover from continuing operations, including joint ventures and 59 million over the course of the year.
2 PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 These results, achieved in some of the toughest trading conditions for many years, demonstrate the Groups resilience and provide further evidence of the transformation of Pilkington into one of the most efficient, as well as the most innovative, glass producers in the world.
The emphasis on cash generation has enabled the Group to generate cash flow before dividends of 138 million, Pilkingtons strongest cash performance for a decade.
STRATEGY general meeting in July.
Andrew joined the board in December 1989, Competitiveness in the manufacture of flat glass remains central to and since then has made a significant contribution to the Group.
He was our strategy and we will continue to seek every opportunity to reduce finance director until the end of December 2001 and subsequently has overheads and improve manufacturing efficiency, whilst maintaining been active in continuing to develop the Groups strategic relationships the highest levels of safety and quality in everything we do.
The North whilst remaining responsible for the legal, secretarial, corporate affairs and American restructuring programme, which is now drawing to a close, is information systems functions.
I wish him every happiness in retirement.
Generating increased cash as a basis for future I am pleased to announce that Christine Morin-Postel has accepted the profitable growth remains a key objective.
boards invitation to become a non-executive director and will take up this The Group continues to benefit from a progressive shift toward higher appointment on 1st August 2003.
Christine recently retired as executive value-added products in both building products and automotive markets.
vice-president in charge of group human resources at Suez, a major French In Building Products, usage of energy-saving Pilkington K Glass company, and prior to undertaking such role was chief executive officer of has increased significantly in the UK, following changes in building Socit Gnrale fide Belgique.
The board believes that it will benefit regulations.
Sales of advanced fire protection products continue to grow.
greatly from her knowledge of continental European markets and from The uptake of Pilkington Activ self-cleaning glass, now available in all her experience in general management and human resources.
our principal markets, is rising steadily, despite its launch in an economic downturn.
We intend to make this revolutionary product a platform for EMPLOYEES the launch of a range of multi-functional glasses combining dual-action Productivity has increased substantially over the past six years.
One self-cleaning with other properties.
consequence of this has been to place greater responsibility on to a smaller During the year Pilkington began the supply of the first enhanced number of managers and staff.
The Group considers the development of intruder resistant laminated sideglazing on the BMW 7 series, and individuals and employee training programmes as being critical to our began to supply Chrysler in North America after a gap of ten years.
success, and continues to emphasise the importance of safety and quality in everything we do.
THE BOARD PROSPECTS The changes to our management structure, which we announced on Pilkington is operating in tough trading conditions for a third 14th May 2002, have taken place with Stuart Chambers becoming group consecutive year and we currently expect little change in the near term.
chief executive, Pat Zito becoming an executive director and Warren Pilkington will continue to concentrate on reducing overhead and further Knowlton leaving the Group.
In December 2002 Paolo Scaroni informed improving manufacturing performance so as to deliver robust profits, even the board that, due to increased time commitments, he would no longer in difficult markets.
Furthermore, we will remain focused on the need to be able to fulfil the role of non-executive deputy chairman and his generate net free cash flow to secure the future.
resignation was made with effect from 10th December 2002.
Dr. Hans-Peter Keitel will retire as a non-executive director after the annual general meeting in July.
Hans-Peter has been a non-executive director since September 1995 and the board has benefited greatly from his experience, particularly in matters relating to the German market, emerging markets, capital expenditure projects and the construction industry.
I take this opportunity to thank him for his contribution and support.
Andrew Robb will also retire as an executive director after the annual PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 3 GLASS A GROWTH INDUSTRY Growth in global glass demand has outpaced GDP growth since 1991 150 GLOBAL GLASS DEMAND: 3.5% p. a.
100 50 1991 1994 1997 2000 2003 Calendar year GLOBAL DEMAND FOR FLAT GLASS Whilst 2003 is expected to offer a modest growth in basic volume, over the long-term, glass demand is still growing at over 3.5 per cent annually.
This growth is fuelled by the demand for building glass and automotive glass, which in turn are driven by economic growth.
Global light vehicle build 55 50 45 40 1997 1999 2001 2002 Glass is a growth industry.
Global demand for glass consistently outstrips economic growth around the world.
The past 50 years have seen a significant increase in the proportion of glass used in the worlds buildings and vehicles.
At the heart of the worlds glass industry is the float glass process developed by Pilkington in 1952 and now the world standard for high quality glass production.
4 PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 MILLION VEHICLES INDEX 1991 100 A LEADER IN THE WORLDS Float glass capacity of the world's leading float glass manufacturers in 2002 GLASS INDUSTRY 6,000 DIVISION ONE DIVISION TWO 17 COUNTRIES Pilkington is the worlds second largest float glass group, with 15% of world capacity 19% including 4,000 joint ventures and associates.
Specialising exclusively in glass, Pilkington is one of only two companies in the glass industry 2,000 with a truly global presence.
It is also one of only three glass groups with global automotive glazing capability and reach.
0 With its associates and strategic partner NSG, Pilkington is the worlds number one supplier of glass and glazing systems to the worlds automotive industry.
Around one in four light vehicles built in 2002 in the world contained Pilkington glass.
Pilkington is the world leader in Automotive Glass Replacement AGR.
COMPANY COUNTRY % OF WORLD CAPACITY Asahi Japan 22 Pilkington United Kingdom 15 Saint-Gobain France 13 Guardian United States 12 Others 32 companies 38 Todays architects and car designers are using larger surface areas of glass in their designs, increasingly with added functionality and complexity.
GLASS GROWTH IN BUILDINGS GLASS GROWTH IN VEHICLES Glass is an integral building material for most construction projects.
Styling trends are increasing the overall glazed area in vehicles.
Today, Both new building projects and the refurbishment of existing many volume models use around 20 per cent more glass than they did buildings call for large quantities of glass products.
Laminated sidelights are the latest product to contribute to maximise natural daylight in buildings.
This is achieved through significantly to enhance the sales value of side glazings.
larger glazed areas in faades and roofs and through entirely glazed structural faades.
Demand has grown for value-added content such as: solar control properties, reducing solar heat gain: Building refurbishment accounts for around 40 per cent of glass heated glazings with fide-icing and fide-misting capabilities: consumption worldwide.
In mature markets, windows in residential integrated antennas: buildings are replaced every ten to 20 years.
integrated rain sensors for automatic wiper activation: hydrophobic coatings for improved visibility.
Energy saving has encouraged tougher legislation, making insulated glazing units mandatory in most of Europe.
Many countries also have regulations Value-added activity includes the supply of complete systems using requiring energy efficient coated glasses.
Demand is growing for glass encapsulation or extrusion, which enhance the vehicles styling and that promotes safety, resists fire, attenuates noise and even cleans itself.
aerodynamics, as well as adding functionality.
PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 5 000 TONNES ASAHI PILKINGTON SAINT-GOBAIN GUARDIAN PPG FORMER SOVIET UNION PILKINGTON AFFILIATES NSG TSCF TAIWAN GLASS HANKUK VISTEON CARDINAL CENTRAL KEUMKANG MULIAGLASS E EUROPEAN OTHER FLOAT REACHING OUR CUSTOMERS SECONDARY MARKET SALES REDUCE CYCLICALITY AEROSPACE 2% AUTOMOTIVE GLASS REPLACEMENT 16% AUTOMOTIVE ORIGINAL EQUIPMENT 29% BUILDING PRODUCT REFURBISHMENT 21% BUILDING PRODUCT BUILDING PRODUCT INTERIOR APPLICATIONS NEW BUILD 11% 21% PRIMARY : 52% SECONDARY : 48% BUILDING PRODUCTS FLOAT MANUFACTURING Most of the glass in the worlds homes, offices, hotels, public and industrial buildings is float glass.
Most of the worlds drivers rely on glazing based on float glass, as do civil airline pilots, high-speed train drivers, and bus and truck drivers.
With manufacturing operations in 24 countries AUTOMOTIVE PRODUCTS and sales in 130, Pilkington sells around 3.5 million tonnes 300 million square metres of glass every year.
In Building Products and Automotive, we serve both the original equipment and aftermarket sectors with a wide range of glass products and glazing systems.
6 PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 TWO STRONG BUSINESS LINES SALES 2003 Pilkington and its joint ventures and associates have the widest geographic reach of any glassmaker.
Over half our sales are in Europe, more than a third are in North BUILDING PRODUCTS AUTOMOTIVE PRODUCTS America, and the rest primarily in South America and Australasia.
Encompassing Pilkingtons activity in float glass manufacture and other processed NORTH building glass products, our Building Products AMERICA BUILDING AUTOMOTIVE NORTH business has manufacturing operations in 24% AMERICA PRODUCTS PRODUCTS 44% 19 countries.
Its largest operation is in 53% 47% Europe, with major interests in North and EUROPE SOUTH AMERICA South America and Australasia.
49% 8% EUROPE 58% One of the worlds largest suppliers of AUSTRALASIA 10% SOUTH AMERICA automotive glazing products, Pilkington AUSTRALASIA 4% 3% Automotive has glass-processing operations in 17 countries.
It serves the key European and North American markets and also has important operations in South America, Australasia and China.
ROUTES TO MARKET Most Pilkington products are made from Float Glass.
In Building Products, basic glass can undergo two or more stages of processing before being installed as original or replacement windows or glazing systems, or used as a component in furniture or white goods, such as cookers and refrigerators.
Within Automotive, we supply glass used in original equipment for new vehicles for all of the worlds leading carmakers and also manufacture and distribute replacement parts for the aftermarket throughout the world.
NEW BUILDINGS INSTALLER REFURBISHMENT DEALER INTERIOR CONSUMER ORIGINAL EQUIPMENT OE OE MANUFACTURER WHOLESALER FITTER AFTERMARKET PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 7 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW STUART CHAMBERS Pilkington is a company founded on technological innovation in Flat Glass.
Our role is to invest in sustaining this technology and to use it to create value for our shareholders.
Our main strategic focus is now on generating cash to finance future expansion and growth.
Pilkington has a clear three-stage strategy to improve the effectiveness of the existing operations, to produce net free cash from those operations and eventually to invest that cash in profitable growth opportunities.
The first phase was crucial in ensuring that Pilkington was able to survive and prosper in currently tough but potentially rewarding markets.
This stage is essentially complete: over the past six years, the Group has significantly improved its cost structure and efficiency to become leaner and more competitive.
Reduced overheads and improvements in manufacturing have produced a step change in productivity, with most Pilkington businesses now operating at world class levels.
These improvements have enabled the Group to move forward even in the very challenging trading conditions we have experienced in almost all our markets over the past few years.
In order to retain the competitive advantage produced by these major changes, our primary objective is to ensure that Pilkington remains the most cost-effective manufacturer in our sector.
Low costs are fundamental to success in flat glass manufacturing and we will continue to explore every possible opportunity to reduce our cost base.
8 PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 The Step Change programme is designed to bring our currently under-performing businesses in North America up to the standards of the rest of the Group.
I am pleased to report significant progress over the past year in raising the performance of these businesses.
TARGETS fabrication plants now exceed our targets for uptime and yield.
We have set clear and challenging targets for all plants in terms of Encouraging progress has also been made in reducing overheads productivity, yield and uptime.
Very good progress has been made across all of the North American businesses.
towards meeting targets in all these areas.
Most of the float plants we Strategically the next step is to convert this progress into cash to operate around the world are now either approaching or exceeding the eventually fund profitable growth.
The programme over the past six years target of 1000 tonnes per person per year.
At the same time the variety to improve fundamentally the operational effectiveness of our business has and complexity of product mix is changing, to meet the demand for required a considerable cash investment.
This investment has been justified value-added products such as on-line and off-line coated glasses.
by improvements in operational efficiencies.
The phase of significant In our Automotive business, we measure effectiveness in terms of structural spends is largely complete and our aim now is to ensure that man minutes taken to produce each part and the minimisation of defects we deliver the operational and financial benefits from this investment.
expressed as defective parts per million or PPM.
Significant progress Only by achieving that can we invest in profitable growth for the future.
has been made towards meeting all these targets.
This is despite the Key performance indicators, management targets and incentives are fact that the complexity of the parts we make for the worlds vehicle firmly aligned to cash generation, with the results already becoming manufacturers is also increasing in terms of increased curvature, glass apparent.
This year we are able to report the best cash inflow from functionality and added components.
The supply of automotive glazing operating activities achieved by Pilkington since the early 1990s.
and glazing systems is demanding and highly competitive, but Pilkington We intend to retain our position as the technological leader in the flat has demonstrated that it has the capability and quality standards to glass industry with continued investment designed to sustain a flow of new become the supplier of choice in this important sector.
One of our new products, Pilkington Activ We attach particular importance to safety and quality in all activities.
dual-action self-cleaning glass, is already having an impact in the market.
Improvements have been made in safety levels throughout the business, although there is always more to be done.
All Pilkington employees BUILDING PRODUCTS receive safety training and appropriate safety equipment.
Quality products Following its successful launch in North America and in Europe, and excellent customer service are essential in all our businesses.
In the product portfolio for Pilkington Activ has also been significantly Automotive, the process of achieving certification to ISO TS 16949-2002 widened.
It has already been installed in a variety of settings including is underway with our European Original Equipment OE business being private homes, apartment buildings, conservatories, swimming pool the first to undergo quality audit to the new standard.
enclosures, golf clubs, roof windows, shop windows and car dealership Around the world, all but two of our principal businesses are on track showrooms.
In response to demand for the product in the commercial to achieve target profits.
The Step Change programme is designed to sector a range of solar control coatings on Pilkington Activ is being bring the two currently under-performing businesses, Building Products released in mid 2003.
This will extend still further the potential and Automotive OE in North America, up to the standards of the rest applications into the commercial building market.
Significant progress has been made over the past year During the past year we have introduced a toughenable version of in raising the competitiveness of these businesses.
Pilkington Optitherm SN Low E glass and this product is part way In float manufacture in North America, the targets we set last year for through a phased introduction into the European market place.
Our fire yield improvements have already been met, and most of our automotive products business enjoys a leading position in technology and continues PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 9 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED We intend to retain our position as the technological leader in the Flat Glass industry and we continue to invest in sustaining our new products and new processes.
Pilkington Pyrodur Plus is a recently introduced to the final destination.
thin clear fire glazing which has both fire and impact resistance and is Building on our relationship with the DaimlerChrysler Group, we proving to be a successful addition to the Pilkington product portfolio.
have this year won significant new business in North America.
We are Investment in state-of-the-art facilities to support our new product now supplying windshields for the Jeep Grand Cherokee and will shortly and process R&D programme continues.
We have just completed the supply back windows for the Jeep Liberty.
installation of a large-scale magnetron sputter coater at our R&D Reduced time-to-market for new vehicles continues to be one of the laboratory at Lathom in the UK.
This equipment will support product major drivers in the automotive sector.
We are staying ahead of this and process development for both Building and Automotive Products.
trend by continually improving our in-house computer simulation Also nearing completion is a three-year investment programme at virtual prototyping and physical prototyping facilities.
Lathom to equip the Group with a full-scale automotive glass processing We continue to see a trend towards complex glass shapes, driven facility to enhance our capabilities in both new product and new model mainly by styling needs.
Pilkington is a market leader in glass shaping development.
The investment will both accelerate developments and and is well positioned to benefit from these developments.
These trends remove the need to tie up manufacturing capacity for these activities.
are reflected in our investment in Automotive, which continues on a Both of these initiatives represent multi-million pound enhancements highly focused basis in support of new model introduction programmes of our R&D facilities.
An important development in Automotive over the past few months AUTOMOTIVE PRODUCTS has been the launch of a new enterprise resource system known as In our Automotive business, a major organisational change has brought SABRE which is now live at our Eccleston plant in the UK.
The system the business line into an integrated global business, encompassing all OE covers all processes involved in Automotive from new model introduction and Automotive Glass Replacement AGR operations throughout the world.
through manufacture to despatch and electronic self-billing.
As such, it During 2002, we launched the first enhanced intruder resistant is the largest and most complex SAP system so far implemented in the laminated sidelight on the BMW 7 series.
This is further evidence of Pilkington Group.
The benefits expected from such significant changes the growing market for laminated sidelights, which replace the more to the business are wide-ranging.
The aim is to roll SABRE out to all traditional toughened parts.
As well as improving intruder resistance, our automotive plants as quickly as possible.
laminated sidelights increase passenger comfort by reducing transmitted noise and solar heating and can reduce the chance of passenger ejection ENGINEERING from the vehicle in the event of an accident.
We expect continued market Our Engineering function has successfully completed a very busy year growth as consumer awareness of these benefits spreads.
Work on lines in Australia and Brazil in 2001 2002 Using our global supply chain capability, we are now locally was followed immediately last year by full repairs on one of our float lines supporting manufacture of the Citron C3 family saloon in Brazil.
This in Gladbeck, Germany and the line in Venice, with a reduced scope repair is the same vehicle that was launched in Europe during 2001.
We have on the Ottawa line in the USA.
All lines have now ramped up to full postexpanded our supply chain capability by using satellite plants in support repair production capacity, and the predicted cost reductions due to of the Ford B car Fiesta programme.
The satellite plants allow us to carry enhanced automation have been realised.
out finishing and sequencing operations on components before shipment Construction of the fourth float line in Brazil, to be operated by 10 PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 Over the past year, major organisational change has brought our Automotive business line into an integrated global business, encompassing all OE and AGR operations throughout the world.
Cebrace, our joint venture with Saint-Gobain, is advancing well.
is constantly pushing forward technical boundaries in the search for new The building is almost complete, and work to install the float process functionality and competitive differentiation.
It is our clear intention to equipment has begun.
The construction programme was extended to bring retain our competitive edge in supplying both industries and to the new capacity on stream in line with the anticipated market demand, ensure that our technology stays ahead of the game.
and no problems are foreseen in achieving the new target dates and costs.
Pilkington is well positioned to benefit from a progressive shift Start-up is planned for the second half of 2004. toward higher value-added products in both building products and automotive markets.
We have seen increased usage of energy saving LOOKING AHEAD Pilkington K Glass in the UK, while sales of advanced fire protection As I complete my first year as Group Chief Executive and consider our products continue to increase in importance.
Despite being launched in prospects, I am left with two strong impressions.
First, I retain a very an economic downturn, uptake of Pilkington Activ is steadily rising optimistic view of Pilkington and our ability to succeed.
We have a and we remain optimistic about the long-term prospects for this highly motivated and well-trained workforce, world leading technology exciting product.
and an innovative product portfolio.
Our manufacturing performance We expect the year ahead to see little fundamental change in market continues to improve and we have demonstrated that we can deliver conditions worldwide.
Our aim will be to continue to focus on internal respectable results under some of the most challenging market conditions efficiency improvements and to ensure that the business is managed experienced for many years.
This will be accompanied by sustained effort on our Secondly, we operate in a strong industry with a bright future.
North American improvements and the completion of the Step Change Glass usage in civil construction and automotive increases year on year programme, the full benefits of which are expected to come through as architects and car designers incorporate more glass into their buildings in the financial year 2004.
Above all, our continued emphasis on net and vehicles.
Most of our products have a beneficial impact on the free cash generation will restore the financial strength we need to environment by helping to save energy, at a time when legislators around invest in profitable growth, ensuring that Pilkington remains a world the world are increasingly recognising and acting upon the urgent need leader in glass.
to address issues of energy consumption, particularly in buildings.
Throughout its history, Pilkington has led innovation in the glass industry, including the invention and exploitation of the float glass process and the introduction and exploitation of new products.
In Automotive, Pilkington is recognised as a strong partner in a fast-moving industry that PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 11 review of operations BUILDING PRODUCTS Pilkington products help keep buildings warm in winter, cool in summer, safe, secure and with reduced noise penetration.
Pilkington glass can stunningly transform the exterior and interior of buildings, provide protection from fire and smoke, and now even clean itself!
ENERGY MANAGEMENT Coated and tinted products and insulating glazing units are used to control the flow of energy into and out of a building.
During cold weather low emissivity low-e products reflect heat back into the building.
In warm weather solar control products dramatically reduce the effect of the suns heat, minimising the need for air-conditioning.
DECORATIVE GLASS SELF-CLEANING GLASS The Pilkington Texture Glass Pilkington Activ self-cleaning glass range is continually updated to is the latest example of technological introduce new and exciting innovation from Pilkington.
Incorporating patterns which provide both a proprietary dual-action coating on the decoration and privacy.
glass, it virtually eliminates the need for external window cleaning.
SAFETY Glass that is used to reduce a risk of accident by impact, fracture or shattering.
Pilkington toughened safety glass and Pilkington laminated safety glass provide a huge range of performance levels.
CONSERVATORY PHOTOGRAPH David Salisbury Conservatories 12 PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 FIRE PROTECTION NOISE CONTROL Pilkington employs two types of technology Glass products that allow people to to protect people and property against fire.
live and work in peace and quiet.
Pilkington Pyroshield is a wired glass Pilkington Optiphon L is a laminate and Pilkington Pyrodur and Pilkington using a special interlayer, which Pyrostop use a proprietary clear attenuates noise by 36 decibels.
GLASS SYSTEMS SECURITY Pilkington Planar is a structural By using thicker and larger numbers of glass glazing system requiring no frame, sheets in laminated form, Pilkington security allowing architects immense flexibility glass offers even higher levels of protection in the appearance of glass faades.
from bullet-proof to blast-resistant products.
SPECIAL APPLICATIONS Pilkington Optiwhite is an ultra-clear float glass with a very low iron content.
Its neutral appearance makes it particularly appropriate for prestigious building projects and for use in furniture.
PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 13 review of operations RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Research scientists at the Groups European Technical Centre analyse the BUILDING PRODUCTS bulk chemical composition of glass.
Trace elements are determined to parts per billion levels using an atomic absorption spectrometer.
This level of precise measurement, plus exact surface analysis, allows Pilkington to monitor and measure the raw materials of glass and the composition of ultra thin coatings applied to the glass surface.
Building Products sales, including joint ventures and associates, brings the UK in line with building regulations which have applied were 1,452 million, down one per cent on the previous year.
in Germany and Scandinavia for some years.
To meet the increase in Operating profits decreased by 22 per cent to 163 million, due demand for Pilkington K Glass, investment was made to upgrade to lower selling prices in continental Europe and North America.
and increase the output from the Cowley Hill coating line in St Helens.
The new innovative self-cleaning glass, Pilkington Activ, has now The Groups Building Products business continues to be a world leader.
been fully launched throughout Europe and was a major attraction at the This year, however, Pilkington has faced downward pressure on prices in 2002 Glasstec Exhibition in Dsseldorf.
A marketing campaign is now the weak continental European market and in North America.
In the UK in place in all European markets to expand the sales of this exciting government legislation requiring the use of energy efficient glass in homes product, with some progress already achieved.
and offices helped keep demand buoyant.
In Australia strong demand for Although the European downstream processing and merchanting new housing underpinned a good result for the year.
Increased efficiencies business was also affected by the poor economic conditions in and improved productivity helped the business to offset in part the worst continental Europe, it was still able to deliver a fifth consecutive year effect of the downturn in continental Europe and North America.
This business represents nearly 30 per cent of total Building Products sales.
EUROPE A steady improvement in productivity during the year, through Primary Products Europe is Pilkingtons largest single business and the use of better working practices, together with the introduction of represents the upstream segment of Building Products European new information systems, resulted in lower overhead costs.
Sales in this business were lower than the record levels quality and service remain key drivers in the business strategy.
This was due to a slowdown in continental European During the year, a small acquisition was made in Finland and economies coupled with scheduled cold repairs of two float lines during certain branches within the European network were expanded and the year.
European float glass prices fell by an average of ten per cent.
Despite the tough market conditions, the business again made significant All processing and merchanting customers in Europe can now progress, further reducing costs.
Twenty per cent of all orders are now processed One of the two float glass lines at Gladbeck, Germany was repaired electronically and this is expected to grow substantially.
and upgraded during the first quarter.
Due to low levels of demand, the plant start-up was delayed until July 2002.
The float plant at Porto NORTH AMERICA Marghera Venice, Italy was also repaired and recommenced production The North American Building Products business, which accounts in August 2002. for about 15 per cent of Building Products global sales, was affected Production of the Groups high value-added clear fire protection range, by a decline in the US economy.
The commercial building market in the market-leading Pilkington Pyrostop, was again increased in Germany particular felt the impact of the slowing economy.
during the year to meet continued strong growth in demand for this product.
Despite the gloomy backdrop, sales volumes still exceeded the Growth for low emissivity Pilkington K Glass was boosted in the previous year.
Nevertheless, the volatility of energy prices, additional UK as a result of revised building regulations introduced by the British restructuring costs, and the absence of a key float line due to repair government in April 2002.
These regulations, designed to reduce heat loss during the year combined to lower profits.
and thus improve energy consumption, effectively require the use of low A reorganisation of this business was completed in January 2003 emissivity glass for windows for both new build and refurbishment.
This which has reduced costs significantly, and improvement in manufacturing 14 PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 LARGE SCALE MANUFACTURE EMERGENCY GLAZING SERVICE A float plant, which operates non-stop for a campaign of between Pilkington Glazing is the UKs largest network of glazing specialists.
11 and 15 years, makes around 6,000 kilometres of glass a year in Its emergency boarding-up and re-glazing service delivers the fastest thicknesses of 0.4mm to 25mm and in widths up to three metres.
response to broken windows and doors.
Specialists can be on-site within The float process invented by Pilkington in 1952, and now the world two hours of the initial call to the Pilkington 24-hour, 365 days-a-year standard for high quality glass manufacture, is used to produce high control centre.
This service is available to all domestic and commercial quality products for both Building Products and Automotive applications.
buildings and is currently used by many of the UKs leading insurance companies and major retailers.
performance is already coming through.
The outlook, should the ASIA PACIFIC economy turn more positive following the Iraq war, is more encouraging.
Pilkingtons Asia Pacific Building Products business accounts for about In Mexico, Vitro Plan SA fide CV VVP, in which Pilkington has ten per cent of Building Products sales worldwide.
In Australia and New a 35 per cent interest, increased its sales by five per cent, although Zealand, the strong residential housing market provided high demand for operating profits were reduced due to increased competitive pressure glass throughout the year.
Coupled with ongoing manufacturing efficiency in Mexico and to the slowdown in North American construction.
improvements, this enabled the Australasian Building Products business to return good profits for the year.
In Australia, changes to building regulations to improve energy SOUTH AMERICA efficiency solar control resulted in a substantial increase in demand for South American Building Products, with operations in Brazil, Argentina the Pilkington ComfortPlus range of products.
Demand for low-iron and Chile, accounts for about six per cent of Building Products sales.
rolled glass, used in solar energy collectors, continued to grow and will Much of the region was affected by recession during the year with provide an important market opportunity in coming years.
Argentina suffering both hyperinflation and further falls in the external In New Zealand, the refocused Building Products business reported value of the peso.
As a result, float sales in Argentina dropped by record profits, with the economy growing by four per cent, on the back of 20 per cent compared to last year with the construction industry strong household spending, new house construction and increased exports.
Most Asian economies returned to growth during 2002 2003, led by The Brazilian economy was flat during the year, although the an eight per cent increase in gross domestic product in China.
As these Brazilian real suffered a major depreciation.
Despite this, the Brazilian economies continue to grow, high performance glass products are proving float glass market grew by three per cent in the year with Cebrace, the increasingly popular at the high end of the construction market.
As a result, joint venture between Pilkington and Saint-Gobain, increasing its market record sales of high value-added architectural glass products, imported share.
Downstream operations in Brazil suffered pressure on price due into China from other Group operations, were achieved during the year.
to the currency depreciation, and experienced strong competition from Demand in China for both float glass and processed architectural small, local producers.
The start-up of the fourth float line in Brazil, products remains strong, although prices weakened as competitors new to be operated by Cebrace has been postponed because of economic float lines came on-line.
Despite this, the Groups associated manufacturing conditions in Brazil and the plant is now planned to begin production company in China, Shanghai Yaohua Pilkington Glass Co Ltd SYP, in next year.
which Pilkington holds a 19 per cent share, performed well.
SYP now In Chile, the building products market grew only slightly during the operates three float lines and a growing glass processing business.
However, exports grew strongly to compensate.
Turnover decreased February 2003, SYP began construction of a new architectural glassby three per cent and operating profits declined by 17 per cent, as a result of the decline in the value of the peso.
PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 15 review of operations AUTOMOTIVE PRODUCTS Pilkington products include advanced solar control glass for passenger comfort, glass heating systems to control condensation and icing and security glazing and glazing systems, including encapsulation, extrusion and added components.
RAIN SENSORS Pilkington has developed a patented sensor, using infra-red rays to detect moisture on the windshield.
It then automatically activates the windshield wipers at the right speed for the quantity of rain.
SOLAR CONTROL GLAZINGS Glass that reduces the effects of solar heat build-up inside the car.
Improves passenger comfort Reduces air conditioning load, thereby increasing fuel economy Reduces ultraviolet transmissions, increasing the life of interior materials.
WATER MANAGEMENT GLAZING Heated glass systems that remove condensation from internal glass surfaces and ice from external surfaces.
Hydrophobic coating on the glass that rapidly clears rainwater from the car windows, increasing passenger visibility.
16 PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 GLASS SHAPING GLASS SUNROOFS Glass is bent into shape for vehicle windows.
Designers are increasingly specifying large After heating, sag-bending and press-bending area glass roofs for cars.
The parts, termed allow the manufacture of complex shapes free Panorama roofs, are two or three times the from wrinkles and other optical defects.
size of traditional sunroofs and increase the feeling of space and light within the vehicle.
GLAZING SYSTEMS Any components or features added after basic manufacturing to increase value to the customers.
Examples include door cassettes or door modules.
By encapsulation the window frame or gasket is moulded directly onto the glass in a closed mould process.
LAMINATED SIDELIGHTS Increased comfort: high frequency noise reduction, UV protection, solar control improvement and reduced direct solar radiation Security: reduced theft from cars, personal security and increased protection from intrusion Safety: less risk of full or partial ejection and increased resistance to object penetration.
PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 17 review of operations EARLY DESIGN INVOLVEMENT Pilkington is recognised as a global leader in the development of AUTOMOTIVE PRODUCTS computer simulation for advanced automotive glazing technology, providing customers with the best possible glazing solutions with which to achieve their styling intent.
The Groups computer modelling techniques predict the optical properties of a particular shape of windshield, how closely any of the bending processes will achieve the required shape and tolerances, and how difficult manufacturing challenges can be overcome.
Automotive Products sales, including joint ventures and associates, growth in the adoption of high value-added windscreens such as were 1,287 million, an increase of one per cent on the previous infrared reflective and wire-heated, together with those containing year.
Operating profits improved by 57 per cent to 74 million extra components such as rain sensors and extruded profiles.
As a due to higher sales volume, improved operating efficiency and lower major OE supplier with access to all these technologies, the Groups overheads in North America, and to lower restructuring charges.
Operations in Germany and France are benefiting from the reconfiguration of warehouse and logistic Automotive operations have been combined into an integrated worldwide operations, improved service levels and extended range availability.
business unit, across all regions and distribution channels.
Coupled with the restructuring activities in North America which are now largely NORTH AMERICA complete, this will stimulate the on-going drive for improved operating The North American Automotive business, which accounts for 40 per cent efficiencies, reduced overheads and higher profitability.
By integrating the of the total business, showed significant operational improvements during entire supply chain, the business is better able to serve global and regional the year as a result of the completion of the restructuring programme, and customers, reduce stock levels and facilitate the sharing of best practice, the incorporation of benefits from sharing best practice across all businesses.
significantly improving operating performance and cash generation.
OE sales in North America declined from the previous year, despite light vehicle production increasing by six per cent, due to the completion EUROPE of a large short-term contract with Ford.
Sales in the AGR business also The economic downturn in continental Europe continued to affect declined from the previous year as the overall market fell by over five the business, as light vehicle production remained at the reduced level per cent.
However, sales in the European Automotive business, which However, profitability of both businesses improved as increased accounts for approximately 50 per cent of the Groups Automotive efficiencies, improved quality levels and the greater use of e-business, sales, increased by eight per cent.
This was due to gains on new model largely driven by the recent restucturing programmes, continued to lower introductions and increased demand for specialised applications from costs.
The North American business infrastructure is now much stronger the bus, coach and truck markets.
and it is well positioned to take advantage of any improvements in Increased product complexity is an important factor in the Original economic conditions.
Equipment OE market as sales of solar reflective windshield glass, In Mexico VVPs turnover in its automotive operations declined about intruder-resistant side glazing and heated wired products continued four per cent, though operating profits increased by more than 30 per cent.
This trend will continue as vehicle manufacturers emphasise the advantages of increased security and noise reduction.
Designs for SOUTH AMERICA future vehicles show increases in glass content through panoramic Pilkingtons South American Automotive business represents five per cent windshields and all-glass sunroofs.
of the Groups Automotive operations worldwide.
South American vehicle In the Automotive Glass Replacement AGR business, demand production fell by eight per cent as economic uncertainty weakened both held up well, except in Germany where general economic conditions the OE and AGR markets.
Despite this, high productivity and improved reduced market activity.
plant performance provided results in line with last year.
Production yields The value of the aftermarket continues to grow in line with the were also improved at all sites, particularly Caapava, in Brazil.
18 PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 ORIGINAL EQUIPMENT SUPPLY AFTERMARKET SERVICE Pilkington is continuously investing in facilities that will improve delivery AGR North America, which supplies automotive glass replacement of service to its Automotive customers.
Through the introduction of satellite professionals throughout the USA, offers its customers an internetoperations Pilkington is able to get closer to its customers.
The next logical enabled customer value programme called e-business solutions.
step will see Pilkington able to fit parts to the vehicles on the assembly line The system allows users to process business transactions including itself.
Providing just-in-time and sequenced delivery helps to reduce stocks electronic ordering and invoicing, EDI and also provides business and transport risks, providing flexibility and real-time reaction to meet training.
In 2003, 35 per cent of AGR North Americas transactions customers needs.
ASIA PACIFIC Results in Australia showed an improvement over last year, reflecting efficiency gains and a more favourable trading environment.
The new Australian-built Toyota Camry is being exported to the Middle East.
Mitsubishi export sales to North America tapered off during the year but the Group was able to win the contract to supply the all-new Mitsubishi replacement model for 2005 2006, despite aggressive competition from suppliers in Indonesia and Thailand.
Profitability continued to rise, driven by strong automotive sales volumes and improved manufacturing performance and efficiencies.
The Chinese automotive market grew by 35 per cent in 2002 and is set to continue this pace of growth in 2003.
The Group is well positioned to service this growing market with our automotive glass subsidiaries and associates providing wide geographical coverage across China.
Sales and profits increased over the previous year and the businesses are benefiting from increased integration into the Group global automotive organisation.
Pilkington retains its position as the number one international automotive glass manufacturer in China.
PILKINGTON AEROSPACE Pilkington Aerospace increased its market share of military aircraft transparencies during the year.
This increase helped offset the continuing sales decline in the civil sector, as the commercial aircraft industry remained depressed following the aftermath of the 11th September 2001 terrorist attacks and the lead-up to the war in Iraq.
Operating profits improved by approximately 40 per cent despite lower sales.
The improvement was due to continuing efficiency improvements and further overhead cost reductions.
Several new product development milestones were achieved during the year.
These included the start-up supply of the Joint Strike Fighter JSF canopy as well as windshields for the Saab Gripen high performance fighter aircraft and the Learjet 45 model business jet.
Progress was also made in the Bullet Resistant Glass BRG sector as sales to automotive OE manufacturers, including Bentley, were achieved.
PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 19 FINANCE DIRECTORS REVIEW IAIN LOUGH RESULTS FOR THE YEAR Operating profit As explained in the interim report, the accounting treatment of ongoing redundancy and restructuring costs has been revised so that these costs are Turnover no longer treated as exceptional but are now included in normal operating Despite the low level of demand in most of our main markets in 2003, profit.
The figures for 2002 have been re-presented to provide a consistent Pilkington sales held up well.
Total turnover fell only because of the effect comparison.
Now that the major Step Change programmes are drawing to of exchange rate movements on sales denominated in foreign currencies.
a close, future charges for redundancy and restructuring will be lower than in recent years and are expected to run at between one and one and a half 2003 2002 per cent of turnover.
m m Total operating profit of 217 million for 2003 was 21 million, Turnover nine per cent down on the previous year.
Difficult trading conditions Group companies 2,414 2,471 for Building Products in continental Europe led to reductions in float Joint ventures and associates 340 334 glass selling prices of around ten per cent on average.
Together with Total turnover 2,754 2,805 the slowdown in the commercial construction market in North America, Operating profit these were the principal factors behind the reduction in operating profit Group companies 175 189 of Group companies from 189 million to 175 million.
Operating Joint ventures and associates 42 49 profits in Building Products fell from 172 million in 2002 to 132 Total operating profit 217 238 million.
However, Automotive profits rose from 36 million in 2002 to 63 million due to higher sales volumes, improved operating efficiencies, Exceptional items 4 12 lower overhead costs particularly in North America and reduced Net interest payable 73 65 expenditure on restructuring.
Pilkingtons share of joint ventures and associates operating profit Profit before taxation 140 161 fell from 49 million to 42 million, following a tough year at Vitro Taxation 49 61 Plan SA fide CV VVP, our 35 per cent owned associate in Mexico.
Changes in exchange rate movements reduced the sterling equivalent Profit after taxation 91 100 of operating profits earned in foreign currencies by 2 million.
Minority interests 23 26 The detailed composition of the result, by geographic area and business line, can be seen in note 3 of the Summary Financial Statement.
Profit attributable to shareholders 68 74 Dividends 63 62 Exceptional items Exceptional items comprise losses of 4 million on the disposal of Retained profit of the Group 5 12 businesses and the sale of investments, the most significant being the loss EPS excluding exceptional items 5.8p 6.8p on disposal of our ten per cent shareholding in Egyptian Glass Company.
EPS including exceptional items 5.4p 6.0p Interest payable and similar charges Profit before taxation, exceptional items and amortisation of goodwill 153 183 Net interest payable of 73 million was 8 million higher than the previous year.
Subsidiaries net interest charges actually fell by 4 million, due to lower interest rates generally.
Our share of interest costs in joint ventures and associates increased by 12 million, mainly because of non-cash exchange losses on translation of the US dollar borrowings in VVP.
20 PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 Table 1 Cash flow 2003 2002 Table 2 Net debt m m m m Operating profit Group companies 175 189 As at 1st April 2002 Add back: Pilkington Channel Islands Ltd preference shares 216 Depreciation 179 176 Net debt 704 Amortisation of goodwill 9 10 920 Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation Reduced by: and goodwill amortisation EBITDA 363 375 Net cash inflow before management of Movement in working capital 19 55 liquid resources and financing Table 1 80 Movement in provisions and other items 13 51 Issue of share capital 1 Capital expenditure 161 154 Exchange differences 38 Cash flow before exceptional costs and Movement in the year 43 central items 208 115 Exchange difference on redemption of Exceptional costs 2 7 preference shares 16 Dividends received 24 9 Net debt at 31st March 2003 861 Taxation and servicing of finance 95 117 Acquisitions and divestments 3 5 Net cash inflow outflow before dividends, management of liquid resources and financing 138 5 Dividends paid 58 45 Net cash inflow outflow before management of liquid resources and financing 80 50 Interest costs of Group companies were covered more than three times in Table 1.
Cash flow before exceptional costs and central items improved by operating profit, and nearly seven times by earnings before interest, from 115 million to 208 million, due largely to tighter control of taxation, depreciation and amortisation of goodwill EBITDA.
working capital and lower expenditure on redundancies and restructuring costs, even though operating profits fell and capital expenditure increased due to the bunching of cold repairs on three float glass plants.
Taxation Net cash inflow before management of liquid resources and financing The tax charge of 49 million comprises current tax of 51 million less was 80 million, compared with an outflow of 50 million in 2002.
The deferred tax of 2 million.
The tax charge as a percentage of profit before improvement arose principally from the higher operating cash flow, increased tax has fallen from 38 to 35 per cent due to a more favourable mix of dividends from joint ventures and associates, and lower out-goings on tax profits arising in the territories in which we operate.
These latter two items are expected to revert closer to 2002 levels next year.
Minority interests Profits attributable to minority interests were 23 million 2002 26 million, of which 8 million was equity minority interest and 15 million FUNDING AND LIQUIDITY was non-equity minority interest.
Non-equity minority interests represented dividends on $309 million of preference shares issued by Pilkington Net debt Channel Islands Limited.
In March 2003 these shares were redeemed and Net debt of 861 million at the year end comprised gross debt of replaced with bank loans.
As the redemption took place towards the end of 936 million, less cash and marketable investments of 75 million.
the financial year, the saving in the dividend costs on the preference shares At 31st March 2002 net debt equivalent would have been 920 million, was quite small.
However, in the year to 31st March 2004, interest costs if the minority interest preference shares, which matured in March 2003, will rise by the debt servicing costs of this refinanced amount while were treated as debt at that time.
The main features of the change in net minority interests will decrease by approximately 12 million.
The net debt during the year are set out in Table 2. effect of this refinancing is expected to increase earnings per share in 2004 by approximately 0.3p.
SOURCES OF FINANCE Pilkington is financed by a mix of cash flow from operations, short-term Earnings per share borrowings and longer-term loans from banks, capital markets, and finance Earnings per share before exceptional items fell from 6.8p to 5.8p, leases.
Chart 1 shows the weighting of each source at 31st March 2003. while basic earnings per share fell from 6.0p to 5.4p.
As already Funding is also obtained from securitisation programmes, whereby mentioned, earnings per share before exceptional items now includes receivables are sold to banks on a non-recourse basis.
Pilkington is not on-going restructuring costs, previously treated as exceptional.
obliged to support losses on the non-recourse element of the receivables sold, which are usually around 80 per cent of the total.
Dividends Dividends paid and proposed represent 5.0p per share, unchanged Liquidity management from 2002.
The dividend is covered 1.1 times by attributable earnings Pilkingtons funding policy is to ensure continuity of finance at after exceptional items.
reasonable cost, based on committed funding, arranged for a range of maturities and sources.
At 31st March 2003 the average tenor of our CASH FLOW committed borrowings was four years, varying from one to 11 years.
With large scale restructuring activity tapering off we are now giving At 31st March 2003, Pilkington had 396 million of unutilised increasing emphasis to cash generation, particularly of free cash flow.
This committed facilities also with an average maturity of four years.
The resulted in a much improved cash flow performance in 2003, summarised maturity profile of all our committed facilities is depicted in Chart 2.
PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 21 FINANCE DIRECTORS REVIEW CONTINUED Chart 2 - Committed facilities: maturity profile Chart 1 - Debt sources m 500 21% Bank loans syndicated 400 28% Eurobond 300 9% Bank loans bilateral 200 3% Finance leases 100 0 39% US private placement The financial year 2005 maturities are principally 260 million of are reviewed annually by the Group Internal Audit function to syndicated bank lines, due to mature in December 2004. ensure compliance with Group policies.
Pilkington also has access to substantial uncommitted and short-term Due to the relatively high cost of transporting glass over long facilities, used principally to manage day-to-day liquidity and working distances, Pilkingtons manufacturing sites are usually located reasonably capital requirements.
In addition, pooling, netting and concentration close to customers, so glass exports do not generally represent a major techniques are used where possible to minimise borrowings.
Material foreign exchange transactions are The Group borrows principally in US dollars, euro and sterling, at hedged when confirmed, usually through the use of foreign exchange both fixed and floating rates of interest, using derivatives where forward contracts.
appropriate, to generate the desired effective currency and interest rate Pilkington has manufacturing operations in 24 countries.
The derivatives used for this purpose are principally interest rate hedged where appropriate, by matching the currency of the debt to and currency swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts.
During the year, South American currencies, where trading of derivatives or financial instruments is not permitted.
hedging opportunities are limited, suffered a significant loss of value The Group has obtained long-term investment grade credit ratings from against sterling.
In Argentina, following the rapid rise in inflation after Moodys and Standard & Poors, the credit rating agencies.
In November the devaluation of the peso at the beginning of 2002, we adopted hyper- 2002, taking account of the difficult trading conditions facing the glass inflation accounting in accordance with UITF 9 Accounting for industry in general, Moodys downgraded Pilkingtons credit rating Operations in Hyper-Inflationary Economies.
from Baa1 to Baa2, with a negative outlook.
Standard & Poors retained Exposure to interest rate fluctuations on our borrowings is managed Pilkingtons BBB credit rating though the outlook was altered from stable by borrowing either on a fixed or floating rate basis and by entering into to negative.
Both ratings are still investment grade.
The lowering of interest rate swaps or forward rate agreements.
The policy objective is the Moodys rating and the negative outlook put on the rating by both to have a target proportion, currently 30 to 70 per cent of forecast net agencies did not affect Pilkingtons cost of borrowing.
borrowings, hedged at all times.
At the end of March 2003, 38 per cent Pilkington aims to maintain investment grade credit ratings from both of borrowings were at fixed rates for an average period of five years.
agencies and the significant improvement demonstrated in our cash flow The impact of a one per cent change in interest rates on our variable should help underpin the ratings.
rate borrowings would be approximately 5 million.
Energy costs comprise around 20 per cent of the factory gate production cost of glass.
The Group operates a hedging programme to minimise the Shareholders funds volatility of energy costs.
The majority of our gas requirements in the Shareholders funds and minority interests decreased from 792 million United States, where gas prices have been most volatile recently, are excluding the Pilkington Channel Islands Limited preference shares, to hedged through a managed programme.
The reduction was principally due to exchange losses on deliveries to customers have become established industry practice.
translation of Mexican and South American assets, partly offset by 5 million of retained profit.
POST RETIREMENT BENEFITS Treasury management Several different pension schemes are operated in the major territories Treasury activities are centralised in the Group head office in St Helens.
They are accounted for under SSAP 24 Group Treasury is responsible for the provision of liquidity management Accounting for Pension Costs.
The disclosure requirements of FRS 17 for Group operations, and for management of the Groups interest and Retirement Benefits are set out in note 39 to the Directors Report foreign exchange risks, operating within policies and authority limits and Accounts.
The board approves a defined set of financial Rising longevity allied with the worldwide fall in stock market values counter-parties, noted for their strong credit standing.
Treasury operations has significantly raised the profile of company pension obligations.
The 22 PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2011 Table 3 Post retirement benefits FRS 17 deficit Cash cost m m Funded schemes UK 8 North America 89 Other 1 3 Unfunded schemes Europe 168 7 Healthcare US 168 20 Total deficit as determined under FRS 17 426 Pension and post-retirement healthcare balances already provided under SSAP 24 266 Additional liability on adoption of FRS 17 160 Deficits are net of deferred tax balances nature of Pilkingtons pension obligations and the way they have INSURANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT been structured and managed over many years means that the risks to Pilkington has an established system of internal controls.
The Internal the company have been substantially mitigated.
Audit function reports directly to the Group Audit Committee and has a Most Pilkington employees are members of defined contribution rolling audit programme to ensure optimal coverage of Group businesses.
schemes, where each month the company pays a fixed percentage of A full risk assessment process is undertaken each year and the results are salaries into a pension fund.
The UK company pension scheme, which submitted to the Audit Committee.
is by far the biggest in the group, is a hybrid scheme with characteristics In the last two years insurance premiums have increased substantially of both defined benefit and defined contribution schemes.
A key feature across most areas of the business.
As a consequence, a greater proportion is that, under the terms of the trust deed, the company contribution is a of routine and low value risks are now self insured, whilst external cover fixed percentage of employees salaries, paid every year.
No pension is retained for more material losses.
holiday has been taken since the scheme began in the 1960s.
Pilkington does not have right of access to any pension fund surplus, CONTINGENCIES nor can it be required to make up any deficit, other than that In 1989 Pilkington Holding GmbH made an offer to acquire the minority required by law.
interests in Pilkington Deutschland AG and Dahlbusch AG.
Certain Elsewhere, only ten per cent of the Groups employees are members minority shareholders rejected the offer as insufficient.
The matter is of conventional defined benefit pension schemes.
The only significant in the hands of the German courts.
funded defined benefit schemes in the Group are in North America, and In the case of Pilkington Deutschland AG the decision of the court they were closed to new members in the 1980s while benefits to existing effectively increased the total amount at issue by 10 million.
This members were frozen in the 1990s.
At 31st March 2003, on an FRS 17 decision is being appealed by Pilkington Holding GmbH and the minority basis, the North American schemes had a total deficit of 89 million.
In the case of Dahlbusch AG no decision has yet been made.
Company contributions are not made to these schemes at present, nor are they anticipated in the year to 31st March 2004.
The need for GOING CONCERN company contributions subsequently will depend on investment After considering the year end financial position and future prospects of conditions at the time.
the company, the directors consider the company has adequate financial The only significant unfunded pension schemes, which are common resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future in continental Europe, are in Germany and Austria.
These schemes are and therefore continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing closed to new members and, being unfunded, are not affected by stock the financial statements.
The Group also has obligations to fund post-retirement healthcare benefits, principally in the USA.
The FRS 17 based valuation of these obligations at 31st March 2003 was 168 million, a reduction of 11 million from the value at 31st March 2002.
Pilkingtons obligations to fund this scheme are limited by an agreed annual per capita cost increase of four per cent, with 1993 as the base year.
Retired members fund the difference between this limit and the actual level of healthcare inflation.
The scheme is closed to new employees, although existing employees continue to receive healthcare benefits on retirement.
Table 3 summarises the key aspects of the post retirement benefit schemes at 31st March 2003.
PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 23 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Pilkington seeks to manage relationships with all stakeholders in The code is incorporated in the statements of effective business a professional, fair and responsible manner.
Central to this process control to which businesses must adhere and also into the annual is the Pilkington Code of Conduct.
letter of representation which business heads must sign to indicate their businesses comply with these statements.
The results of this The Code of Conduct, introduced in 2002, sets out the standards of process confirm a high level of compliance.
Minor exceptions behaviour expected of the Group and its people in relationships with identified are reviewed and appropriate action taken.
fellow employees, customers, suppliers, business partners, the community, The code is also incorporated into the regular schedule of on-site government and other stakeholders in the business.
business audits carried out by the Groups internal audit function.
The key features of the code are: Working safely As a significant international manufacturing business, Pilkington seeks to Responsibilities towards the environment combine successful financial performance with a responsibility to its many Operating within the law stakeholders.
Building effective two-way relationships with stakeholders is Cultural and ethical responsibilities seen as a means not only to achieve both these aims, but also to minimise Human rights and employment standards the risks to which the business and stakeholders are exposed.
In this way Avoiding conflicts of interest corporate social responsibility is a mutually beneficial activity.
Issues involving gifts, favours and payments The centre of the Group provides the policy and direction, but it is only Relationships with customers, suppliers, business partners and with the support and initiative of individual businesses and employees that competitors real progress is made on the ground.
This is highlighted in this review by Relationships with the community the inclusion of examples from across the Group of the many successes Keeping accurate and complete records during the year.
Protection of personal and confidential information Responsibilities of individuals.
HEALTH AND SAFETY The health, safety and well-being of all employees, contractors, visitors, The code is underpinned by individual Group policies providing more neighbours and customers remain at the forefront of all business activity.
detailed guidance to the businesses and employees worldwide.
Local While all individuals have a responsibility for their own health and safety policies supplement these where necessary to meet local requirements and that of their colleagues, ultimate responsibility for health, safety and and conditions.
the environment rests with the group chief executive.
During 2003, the code has been communicated widely both internally Safety programmes continue to emphasise the importance of improving and externally.
It is available on the Group intranet and website and has behaviour and of individuals taking personal responsibility.
Changing the been featured in the in-house magazine, Pilkington Focus.
culture in this way builds on the safety management systems already in A leaflet The Way we do Business, produced in the 15 major place, giving everyone a greater degree of safety, not just at work but languages spoken in the Group, summarises the key features of the also beyond.
It has been circulated to every employee, as part of a Group-wide All injuries at work are regarded as unnecessary and avoidable.
No briefing to ensure everyone understands the codes purpose and content.
matter how minor, each one must be reported and investigated.
Only by It forms part of the induction for new employees.
investigating and learning from such incidents will the desired levels of Responsibility for compliance with the code is placed upon all safety performance be achieved.
individuals working for the Group, ranging from the board to managers Safety performance is now measured using two key performance and employees.
Two procedures exist to ensure these responsibilities indicators, the lost time accident rate LTAR and the significant injury are fulfilled: rate SIR.
24 PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 Lost Time Accident Rate LTAR Number of lost time accidents per 200,000 hours worked by Pilkington employees and long-term contractors.
97 98 99 00 01 02 03 Lost time accident rate Examples of notable safety performances this year from individual A lost time accident is a work-related accident or illness of sufficient businesses include: severity to prevent the individual involved being able to report for work The Polish processing and merchanting business became Pilkingtons on the following day or shift.
The LTAR expresses these accidents as a rate first countrywide business to be certified to a combined ISO 14001, per 200,000 hours which is approximately the time worked by 100 people ISO 9000, OHSAS 18001 standard covering Environment, Quality in one year.
In 2003 there were 267 lost time accidents across the Group, a 12 per In Chile, the Pilkington operations at both Santiago and Lirquen cent reduction from the number reported last year.
The resulting LTAR became the first company in the country to be certified to OHSAS for the Group was 1.1.
This represents the seventh consecutive year of 18001 for safety.
improvement, although as the overall accident rate has improved, the In Venice, the float line became jointly certified to ISO 14001, percentage improvement has slowed.
Efforts to bring about further OHSAS 18001 and ISO 9000 standards.
significant reductions in the LTAR will continue.
The measured LTAR Wesel, Aken, Eccleston and Columbus automotive sites exceeded safety performance is shown in the chart above.
three years without a lost time accident.
The float plant at Sandomierz in Poland achieved five years Significant injury rate without a lost time accident.
As the LTAR improves, it becomes less useful as an indicator of performance, In Mexico, the Mexicali automotive aftermarket branch achieved especially at site level.
Consequently, last year a second measure, the over six years without a lost time accident.
significant injury rate SIR was introduced.
Pilkington defines this as an The merchanting and distribution branch at Dunedin in New Zealand injury sufficiently severe to require medical treatment or the reallocation achieved ten years without a lost time accident.
of duties to allow an individual to continue working.
Working with contractors on existing plants and new construction Safety performance analysis indicates that businesses where significant sites presents major safety challenges.
Pilkington Group engineering, quantities of raw glass have to be moved by hand face the greatest challenge working closely with principal and sub-contractors, has introduced a new to further improvement.
These are principally the European Building Products contractor safety training programme for the float plant construction site processing and merchanting business and its equivalent in Australia.
LTAR in Brazil, aimed at raising safety awareness and encouraging safe working.
and SIR comparisons confirm that incidents in these businesses tend to be The Group also collaborates with other parts of the glass industry to more severe, leading to a higher proportion of lost time accidents.
In the UK, Pilkington has supported and Evaluation systems such as the Safety Health Improvement Programme promoted the GLASS Charter Glass, Less Accidents, Safer Sites, with or SHIP, exist in all facilities, ensuring that all activities are subjected to British Glass and the Glass and Glazing Federation trade organisation, risk assessment with proper procedures in place to protect individuals.
as part of the Health and Safety Executives Revitalising Health and In Europe the Building Products and Automotive Products businesses have Safety initiative.
made significant measurable improvements in their safety performance There were no safety related prosecutions during the year.
The Clinton, using the SHIP process, with Automotive achieving a reduction of twoMichigan automotive plant paid $10,500 6,774 as a result of citations thirds in its accidents over the last two years.
applied by MIOSHA in relation to machine guarding issues.
Building Products primary glass manufacturing in the UK has developed and implemented the Key Safe Behaviours and the Stop and Think safety ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE guides as part of its behavioural safety programmes.
These initiatives are Significant effort continues to be directed towards improving being replicated elsewhere in the Group.
Based on simple clear messages, environmental performance and ensuring that quality products are they can be used at any time and remove some of the mystique surrounding manufactured for our customers, which have a positive impact on terms like risk assessment.
PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 25 6.8 4.7 3.4 2.6 1.9 1.2 1.1 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Resource usage The charts below show the energy and other resource usage of the Group.
Environmental performance data from the newly constructed float lines in Spain and France and the automotive plant in Kentucky, USA, where the organisational reporting structure has changed, is included for the first time.
For presentational reasons the units vary according to resource.
Despite these efforts there remain areas for improvement.
The Cowley that more sustainable timber resources are used by working closely with Hill float plant in the UK received a formal caution from the UK its direct suppliers to define their sources.
Environment Agency for allowing surface water of too high a pH level to enter an adjacent watercourse.
Pilkington paid a civil penalty of $500,000 Emissions 322,581 to the San Joaquin Valley Unified Air Pollution Control District The reporting of carbon dioxide emissions has become more complex to settle alleged air quality violations at the Lathrop, California plant.
The owing to differences between the policy followed by the UK Climate allegations encompassed various emission sources at the facility during Change initiatives and the proposed mandatory EU Emissions Trading the period 1997 to 2001.
The major emissions involved nitrogen oxide Scheme.
In the former, the carbon dioxide emissions resulting from the from the glass melting furnace.
Remedial action has been taken at both use of electricity are Pilkingtons responsibility, whereas in the latter, plants to ensure the problems do not recur.
they are the responsibility of the electricity generators.
For the sake of Meeting obligations whilst retaining a competitive position will remain completeness, carbon dioxide release is reported in both ways.
Pilkington is evaluating the UK Emissions Trading Scheme Overall, carbon dioxide releases have fallen by some three per cent and the other UK climate change initiatives to determine how the Group as a result of improved efficiency and better operational control.
Releases can operate effectively within such mechanisms.
This UK experience from both energy usage and product emissions were 3.7 million tonnes, will prove invaluable in the next few years as manufacturing industry as shown in the chart on page 27.
Excluding the carbon dioxide emissions in general, and the European glass industry in particular, learns how to associated with the generation of electricity by power suppliers, this figure operate under the constraints set out in the proposed mandatory EU reduces to 2.8 million tonnes.
For clarification, waste has been classified as hazardous or nonhazardous.
The latter is significantly greater in quantity but fluctuates Energy and resource usage year to year with the furnace repair programme.
For glass manufacture, energy usage is a significant issue.
Float and Efforts have continued to encourage recycling in preference to rolled glass manufacturing sites in the UK now operate under a voluntary the disposal of materials.
energy restriction Glass Sector Climate Change Agreement with the UK government.
This year was classed as a milestone year, and the UK glass International environmental quality standards sector met its agreed reduction target allowing the agreement to continue The Group has continued to certify its manufacturing facilities to the for a further two years.
internationally recognised ISO 14001 environmental standard and now The increase in diesel oil usage shown in the above chart largely relates has 67 certified sites around the world, which represent 70 per cent of to the inclusion for the first time of data from the newly constructed float business by turnover.
During the year, the automotive business in Europe lines in Spain and France and the automotive plant in Kentucky, USA.
achieved corporate certification to this standard covering 18 sites in eight Usage of recycled glass in production processes has increased by some countries.
In Spain the Glapilk float glass plant received certification.
This has the dual environmental benefit of reducing both In line with the process of continuous improvement, environmental primary raw materials usage and carbon dioxide release.
It also reduces data is kept under review and improved information is incorporated the quantity of glass sent for disposal which is classified as an emission when this becomes available.
However, the quality of glass available worldwide for recycling remains a concern and is a factor limiting increased usage.
The Partnership with government environmental impact of preparing poor quality glass for re-use in the Pilkington continues to work, both directly and through trade associations float process could exceed the potential benefit of using it.
representing the glass industry, with governments and the European Timber usage figures have increased, partly as a result of the Commission on key environmental issues such as the End of Life Vehicles development of markets where customers are less able to handle bulk glass Directive, Climate Change and the proposed directive on carbon trading.
This trend is expected to continue.
Pilkington is seeking to ensure Discussions within European member states on the introduction of a 26 PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 Natural gas 10 million cubic metres 2001 96 2002 95 2003 100 Heavy fuel oil millions litres 2001 90 2002 63 2003 48 Diesel oil millions litres 2001 12 2002 12 2003 22 LPG 100 tonnes 2001 18 2002 18 2003 17 Electricity 100GWh 2001 17 2002 17 2003 16 Water million cubic metres 2001 15 2002 14 2003 15 Timber 1,000 cubic metres 2001 71 2002 127 2003 149 Recycled glass 1,000 tonnes 2001 73 2002 106 2003 131 Emissions The charts below indicate the trend in the emissions of carbon dioxide and other key emission products.
For presentational reasons the units vary according to emission product.
voluntary approach to carbon trading, as a precursor to a compulsory businesses.
They are derived from external international human rights scheme, and on the allocation of allowances, are being monitored.
employment guidelines and the business requirements of Pilkington and The Group supports the principle that allocation of allowances should cover important issues relating to: be free and that existing voluntary agreements should continue for as long Health and safety as practicable.
Pilkington supports the idea of carbon trading in principle, Employee consultation and communications and, in addition, would like to see clear mechanisms to promote the use Recruitment of employees of energy saving products and to allocate allowances that benefit the Remuneration and working hours production of such products.
Abuse, harassment and intimidation Equal opportunities Working with suppliers Personal development.
The Group uses a life cycle analysis of the float glass process as the basis for collaboration with suppliers, with the aim of jointly reducing The standards set the behaviour expected of all operations and adverse effects on the environment.
This collaboration has focused on the employees.
For instance, it is made clear that abuse, harassment and factors influencing climate change and on the supply of timber and timber intimidation will not be tolerated under any circumstances, nor will packaging products to achieve higher usage of sustainable resources.
discrimination on the basis of race, colour, creed, religion, age, gender, Pilkington continues to work closely with sand and mineral suppliers sexual orientation, national origin, disability, union membership or to achieve a range of environmental protection objectives.
The standards, as a whole, ensure that as a minimum the Group Legacy issues complies with the employment laws, regulations, industry standards and Pilkington continues to work with regulatory authorities worldwide on local customs within the countries in which the Group operates and with issues relating to historic industrial activity on and around Group premises.
In practice, the Group In the USA, the identification of the nature and extent of contamination frequently exceeds these external local and international requirements.
from past industrial activity and from naturally occurring materials used While the standards provide employees with reassurance as to how in agriculture, has continued at the Ottawa float glass plant in Illinois.
they will be treated, it is believed they will also lead to a more successful The agreed sampling in neighbouring properties has inevitably created business through a committed, motivated and effective workforce.
This investigative work is important in ensuring A number of elements of the overall employment policy are reported that, in conjunction with the authorities and the community, appropriate upon here.
remedial plans can be developed.
The safety of neighbours and employees and the protection of the Representation of women in the organisation environment remains of paramount concern.
In 2003 women represented 15 per cent of the total workforce and 12 per cent of managers are women.
In the UK, 40 per cent of graduate recruits RELATIONSHIPS WITH STAKEHOLDERS IN THE BUSINESS over the last three years have been female.
While these patterns of female employment are not atypical of heavy industry in general, the Group EMPLOYEES will continue to provide women with every equal opportunity to join the The Code of Conduct acknowledges internationally proclaimed human organisation and to develop their careers to their full potential, thereby rights and the impact these have on employment.
The Group takes encouraging greater representation of women at all levels in the workforce.
seriously its responsibility to provide terms and conditions of employment for all employees worldwide that are fair, reasonable and provide the Employment of young people treatment they have a right to expect.
The Group employs no young people under the age of 15.
It is also The Groups overall employment policy contains minimum employment uncommon for individuals under the age of 18 to be employed except on standards which guide employment policy and practice in individual a temporary basis as part of an integrated part of their education studies.
PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 27 CO 1,000 tonnes 2 2001 3,968 2002 3,896 2003 3,666 NO 10 tonnes X 2001 1,706 2002 1,946 2003 1,846 SO 10 tonnes X 2001 519 2002 496 2003 389 Hazardous waste tonnes 2001 2,566 2002 2,353 2003 2,527 Non hazardous waste 100 tonnes 2001 1,403 2002 2,457 2003 1,720 Products for recycling 10 tonnes 2001 997 2002 1,124 2003 2,088 Glass for recycling 1,000 tonnes 2001 206 2002 731 2003 702 CORPORATE AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CONTINUED Consultation and communication and long-term needs of the business and the personal development Throughout the Group arrangements exist for communication and needs of individuals drive the actual mix of training and development.
consultation with employees at site level.
The nature of these arrangements In 2003, the company spent 5 million on formal training and varies according to the scale and circumstances at each site.
development across the Group, ranging from initiatives within local In Europe, in addition to site based procedures for communication and business units to meet the specific local needs, to Group programmes consultation, a region wide European Forum meets annually to discuss aimed at the longer-term development of international managers.
A overall Group and business line strategy, business performance, the critical element of training for everyone relates to health and safety business outlook and the implications for employees.
In addition to which underpins the progress described earlier in this review.
employee representatives, the group chief executive, the heads of the This formal training and development complements the significant business lines and key senior management attend these meetings.
level of on-the-job training which enables employees to learn and There are separate six-monthly meetings of sub-groups for Building enhance their skills through planned initiatives in the work-place.
Products and Automotive Products to enable more detailed topics to In response to changing personal and business training needs, the be covered.
Group continues to introduce new initiatives, of which examples from A formal system of regular communication ensures all employees the last year are: receive updates on Group objectives, targets and best practice.
Every An online assessment system to help individuals determine their employee receives a copy of Pilkington Focus every eight weeks in their personal development needs.
Initially in English, the facility will be own language.
The Pilkington intranet is available to every employee made available in the other key languages of the Group.
Based on on the Group network, with plans to widen access to those who do not defined key skills, it enables individuals to determine more precisely normally use personal computers in the course of their work.
their personal development needs, ensuring they receive appropriate, focused training.
Earnings E-learning is being introduced in stages across the Group to provide There are no parts of the Group where earnings are less than the a cost effective means of enabling training to take place at a time and legal minimum or the minimum set by the local industry.
place to suit the individual and the business.
A new development programme for those in or approaching supervisory Working hours or junior management roles is aimed at ensuring a consistent and high The Group policy calls for no employee to work excessive standard level of abilities in key aspects of management.
Initiated and first run in or overtime hours in a week.
In 2003 no employee in the Group was the UK, this is now being run in the USA and will be extended to other contracted to work a standard week in excess of the international guideline parts of the Group.
This programme complements existing initiatives of 48 hours.
There was a small number of employees, totalling three per aimed at the development of middle and senior management across cent of the workforce who, at some stage in the year, voluntarily worked the Group.
more than the international guideline of 12 hours overtime in a week.
Other parts of the code provide additional guidance to employees on the This was not on a regular or contractual basis.
avoidance of conflicts of interest, on political activity, on ethical behaviour in dealing with competitors, suppliers, business partners and customers and Training and development on the standards to be adopted in internal communications and in handling The pursuit of ever higher standards of performance, the on-going confidential personal or Group information.
introduction of new technology and work practices and the demanding roles created by flat organisation structures, mean that continuous development CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS of new skills and competencies has greater significance for everyone.
Quality through design, development, production, delivery, assembly, The Group, therefore, recognises the importance of training, retraining customer support, to in-service use, is a key feature in building successful and continuous development for all employees.
A combination of the short relationships with our industry customers and end consumers.
28 PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 Group chief executive Stuart Chambers presents the prizes to the two winners of Pilkington supports the Family Service Units in the UK.
The charitys the 2002 Glasshouse Students and Young Architects competition, Toms Garca Out of School support services assist with the emotional, behavioural Piriz and Javier Moreno Del Ojo, at an event in Dsseldorf.
The internet-based and recreational needs of children in deprived areas and offers a much competition, organised by Pilkington in association with Architecture Today needed respite element for parents.
magazine, attracted over 750 entries from every country in Europe.
The achievement of high quality is underpinned by the implementation charitable contributions covering education, arts, medicine, welfare of rigorous internal quality management systems.
All the Groups major and young people and programmes that help create jobs and promote automotive manufacturing plants are certified to an appropriate external urban renewal.
In total, the Groups direct charitable and non-charitable international quality standard and work is in hand to harmonise on a contributions around the world amounted to 638,000, complementing corporate certification to the ISO TS16949:2002 standard.
In Building the significant inputs of the time and skills of employees.
Examples of Products, all primary glass manufacturing plants are covered by external this charitable work are: international quality standards and a programme is in place to upgrade More than 1,600 visitors attended the first quality, environment, health certification to the ISO9001:2000 standard.
and safety week at the Groups Brazilian operations in Caapava and In Automotive Products, close working relationships are developed So Paulo.
Visitors included employees families, customers, suppliers from the early stages of new model vehicle design, with members of the and students.
Pilkington Automotive team working as an integral part of the customers In the wake of the devastating floods in Germany, Pilkington in design team.
This leads to final products which in terms of design, quality, Germany donated glass to the relief effort and contributed funds towards cost and performance are of mutual benefit to the vehicle manufacturer, the rebuilding of a bridge in Altenberg which had been swept away by Pilkington and the end customer.
This collaboration embraces efforts the torrent, cutting the residents off from local shops and services.
to minimise waste by recycling material.
In Europe, the End of Life In Columbus, Ohio employees from the automotive aftermarket Vehicles Directive has already led to changes in vehicle design, the distribution centre participated in a Community Care Day.
As part of specification of products supplied by the Group and has had impacts this, volunteers from the site took part in a day of cleaning and painting in other markets outside the region.
at a local middle school within the Columbus public school system.
In Building Products, help and guidance is given to customers to The city school system tends to have lower funds for routine ensure they are able to handle products safely and effectively.
In Europe, maintenance and upkeep.
relationships between the business and its customers are being further Pilkington matches contributions made by the United Way charity reinforced by the introduction of a key account management system of Greater Toledo, Ohio, which helps build a strong community by which has already been successfully employed in Automotive.
developing resources to help children, families and individuals build As part of the overall management of the supply chain the Group better lives for themselves.
also works closely with its suppliers.
This ensures that their products Pilkington sponsors the Pilkington Window to the World Award and services not only meet the necessary design, cost, quality and which is presented at the annual Women of the Year Lunch.
This performance requirements but are also backed by recognised quality year the award was presented to Irene Khan, secretary general of standards and appropriate environmental practices.
Advice and support Amnesty International.
is given, where needed, to help suppliers achieve appropriate quality Pilkington has sponsored the Royal College of Arts Vehicle Design and environmental standards.
This years winners were Ayline Koning from France, for best overall design and Ted Mannerfelt from Sweden, PILKINGTON IN THE COMMUNITY for the most innovative use of glazing.
Pilkington aims to ensure that its worldwide operations play a responsible Financial support is also being given to the Family Service Units charity and responsive role in the local communities in which it operates.
in the UK which funds assistance to families and individuals in the form Local business units have a responsibility for engaging in consultation of counselling, play therapy, social care, community groups and child and dialogue with their local communities as a means to ensure the Group care initiatives in deprived urban areas.
coexists harmoniously with its community partners to the benefit of all Around 60 UK employees and retirees regularly give their time and parties involved.
skills to a variety of educational projects, including helping children The Group and its employees also work closely with non-profit with their reading, the twinning of managers with headteachers and organisations through a wide range of voluntary work programmes and employment and career advice.
PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 29 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1 SIR NIGEL RUDD AGE 56 4 IAIN LOUGH AGE 56 8 JAMES LENG AGE 57 CHAIRMAN Appointed an executive director in January 2002.
He is Appointed a non-executive director in 1994 and He joined Pilkington in 1993 as group financial non-executive deputy chairman of Corus Group plc non-executive chairman in 1995.
In 1995 he was appointed head of group and will become non-executive chairman of Corus executive chairman of Kidde plc and Pendragon finance and in 1998 he was appointed chief Group plc on 1st June 2003.
He is also a nonPLC, deputy chairman of Boots Group PLC and a financial officer for Building Products Worldwide.
executive director of IMI plc and JPMorgan non-executive director of Barclays PLC.
Sir Nigels He is group finance director.
At 31st March 2003 Fleming Mid Cap Investment Trust plc.
The wide range of experience, including his executive he was interested in 170,888 shares in the company.
experience he has obtained in executive and nonleadership of Williams Holdings PLC, has been executive roles in other capital intensive industries invaluable in giving strategic direction to the 5 PAT ZITO AGE 54 has been particularly helpful to the board.
He is a member of the Remuneration Appointed an executive director in May 2002.
He chairman of the Remuneration Committee and is a Committee and chairman of the Nomination joined Pilkington in 1985 as finance director of member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
At 31st March 2003 he was interested the Groups Australian operations.
He was At 31st March 2003 he was interested in 133,465 in 1,461,375 shares in the company.
appointed president, Automotive OE Europe in shares in the company.
1997 and president, Automotive OE Europe and 2 STUART CHAMBERS AGE 47 North America in October 2001.
He is responsible 9 OLIVER STOCKEN AGE 61 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE for the Automotive business worldwide.
At 31st Appointed a non-executive director in 1998.
He is Appointed an executive director in January 2001 March 2003 he was interested in 216,887 shares non-executive chairman of Rutland Trust plc and and group chief executive in May 2002.
Stanhope PLC, non-executive deputy chairman of Pilkington in 1996, as group vice president, 3i Group plc and a non-executive director of Rank Marketing and Business Development, Building 6 DR. HANS-PETER KEITEL AGE 55 Group plc, The Great Universal Stores P. L. C. and Products.
In 1998 he was promoted to the post of Appointed a non-executive director in 1995.
The board has benefited greatly from managing director, Primary Products Europe, and chairman and CEO of Hochtief AG, the leading his general and strategic advice based on his subsequently became president, Building Products German construction company.
He is a nonsubstantial boardroom and commercial experience.
He is a non-executive director of executive director of Leighton Holdings Sydney He is the senior independent director, chairman Associated British Ports Holdings plc.
He is a and The Turner Corporation Dallas, as well as a of the Audit Committee and a member of the member of the Nomination Committee.
At 31st member of supervisory boards in Germany and the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
At March 2003 he was interested in 358,089 shares Netherlands.
The board has benefited greatly from 31st March 2003 he was interested in 244,730 in the company.
his experience particularly in matters relating to shares in the company.
the German market, emerging markets, capital 3 ANDREW ROBB AGE 60 expenditure projects and the construction industry.
PAOLO SCARONI resigned as an executive Appointed an executive director in 1989.
He is He is a member of the Audit, Remuneration and director on 30th June 2002 and as a non-executive responsible for relations with the Groups major Nomination Committees.
At 31st March 2003 he director and as non-executive deputy chairman partners and affiliates worldwide and supports was interested in 80,854 shares in the company.
on 10th December 2002. the group chief executive in the Groups growth initiatives.
He is also responsible for the legal, 7 WILLIAM HARRISON AGE 54 WARREN KNOWLTON resigned as an executive secretarial, corporate affairs and information Appointed a non-executive director in 1998. director on 30th July 2002. systems functions.
At 31st March 2003 he was Formerly Head of Investment Banking at Deutsche interested in 222,401 shares in the company.
Bank AG, he is now a director of Compass There have been no changes in directors interests Advisers Limited, an external member of the in the share capital of the company between 31st Practice Development Committee of Herbert Smith March 2003 and the announcement of the Groups and a member of the advisory board of Moore results on 29th May 2003.
His experience in investment banking has enabled him to give the board valuable advice on transactions and financing arrangements.
He is a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
At 31st March 2003 he was interested in 129,323 shares in the company.
30 PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 SUMMARY DIRECTORS REPORT The following pages are a summary of the information contained in Andrew Robb will retire as a director at the conclusion of the annual the Directors Report and Accounts for the year ended 31st March general meeting.
The summary financial statement does not contain sufficient information to allow as full an understanding of the results and state CORPORATE GOVERNANCE of affairs of the company and of the Group as would be provided by The boards policy is to manage the affairs of the company in accordance the full annual report and accounts.
with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, which is annexed to the Financial Services Authority Listing Rules.
A more detailed report on corporate governance is contained in the Directors Report and Accounts.
BUSINESS ACTIVITIES AND DEVELOPMENT The company has complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the Code Pilkington is a leading worldwide producer of flat and safety glass and a of Best Practice throughout the year, except for the formal appointment of successful innovator of products and processes in the glass industry.
The a senior independent director and the introduction of one year notice Group serves the building and automotive markets.
periods in the service agreements for Paolo Scaroni and Warren Knowlton, The Chairmans Statement, comment on recent events and likely future who were in office prior to June 1998 and who both resigned as executive developments, and a summarised business review appear in other parts of directors during the year.
After the year end, the board reviewed its position this document.
on appointing a senior independent director and decided to appoint Oliver Stocken to such position.
DIRECTORS AUDITORS The names, biographical details and photographs of the directors are The auditors report on the full annual accounts of the Group for the year on page 30. ended 31st March 2003 is unqualified and does not contain any statement In accordance with the companys Articles of Association Sir Nigel concerning accounting records or failure to obtain necessary information Rudd, Dr. Hans-Peter Keitel and William Harrison will retire by rotation at or explanations.
Sir Nigel Rudd and William Harrison, being The statutory financial statements will be delivered to the Registrar of eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT INTRODUCTION Tim Izzett Group compensation and benefits manager until This report to shareholders outlines the membership and workings of 31st December 2002 the Remuneration Committee and provides an explanation of the various Annette Kelleher Group compensation and benefits manager elements of the remuneration policy.
The report also outlines how the from 1st January 2003 executive and non-executive directors were remunerated during the year.
Herbert Smith Solicitors The full report on directors remuneration, contained in the Annual Deloitte & Touche Remuneration advisers.
Report and Accounts for the year ended 31st March 2003, will be put to shareholders for approval at the annual general meeting of the company During the year, Deloitte & Touche also provided other services, to be held on 28th July 2003. including advice to the board on non-executive directors remuneration, the deputy chairmans remuneration and other business advisory services.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee determines the overall remuneration policy The principal matters considered by the Committee during the year were: for executive directors and has delegated responsibility from the board Annual review of salaries for executive directors for setting the remuneration packages of individual executive directors.
Targets and results for annual incentive plans for executive directors In addition, the committee determines and approves annual and long-term Performance targets for long-term incentive plans incentive plans including setting appropriate performance targets, and is Review of executive directors service agreements responsible for the granting of options under the Groups senior executives Remuneration arrangements for a new executive director including share option schemes.
pension arrangements The Remuneration Committee consists of the non-executive directors, Contractual termination arrangements for departing executive directors specifically James Leng Chairman, Sir Nigel Rudd, Dr. Hans-Peter Grant of executive share options and awards under the Leadership Equity Award Plan and the Deferred Bonus Plan Keitel, William Harrison and Oliver Stocken.
None has any personal Share ownership and retention targets.
financial interest other than as shareholder.
The committee met six times during the year to 31st March 2003 and, at its request, the group REMUNERATION POLICY chief executive was invited to attend committee meetings except when matters relating to his own remuneration and service agreement were Objectives of the remuneration policy under discussion.
The group human resources director was also invited The objectives of the remuneration policy are to ensure that remuneration to attend and acted as secretary to the committee.
packages offered are competitive and designed in such a way as to attract, The committee is authorised by the board to obtain any outside retain and motivate executive directors and senior executives of the highest professional advice about remuneration matters and has selected calibre on a worldwide basis.
The policy aims to ensure that individual Deloitte & Touche to advise it on remuneration practice.
rewards and incentives are aligned with the performance of the Group and The following people provided advice and services to the Committee the interests of the shareholders and reflect the contribution of the individuals during the year: concerned.
The individual elements of the executive package will vary David Vernon-Smith Group human resources director depending on the market conditions in the countries in which they operate.
PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 31 SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED The committee aims to align its remuneration policy with the medium If the participants remain in employment and the purchased shares are to long-term strategy of the Group.
Salary and benefit packages are set retained for three years, the company will match their investment with at market competitive levels, and annual performance-related payments additional shares.
The matching by the company is made up of a core are assessed against the achievement of key financial targets.
Share based award and a performance award.
long-term incentives are used to align the interests of the senior executive The core award consists of shares to the value of one times the group with those of shareholders.
This is achieved by linking executive participants gross annual bonus deferred using the same share price which awards to the creation of shareholder value, and currently focusing on was applied at the time of purchase.
The extent of the performance award the growth in earnings per share.
will depend upon the achievement of stretching performance targets for the The remuneration policy also encourages investment in company Group over the three year period currently measured as aggregate earnings shares, and the current long-term share based incentives require such per share set by the Remuneration Committee.
The committee considers an investment by participants.
This policy is expected to continue in earnings per share before exceptional items to be one of the key future years.
fundamental financial measures on which the financial value of the The remuneration arrangements meet with the provisions of the company is assessed over the medium to long-term.
The use of aggregate Combined Code.
earnings per share before exceptional items targets is considered a suitably challenging criterion in the current economic environment, and is The main components of executive directors remuneration understood by all international participants.
A minimum level of earnings This section summarises the main components of the remuneration.
An per share must be achieved for any performance award to vest, and if these analysis of the remuneration for the year is shown in the section entitled demanding targets are met in full, the performance award will be two and Executive Directors Remuneration.
a half times the gross annual bonus deferred.
The participants in this plan The normal remuneration arrangements for executive directors consist are not eligible to participate in the Deferred Bonus Plan or the senior of salary, annual financial performance-related bonus, a long-term incentive executives share option schemes.
Core awards vest after three years.
programme the Leadership Equity Award Plan and benefits which include Performance awards only vest after the Remuneration Committee has car, medical insurance and pension entitlement.
The executive directors reviewed and confirmed that performance against the conditions set has are not eligible to participate in the Deferred Bonus Plan or the senior been met.
executives share option schemes, whilst participating in the Leadership The performance targets for the LEAP performance awards issued in Equity Award Plan.
2001 and 2002 are currently based on aggregate earnings per share before exceptional items over a three year period, as set out in the following table: Salary The policy is to broadly align salaries with market medians.
The salary Award level Aggregate EPS over 3 years Core and 2001 2004 2002 2005 performance awards for each executive director is reviewed in April each year against market information provided by the committees independent adviser and taking 2001 Plan 2002 Plan into account the individuals performance and experience in the role.
The Core award 1.0 x gross committee considers data drawn from a sample of comparator companies bonus invested chosen on the basis of industrial sector, size, complexity and international Performance awards dimension.
This comparator group is recommended by Deloitte & Touche, Entry 24.9p 22.6p 0.5 x gross the committees remuneration advisers.
bonus invested Maximum 29.7p 26.9p 2.5 x gross Annual performance-related bonus or above or above bonus invested Each executive director participates in an annual performance-related incentive scheme based on the Groups yearly performance against budget or other targets.
The bonus plan for one operational director is also aligned Awards vest between entry level and maximum on a linear basis subject to his business line responsibilities in addition to the performance of the to achieving the stretching aggregate EPS targets.
Challenging performance targets are set each year by The maximum potential award which can vest under the plan is 210 per the Remuneration Committee based on the budget approved by the board cent of salary, assuming the maximum bonus of 60 per cent is earned in and annual bonuses are only payable if these performance targets any year, and wholly invested in LEAP and the maximum three years EPS are met.
For executive directors the maximum bonus opportunity is target is achieved.
Annual bonuses are not pensionable.
For the year The company also operated a long-term incentive plan in the North under review targets were based on operating profit against budget and American business, The Pilkington North America Long-Term Incentive cash generation.
Plan, during the period from October 1999 to September 2002.
Certain For 2003 the bonus payable to executive directors amounts to 494,000 shares awarded under this plan remain in trust and will vest in November which is 58 per cent of the maximum of 854,000.
This plan is now closed to executive directors.
paid was 612,000, which represented 48 per cent of the maximum of 1,272,000.
The Deferred Bonus Plan Since the introduction of LEAP in 2001 the executive directors are not Long-term incentive plan entitled to participate in the Deferred Bonus Plan.
None of the executive The company has a long-term incentive plan which operates directors will be eligible to participate in this plan in respect of bonuses internationally.
This is known as the Leadership Equity Award Plan earned for 2003.
LEAP, which was approved by the shareholders at the annual general Senior executives, who do not participate in LEAP, are eligible to meeting in July 2000 and was introduced in 2001.
The plan has been participate in the Deferred Bonus Plan.
This plan has been designed to designed to provide geared levels of reward in the form of company encourage senior executives to align themselves with the interests of shares for the achievement of exceptional company performance.
shareholders by purchasing and retaining company shares.
Eligible Executive directors and selected senior executives are invited by the participants are invited to invest a proportion of their annual bonus in committee to participate in LEAP.
Participants are invited to invest all company shares.
In return, the company grants the individuals a nil cost or a proportion of their annual after tax bonus in the companys shares.
award to acquire the companys shares, the value of these shares being 32 PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 equivalent to 1.2 times the gross value of the annual bonus deferred.
If the Service agreements individual disposes of the purchased shares before the end of the three year It is the policy of the Remuneration Committee that executive directors period, the award will lapse.
The plan is normally offered on an annual should have contracts terminable by no more than one years notice.
If the individual chooses to leave the company, the award will lapse.
2001, the notice period in the standard service agreement offered to any new executive director has been one year.
The boards policy on executive Share option schemes contracts has now been fully implemented and all existing executive The Group operates executive share option schemes for senior executives directors have a contract with a notice period of no more than one year.
The service agreements for Stuart Chambers, Andrew Robb, Iain Lough Since the introduction of LEAP in 2001 the executive directors have not and Pat Zito are terminable by the company on giving one years notice.
been entitled to participate in the senior executives share option schemes.
Details of the terms of the contracts of each of the executive directors are The senior executives share option schemes provide a potential reward shown in the table set out below.
in shares for improvement in company performance reflected in the share In the event of termination by the company, other than for misconduct, price.
Invitations to participate are made each year to senior executives each directors service agreement provides for a maximum payment of worldwide, except those participating in LEAP.
The option entitles the 12 months pay and benefits.
executive to buy company shares at a fixed exercise price.
The ability to In the case of Stuart Chambers, Iain Lough and Pat Zito those benefits exercise this option is dependent upon the achievement of predetermined which are specifically covered by this arrangement include pension performance targets based on growth in earnings per share over changes in arrangements, private healthcare and the provision of a company car.
the retail price index RPI.
The current target set by the committee is RPI Details of the directors retiring by rotation and seeking re-election are plus three per cent per annum.
Providing the earnings per share targets are referred to on page 31.
Sir Nigel Rudd and William Harrison do not have met for the prescribed three year performance period the share options service agreements but do have letters of appointment for a term, which will become exercisable after three years and up to ten years from the date expire in the case of Sir Nigel Rudd on 31st July 2006 and in the case of of grant.
Should the performance target not be met after three years the William Harrison on 10th September 2004. committee has the discretion to allow re-testing from a fixed base over four years and over five years.
After five years, if the performance target Share ownership has not been met, the options lapse.
The Remuneration Committee has The board strongly believes in the value of employee share ownership decided that, for options granted in or after June 2003, the performance in order to align the interests of employees with those of shareholders.
targets will not be subject to re-testing and accordingly, if the performance The long-term incentive arrangements have been specifically designed targets are not satisfied after three years, the options will lapse.
Options to encourage and facilitate share ownership and many of the Groups are exercisable after the Remuneration Committee has reviewed and senior managers and employees have interests in the companys shares.
confirmed that performance against the conditions set has been met.
The executive directors and approximately 100 senior executives The Group also operates a savings-related scheme for all UK employees, were given share ownership targets to achieve by 2002 or within four which includes the executive directors.
The savings-related scheme was years of appointment.
The executive directors have all achieved their established in 1984 and was last renewed for ten years at the annual targets and as at September 2002 approximately 80 per cent of all general meeting in 2002.
This scheme has a value to the company by executives exceeded their targets.
During the year the share ownership aligning UK employee interests with those of shareholders and provides targets were reviewed for the executive directors and other senior a long-term vehicle to enable employees to benefit from growth in the executives.
As a result, the target for the group chief executive has been companys share price.
The invitation to participate in this scheme made increased to 500,000 shares and for other executive directors to 300,000 in June 2002 offered a three, five, or seven-year contract with an exercise with a target achievement date of June 2004.
Increases have also been price set at a discount of ten per cent on the applicable market price.
An all employee share ownership plan now known as a share incentive plan was approved by shareholders at the annual general meeting in July Policy on external appointments 2000.
No invitations or awards have yet been made under this plan.
The committee believes that the company can benefit from its executive directors holding non-executive appointments and also believes that this Pensions represents a valuable opportunity in terms of personal and professional The company operates pension schemes for selected executives on development.
Such appointments are subject to the approval of the board a worldwide basis.
Pension schemes operate under various national and it is the companys practice that each executive director may only legislation.
In the UK, the company operates both defined benefit and accept one such appointment, and that fees from that appointment may defined contribution schemes.
be retained by the executive director concerned.
All executive directors are entitled to a pension on retirement and, with the exception of Andrew Robb, such pension is calculated in a similar way to Policy on remuneration of non-executive directors pensions provided under the Pilkington Superannuation Scheme.
The pension The remuneration of the non-executive directors is determined by the arrangements for the executive directors are affected by the Inland Revenue board within limits set out in the Articles of Association.
They are not cap on approved pension benefits.
Their arrangements are determined on an eligible for performance-related bonuses or awards under long-term individual basis and are part funded through the Pilkington Superannuation incentive plans, and no pension contributions are made on their behalf.
Scheme or personal pension plans with the unapproved balance being Since June 2000 the annual fees for the non-executive directors have provided through the Pilkington Unfunded Top-Up Scheme.
been paid exclusively in shares.
Date of service agreement Notice period Unexpired term to normal from company retirement date Stuart Chambers 3rd December 2002 12 months 13 years Andrew Robb 1st July 1996 12 months Retiring on 31st December 2003 Iain Lough 7th February 2003 12 months 3 years 8 months Pat Zito 3rd December 2002 12 months 5 years 8 months PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 33 SUMMARY REMUNERATION REPORT CONTINUED PERFORMANCE GRAPH total shareholder return of the FTSE 250 index of companies, of which the In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Summary Financial company is one of the constituent companies.
In this context shareholder Statement Amendment Regulations 2002, below is a line graph comparing return reflects share price movements and assumes all dividends are rethe total shareholder return of the company over the last five years with the invested in the companys shares at the relevant ex-dividend date.
TOTAL SHAREHOLDER RETURN TSR 5-YEAR GRAPH 1998-2003 COVERING THE PERIOD FROM 1st APRIL 1998 TO 31st MARCH 2003 160 FTSE 250 INDEX 140 120 PILKINGTON 100 80 60 40 20 3-MONTH MOVING AVERAGE 0 March 1998 March 1999 March 2000 March 2001 March 2002 March 2003 FINANCIAL YEARS ENDED EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The remuneration of the executive directors, excluding pension contributions, is summarised in the table below: 2003 2002 Salary Other Annual Loss of Total Salary Other Annual Long-term Total 7 benefits bonus office benefits bonus incentive 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 1 Stuart Chambers 521 26 182 729 280 18 93 391 Andrew Robb 340 22 112 474 325 22 108 455 2 Iain Lough 280 19 93 392 66 4 22 92 3 Pat Zito 253 85 107 445 4 6 Paolo Scaroni 173 173 750 14 248 1,012 5 Warren Knowlton 147 47 1,800 1,994 466 112 141 1,204 1,923 1,714 199 494 1,800 4,207 1,887 170 612 1,204 3,873 1 Appointed as group chief executive on 28th May 2002.
2 Appointed to the board on 1st January 2002.
3 Appointed to the board on 28th May 2002.
4 Resigned as an executive director on 30th June 2002.
Denominated in US dollars and translated into sterling at an average exchange rate of 1.55 2002 1.43.
6 Salary includes 36,000 in respect of earned but untaken holidays at the date of resignation.
7 Other than Andrew Robb, who is retiring, the executive directors will use these bonuses to purchase shares for their participation in LEAP.
Other benefits in the above table incorporate all tax assessable benefits expatriate based in the United Kingdom, he receives further benefits in arising from employment by the company.
The major benefits are the accordance with group policy including 70,000 for the provision of provision of a company car and private healthcare for Paolo Scaroni, Stuart accommodation.
The benefits for Andrew Robb include private healthcare Chambers, Iain Lough and Pat Zito.
In addition, because Pat Zito is an and a cash allowance of 16,000 in lieu of the provision of a company car.
34 PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 TSR RE-BASED TO 1st APRIL 1998 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The disclosure under the heading aggregate value of shares allotted and to All non-executive directors are paid exclusively in shares, which they are be allotted at the reference price of 117.53p includes the shares allotted in required to hold for four years, other than to the extent necessary to fund June 2002 and December 2002 at such reference price and the shares to be their tax liability on receipt of the shares.
The details of the remuneration allotted in June 2003 at such reference price in respect of the period from paid and due to the non-executive directors for 2003 are shown below.
2003 2002 Aggregate Market Number of Aggregate Aggregate Number of number of value of shares to be value of shares value of shares shares allotted shares allotted allotted allotted in allotted and to allotted at in respect of in June 2002 shares June 2003 be allotted at the reference year ended and December on dates of the reference price of 31st March 1 2 2002 allotment price of 110.05p 2002 117.53p 000 000 000 Sir Nigel Rudd 142,944 107 71,472 252 240 218,088 Dr. Hans-Peter Keitel 21,784 16 10,892 39 38 34,896 William Harrison 21,784 16 10,892 39 38 34,896 James Leng 26,034 19 14,292 47 44 40,344 Oliver Stocken 26,034 19 14,292 47 44 40,344 Paolo Scaroni 35,735 24 42 274,315 201 121,840 466 404 368,568 It should be noted that: 1 The share prices at close of business on 6th June 2002 and 2nd December 2002, the dates of allotment, as shown by the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange, were 101p and 65.75p respectively.
2 The share prices at close of business on 5th June 2001, 4th December 2001 and 6th June 2002, the dates of allotment, as shown by the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange, were 116p, 108.5p and 101p respectively.
3 During the year ended 31st March 2003 the highest and lowest share prices at close of business, as shown by the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange, were 118.5p and 43.25p respectively.
4 The share price at close of business on 31st March 2003, as shown by the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange, was 49.25p.
DIRECTORS EMOLUMENTS AND OTHER BENEFITS The aggregate emoluments and other benefits of the directors of the company set out below are disclosed in accordance with Part 1 of Schedule 6 to the Companies Act 1985.
2003 2002 Aggregate emoluments 2,873,000 3,073,000 Gains made on exercise of share options 1,048,870 25,982 Amounts paid under long-term incentive schemes 1,204,000 Compensation for loss of office 1,800,000 Pension contributions to money purchase schemes Four executive directors are accruing retirement benefits under defined benefit schemes.
PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 35 GROUP PROFIT AND LOSS ACCOUNT For the year ended 31st March 2003 2003 2002 Note m m Turnover continuing operations Group turnover 3 2,414 2,471 Share of joint ventures and associates turnover 340 334 Turnover including joint ventures and associates 2,754 2,805 Operating profit Groups continuing operations 3 175 189 Share of joint ventures and associates 42 49 Operating profit including joint ventures and associates 217 238 Exceptional items 5 Loss on disposal termination of continuing operations: Loss on disposal termination 3 11 Previous provision utilised 1 2 2 9 Loss on disposal of fixed assets and investments in continuing operations 2 3 4 12 Profit before investment income and interest 213 226 Investment income 1 1 Net interest payable and similar charges 74 66 Profit on ordinary activities before taxation 140 161 Taxation 49 61 Profit on ordinary activities after taxation 91 100 Minority interests including non-equity 23 26 Profit attributable to shareholders 68 74 Dividends 63 62 Retained profit of the Group 5 12 Directors emoluments 3 4 Earnings per share basic 5.4p 6.0p Fully diluted earnings per share basic 5.4p 5.9p The 2002 profit and loss account has been re-presented as described in note 1.
36 PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 SUMMARY GROUP BALANCE SHEET As at 31st March 2003 2003 2002 m m Assets employed Fixed assets Intangible fixed assets 158 163 Tangible fixed assets 1,520 1,498 Investments joint ventures, associates and trade investments 181 239 1,859 1,900 Current assets Stocks 383 412 Debtors 464 457 Investments marketable 33 13 Cash at bank and in hand 42 44 922 926 Creditors amounts falling due within one year 670 652 Net current assets 252 274 Total assets less current liabilities 2,111 2,174 Financed by Creditors amounts falling due after more than one year 793 626 Provisions for liabilities and charges 516 520 1,309 1,146 Deferred income 21 20 1,330 1,166 Capital and reserves Called up share capital 630 627 Reserves 54 80 Total equity shareholders funds 684 707 Minority interests including non-equity 97 301 2,111 2,174 The financial statements on pages 36 to 41 were approved by the directors on 29th May 2003.
Directors Sir Nigel Rudd, I. P. Lough.
STATEMENT OF TOTAL RECOGNISED GAINS AND LOSSES For the year ended 31st March 2003 2003 2002 m m Profit attributable to shareholders of Pilkington plc 68 74 Other recognised losses: Exchange rate movements on foreign currency net investments 33 47 Total recognised gains relating to the year 35 27 PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 37 RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENT IN SHAREHOLDERS FUNDS For the year ended 31st March 2003 2003 2002 m m Profit attributable to shareholders of Pilkington plc 68 74 Dividends 63 62 Exchange rate movements on foreign currency net investments 33 47 Shares issued 3 10 Premium on shares issued 2 10 Net decrease in shareholders funds for the year 23 15 Shareholders funds at beginning of the year 707 722 Shareholders funds at end of the year 684 707 SUMMARY GROUP CASH FLOW STATEMENT For the year ended 31st March 2003 2003 2002 m m Net cash inflow from operating activities note 6 367 262 Dividends received from joint ventures and associates 24 9 Net cash outflow from returns on investments and servicing of finance 73 73 Taxation paid 22 44 Net cash outflow from capital expenditure 161 154 Net cash inflow outflow from acquisitions and disposals 3 5 Net cash inflow outflow before dividends, management of liquid resources and financing 138 5 Equity dividends paid by parent company 58 45 Net cash inflow outflow before use of liquid resources and financing 80 50 Management of liquid resources 20 21 Net cash outflow inflow from financing 74 45 Decrease increase in cash 14 16 RECONCILIATION OF NET CASH FLOW TO MOVEMENT IN NET DEBT For the year ended 31st March 2003 2003 2002 m m Net debt at beginning of the year 704 656 Decrease increase in cash in the year 14 16 Cash outflow inflow from management of liquid resources 20 21 Net increase in loans 144 42 Net decrease increase in obligations under finance leases 19 1 Exchange rate adjustments 38 Net debt at end of the year note 7 861 704 38 PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 NOTES ON THE SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT 1 ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND RE-PRESENTATION OF COMPARATIVE AMOUNTS The comparative results have been re-presented in 2003 to simplify the exceptional cost disclosures.
These results have been prepared on the basis of the accounting policies, which have been consistently applied.
In the financial statements to 31st March 2002 and in preceding periods, the Group treated all redundancy and restructuring costs, including those incurred in the ordinary course of business, as exceptional items charged against operating profit in the profit and loss account.
The directors have reviewed this disclosure and have decided to simplify it and provide a more representative presentation of the results of the business.
Accordingly, redundancy and restructuring costs incurred in the ordinary course of business are charged directly against operating profit without separate disclosure as exceptional items because such costs will continue to be incurred in future years.
This change does not preclude the Group from disclosing material items, as exceptional charges or credits, against operating profit in future years.
As a result of the above change, certain comparative figures have been re-presented as follows: a The Groups operating profit on the profit and loss account was disclosed as 231 million before exceptional items of 42 million.
It has been re-presented as 189 million.
The share of joint ventures and associates operating profit is now shown as 49 million.
In the prior year it was disclosed as 52 million before exceptional items of 3 million.
The 45 million exceptional items continue to be disclosed in note 5. b The Group tax charge was disclosed as 75 million before the impact of exceptional items of 14 million.
It is re-presented as 61 million.
c The reconciliation of operating profit to net cash inflow from operating activities in note 6 has been re-presented.
In prior years exceptional items included both redundancy and restructuring items and those relating to the disposal and termination of operations.
The former items have been adjusted over the normal cash flow headings as set out in note 6 and the latter remain treated as exceptional items.
Depreciation and amortisation was disclosed as 175 million before exceptional depreciation of 11 million.
It has been re-presented as 186 million.
Provisions were disclosed as 36 million before exceptional provisions of 16 million.
They have been re-presented as 52 million.
Exceptional cash spent was disclosed as 54 million, which included 47 million relating to redundancy and restructuring spend.
This has been re-presented as 7 million and now relates exclusively to the termination of operations.
2003 2002 2 RECONCILIATION TO NON-STATUTORY DISCLOSURES m m a Profit before goodwill amortisation, exceptional items and taxation Profit before taxation 140 161 Goodwill amortisation 9 10 Exceptional items 4 12 153 183 b Earnings per share excluding exceptional items Profit for the year attributable to shareholders 68 74 Exceptional items after tax and minority interest 4 10 72 84 millions millions Average number of shares for basic earnings per share calculation 1,248 1,234 Average number of shares for fully diluted earnings per share calculation 1,250 1,251 pence pence Adjusted earnings per share excluding exceptional items 5.8 6.8 Adjusted fully diluted earnings per share excluding exceptional items 5.8 6.7 PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 39 NOTES ON THE SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT CONTINUED 2003 2002 Turnover Operating Turnover Operating profit loss profit loss 3 CONTINUING OPERATIONS m m m m Building products 1,216 137 1,236 178 Automotive products 1,183 67 1,169 40 Group operations and technology management 15 20 66 19 Goodwill amortisation 9 10 2,414 175 2,471 189 Segmental analysis with goodwill amortisation analysed to business lines: Building products 1,216 132 1,236 172 Automotive products 1,183 63 1,169 36 Group operations and technology management 15 20 66 19 2,414 175 2,471 189 Europe 1,458 134 1,414 162 North America 651 25 695 16 Rest of the world 290 36 296 30 Group operations and technology management 15 20 66 19 2,414 175 2,471 189 Operating profit loss for 2002 has been re-presented, as described in note 1, as follows: Pre-exceptional Re-presentation Operating operating of redundancy profit loss profit loss and as previously restructuring re-presented reported costs m m m Building products 193 15 178 Automotive products 66 26 40 Group operations and technology management 18 1 19 Goodwill 10 10 231 42 189 Europe 194 32 162 North America 21 5 16 Rest of the world 34 4 30 Group operations and technology management 18 1 19 231 42 189 Segmental analysis with goodwill analysed to business lines: Building products 187 15 172 Automotive products 62 26 36 Group operations and technology management 18 1 19 231 42 189 40 PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 2003 2002 4 NET OPERATING ASSETS LIABILITIES OF CONTINUING OPERATIONS m m Building products 822 805 Automotive products 638 625 Group operations and technology management 2 3 Goodwill 158 163 1,616 1,590 Segmental analysis with goodwill analysed to business lines: Building products 920 910 Automotive products 698 683 Group operations and technology management 2 3 1,616 1,590 Europe 1,065 1,001 North America 286 331 Rest of the world 267 261 Group operations and technology management 2 3 1,616 1,590 5 EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS These comprise losses on the sale and termination of operations of 2 million 2002 9 million and losses on the disposal of fixed assets and investments of 2 million 2002 3 million.
There are no operating exceptional items in 2003, as described in note 1.
The operating exceptional items in Group subsidiaries reported in the year to 31st March 2002 comprised redundancy and restructuring costs amounting to 42 million and additionally there were restructuring costs in an associate of 3 million.
2003 2002 6 RECONCILIATION OF OPERATING PROFIT TO NET CASH INFLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES m m Operating profit 175 189 Depreciation and amortisation 188 186 Movements in working capital: Stocks and work in progress 32 29 Debtors 7 12 Creditors 20 38 Provisions 14 52 Other items 1 1 Net cash inflow from operating activities before exceptional items 369 269 Exceptional items termination of operations 2 7 Net cash inflow from operating activities 367 262 The 2002 reconciliation of operating profit to net cash inflow from operating activities has been re-presented as described in note 1.
2003 2002 7 NET DEBT m m Loans and overdrafts 907 714 Finance leases 29 47 Gross borrowings 936 761 Less cash and marketable investments 75 57 Net debt 861 704 PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 41 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS STATEMENT to the shareholders of Pilkington plc We have examined the summary financial statement of Pilkington plc.
for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and The directors are responsible for preparing the summarised annual review dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in in accordance with applicable law.
Our responsibility is to report to you other jurisdictions.
our opinion on the consistency of the summary financial statement within the summarised annual review with the annual financial statements, Basis of opinion directors report and the report on directors remuneration and its We conducted our work in accordance with Bulletin 1999 6 The auditors compliance with the relevant requirements of section 251 of the United statement on the summary financial statement issued by the Auditing Kingdom Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
We Practices Board for use in the United Kingdom.
also read the other information contained in the summarised annual review and consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any Opinion apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the summary In our opinion the summary financial statement is consistent with financial statement.
the annual financial statements, the directors report and the report on This statement, including the opinion, has been prepared for and only directors remuneration of Pilkington plc for the year ended 31st March for the companys members as a body in accordance with Section 251 of 2003 and complies with the applicable requirements of section 251 of the Companies Act 1985 and for no other purpose.
We do not, in giving the Companies Act 1985 and the regulations made thereunder.
this opinion, accept or assume responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person to whom this report is shown or in to whose hands it may come save where expressly agreed by our prior consent in writing.
 LLP The maintenance and integrity of the Pilkington website is the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors responsibility of the directors.
The work carried out by us does not involve London consideration of these matters and, accordingly, we accept no responsibility 29th May 2003 42 PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The summary financial statement does not contain sufficient ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS information to allow as full an understanding of the results and state It is now possible for the company to make certain communications such as of affairs of the company and of the Group as would be provided the annual report and accounts available to its shareholders electronically.
by the full annual report and accounts.
If you require more detailed If you would like to receive future communications from the company information, you may obtain, free of charge, a copy of the full annual by e-mail, then you will need to register online at report and accounts from the companys Registrars, Computershare www.
com register uk and then select Pilkington plc.
Investor Services PLC, PO Box 82, The Pavilions, Bridgwater Road, You will also need to have your Shareholder Reference Number Bristol BS99 7NH.
available when you first log in located on the enclosed Form of Proxy, your share certificate or the tax voucher accompanying your most recent Shareholders who receive only the summary financial statement will dividend.
Alternatively you can go to www.
com, Corporate continue to do so.
However, if you would like to receive the full annual Information, Investor Relations.
report and accounts in future, please write to the companys Registrars.
The use of electronic communications is entirely voluntary.
If you wish to continue receiving communications from the company by post in the ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING traditional manner then you need take no action.
The notice convening the companys annual general meeting at the Pilkington ONLINE VOTING ON AGM RESOLUTIONS European Technical Centre, Hall Lane, Lathom, Nr Ormskirk, Lancashire You can vote online at www.
com voting uk from 9.00 am on Monday 28th July 2003 at 11.30 am, is contained in a separate on 24th June 2003 until 11.30 am on 26th July 2003.
You will need your document issued to shareholders.
Shareholder Reference Number and unique PIN number provided on your Form of Proxy for security verification.
DIVIDEND The directors recommend a final dividend for the year ended 31st March CREATE A PORTFOLIO WITH INVESTOR CENTRE 2003 of 3.25p per share, with scrip alternative, payable on 1st August 2003 Investor Centre is a free portfolio management system operated by the to shareholders on the Register on 13th June 2003. companys Registrars, which will enable you to view details of all your Shareholders with an existing scrip dividend mandate will, subject as shareholdings that the Registrars administer.
You are able to add other hereinafter provided, automatically receive new shares in lieu of a cash shareholdings to the portfolio.
The portfolio shows the current market dividend.
Scrip dividend mandates are available from the companys value of your shareholding prices are normally only 20 minutes delayed.
Registrars and on our website and should be completed and returned to In addition, you can view price histories and trading graphs for all them no later than 15th July 2003.
Shareholders wishing to cancel an companies listed on the London Stock Exchange, and keep up to date existing scrip mandate should also write to the Registrars before that date.
The offer of a scrip dividend is subject to the terms of the Pilkington plc If you wish to use this service, register free with Investor Centre at Scrip Dividend Scheme and to the shareholders approving the continued www.
com investorcentre uk by clicking Register now.
operation of the Pilkington plc Scrip Dividend Scheme at the annual You will need to have available your Shareholder Reference Number.
Please telephone 0870 873 5805 for Investor Centre enquiries.
The scrip dividend share value will be calculated on the basis of the average of the middle market quotations of Pilkington shares on the SHAREGIFT London Stock Exchange for the five dealing days commencing on The Orr Mackintosh Foundation operates a charity share donation 11th June 2003. scheme for shareholders with small parcels of shares whose value makes it uneconomical to sell them.
Details of the scheme are available from the Announcement of results 29th May 2003 company secretary or on the ShareGift internet site, www.
Ex-dividend date 11th June 2003 Record date 13th June 2003 AMALGAMATING YOUR SHAREHOLDING Latest return date for scrip dividend mandates If you receive duplicate mailings, it may be because we have more than or cancellation of existing mandates 15th July 2003 one shareholding in your name.
To ensure that your shares are registered Annual general meeting 28th July 2003 correctly and amalgamated into one account, please contact the Registrars Dividend payment date and first date of on 0870 702 0000. dealing in scrip dividend shares 1st August 2003 REGISTER FOR E-MAIL ALERT SERVICE For the year ending 31st March 2004 If you wish to register for E-mail Alert Service go to Announcement of interim results 5th November 2003 www.
com, and Interim dividend payment date Select Corporate Information, then E-mail Alert Service to be confirmed December 2003 Enter your e-mail address Choose what you want to receive.
PAYMENT OF DIVIDEND DIRECTLY INTO BANK ACCOUNTS If you currently receive dividends by cheque, you may wish to consider You can unsubscribe from this service at any time.
having future dividends paid directly into your bank account.
You will benefit from no postal delay, no risk of the cheque being lost and avoid the UNSOLICITED MAIL inconvenience of having to go to the bank or building society.
In addition, The law obliges the company to make its register of members available this will help the company to minimise costs in the future which will to other organisations.
Because of this, you may receive mail you have benefit all shareholders.
You will be sent confirmation of the payment not asked for.
If you wish to limit the amount of personally addressed with your tax voucher.
Simply complete a mandate form available from the unsolicited mail you receive, please write for information and an application companys Registrars or the form may be downloaded from their website.
form to the Mailing Preference Service, Freepost 22, London W1E 4EZ.
PILKINGTON PLC REVIEW 2003 43 SHAREHOLDER CONTACTS Contact Address Telephone E-mail Facsimile SHAREHOLDER ENQUIRIES Registrars: PO Box 82 0870 702 0000 web.
com PRINTED Wace Corporate Print www.
com Head Office and Registered Office Prescot Road St Helens WA10 3TT Telephone: 01744 28882 Fax: 01744 692660 www.
