ACCOUNTING POLICIES BASIS OF ACCOUNTING assets at acquisition over the fair value of consideration paid to acquire a The Groups financial statements are prepared under the historical subsidiary undertaking, joint venture or associate.
Prior to 1st April 1995, cost convention in accordance with applicable United Kingdom all goodwill arising on acquisitions was written off to reserves.
Where an acquired undertaking is subsequently sold and where The Group has decided to change the disclosure of all redundancy and goodwill has been previously written off to reserves and can be identified, restructuring costs in reporting this years results in order to simplify the the profit or loss on disposal is calculated after including goodwill in the disclosure and give a more representative presentation of the results of the profit and loss account for the year.
All redundancy and restructuring costs incurred in the ordinary Goodwill carried in the balance sheet is amortised, on a straight line basis, course of business are charged directly against operating profit without over periods not exceeding 20 years, such periods being chosen to reflect the separate disclosure as exceptional items because such items will continue expected useful economic lives.
These periods are the periods over which the to be incurred in the future.
Full details of this change, together with directors estimate that the values of the underlying businesses acquired are details of the re-presentation of the 2002 figures are set out in note 1. expected to match the value of the underlying assets.
In addition, the transitional profit and loss account and other disclosure requirements under FRS 17 Retirement Benefits have been incorporated FOREIGN CURRENCIES within note 39.
Assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, including those of A summary of the principal Group accounting policies, which have been subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates, are translated into consistently applied, is set out below.
sterling at year end exchange rates.
The results and cash flows of overseas subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates are translated into GROUP CONSOLIDATION sterling at the average exchange rates ruling during the financial year.
The Groups financial statements consolidate the results and financial Where the Groups operations are conducted in countries where there is position of Pilkington plc, the parent company, and all its subsidiary hyperinflation, the results and balance sheets are adjusted in accordance with undertakings, made up to 31st March in each year.
Where appropriate, the the indexation rules set out in UITF 9. financial statements of overseas subsidiary undertakings are adjusted to Exchange differences arising on the translation of the net assets of overseas conform with the Groups accounting policies.
Unrealised profits on intrasubsidiary undertakings, joint ventures and associates and on the translation group transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
of foreign currency borrowings used to hedge investments in overseas Where subsidiary undertakings are acquired or disposed of during the subsidiaries are taken to reserves.
Other transactional exchange differences year, the Groups profit and loss account reflects their results from the date are taken to the profit and loss account.
that control passes to the Group on an acquisition and to the date that the Where a subsidiary undertaking borrows in a currency other than its undertaking ceases to be a subsidiary either on disposal or through the loss own reporting currency, any exchange gains or losses arising on translation of control exercised over the undertaking.
into sterling are included in the profit and loss account and are disclosed within net interest payable and similar charges.
JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES The Group treats investments in undertakings which are jointly controlled TURNOVER as joint ventures.
Investments in undertakings where the Group has a Group turnover is based on the invoiced value of all goods despatched and participating interest, where the investment is held for the long-term and services provided prior to the year end, excluding VAT and other sales based where the Group exercises significant influence, are treated as associates.
taxes and net of trade discounts.
Turnover also includes the proportion of The Groups share of turnover and the component elements of the profit the sales value of long-term contracts principally the construction of float and loss account are disclosed separately for both joint ventures and lines for glass manufacture based on their state of completion.
Group associates in the Groups profit and loss account.
turnover includes sales by Group undertakings to joint ventures and Joint ventures are included using the gross equity method under which associates, but excludes sales by joint ventures and associates.
the share of gross assets and liabilities is disclosed on the balance sheet.
Associates are included using the equity method under which the share of DEFERRED INCOME net assets is shown.
Regional development grants and other investment grants are taken Joint ventures and associates are accounted for on the basis of audited to deferred income and are released to the profit and loss account in accounts, prepared to an accounting date not more than three months prior appropriate instalments relating to the type and nature of expenditure to the Groups year end, or where these are not available, on the basis of they are intended to fund.
unaudited management accounts prepared up to the Groups accounting date.
Where appropriate, the financial statements of overseas joint ventures and RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT associates are adjusted to conform with the Groups accounting policies.
Expenditure on pure or applied research and development, using existing know-how to produce new or substantially improved products or to install GOODWILL new processes prior to the commencement of commercial production or to Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of consideration paid to improve substantially those products or processes already in commercial acquire a subsidiary undertaking, joint venture or associate over the Groups production, is written off to the profit and loss account as incurred.
share of the fair value of its separable net assets at acquisition.
Negative Expenditure on research laboratories, equipment and plant is capitalised goodwill represents the excess of the Groups share of the separable net as tangible fixed assets and written off over its expected future life.
PILKINGTON DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2003 15
