27 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accounting convention The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention and in accordance with the Oil Industry Accounting Committee Statement of Recommended Practice Accounting for Oil and Gas Exploration, Development, Production and Decommissioning Activities and applicable accounting standards.
During the year, the group has adopted a more commonly used method of calculation of Indonesian deferred tax.
This change has resulted in Indonesian deferred tax now being calculated on a timing difference basis in line with other corporate taxes.
This change in the method of calculation has given rise to an increase in the deferred tax liability in 2002 reflected as a prior year adjustment of 56.5 million, of which 33.1 million was released in 2003, related to the assets disposed of as part of the corporate restructuring.
The profit for 2002 has been adjusted for an additional charge of 2.4 million and in 2003 the impact of the change has been to reduce the tax charge by 6.9 million.
Consolidation Except as noted below, the group accounts consolidate the accounts of Premier Oil plc the company and all its subsidiary undertakings drawn up to 31 December each year.
No profit and loss account is presented for the company as provided by Section 230 of the Companies Act 1985.
Entities in which the group holds an interest on a long-term basis and are jointly controlled by the group and one or more other venturers under a contractual arrangement are treated as joint ventures.
In the group accounts Premiers proportion of operating profit or loss, exceptional items, interest, taxation, gross assets and gross liabilities of the joint ventures are included gross equity method.
The company was incorporated on 31 July 2002 having the name Dalglen No.
The name was changed on 13 September 2002 to Premier Oil Group Ltd. On 10 March 2003 the company re-registered as a public limited company.
Up to 11 March 2003 the companys assets and paid up capital amounted to 2 two shares of 1 each and it did not trade, declare or pay any dividends or make any other distributions.
Effective from 15 July 2003, the company acquired 100 per cent of the issued share capital and Non-Voting Convertible Shares of Premier Oil Group Ltd formerly Premier Oil plc and also changed its name to Premier Oil plc following a Scheme of Arrangement under section 425 of the Companies Act 1985.
The Scheme of Arrangement Court Scheme involved the cancellation of the issued share capital of Premier Oil Group Ltd amounting to 78,885,490 1,577,709,801 shares of 5 pence each and Non-Voting Convertible Shares of 1,138,364 22,767,288 shares of 5 pence each : the issuance of 63,211,672 1,577,709,801 shares of 4 pence each of share capital and 912,183 22,767,288 shares of 4 pence each of Non-Voting Convertible Shares of Premier Oil Group Ltd to the company.
For each Ordinary Share cancelled, one 17.5 pence Ordinary Share was issued to the former shareholders of Premier Oil Group Ltd and for each Non-Voting Convertible Share cancelled, one 17.5 pence NonVoting Convertible Share was issued to the former holders of similar shares in Premier Oil Group Ltd. On 12 September 2003, the company pursuant to the same Court Scheme, reduced and consolidated its authorised, issued and paid up share capital as follows: Cancelling paid up capital on each Ordinary Share and each Non-Voting Convertible Share to the extent of 12.5 pence and reducing the nominal value of each of those shares from 17.5 pence to five pence: Cancelling the Ordinary Shares and Non-Voting Convertible Shares in the names of Amerada Hess Ltd and Petronas International Corporation Ltd: Every 10 Ordinary Shares of five pence each in issue were consolidated into one Ordinary Share of 50 pence.
The Court Scheme has been accounted for in accordance with the principles of merger accounting as it satisfies the criteria under group reconstruction provisions of FRS 6 Acquisitions and Mergers.
The combined results have been presented as if the Court Scheme has been in effect since 1 January 2002.
The consolidated profit and loss account combines the results of the company with those of the Premier Oil group for the year ended 31 December 2003.
The comparative figures combine the results of the company from incorporation to 31 December 2002 with those of the Premier Oil group for the year ended 31 December 2002.
The comparative consolidated balance sheet as at 31 December 2002 combines the balance sheet of the company and that of Premier Oil group as at that date.
Turnover Turnover represents the sales value of the groups share of petroleum production during the year.
Revenue receivable under take-or-pay gas sales contracts in respect of undelivered volumes is accounted for as deferred income.
Fixed assets a Capitalisation of oil and gas expenditure The group follows the full cost method of accounting.
All expenditure relating to the acquisition, exploration, appraisal and development of oil and gas interests are capitalised in the relevant cost pools.
Proceeds on disposal of an interest are credited to the relevant cost pool.
Considering the impact of the restructuring, the group has revised categorisation of its costs from the previous six costs pools: UK, Southern Europe, Far East, Pakistan, Australia and International to the following five: North West Europe: This pool will contain groups assets in the UK and any new production assets in the North Sea.
Premier Oil Annual Report & Accounts 2003 28 ACCOUNTING POLICIES Far East: All investments in and around Far East Asia including Indonesia and Philippines.
West Africa: Exploration and production onshore and offshore Western Africa including groups acquisition of Mauritanian fields and exploration rights in Gabon, Guinea Bissau, and SADR.
South Asia: Exploration interests in Pakistan excluding PKP joint venture, India and any other South Asian country in the future.
Other: For new development areas.
Intangible fixed assets consisting of expenditure on significant new exploration areas and licences are excluded from the capitalised tangible cost pools pending determination of commercial reserves.
Capitalised exploration expenditure is carried forward until either it is declared part of a commercial development or the licence area is abandoned, at which point the relevant total is transferred to the relevant tangible cost pool.
Where there are no development and producing assets within the cost pool, the transferred exploration costs are charged immediately to the profit and loss account.
The financing cost of borrowings in respect of a field development and related foreign exchange gains and losses are capitalised until production commences from that field.
b Depreciation Amortisation of expenditure held in each tangible cost pool is provided using the unit of production method based on entitlement to proved and probable reserves of oil and gas and estimated future development expenditure expected to be incurred to access these reserves.
Changes in reserves are accounted for prospectively.
Pipeline assets are depreciated on a unit of throughput basis.
Depreciation on other fixed assets is provided on a straight line basis to write them off over their estimated useful lives but not exceeding five years.
c Impairment of value An estimate of the discounted future net revenues is made where there are indicators of impairment and compared to the net capitalised expenditure held in each cost pool.
Where, in the opinion of the directors, there is an impairment, tangible asset values are written down accordingly through the profit and loss account.
Decommissioning Provision for decommissioning is recognised in full at the commencement of oil and gas production.
The amount recognised is the present value of the estimated future expenditure.
A corresponding tangible fixed asset is also created at an amount equal to the provision.
This is subsequently depreciated as part of the capital costs of the production facilities.
Any change in the present value of the estimated expenditure is reflected as an adjustment to the provision and the fixed asset.
Stores, crude oil and products These are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Under and over lifts of crude oil and stocks relating to production are recorded at market value.
Deferred taxation Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events have occurred at that date that will result in an obligation to pay more, or a right to pay less or to receive more tax, with the following exceptions: Provision is made for deferred tax that would arise on remittance of the retained earnings of overseas subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures only to the extent that, at the balance sheet date, dividends have been accrued as receivable.
Deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that the directors consider that it is more likely than not that there will be suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is measured on an undiscounted basis at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which timing differences reverse, based on tax rates and laws enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
Petroleum taxes are provided on a unit of production basis over the estimated remaining life of each producing field.
The total tax for each producing field is calculated after deducting all expenditure incurred on that field.
Deferred petroleum taxes are provided for on the difference between the amount of tax calculated on the unit of production basis and current tax payable.
Translation of foreign currencies In the accounts of individual companies, transactions denominated in foreign currencies are recorded in the local currency at actual exchange rates as of the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the period end are reported at the rates of exchange prevailing at the period end.
Any gain or loss arising from a change in exchange rate, subsequent to the date of the transaction, is included as an exchange gain or loss in the profit and loss account.
For the purposes of consolidation the closing rate method is used under which translation gains and losses on the opening net assets of overseas undertakings are shown as a movement in reserves.
Profit and loss accounts of overseas undertakings and foreign branches are translated at the average exchange rate for the period.
Exchange differences on foreign currency loans, to the extent that they relate to investments in operations accounted for in foreign currencies, are taken to reserves.
29 Pension costs The group operates a defined benefit pension scheme, which requires contributions to be made to a separately administered fund.
Contribution to this fund is charged in the profit and loss account so as to spread the cost of pension over the employees working lives within the group.
The regular cost is attributed to individual years using the attained age method.
Variations in pension cost, which are identified as a result of actuarial valuations, are amortised over the average expected remaining working lives of employees in proportion to their expected payroll costs.
Differences between the amounts funded and the amounts charged in the profit and loss account are treated as either provisions or prepayments in the balance sheet.
Royalties Royalties are charged as production costs to the profit and loss account in the period in which the related production is accounted for.
Leasing and hire purchase commitments Rentals payable for assets under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the lease term.
Derivative financial instruments The group uses derivative financial instruments derivatives to manage its exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and oil price fluctuations.
Foreign currency forward contracts are used to hedge future foreign currency commitments.
Gains and losses on these contracts are recognised at maturity.
The group may enter into interest rate swap transactions in its management of interest rate exposure.
Interest rate swap agreements involve the exchange of fixed and floating interest rate payment obligations without exchange of the underlying principal amounts.
The results of these transactions are recognised in interest expense in the period hedged by the agreements.
Gains and losses arising on oil price derivatives are recognised in revenues from oil production when hedged volumes are sold.
The group only undertakes derivative transactions that directly relate to the underlying business of the group.
Cash and liquid resources Cash, for the purposes of the cash flow statement, comprises cash in hand and deposits repayable on demand, less overdrafts payable on demand.
Liquid resources comprise funds held in term deposit accounts.
Joint ventures and joint arrangements The group accounts for joint arrangements which are not entities by recording its share of the arrangements assets, liabilities and cash flows.
Premier Oil Annual Report & Accounts 2003
