co. uk Notice of Annual General Meeting NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Annual General Meeting of the company will be held 2005 the directors may at their sole discretion increase the total fees, the at The Ramside Hall Hotel, Carrville, Durham, DH1 1TD on Friday 23 April, 2004 at percentage increase not to exceed the increase in the UK index of wage inflation 11.30 am to transact the following business: or, in the absence of such index, the index which in the opinion of the directors is the closest to the UK index of wage inflation for the previous calendar year.
To consider and adopt the Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2003, together with the reports of the directors and auditors thereon.
To declare a final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2003, on the ordinary That the company be and is hereby granted general and unconditional authority shares of the company, of 13.4p per share.
Resolution 2 to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of the Companies Act 1985 on the London Stock Exchange of ordinary shares of 5p each in its 3.
To approve the Directors Remuneration Report for the year ended 31 December capital PROVIDED THAT: 2003.
Resolution 3 i this power shall be limited so that the number of ordinary shares of 5p 4.
To elect Mr. S. G. Batey a director of the company.
Resolution 4 each which may be acquired pursuant to this authority does not exceed 29,255,257 ordinary shares and shall expire on 23 July 2005, or if earlier, 5.
To re-elect directors retiring by rotation under the terms of the Articles of Association.
at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting: and a Mr. A. M. Saxton Resolution 5 ii the price which may be paid for such ordinary shares does not exceed 5 per cent above the average of the middle market quotations as derived b Mrs. A. V. M. Palmer Resolution 6 from The Stock Exchange Official List for the five business days before the purchase is made and is not less than 5p per share in each case exclusive c Mr. M. J. Allen Resolution 7 of expenses.
To re-appoint  LLP as auditor to the company and to d Ordinary Resolution Resolution 12 authorise the directors to fix the auditors remuneration.
Resolution 8 That The Arriva plc Share Incentive Plan 2004, the details of which are provided 7.
As special business to consider and if thought fit pass the following resolutions: in the letter from the Chairman to shareholders accompanying this Notice of Meeting, be approved and that the directors be authorised to do all things as a Special Resolution Resolution 9 are necessary to secure the approval of the Inland Revenue thereto including making any amendments that the directors may deem necessary to secure That the directors, pursuant to the general authority conferred by an ordinary such approval.
resolution passed at the Annual General Meeting of the company held on 27 April 2001, be and they are hereby empowered under Section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to allot for cash equity securities either pursuant to the By order of the Board authority so conferred or where the equity securities are held by the company as treasury shares as if Section 89 1 of that Act did not apply to such allotment, D P TURNER Secretary PROVIDED THAT this power shall: Registered Office: Admiral Way i be limited to the allotment of equity securities, pursuant to a rights issue, Doxford International Business Park open offer or other pre-emptive offer, in favour of ordinary shareholders, Sunderland where the equity securities, respectively attributable to the interests of all SR3 3XP ordinary shareholders, are proportionate as nearly as practicable to the number of ordinary shares held by them subject to such exclusions or other 25 March 2004 arrangements as the directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation to fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems under the laws or the requirements of any recognised regulatory body or any stock exchange in NOTES any territory overseas : and 1.
A member entitled to attend and vote at this meeting may appoint one or more proxies, who need not be members of the company, to attend and vote on his behalf.
ii be limited to the allotment otherwise than pursuant to sub paragraph i above or pursuant to The Arriva plc Share Incentive Scheme, The Arriva plc 2.
A proxy form is enclosed for use in respect of Resolutions 1 to 12.
Forms of proxy Savings Related Share Option Scheme, The Arriva plc 1994 Executive Share must be received at the transfer office of the company at least 48 hours before the Option Scheme, The Arriva plc Long Term Incentive Plan 2000 and, subject to meeting whether in manual or electronic format.
Completion and submission of the shareholder approval, The Arriva plc Share Incentive Plan 2004 of equity proxy form will not preclude the shareholder from attending and voting at the Annual securities to an aggregate nominal amount of 487,588: and General Meeting or any adjournment thereof.
iii expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the 3.
A statement of transactions of the directors in the shares of the company together company or, if earlier, the day which is 15 months from the passing of this with copies of any directors service contracts, will be available for inspection during Resolution, save that the company is hereby enabled to make an offer or business hours from the date hereof until the day of the Annual General Meeting at the agreement before such expiry, which would or might require equity securities registered office and at the venue of the Annual General Meeting from 11.15 am until to be allotted after such expiry and the directors may allot equity securities in its conclusion.
pursuance of such offer or agreement as if the power conferred hereby had not expired.
If approved, the proposed final dividend of 13.4p per ordinary share will be paid on 4 May 2004, to shareholders on the Register at 5 pm on 2 April 2004. b Special Resolution Resolution 10 5.
Copies of the trust deed and the rules of the proposed Arriva plc Share Incentive Plan That the Articles of Association of the company be and they are hereby 2004 will be available for inspection at the registered office of the company during amended by the deletion of Article 86 a and its substitution by the following normal business hours on each business day from the date of this Notice until the new article 86 a : Annual General Meeting and at the place of the Meeting one hour before, and until the conclusion of the Meeting.
Copies of the trust deed and the rules of the proposed 86 a Unless and until otherwise determined by the company in general meeting, Arriva plc Share Incentive Plan 2004 will also be available for inspection during the same the total fees of the directors other than any alternate directors shall not exceed hours at the offices of N. M. Rothschild & Sons Limited, New Court, St. Swithins Lane, 400,000 per annum and such fees shall be divisible among the directors as they London, EC4P 4DU and Merrill Lynch International, 2 King Edward Street, London, may agree, or, failing agreement, equally except that, unless the company in EC1A 1HQ.
general meeting determines otherwise, the remuneration shall be deemed to accrue from day to day.
With effect from each 1 January commencing 1 January Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003 67
