co. uk Accounting Policies a Basis of accounting The accounts are prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
The Group prepares its accounts on the historical cost basis of accounting as modified by the revaluation of certain tangible fixed assets.
b Consolidation i The Group profit and loss account and balance sheet include the accounts of Arriva plc and all its group undertakings from 1 January 2003 or date of acquisition to 31 December 2003 or date of disposal.
ii Intra-group sales and profits are eliminated on consolidation so that sales and profits relate to third party sales only.
c Goodwill For acquisitions after 1 January 1998, goodwill, which represents the excess of cost of acquisitions of subsidiary companies and businesses over the value attributed to their net assets, is capitalised and is amortised through the profit and loss account by equal instalments over its estimated useful life of up to a maximum of 20 years.
Goodwill previously eliminated against reserves has not been reinstated.
Goodwill relating to businesses acquired prior to 1998 and previously eliminated against reserves is only charged to the profit and loss account on the subsequent disposal of any business to which it related.
d Stocks Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
e Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost or valuation, net of depreciation and any provision for impairment.
Depreciation is calculated to write off the cost or valuation of tangible fixed assets on the following basis: Freehold properties 2% per annum on cost or valuation Leasehold properties In equal annual instalments over life of lease Fixtures, fittings, plant and machinery 10% to 33% per annum on cost Company vehicles 24% to 48% per annum on cost Short-term rental vehicles 20% to 24% per annum on cost Buses and coaches Over periods up to 15 years f Deferred taxation The group accounting policy is to provide for deferred tax on all timing differences except those arising from the revaluation of fixed assets for which there is no binding agreement to sell or on the undistributed profits of overseas subsidiaries.
Deferred tax is calculated at the rates at which it is estimated the tax will arise.
The deferred tax provision is not discounted to net present value.
g Finance lease and operating lease contracts Assets utilised by the Group which are acquired under finance lease contracts are recorded in the balance sheet as tangible fixed assets and the related obligations to pay future rentals net of finance charges are included in creditors.
Rentals under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight line basis over the lease term.
h Pensions The Group operates retirement benefit schemes, both defined benefit and defined contribution schemes, which cover the majority of its full-time employees including the executive directors.
In respect of the defined benefit schemes the expected regular cost of pensions is charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the cost of pensions over the average expected service period of employees in the schemes.
The pension cost is assessed in accordance with the advice of independent qualified actuaries.
Contributions payable under the money purchase schemes are charged to the profit and loss account as they arise.
i Foreign currencies The trading results of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated into sterling using average rates of exchange.
Foreign currency assets and liabilities are translated into sterling at the rates of exchange ruling at the year end.
Differences on exchange arising from the retranslation of the opening net investment in subsidiary undertakings and the associated borrowings or hedging instruments, and from the translation of the results of those companies, are taken to reserves and are included within the statement of total recognised gains and losses.
Foreign currency transactions arising during the year are translated into sterling at the rate of exchange ruling on the date of the transaction.
Any exchange differences so arising are dealt with through the profit and loss account.
46 Arriva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2003
