Related Party Transactions Transactions between the Company or its subsidiaries with joint ventures of the Group are disclosed in note 12.
Directors remuneration and interests in shares and share options are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
During the year David Potter made a contribution of 90,000 2002 90,000 towards running costs for offices which are used for both Psion and non-Psion activities.
The level of contribution made by David Potter was fixed for a period of five years with effect from March 2001 and approved by a committee of the non-executive directors of the Company.
In March 2003 Charles Davies bought his company car for 6,000, which was equivalent to the net book value and estimated market value of the car.
Subsequent Events On 2 February 2004, Psion completed the disposal of Psion Software to Visto Corporation.
The Board had concluded that this activity would be best developed within an organisation that was focused on the development of personal information management and e-mail software for phones and that the sale of Psion Software was more likely to provide a better financial outcome for Psion than closing the Psion Software business.
Psion paid 0.2 million to Visto Corporation upon completion of the transaction, however, Psion may benefit in future years from deferred consideration which is based upon the revenue recognised from a number of Visto products.
The deferred consideration can be earned over the four years from the date of completion and is capped at $5 million.
On 8 February 2004, Psion entered into a binding agreement, subject to shareholder approval and regulatory authority clearance, to sell its entire shareholding in Symbian Limited to Nokia OY.
Under the agreement Psion will receive an initial fixed payment of 93.5 million in cash and further contingent payments will be equal to the total number of devices containing Symbian OS sold by licensees in 2004 and 2005, respectively, multiplied by 84.0 pence per unit.
Based upon analyst mean consensus estimates of units to be sold in these years the total of these payments would amount to 42.2 million.
The contingent payment structure enables Psion to retain exposure to the performance of Symbian in the medium term.
