Statement of accounting policies Principal accounting policies Tangible fixed assets The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost Tangible fixed assets are stated at historical cost less accounting convention, and comply with applicable UK accumulated depreciation.
Accounting Standards including UITF 38 Accounting for Depreciation ESOPs and with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 except as set out under Goodwill below.
Depreciation is provided to write down tangible fixed assets to their estimated residual values as follows: FRS 17 Retirement benefits The Group is following the transitional arrangements under Land and buildings The cost of each freehold, long and short leasehold building which additional disclosure on retirement benefits is required in the notes to the accounts for the year ended 31 December is depreciated on a straight line basis over its estimated useful life.
The estimated remaining useful life of the buildings 2003 see note 32. averages 21 years.
Long leases are defined as those having UITF 38 Accounting for ESOPs & UITF 17 Employee share 50 or more years unexpired at the balance sheet date.
schemes Freehold land is not depreciated.
Although not mandatory for accounting periods ending Vehicles, plant and machinery and assets held on contract hire before 22 June 2004 the Group has decided to adopt the abstract and the consequential amendments to UITF 17 The cost of vehicles is depreciated to estimated residual value on a straight line basis at annual rates between 20% Employee share schemes in full for the year ended 31 December 2003.
Further details regarding the adoption of and 33%.
Plant and machinery is depreciated on a straight line basis at annual rates between 7% and 20%.
As permitted by UITF 17 the Group does not apply the requirements to its Inland Revenue Fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment approved Save-As-You-Earn scheme.
The cost of fixtures, fittings, tools and equipment is Consolidation depreciated on a straight line basis at annual rates between 10% and 20%.
Computer equipment is depreciated on a The Group accounts include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings made up to 31 December straight line basis at annual rates between 10% and 33%.
Unless otherwise stated, the acquisition method of Net interest payable and similar charges accounting has been adopted.
Under this method, the results Net interest payable and similar charges includes stock of subsidiary undertakings acquired or disposed of in the financing charges.
year are included in the consolidated profit and loss account from the date of acquisition or up to the date of disposal.
Stocks Intra-group sales and profits are eliminated fully on Stocks are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable consolidation.
Cost is arrived at principally on the average and first in, first out FIFO basis.
Provisions are made against An associate is an undertaking in which the group has a obsolete and surplus stocks.
long-term interest, usually less than 50% of the equity voting rights, and over which it exercises significant influence.
The Vehicles held on consignment from manufacturers are Groups share of the profits less losses of associates is included in the balance sheet where it is considered that the included in the consolidated profit and loss account and its Group enjoys the benefits and carries the risk of ownership.
interest in their net assets is included in investments in the Vehicles included in stocks which are subject to repurchase consolidated balance sheet.
agreements are included at the agreed repurchase price or net realisable value whichever is lower.
In both of these cases A joint venture is an undertaking in which the Group has a the associated liability is included in creditors.
long-term interest over which it exercises joint control.
The Groups share of the profits less losses of joint ventures is Deferred taxation included in the consolidated profit and loss account and its Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences interest in their net assets is included in investments in the that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet consolidated balance sheet.
date, where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the In relation to the associated undertakings and joint ventures, future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
the amounts included in consolidated accounts are taken from the latest accounts of the undertakings details are set A deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore out on pages 55 and 70. recognised only, when on the basis of all available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be Under section 230 4 of the Companies Act 1985 the suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of the Company is exempt from the requirement to present its own underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is not discounted.
Turnover Turnover is based on the invoiced value of goods and Pension costs services.
It excludes sales between Group undertakings, The expected cost of providing pensions and other postVAT and similar sales-based taxes.
retirement benefits is charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the cost over the expected remaining service RAC roadside membership subscriptions are apportioned lives of current employees.
Variations from regular costs are on a time basis over the period to which they relate.
The spread over the expected remaining service lives of current unrecognised proportion of subscription income is held eligible employees.
The pension cost is assessed in within creditors as deferred income.
accordance with the advice of qualified actuaries, using the projected unit method.
38 RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2003 Goodwill Operating leases Purchased goodwill arising on consolidation in respect of Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss acquisitions before 1 January 1998, when FRS 10 Goodwill account on a straight line basis over the life of the lease.
and intangible assets was adopted, was written off to reserves Assets held for use in operating leases are recorded as fixed in the year of acquisition.
When a subsequent disposal occurs, any related goodwill previously written off to reserves assets and are depreciated over their useful lives to their estimated residual value.
is written back through the profit and loss account as part of the profit or loss on disposal.
With the exception of Lex Vehicle Leasing Holdings Limited income from operating leases is credited to the profit and loss Purchased goodwill arising on consolidation in respect of acquisitions since 1 January 1998 is capitalised.
Positive account on a straight line basis over the life of the contract.
goodwill is amortised to nil by equal annual instalments over Lex Vehicle Leasing Holdings Limited, a joint venture, its estimated useful life of 20 years.
On the subsequent credits net income on operating leases, after charging interest, disposal or termination of a business acquired since depreciation, maintenance and other costs, to the profit and 1 January 1998, the profit or loss on disposal or termination loss account to give a constant rate of return on the operating is calculated after charging the unamortised amount of any lease asset over the period of the contract.
Finance leases Goodwill relating to the acquisition of RAC Holdings Limited Leases which confer rights and obligations similar to those amounting to 404.6 million has been capitalised.
The attaching to owned assets are defined as finance leases.
The directors consider that this goodwill has an indefinite life due present value of future minimum lease payments of assets to the durability of the business as demonstrated over more acquired under finance leases is included in fixed assets and than 100 years and accordingly is not amortised but is in creditors as an obligation to pay future rentals.
Depreciation subject to annual review for impairment.
This is not in is provided at the same rates as for owned assets.
accordance with Schedule 4 to the Companies Act 1985 which requires that all goodwill be amortised.
The directors Rentals payable under finance leases are apportioned between consider that this would fail to give a true and fair view of the finance charge and the outstanding obligation so as to the profit for the year and that the economic measure of produce a constant rate of charge on the remaining balance.
performance in any period is properly made by reference only to any impairment that may have arisen.
It is not practicable Cash and liquid resources to quantify the effect on the accounts of this departure.
Any Cash, for the purpose of the cash flow statement, comprises impairment charge is included within operating profits.
cash in hand and deposits repayable on demand, less overdrafts payable on demand.
Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are recorded at the rate of Liquid resources are current asset investments which may be exchange at the date of the transaction or, if hedged forward, disposed of without curtailing or disrupting the business and at the rate of exchange under the related forward exchange are either readily convertible into known amounts of cash at contract.
Monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currencies or close to their carrying values or traded in an active market.
are translated into sterling at the financial year end rates.
Pre-contract costs The results of overseas subsidiary undertakings, associates Pre-contract costs are written off as incurred, except that and joint ventures are translated into sterling at average rates directly attributable costs are capitalised as an asset when it for the period except for material exceptional items which are is virtually certain that the contract will be obtained and when translated at the rate on the date of the transaction.
The the contract is expected to result in future net cash inflows adjustment to financial year end rates is taken to reserves.
with a present value no less than all amounts recognised as an asset.
Differences on exchange arising from the translation of the net assets of subsidiary undertakings and foreign currency debt financing those assets are taken to reserves and are reported in the statement of total consolidated recognised gains and losses.
Other exchange differences are taken to the profit and loss account.
Derivatives and other financial instruments Short term debtors and creditors as defined in FRS 13 Derivatives and other financial instruments have been excluded from the disclosures in note 35, save those relating to currency risk.
Derivative financial instruments used to hedge interest rate and foreign currency exposures are accounted for as they are settled.
Any gains or losses on these instruments are reported in the profit and loss account.
RAC plc Annual report and accounts 2003 39
