ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accounting convention The transitional rules of FRS 17 Retirement benefits require certain The accounts are prepared under the historical cost convention disclosures to be made in these accounts see note 4. and in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and applicable The Group has presented disclosures under Financial Reporting Exposure United Kingdom accounting standards.
Draft FRED 31 Share-Based Payment regarding the potential impact There is no material difference between the result disclosed in the on the Groups results had it been issued as an FRS see note 4. profit and loss account and the result on an unmodified historical Foreign currency translation cost basis and a note of historical cost profits and losses is not Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the therefore included in these accounts.
rate of exchange on the day the transaction occurs or at the contracted Basis of consolidation rate if the transaction is covered by a forward exchange contract.
The accounts of the Group represent the consolidation of Reckitt Assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign currency are translated Benckiser plc and its subsidiary undertakings.
The accounts of at the exchange rate ruling on the balance sheet date or, if appropriate, subsidiary undertakings which do not conform with Group policies at a forward contract rate.
Exchange differences arising in the accounts are adjusted on consolidation in order that the Group accounts may of individual undertakings are included in the profit and loss account be presented on a consistent basis.
In the case of acquisitions and except that, where foreign currency borrowing has been used to disposals of businesses, the results of trading are consolidated from finance equity investments in foreign currencies, exchange differences or to the date upon which control passes.
arising on the borrowing are dealt with through reserves to the The results and net assets of the Groups subsidiary in Zimbabwe extent that they are covered by exchange differences arising on have been excluded from the consolidated Group results with effect the net assets represented by the equity investments.
from 1 July 2002, on the basis that severe long-term restrictions exist The accounts of overseas subsidiary undertakings are translated into that hinder the exercise of the Groups rights over the assets employed, Sterling on the following basis: in particular the remittance of funds.
The results for the first half of 2002 are included within discontinued and deconsolidated operations Assets and liabilities at the rate of exchange ruling at the year half-year to 30 June 2002: net revenues of 13m, operating end date.
Results for the second half of 2002 and 2003, and the Profit and loss account items at the average rate of exchange balance sheets as at 31 December 2002 and 31 December 2003, for the year.
Exchange differences arising on the translation of accounts into The results of an agency agreement under which the Group sold Sterling are recorded as movements on reserves.
Bayer pest control products in Italy are shown as discontinued in 2002 following the termination of the agreement with effect from The accounts of subsidiaries operating in hyper-inflationary 31 December 2002.
This has no impact on net revenues, but reclassifies environments are adjusted to reflect current price levels before operating profit by 2m into discontinued business for the year being translated into Sterling.
No income was recorded in 2003.
The currencies that most influence these translations and the relevant Benckiser N. V. shareholders exchange rates are: 2003 2002 The merger of Reckitt & Colman plc and Benckiser N. V. was completed on 3 December 1999.
At the time of the merger Average rates: Benckiser N. V. had two classes of shares: Benckiser A Common Euro 1.4441 1.5893 Shares A shares and Benckiser B Shares B shares.
US Dollar 1.6354 1.5036 Closing rates: Under the terms of the merger, the A shareholder agreed to Euro 1.4194 1.5345 exchange its A shares for an equal number of A shares in Reckitt Benckiser Holdings BV.
Under a Shareholders Agreement, each US Dollar 1.7833 1.6100 Reckitt Benckiser Holdings BV A Share was equivalent to five Reckitt Benckiser plc ordinary shares in terms of dividend and capital rights Net revenues and, through issue of a special share, voting rights.
Net revenues are defined as the amount invoiced to external customers during the year, that is gross sales net of trade discounts, Under the Merger Agreement, the A shareholder had a right to customer allowances and consumer coupons, and exclusive of VAT exchange its Reckitt Benckiser Holdings BV A Shares, at any time and other sales-related taxes.
Net revenues are recognised at the until 30 September 2005, into new Reckitt Benckiser plc shares on time that the risks and rewards of ownership of the products are the basis of five new Reckitt Benckiser plc ordinary shares for each substantially transferred to the customer.
Reckitt Benckiser Holdings BV A share.
Pension commitments On 19 and 23 December 2002, the A shareholder exercised its right to The cost of providing pensions to employees who are members exchange the 13,655,000 A shares into Reckitt Benckiser plc ordinary of defined contribution schemes is charged to the profit and loss shares.
Accordingly, 63,000,000 shares and 5,275,000 shares were account as contributions are made.
issued and admitted to the Official List on 27 December 2002 and 31 December 2002 respectively.
The rights attached to the special For defined benefit schemes, the cost of providing benefits is charged voting share ceased following exchange, and the share has now to the profit and loss account on a systematic basis, so as to spread the been cancelled.
cost over the average service lives of the employees in the schemes.
Adoption of new accounting policies and requirements Actuarial surpluses and deficits arising are allocated over the average Financial Reporting Standard FRS 5 Application Note G Revenue expected remaining service lives of current employees.
Differences Recognition has been adopted in these financial statements.
As this between the amounts charged in the profit and loss account and represents a change in accounting policy, prior year comparatives payments made to pension schemes are treated as assets or liabilities.
have been restated, as described in note 25.
42 Reckitt Benckiser Annual Report 2003 Post-retirement benefits other than pensions Tangible fixed assets The cost of providing post-retirement benefits other than pensions Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation.
is determined on a consistent actuarial basis and charged to the Except for freehold land, the cost of properties, plant and equipment profit and loss account.
To the extent that such costs do not equate is written off on a straight line basis over the period of the expected to the cash contribution, a provision or prepayment is constituted useful life of the asset.
For this purpose, expected lives are determined in the balance sheet.
within the following limits: Research and development Freehold buildings: not more than 50 years: Research and development expenditure is written off in the year Leasehold land and buildings: the lesser of 50 years or the life of in which it is incurred.
the lease: and Stocks Owned plant and equipment: not more than 15 years.
In general, Stocks are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
production plant and equipment and office equipment are written Cost comprises materials, direct labour and an appropriate portion off over ten years or less: motor vehicles and computer equipment of overhead expenses.
Taxation Leased plant and equipment: assets held under finance leases are The tax charge is based on the profit for the period and takes into capitalised and included in tangible fixed assets at fair value.
Each account taxation deferred due to timing differences between the asset is depreciated on the same basis as owned plant and equipment treatment of certain items for taxation and accounting purposes.
or over the life of the lease, if shorter.
Obligations related to finance Deferred tax liabilities are provided for in full and deferred tax assets leases, net of finance charges in respect of future periods, are included are recognised to the extent that they are considered recoverable.
Intangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are reviewed for impairment if events or An acquired brand is only recognised on the balance sheet as an changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may intangible asset where it is supported by a registered trade mark, not be appropriate.
is established in the marketplace, brand earnings are separately identifiable, the brand could be sold separately from the rest of the Fixed asset investments are valued at cost.
business and where the brand achieves earnings in excess of those Operating leases achieved by unbranded products.
The value of an acquired brand is Operating lease rentals are charged against profit on a straight determined by allocating the purchase consideration of an acquired line basis over the period of the lease.
business between the underlying fair values of the tangible assets, goodwill and brands acquired.
Derivatives The Group primarily uses cross currency swaps, interest rate swaps Brands are not amortised, as it is considered that their useful economic and forward foreign currency contracts to manage its exposures to lives are not limited.
This policy is appropriate due to the long-term fluctuating interest and foreign exchange rates.
These instruments nature of the business and the enduring nature of the brands which are accounted for as hedges when designated as such at the inception are a key part of the strategy of the Group and are supported by of the contract.
Termination payments made or received in respect innovation and investment on an ongoing basis.
Their carrying values of derivatives are taken to the profit and loss account over a period are reviewed annually by the Directors to determine whether there appropriate to the derivative and the underlying instrument.
has been any permanent impairment in value and any such reductions in their values are taken to the profit and loss account.
Cross currency swaps are used to hedge the Groups currency The impairment review involves a comparison of the book amount net assets and to reduce the interest cost of borrowings in certain with the higher of the net realisable value and the value in use.
The net exchange gains or losses on cross currency swaps value in use is measured with reference are recorded on the balance sheet.
The movements in the balance to discounted cash flows sheet values are recorded in reserves to the extent that they hedge based on future revenue and margin projections.
The discount rate foreign currency net assets.
used in the 2003 brand impairment review was based on the Groups weighted average cost of capital including, where appropriate, an Interest rate swaps and the interest rate swap element of cross adjustment for the risks associated with the relevant market.
currency swaps are not revalued to fair value or shown in the Groups balance sheet but are disclosed in the fair value table in note 26.
In accordance with FRS 10 Goodwill and Intangible Assets, as from Interest differentials are recognised by accruing the net interest 4 January 1998, goodwill arising on acquisitions is capitalised and payable receivable in the profit and loss account.
amortised on a straight line basis over periods not exceeding 20 years in line with the Directors view of their useful economic lives.
Goodwill Gains and losses on forward foreign exchange contracts are offset against written off to reserves prior to this date has not been reinstated.
the foreign exchange gains and losses on hedged financial assets Payments made in respect of product registration and distribution and liabilities.
Where the instrument is used to hedge against future rights are capitalised where the rights comply with the above transactions, gains and losses are deferred until the transaction occurs.
requirements for recognition of acquired brands, and amortised Employee share schemes over the expected period of depletion.
Incentives in the form of shares are provided to employees under The profit or loss arising on the disposal of businesses acquired is share option and restricted share schemes.
Any shortfall between the recognised in the accounts after taking into account any goodwill cost to the employee and the fair market value of the shares at date arising on acquisition which has not been previously written off of grant is charged to the profit and loss account over the period in the profit and loss account.
to which the performance criteria relate, with the credit taken directly to the profit and loss reserve.
Additional employer costs in respect of options and awards are charged to the profit and loss account over the same period with the credit included in creditors.
Where awards are contingent upon future events other than continued employment an assessment of the likelihood of these conditions being achieved is made at the end of each reporting period and reflected in the accounting entries made.
Further disclosures are provided in note 4.
