NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN allotments of equity securities as defined in section 94 of Special Business that the Annual General Meeting of Redrow plc will be held the said Act pursuant to the authority contained in the To consider and, if thought fit, pass the following resolutions of at St. Davids Park Hotel, St. Davids Park, Flintshire on said Resolution 9 as if section 89 1 of the said Act did which Resolution 9 will be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution 5 November 2003 commencing at 12 noon to transact the not apply to such allotments provided that this power shall and Resolutions 10, 11, 12 and 13 will be proposed as Special following business: be limited to: Resolutions: Ordinary Business i allotments of equity securities in connection with a 9.
To receive and adopt the Directors report and the rights issue, being an offer of equity securities by way of That the Directors, in place of any existing authority Financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2003, rights to ordinary shareholders of the Company in conferred upon them for the purpose of section 80 of together with the Auditors report.
proportion as nearly as may be to their holdings the Companies Act 1985, be generally and unconditionally subject to such exclusions or other arrangements as the authorised pursuant to section 80 of the Companies Act 2.
To receive and adopt the Remuneration Committee Directors may deem necessary or expedient in relation 1985 to exercise all powers of the Company to allot and report.
to fractional entitlements or legal or practical problems to make offers or agreements to allot relevant securities under the laws of or the requirements of any recognised as defined in section 80 of the said Act up to an aggregate 3.
To declare a final dividend for the year ended regulatory body or stock exchange in any territory: nominal amount of 5,565,957 provided that this authority 30 June 2003. and shall unless previously revoked or renewed expire on the 4.
To re-elect Mr D L Arnold as Director.
date of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company ii any other allotments for cash of equity securities up to but so that the Company may, before such expiry, make an 5.
To re-elect Mr R B Jones as Director.
a maximum nominal amount of 792,870 offer or agreement which would or might require relevant 6.
To re-elect Mr B K Harvey as Director.
securities to be allotted after such expiry and the Directors and shall unless previously revoked or renewed expire may allot relevant securities in pursuance of such offer or on the date which is the earlier of the next Annual 7.
To re-elect Mr C E Lewis as Director.
agreement as if the authority had not expired.
General Meeting of the Company or 4 February 2005, save that the said power shall permit the Company to 8.
To re-appoint  LLP as Auditors of 10.
Special Resolution make an offer or enter into an agreement before the the Company having previously been appointed by the That, subject to the passing of Resolution 9 set out in the expiry of such power which would or might require Board to fill the casual vacancy arising by reason of the Notice convening the Annual General Meeting at which equity securities to be allotted after such expiry and the resignation of , to hold office this resolution is to be considered and in place of any Directors may allot equity securities in pursuance of until the conclusion of the next General Meeting at which existing authority given pursuant to section 95 of the such offer or agreement as if such power conferred had Financial statements are laid before the Company and that Companies Act 1985, the Directors be given power not expired.
their remuneration is fixed by the Directors.
pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985 to make 64 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 11.
Special Resolution That, pursuant to Article 10 of the Companys Articles of That, Article 83 of the Articles of Association of the That Article 163 of the Articles of Association of the Association, the Company is generally and unconditionally Company be deleted and replaced with the following new Company be deleted and be replaced with the following authorised, in accordance with section 166 of the Article 83: new Article 163: Companies Act 1985, to make market purchases within Subject to the provisions of Section 293 of the Companies Subject to the Acts and without prejudice to any indemnity the meaning of section 163 3 of the said Act of ordinary Act 1985 every Director shall retire at the first Annual to which he may otherwise be entitled, every Director, shares of 10p each in the capital of the Company ordinary General Meeting which shall occur after the date of his Secretary or manager of the Company shall be entitled to shares on such terms and in such manner as the Directors seventieth birthday, but shall then be eligible for re-election be indemnified by the Company against all costs, charges, may from time to time determine provided that: for the period from that Annual General Meeting until the losses, expenses and liabilities incurred by him in the a the maximum number of ordinary shares authorised to end of the next following Annual General Meeting when execution and discharge of his duties or the exercise of his be purchased is 15,857,406. again he shall retire.
Any such Director shall be eligible for powers, authorities and discretions, including any liability re-election for a subsequent term or terms, but on each incurred by him in defending any proceedings, civil or b the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary occasion only until the end of the next following Annual criminal, which relate to anything done or omitted or share is 10p exclusive of expenses payable by General Meeting after the date of his re-election.
A alleged to have been done or omitted by him as an officer or the Company: Director retiring at any Annual General Meeting in employee of the Company and in which judgement is given accordance with the provisions of this Article shall not be in his favour or the proceedings are otherwise disposed of c the maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary taken into account in determining the number of Directors without any finding or admission of any material breach of share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of the to retire by rotation at such meeting in accordance with duty on his part or in which he is acquitted or in middle market quotations for an ordinary share derived Article 84 and Article 84 of the Articles of Association of connection with any application in which relief is granted from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the Company be amended by the insertion of the following to him by the court from liability in respect of negligence, the five business days immediately preceding the day words after time being in the first sentence other than default, breach of duty or breach of trust, in relation to the on which the ordinary share is purchased exclusive of those retiring in accordance with Articles 79 and 83. affairs of the Company.
expenses payable by the Company : and d the authority conferred shall expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or 4 February 2005 whichever shall be the earlier except that the Company may before such expiry make a contract to purchase its own shares which will or may be completed or executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 65 Subject to the Acts, the Board may exercise all the powers Notes to Annual General Meeting: Explanatory Notes to Annual General Meeting Resolutions: of the Company to purchase and maintain insurance for the 1.
Proxies: A member entitled to attend and vote may appoint benefit of a person who is an officer or employee, or former a proxy or proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead Auditors officer or former employee, of the Company or a Subsidiary of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company.
Resolution 8 set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting Undertaking or in which the Company has an interest, concerns the re-appointment of  LLP as A form of proxy is enclosed which, if required, should be direct or indirect, or who is or was a trustee of a retirement Auditors.
completed in accordance with the instructions set out therein benefits scheme or another trust in which an officer or and returned so as to reach the Companys Registrars not Following the conversion of  to a employee or former officer or former employee is or has later than 48 hours before the time of the Meeting or any Limited Liability Partnership LLP from 1 January 2003, been interested indemnifying him against any liability for adjourned meeting.
Members who complete a form of proxy  resigned as auditors, and the Directors negligence, default, breach of duty of trust or any other will not be precluded from attending the Meeting and appointed  LLP to fill the casual vacancy liability which may lawfully be insured against by the voting in person if they so wish.
Documents available for inspection: Share Capital By order of the Board The Register of Directors interests will be available for Resolutions 9, 10 and 11 set out in the Notice of Annual G A Cope Group Company Secretary inspection at the place of the Meeting from 12 noon on General Meeting on pages 64 and 65 concern the Companys 15 September 2003 5 November 2003 until the conclusion of the Meeting.
Directors Service Contracts: None of the Directors has a Resolution 9 authority to allot shares service contract which cannot be terminated within one Under the Companies Act 1985, the Directors of the Company year without payment of compensation.
may only allot unissued shares if authorised to do so by the Shareholders in a General Meeting.
The Company specifies, pursuant to Regulation 34 of the Directors existing authority by authorising the Directors to allot Uncertificated Securities Regulations 1995, that only those shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 5,565,957 which shareholders registered in the Register of Members of the such authority shall expire on the date of the next Annual Company as at 6pm on 3 November 2003 shall be entitled General Meeting of the Company.
This represents 55,659,572 to attend or vote at the Meeting in respect of the number of ordinary shares of 10p each and is equivalent to approximately shares registered in their respective names at that time.
35% of the Companys current issued ordinary share capital.
Changes to entries on the Register after that time will be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the Meeting.
66 NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Except in relation to the issue of ordinary shares arising from the bought.
Other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing Resolution 13 set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting exercise of options under the Companys employee share option levels and the overall financial position of the Company will be on pages 65 and 66 proposes an amendment to the Companys schemes, the Directors have no present intention of issuing any taken into account before deciding upon this course of action.
Articles of Association removing the right of the Auditors to an of the authorised but unissued ordinary shares of the Company.
indemnity out of the assets of the Company.
Any shares purchased in this way will be cancelled and the Resolution 10 limited authority to allot shares for cash number of shares in issue will accordingly be reduced.
The The Directors may only allot shares for cash to persons who are Directors have no immediate intention of exercising the not already Shareholders in the Company if authorised to do so proposed authority when it becomes effective, but believe that by the Shareholders in a General Meeting.
This resolution the ability of the Company to buy its own shares if, in the renews authority for the Directors to allot shares for cash without Directors opinion, market prices do not reflect the Companys first offering them to existing members up to an aggregate worth, will be in the best interests of the Company and its nominal amount of 792,870.
The Directors intend to exercise this power only ordinary shares of 10p each, being equivalent to approximately if they believe the effect of such purchases will increase earnings 5% of the Companys current issued ordinary share capital.
The authority will expire on whichever is the The resolution also enables the Directors to modify the strict earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or requirements for a rights issue in circumstances where they 4 February 2005. consider it necessary or expedient.
Articles of Association The authority will expire on whichever is the earlier of the Resolutions 12 and 13 set out in the Notice of Annual General conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting or 4 February 2005.
Meeting on pages 65 and 66 concern proposed changes to the Companys Articles of Association.
Resolution 11 purchase of the Companys own shares This resolution seeks authority from Shareholders for the Resolution 12 set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting Company to purchase up to 15,857,406 ordinary shares, an on page 65 proposes an amendment to the Companys Articles of aggregate nominal amount of 1,585,741, which is equivalent to Association to require that Directors aged 70 years or over approximately 10% of the Companys issued ordinary share require annual re-appointment.
The authority will expire at the end of next years Annual General Meeting and the resolution specifies the maximum and minimum prices at which the shares may be NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING 67
