ACCOUNTING POLICIES The financial statements have been prepared in accordance e Fixed assets Deferred tax is provided at the average tax rates that with applicable Accounting Standards in the United Kingdom 1 Freehold properties are included at cost or valuation are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing which have been applied consistently.
A summary of the more as permitted under the transitional provisions of differences are expected to reverse.
important accounting policies is set out below.
The freehold land element is not depreciated Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that whilst the buildings element is depreciated on a straight a Basis of accounting it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be line basis at an annual rate of 2%.
The financial statements have been prepared under the suitable taxable profits from which the future reversal of historical cost convention, modified to include the 2 All other assets are depreciated on a straight line basis the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred revaluation of the investment in subsidiary companies.
over their expected useful lives at the following tax assets and liabilities recognised have not been principal annual rates: discounted.
In accordance with FRS 15 Tangible Fixed Assets revaluations of freehold properties will not be undertaken Fixtures and fittings 20%-35% i Pension scheme but, as permitted under the transitional rules, the Group The Group operates a contributory pension scheme for all Plant and machinery 20% will continue to carry certain freehold properties at their its staff.
The Scheme comprises two sections: a defined existing revaluations less accumulated depreciation.
benefits section and a defined contribution section.
The 3 The investment in subsidiary companies represents the Scheme is externally invested and the funds of the Scheme book value of the underlying net assets, the surplus or b Basis of preparation and consolidation are administered by trustees.
The Groups contributions to deficit arising on the revaluation being transferred to The Group financial statements incorporate the financial the defined benefits section, which are made in accordance non-distributable reserves.
This basis of valuation statements of Redrow plc and all its subsidiaries, together with the recommendations of independent actuaries, are has been adopted so as to present more fairly the with the Groups share of the results for the year ended charged against profits in accordance with Statement of investment by the Company in these companies.
30 June 2003 and share of assets and liabilities of joint Standard Accounting Practice No.
Contributions to ventures restated to comply with the Groups accounting the defined contribution section are charged in the year f Stocks and work in progress policies.
in which the contributions are made.
Further disclosures Stocks and work in progress are stated at the lower of cost including those required under FRS 17 transitional rules and net realisable value less cash on account.
Cost includes The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the are contained within Note 7 to the financial statements.
materials, labour and sub-contract work.
year are included from or up to the date of acquisition or disposal.
On the acquisition of a subsidiary, fair values are j Operating leases g Forward land attributed to the net assets acquired.
Prior to the Costs in respect of operating leases are charged against Expenditure relating to forward land, including options, introduction for the year ended June 1998 onwards of profit on a straight line basis over the lease term.
is provided for when incurred.
After exercise of an FRS 10 Goodwill and Intangible Assets, the difference option and acquisition of the land following the securing of between the consideration paid and these values was k Treasury instruments planning permission, the provisions relating to that land are transferred to reserves.
Since the introduction of FRS 10, Hedge accounting principles are applied to these released.
the difference is capitalised and amortised.
instruments and the gains and losses are recognised in the profit and loss account within interest cost in the h Deferred taxation c Turnover and profit recognition period to which they relate.
Deferred tax is provided on timing differences arising Turnover represents sales of residential housing and from the recognition of income and expenditure in different commercial developments.
periods for taxation and accounting purposes where timing differences have originated but not reversed by the balance Profit is recognised on legal completion.
sheet date in accordance with FRS19 Accounting for d Interest on borrowings Deferred Taxation.
Interest is written off when incurred.
