COMBINED FINANCIAL ST COMBINED FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS Accounting policies These financial statements are presented under the Exchange translation differences on foreign equity historical cost convention and in accordance with applicable investments and the related foreign currency net UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles GAAP.
borrowings and on differences between balance sheet Prior to 2003, the financial statements were presented in and profit and loss account rates are taken to reserves.
accordance with both UK and Dutch GAAP.
Following Transactions entered into in foreign currencies are changes to Dutch GAAP effective for the 2003 financial year recorded at the exchange rates applicable at the time of in respect of the presentation of dividends and pension the transaction.
The results of hedging transactions for accounting, UK and Dutch GAAP have diverged such that the profit and loss amounts in foreign currency are accounted Reed Elsevier accounting policies no longer accord with for in the profit and loss account to match the underlying Dutch GAAP.
Under Article 362.1 of Book 2 Title 9 of the transaction.
Netherlands Civil Code, UK GAAP may be adopted by Dutch The principal exchange rates used are set out in note 28. companies with international operations for the preparation of financial statements and, accordingly, UK GAAP has been Turnover so adopted ensuring consistency with the prior year of the Turnover represents the invoiced value of sales less accounting policies applied in the combined financial anticipated returns on transactions completed by statements.
performance, excluding customer sales taxes and sales between the combined businesses.
Basis of preparation Sales are recognised for the various revenue sources as The equalisation agreement between Reed Elsevier PLC and follows: subscriptions over the period of the subscription: Reed Elsevier NV has the effect that their shareholders can circulation on despatch: advertising on publication or be regarded as having the interests of a single economic period of online display: exhibitions on exhibition date: group.
The Reed Elsevier combined financial statements educational testing contracts on performance against the combined financial statements represent the delivery milestones.
combined interests of both sets of shareholders and encompass the businesses of Reed Elsevier Group plc and Development spend Elsevier Reed Finance BV and their respective subsidiaries, Development spend incurred on the launch of new products associates and joint ventures, together with the parent or services is expensed to the profit and loss account as companies, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV the incurred.
The cost of developing application infrastructure and These financial statements form part of the statutory product delivery platforms is capitalised as a tangible fixed information to be provided by Reed Elsevier NV, but are not asset and written off over the estimated useful life.
for a legal entity and do not include all the information required to be disclosed by a company in its financial Pensions statements under the UK Companies Act 1985 or The expected costs of pensions in respect of defined benefit Netherlands Civil Code.
Additional information is given in pension schemes are charged to the profit and loss account the annual reports and financial statements of the parent so as to spread the cost over the service lives of employees companies set out on pages 72 to 104.
A list of principal in the schemes.
Actuarial surpluses and deficits are businesses is set out on page 115. allocated over the average expected remaining service lives In addition to the figures required to be reported by of employees.
Pension costs are assessed in accordance applicable accounting standards, adjusted profit and with the advice of qualified actuaries.
For defined operating cash flow figures have been presented as contribution schemes, the profit and loss account charge additional performance measures.
Adjusted profit is shown represents contributions payable.
before the amortisation of goodwill and intangible assets and exceptional items.
Adjusted operating cash flow is measured Taxation after dividends from joint ventures, tangible fixed asset spend Deferred taxation is provided in full for timing differences and proceeds from the sale of tangible fixed assets, but using the liability method.
No provision is made for tax before exceptional payments and proceeds.
which would become payable on the distribution of retained profits by foreign subsidiaries, associates or joint ventures, Foreign exchange translation unless there is an intention to distribute such retained The combined financial statements are presented in both earnings giving rise to a charge.
Deferred tax assets are pounds sterling and euros.
only recognised to the extent that they are considered Balance sheet items are translated at year end recoverable in the short term.
Deferred taxation balances exchange rates and profit and loss account and cash flow are not discounted.
items are translated at average exchange rates.
40 REED ELSEVIER ANNUAL REPORTS & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2003 COMBINED FINANCIAL ST COMBINED FINANCIAL STA ATEMENTS TEMENTS NOTES TO THE COMBINED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accounting policies continued Goodwill and intangible assets Finance leases On the acquisition of a subsidiary, associate, joint venture or Assets held under leases which confer rights and business, the purchase consideration is allocated between obligations similar to those attaching to owned assets are the underlying net tangible and intangible assets on a fair capitalised as tangible fixed assets and the corresponding value basis, with any excess purchase consideration liability to pay rentals is shown net of interest in the representing goodwill.
accounts as obligations under finance leases.
The Acquired goodwill and intangible assets are capitalised and capitalised values of the assets are written off on a straight amortised systematically over their estimated useful lives line basis over the shorter of the periods of the leases or the up to a maximum of 40 years, subject to annual impairment useful lives of the assets concerned.
The interest element of review.
For the majority of acquired goodwill and intangible the lease payments is allocated so as to produce a constant assets, the maximum estimated useful life is 20 years, periodic rate of charge.
which is the rebuttable presumption under UK GAAP.
In view of the longevity of certain of the goodwill and intangible Operating leases assets relating to acquired science and medical and Operating lease rentals are charged to the profit and loss educational publishing businesses, this presumption has account on a straight line basis over the period of the been rebutted in respect of these assets and a maximum leases.
estimated useful life of 40 years determined.
The longevity of these assets is evidenced by their long established and Financial instruments well regarded brands and imprints, and their Payments and receipts on interest rate hedges are characteristically stable market positions.
accounted for on an accruals basis over the lives of the Intangible assets comprise publishing rights and titles, hedges and included respectively within interest payable and databases, exhibition rights and other intangible assets, interest receivable in the profit and loss account.
Gains and which are stated at fair value on acquisition and are not losses on foreign exchange hedges, other than in relation to subsequently revalued.
net currency borrowings hedging equity investments, are recognised in the profit and loss account on maturity of the Tangible fixed assets underlying transaction.
Gains and losses on net currency Tangible fixed assets are stated in the balance sheet at cost borrowings hedging equity investments are taken to less accumulated depreciation.
No depreciation is provided reserves.
Gains and losses arising on hedging instruments on freehold land.
that are closed out due to the cessation of the underlying Freehold buildings and long leases are depreciated over exposure are taken directly to the profit and loss account.
their estimated useful lives up to a maximum of 50 years.
Currency swap agreements are valued at exchange rates Short leases are written off over the duration of the lease.
ruling at the balance sheet date with net gains and losses Plant, equipment and computer systems are depreciated on being included within short term investments or borrowings.
a straight line basis at rates from 5%33%.
Interest payable and receivable arising from the swap is accounted for on an accruals basis over the life of the swap.
Investments Finance costs associated with debt issuances are charged Fixed asset investments in joint ventures and associates are to the profit and loss account over the life of the related accounted for under the gross equity and equity methods borrowings.
Other fixed asset investments are stated at cost, less provision, if appropriate, for any impairment in Prior year adjustment value.
Short term investments are stated at the lower of cost Following the issuance of UITF38: Accounting for ESOP and net realisable value.
Trusts in December 2003, shares held in the parent companies by the Reed Elsevier Group plc Employee Benefit Inventories and pre-publication costs Trust, previously included within other fixed asset Inventories and pre-publication costs are stated at the lower investments, are now presented as shares held in treasury of cost, including appropriate attributable overheads, and and deducted within combined shareholders funds.
Prior estimated net realisable value.
Pre-publication costs, year comparatives have been restated accordingly.
representing costs incurred in the origination of content prior to publication, are expensed systematically over the economic lives of the related products, generally up to five years.
REED ELSEVIER ANNUAL REPORTS & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2003 41
