The impact of the change in accounting principles Accounting policies from Dutch to UK GAAP on the parent company financial statements of Reed Elsevier NV is set out in note 18.
These statutory financial statements report the profit and Group financial statements loss account, cash flow and financial position of Reed Elsevier NV.
Unless otherwise indicated, all amounts Reed Elsevier NV holds a majority interest in Elsevier Reed shown in the financial statements are in millions of euros.
Finance BV 61% and is therefore prima facie required to prepare consolidated financial statements in accordance The financial statements have been prepared under the with Book 2 Title 9 of the Netherlands Civil Code.
However, historical cost convention and in accordance with management believes that a better insight into the applicable accounting standards.
financial position and results of Reed Elsevier NV is The Reed Elsevier combined financial statements on pages provided by looking at the investment in the combined 40 to 69 form an integral part of the notes to Reed Elsevier businesses in aggregate, as presented in the Reed Elsevier NVs statutory financial statements.
The basis of the merger of the businesses of Reed Elsevier Reed Elsevier NV group financial statements are NV and Reed Elsevier PLC is set out on page 22. presented, as in prior years, incorporating Reed Elsevier As a consequence of the merger of the companys NVs investments in the Reed Elsevier combined businesses with those of Reed Elsevier PLC, described on businesses accounted for using the gross equity method, page 22, the shareholders of Reed Elsevier NV and Reed as adjusted for the effects of the equalisation arrangement Elsevier PLC can be regarded as having the interests of a between Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC.
The single economic group, enjoying substantially equivalent arrangement lays down the distribution of dividends and ordinary dividend and capital rights in the earnings and net net assets in such a way that Reed Elsevier NVs share in assets of the Reed Elsevier combined businesses.
the profit and net assets of the Reed Elsevier combined businesses equals 50%, with all settlements accruing to Adoption of UK GAAP shareholders from the equalisation arrangements taken The financial statements have been prepared in accordance directly to reserves.
These group financial statements also with generally accepted accounting principles in the United meet the additional information requirements of the UK Kingdom UK GAAP.
Prior to 2003, Reed Elsevier NV financial reporting standard FRS9: Associates and Joint presented statutory financial statements prepared in Ventures where consolidated financial statements are not accordance with generally accepted accounting principles prepared.
in the Netherlands Dutch GAAP and the combined Because the dividend paid to shareholders by Reed financial statements were prepared in accordance with both Elsevier NV is equivalent to the Reed Elsevier PLC dividend UK and Dutch GAAP.
Following changes to Dutch GAAP plus the UK tax credit received by certain Reed Elsevier effective for the 2003 financial year in respect of the PLC shareholders, Reed Elsevier NV normally distributes a presentation of dividends and pension accounting, UK GAAP higher proportion of the combined profit attributable than and Dutch GAAP have diverged.
As permitted by Article Reed Elsevier PLC.
Reed Elsevier PLCs share in this 362.1 of Book 2 Title 9 of the Netherlands Civil Code, Reed difference in dividend distributions is settled with Reed Elsevier NV has therefore determined to prepare its Elsevier NV and is credited directly to group reserves financial statements in accordance with UK GAAP, thereby under equalisation.
Reed Elsevier NV can pay a nominal ensuring consistency with the prior year of the accounting dividend on its R-shares held by Reed Elsevier PLC that is policies applied within the Reed Elsevier combined financial lower than the dividend on the ordinary shares.
Reed statements, and with the accounting policies of Reed Elsevier PLC is compensated by direct dividend payments Elsevier PLC.
by Reed Elsevier Group plc.
Equally, Reed Elsevier NV has the possibility to receive dividends directly from Dutch Parent company financial statements affiliates.
The settlements flowing from these Under UK GAAP, Reed Elsevier NV presents financial arrangements are also taken directly to group reserves statements for the parent company which reflect, in the under equalisation.
profit and loss account, its own income, including dividends from Reed Elsevier Group plc and Elsevier Reed In accordance with UITF38: Accounting for ESOP Trusts Finance BV companies, and expenses, and, in the balance issued in December 2003 by the UK Accounting Standards sheet, its fixed asset investments in these joint ventures Board, shares in Reed Elsevier NV and Reed Elsevier PLC accounted for using the historical cost method.
These purchased by the Reed Elsevier Group plc Employee parent company financial statements have been presented Benefit Trust, previously included within share of gross for the first time as if UK GAAP had been adopted in prior assets of joint ventures, are presented as shares held in 92 REED ELSEVIER ANNUAL REPORTS & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2003 REED ELSEVIER NV treasury and deducted within group shareholders funds.
In the parent company financial statements, fixed asset Prior year comparatives have been restated accordingly.
investments in the combined businesses are stated at cost, less provision, if appropriate, for any impairment in value.
Other than in respect of the representation of shares held in treasury, the adoption of UK GAAP had no effect on Short term investments are stated at the lower of cost and group shareholders funds or on the group earnings net realisable value.
Other assets and liabilities are stated compared to the amounts that would have been reported at historical cost, less provision, if appropriate, for any under Dutch GAAP.
Combined financial statements Foreign exchange translation The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of Profit and loss and cash flow items are translated at the combined financial statements are set out on pages average exchange rates.
In the balance sheets, assets and 40 and 41. liabilities are translated at rates ruling at the balance sheet date or contracted rates where applicable.
The gains These include policies in relation to goodwill and intangible or losses relating to the retranslation of Reed Elsevier NVs assets.
Such assets are amortised over their estimated 50% interest in the net assets of the combined businesses useful economic lives, which due to their longevity, may be are taken directly to group reserves.
for periods in excess of five years.
Taxation Basis of valuation of assets and liabilities Deferred taxation is provided in full for timing differences Reed Elsevier NVs 50% economic interest in the net using the liability method.
No provision is made for tax assets of the combined businesses has been shown on the which might become payable on the distribution of group balance sheet as interests in joint ventures, net of retained profits by foreign subsidiaries or joint ventures the assets and liabilities reported as part of Reed Elsevier unless there is an intention to distribute such retained NV.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the gross equity earnings giving rise to a charge.
Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that they are considered recoverable in the short term.
Deferred taxation balances are not discounted.
REED ELSEVIER ANNUAL REPORTS & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2003 93
