REED ELSEVIER PLC In the parent company accounts, investments are stated at Accounting policies cost, less provision, if appropriate, for any impairment in These financial statements have been prepared under the value.
historical cost convention in accordance with applicable accounting standards.
Foreign exchange translation Profit and loss and cash flow items are translated at Basis of preparation average exchange rates.
In the consolidated balance sheet, These statutory financial statements report the profit and assets and liabilities are translated at rates ruling at the loss account, cash flow and financial position of Reed balance sheet date or contracted rates where applicable.
Elsevier PLC, and have been prepared in accordance with The gains or losses relating to the retranslation of Reed UK generally accepted accounting principles.
Unless Elsevier PLCs 52.9% economic interest in the net assets of otherwise indicated, all amounts shown in the financial the combined businesses are taken directly to reserves.
statements are in millions of pounds.
The basis of the merger of the businesses of Reed Elsevier Taxation PLC and Reed Elsevier NV is set out on page 22.
Deferred taxation is provided in full for timing differences using the liability method.
No provision is made for tax As permitted by section 230 of the Companies Act 1985, which might become payable on the distribution of the Company has not presented its own profit and loss retained profits by foreign subsidiaries or joint ventures account.
unless there is an intention to distribute such retained earnings giving rise to a charge.
Determination of profit The Reed Elsevier PLC share of the Reed Elsevier Deferred tax assets are only recognised to the extent that combined results has been calculated on the basis of the they are considered recoverable in the short term.
52.9% economic interest of the Reed Elsevier PLC Deferred taxation balances are not discounted.
shareholders in the Reed Elsevier combined businesses, after taking account of results arising in Reed Elsevier PLC Prior year adjustment and its subsidiary undertakings.
Dividends paid to Reed Following the issuance of UITF38: Accounting for ESOP Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV shareholders are Trusts in December 2003, shares held in the parent equalised at the gross level inclusive of the UK tax credit companies by the Reed Elsevier Group plc Employee received by certain Reed Elsevier PLC shareholders.
In the Benefit Trust, previously included within share of gross financial statements, an adjustment is required to equalise assets of joint ventures, are now presented as shares held the benefit of the tax credit between the two sets of in treasury and deducted within consolidated shareholders shareholders in accordance with the equalisation funds.
Prior year comparatives have been restated agreement.
This equalisation adjustment arises on accordingly.
dividends paid by Reed Elsevier PLC to its shareholders and reduces the attributable earnings of the company by 47.1% of the total amount of the tax credit.
The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the combined financial statements are set out on pages 40 and 41.
Basis of valuation of assets and liabilities Reed Elsevier PLCs 52.9% economic interest in the net assets of the combined businesses has been shown on the balance sheet as interests in joint ventures, net of the assets and liabilities reported as part of Reed Elsevier PLC and its subsidiaries.
Joint ventures are accounted for using the gross equity method.
76 REED ELSEVIER ANNUAL REPORTS & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2003
