qxd 5 4 04 5:18 pm Page 55 AGM notice Dear shareholder ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL ii the directors be and they are MEETING hereby authorised to establish a further I am pleased to give you information plan or plans containing such provisions about the Annual General Meeting, to be Notice is hereby given that the Annual as the directors may decide subject held at City Point, 1 Ropemaker Street, General Meeting of Regus Group plc to the following: London EC2Y 9HT at 10am on Tuesday will be held at City Point, 1 Ropemaker a such plans must operate within 18 May 2004.
Street, London EC2Y 9HT, on the limits on the number of new ordinary Tuesday 18 May at 10.00am to shares which may be made available ACTION TO BE TAKEN consider and, if thought fit, pass the from time to time under the Plans: following resolutions: b such plans must, except to the A form of proxy is enclosed for you to extent necessary or desirable to take complete, according to the instructions account of overseas tax, securities printed on it and to send to the ORDINARY BUSINESS and exchange control laws, contain Companys registrar - Capita Registrars limitations so as to ensure, so far Proxies, PO Box 25, Beckenham, Kent 1 Report and accounts as the directors consider practicable, BR3 4BR - to arrive no later than 10am To receive the report of the directors and that the participants in such schemes on Sunday, 16 May 2004.
You will not the financial statements for the year obtain no greater benefit than employees be prevented from attending and voting ended 31 December 2003 together with participating in the Plans: and at the meeting, if you subsequently find the report of the auditors.
c once established, the provisions that you are able to do so.
of such plans may not be amended 2 Re-election of director without the prior approval of the LOCATION OF THE MEETING To re-elect Rudolf Lobo as a director Company in general meeting if of the Company.
such approval would be required The meeting is to be held at City Point to amend the comparable provisions in the Regus Conference Centre 3 Re-appointment of auditors in the Plans: and on the 9th floor.
To re-appoint KPMG as auditors iii the directors be and they are to the Company and to authorise the hereby authorised to vote and be RECOMMENDATION directors to determine the auditors counted in the quorum on any matter remuneration for the year.
connected with the Plans referred We, your directors, consider that all to in this resolution except that of the resolutions set out in the Notice 4 Remuneration report no director may vote or be counted of Annual General Meeting are in the To approve the directors remuneration in the quorum in respect of his own best interests of shareholders and report for the year ended 31 December participation and any prohibition on recommend that you vote in their favour, 2003. voting contained in the Articles of as we shall regarding our own Association of the Company be and shareholdings.
5 New Employee share plans is hereby relaxed accordingly.
that: Yours faithfully i The Regus Group Restricted Award Plan and the Regus Group SPECIAL BUSINESS Option Share Plan the Plans, a summary of the principal features To consider and, if thought fit, pass of which are set out on pages 17 to 20 the following resolutions of which of the Report and Accounts, be and Resolution 6 will be proposed John Matthews they are hereby approved and the as an ordinary resolution and Chairman directors be and they are hereby Resolutions 7 and 8 will be proposed Regus Group plc authorised to do all such acts and things as special resolutions: necessary to carry them into effect: and 055 18275 E22330 AREP.
qxd 5 4 04 5:18 pm Page 56 AGM notice 6 Directors authority to allot securities pursuant to the general This authority shall expire immediately ordinary shares authority referred to in Resolution 6 to prior to the fifth anniversary of the That the directors be and are hereby such persons and in such manner as the passing of this resolution.
authorised, generally and unconditionally, directors may think fit as if Section 89 1 for the purposes of Section 80 of the of the Companies Act 1985 did not 8 Companys authority Companies Act 1985, to exercise all apply to any such allotment, provided to purchase ordinary shares.
powers of the Company to allot relevant that this power shall be limited to: That the Company be and is hereby securities up to the aggregate nominal unconditionally and generally authorised amount of 13,130,560 being the lesser i the allotment of equity securities for the purpose of Section 166 of the of i the Companys authorised but in connection with a rights issue, open Companies Act 1985 to make market unissued share capital at the date offer or any other pre-emptive offer in purchases as defined in Section 163 of the resolution and ii the sum of favour of shareholders and in favour of of that Act of ordinary shares of the a one-third of the Companys issued holders of any other class of equity Company provided that: ordinary share capital at the date security in accordance with the rights i the maximum number of shares of the resolution and b any amounts attached to such class where the equity which may be purchased is 78,783,359: outstanding at the date of the resolution securities respectively attributable to the ii the minimum price which may be which have previously been approved by interests of such persons on a fixed paid is the nominal value of each share: shareholders to satisfy the Companys record date are proportionate as nearly iii the maximum price which may obligations to issue shares.
as may be to the respective numbers be paid for a share is an amount equal of equity securities held by them or are to 105% of the average of the middle The Company may make any offer or otherwise allotted in accordance with the market quotations of the Companys agreement prior to the expiry of this rights attaching to such equity securities ordinary shares as derived from the authority which would or might require subject to such exclusions or other Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the relevant securities to be allotted after arrangements as the Board may deem five business days immediately preceding such expiry and the directors may allot necessary or expedient to deal with the day on which such share is relevant securities after such expiry in fractional entitlements or legal or contracted to be purchased: accordance with this authority in practical problems arising in any iv this authority shall expire at the pursuance of such offer or agreement.
overseas territory, the requirements of conclusion of the Annual General any regulatory body or stock exchange Meeting of the Company held in 2005 This authority shall expire immediately or any other matter whatsoever: and except in relation to the purchase of prior to the fifth anniversary of the ii the allotment otherwise than shares the contract for which was passing of this resolution.
All unexercised pursuant to sub-paragraph i above of concluded before the expiry of such authorities vested in the directors, equity securities up to the aggregate authority and which might be executed immediately prior to the general meeting nominal amount of 1,969,584 being 5% wholly or partly after such expiry at which this resolution is passed, to allot of the ordinary share capital in issue at unless such authority is renewed prior relevant securities are hereby revoked.
Expressions used in this resolution which are defined in the Companies Act This power shall enable the Company Registered Office: 1985 shall have the same meaning as to make any offer or agreement before 3000 Hillswood Drive used herein.
the expiry of such general authority Chertsey, Surrey which would or might require securities KT16 ORS 7 Directors power to disapply to be allotted after such expiry and the pre-emption rights directors may allot equity securities That if Resolution 6 is passed as an after such expiry pursuant to any such By order of the Board ordinary resolution, the directors be and offer or agreement.
Expressions used T S J Regan are hereby empowered in accordance in this resolution which are defined Regus Group plc with section 95 1 of the Companies Act in the Companies Act 1985 shall have Company Secretary 1985 from time to time to allot equity the same meanings as used herein.
qxd 5 4 04 5:18 pm Page 57 AGM notice 9.00 am Doors open to shareholders 9.15 am Auditorium opens 10.00 am Annual General Meeting begins Any member entitled to attend and Resolution 4 date of the passing of the resolution, vote at the meeting is entitled to Remuneration report the directors consider it appropriate, appoint a proxy to attend and vote New legislation which came into effect and in line with current practice, to seek instead of the member.
A proxy need in August 2002 requires all listed renewal of the authority on an annual not be a member of the Company.
companies with financial years ending basis.
Accordingly, the directors seek on or after 31 December 2002 to put the authority to allot, at their discretion, EXPLANATORY NOTES their directors remuneration report an amount of relevant securities up to TO THE RESOLUTIONS to a vote by shareholders.
Accordingly, the aggregate nominal amount of a resolution is proposed to approve 13,130,560 being one-third of the Resolution 1 the remuneration report set out on pages issued ordinary share capital of the Report and accounts 16 to 22 of the Report and Accounts.
Company at the date of the resolution.
The directors are required to present The directors do not have any present to the Annual General Meeting, Resolution 5 intention of exercising this authority other the directors and auditors reports New employee share plans than in respect of the Companys share and the accounts of the Company for The directors seek your approval option schemes and if necessary the year ended 31 December 2003. to establish two new employee share to satisfy the consideration payable for plans, the principal features of which businesses acquired or to be acquired.
Resolution 2 are summarised on pages 17 to 20 of This authority supersedes all previous Re-election of directors this Report and Accounts.
In addition, authorities and the directors intend to The Companys Articles of Association the Directors seek authority to establish seek its renewal at next years Annual require that any director appointed since further plans, based on the plans General Meeting.
the last Annual General Meeting and, summarised in pages 17 to 20, but additionally, one-third in number of the modified to take account of local tax, Resolution 7 directors must retire by rotation including exchange control or securities laws.
Directors power to disapply those directors who have held office at pre-emption rights the time of the preceding two Annual A copy of the rules of each of the Plans Under Section 95 of the Companies Act General Meetings and who did not retire will be available for inspection at the 1985, the directors require the authority at either of them.
In accordance with registered office of the Company and at of shareholders in general meeting to the Articles of Association, Rudolf Lobo the offices of Slaughter and May, One disapply section 89 of the Companies shall retire.
Bunhill Row, London EC1Y 8YY during Act 1985 so that they can allot normal business hours on any weekday authorised but unissued shares in the The retiring director offers himself from the date of this notice until the date Company for cash other than to existing for re-election.
Brief details of all the of the Meeting and at the venue for a holders of ordinary shares pro rata to directors, including those seeking reperiod of at least 15 minutes before their holdings or alternatively, should election at the meeting, are to be found the meeting appropriate circumstances arise, allot in this Annual Report and Accounts.
shares in connection with a rights issue Resolution 6 subject to certain limited exclusions for Resolution 3 Directors authority to allot ordinary arrangements.
At the present time there Re-appointment of auditors shares under Section 80 of the is no intention to exercise such authority.
The auditors of a company must Companies Act 1985 be appointed at each general meeting The directors require the authority The directors intend to seek renewal at which accounts are presented.
of shareholders in general meeting to of the authority given by Resolution 7 Resolution 3 proposes the reallot unissued shares of the Company at next years Annual General Meeting.
appointment of the Companys existing and this resolution seeks to renew auditors KPMG for a further year.
the authority last granted to the directors The resolution also gives authority at the 2003 Annual General Meeting.
to the directors to determine the Although this authority is not due to auditors remuneration.
expire until the fifth anniversary of the 057
