Notice of meeting NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the 30th annual general iii the minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary meeting of the Company will be held at New Mills, Wottonshare shall be 20p: under-Edge, Gloucestershire, GL12 8JR on Friday 17th iv the authority hereby conferred shall expire at the October 2003 at noon to transact the following business:- earlier of the conclusion of the annual general meeting to be held in 2004 and 31st December 2004 unless such authority is renewed prior to such time: and 1.
To receive and adopt the reports of the directors and auditors and the financial statements for the year ended v the Company may make a contract to purchase 30th June 2003. ordinary shares under the authority hereby conferred prior to the expiry of such authority which contract will or may be executed wholly or partly after the expiration 2.
of such authority and may make a purchase of ordinary shares pursuant to such contract.
To re-elect as a director of the Company B R Taylor, who is retiring by rotation.
To transact any other business of an annual general meeting.
To re-elect as a director of the Company J P McGeehan, who is retiring by rotation.
To elect as a director of the Company T D Snowden.
AC G Roberts FCA New Mills Secretary Wotton-under-Edge Gloucestershire 6.
To elect as a director of the Company T B Garthwaite.
To approve the Directors remuneration report contained in the Annual report 2003.
Notes: The Company pursuant to Regulation 41 of the Uncertificated 8.
To re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the Securities Regulations 2001, specifies that only those Company and to authorise the directors to determine shareholders registered in the register of members of the their remuneration.
Company as at 6 pm on 15th October 2003 shall be entitled to attend or vote at the aforesaid annual general meeting in 9.
To consider as special business and, if thought fit, to pass respect of the number of shares registered in their name at the following resolution, which will be proposed as a that time.
Changes to entries on the relevant register of special resolution:- securities after 6 pm on 15th October 2003 shall be disregarded in determining the rights of any person to attend or vote at the meeting.
THAT, the Company be and is hereby unconditionally A member entitled to attend and vote is entitled to appoint a authorised to make market purchases within the meaning proxy or proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead of of section 163 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of ordinary him or her.
A proxy need not be a member of the Company shares of 20p each in the capital of the Company and the appointment of a proxy will not preclude a member ordinary shares provided that: from attending and voting at the meeting.
A form of proxy is i the maximum number of ordinary shares hereby enclosed for this purpose.
authorised to be purchased is 7,278,854: The register of directors shareholdings will be available for ii the maximum price that may be paid for an ordinary inspection at the registered office of the Company during share is an amount equal to 105% of the average of normal business hours until the date of the meeting and at the middle market quotations for an ordinary share as the place of the meeting for 15 minutes prior to, and during, derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official the meeting.
No director has a service contract.
The 2000 figures have been restated to reflect the impact of the adoption of FRS 17 Retirement benefits.
Figures for 1994 to 1999 have not been restated.
