Accounting Policies ACCOUNTING The accounts have been prepared under the historical cost convention and comply with the Companies Act 1985 Act, CONVENTION except for the departure noted under intangible assets below, as amended by the Companies Act 1989 and applicable accounting standards.
NEW During the year the company has adopted Application Note G which was issued as an amendment to FRS 5 Reporting the ACCOUNTING Substance of Transactions by the ASB in November 2003 to be adopted for accounting periods ending on or after 23rd POLICIES December 2003.
This has replaced the previous policy of recognising, where appropriate, a higher proportion of the total income at the start of contracts to reflect initial value of services performed and has resulted in a prior year adjustment to shareholders equity of 15.7 million net of tax.
This is accounted for by a 22.5 million increase in creditors offset by a 4.0 million decrease in corporation tax and a 2.8 million decrease in deferred tax.
As there was no impact on the 2002 profit and loss account, the results for 2002 have not been restated.
The effect of applying this new policy in 2003 has been to reduce profit before tax by 0.3 million.
The consolidated accounts comprise those of the parent company and its subsidiary undertakings subsidiaries or CONSOLIDATION subsidiary companies together with the groups share of profits and net assets of the associated undertakings associates or associated companies.
The results of newly acquired companies and businesses are consolidated from the date of acquisition.
The results of companies and businesses disposed of during the year are consolidated until the date of disposal.
For acquisitions involving deferred consideration, estimated deferred payments are accrued in the balance sheet.
Interest due to vendors on deferred payments is charged to the profit and loss account as it accrues.
For disposals involving deferred consideration, estimated deferred receipts are prepaid in the balance sheet.
Interest from buyers on deferred receipts is credited to the profit and loss account as it accrues.
FOREIGN The results of overseas subsidiary and associated undertakings are translated at the average exchange rates for the year.
CURRENCIES The assets and liabilities of such undertakings are translated at year-end exchange rates.
Exchange differences on the results for the year, opening net assets and on foreign currency loans which relate to overseas investments are recorded as movements on reserves in accordance with SSAP 20.
Foreign currency transactions in the year and balances in the year-end balance sheet are translated at the average and closing rates of exchange respectively.
Any exchange differences arising are taken to the profit and loss account, with the exception of exchange gains and losses in respect of loans which hedge against foreign currency investments which are recorded as movements in reserves.
TURNOVER Turnover excludes VAT and other similar sales based taxes and represents the amounts receivable for services rendered including franchisee fees and goods sold outside the group.
Contract income is recognised in accounting periods on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract.
COST OF SALES & Production, service, selling and other direct branch costs are classified as cost of sales.
Administrative expenses comprise ADMINISTRATIVE head office costs and research and development expenditure which is written off as incurred.
EXPENSES PENSION COSTS The cost of pensions in respect of the groups defined benefit pension schemes is charged to the profit and loss account so as to spread the cost of pensions over the average expected service lives of employees in the schemes.
Actuarial surpluses or deficits from the regular costs are spread over the average future service lives of employees in the schemes using the projected unit credit method.
Differences between the amount charged in the profit and loss account and payments made to the schemes are treated as assets or liabilities in the balance sheet.
Contributions to defined contribution schemes are charged to the profit and loss account as incurred.
The notes to the accounts continue to include the required disclosures in accordance with the transitional provisions of FRS 17 Retirement Benefits.
50 RENTOKIL INITIAL PLC INTANGIBLE Goodwill represents the excess of the fair value of the consideration given over the aggregate of the fair values of the ASSETS identifiable net assets acquired.
Goodwill in respect of acquisitions made prior to January 1998 remains eliminated against reserves.
This will be charged in the profit and loss account on subsequent disposal of the business to which it relates.
Goodwill in respect of acquisitions made since 1st January 1998 is shown as an asset and in accordance with FRS 10 each acquisition is assessed to determine the useful economic life of the business and the goodwill.
For the types of business normally acquired by the company, the board considers that the goodwill is an inseparable part of the total value of the relevant business.
These are service businesses which are not subject to high volatility in fashions or markets and demand for these services is likely to continue for the foreseeable future.
Such businesses, if properly managed, should grow in value over the years and hence neither the value of the business nor the goodwill have a measurable useful economic life and the goodwill is not amortised.
This treatment of goodwill represents a departure from the Act which requires goodwill to be amortised over its useful economic life.
However, such departure is permitted under the Act in order to give a true and fair view.
The directors believe that it is not possible to identify a finite life for goodwill in respect of acquisitions and accordingly, the treatment of goodwill identified above is necessary in order to give a true and fair view.
In view of the inability to identify a finite life for goodwill in respect of acquisitions, it is not possible to quantify the effects of such departure from the Act.
In the event that it could be considered that the value of the business or its goodwill does have a measurable economic life, then the goodwill would be amortised through the profit and loss account by equal instalments over such useful economic life.
The potential lives of the businesses and goodwill are reviewed annually and revised where appropriate.
In the event that the useful economic life did not exceed 20 years, goodwill would be subject to an impairment review at the end of the year of acquisition and at any other time in the event that the directors believe that an impairment may have occurred.
Where the goodwill is assigned a useful economic life which is in excess of 20 years or is indefinite, the value of the relevant businesses and goodwill are assessed for impairment against carrying values on an annual basis in accordance with FRS 11.
Any impairment would be charged to the profit and loss account in the period in which it arises.
TANGIBLE Provision for depreciation of freehold buildings is made in equal annual instalments of 1% to 2% of cost.
Leasehold ASSETS land and buildings are amortised in equal annual instalments over the periods of the leases subject to a minimum annual provision of 1% of costs.
No depreciation is charged on freehold land or fixed assets under construction.
When properties are sold the difference between sales proceeds and net book value is dealt with in the profit and loss account.
In accordance with FRS 15 annual impairment reviews are performed for properties with a useful economic life of greater than 50 years at the balance sheet date.
Other tangible fixed assets are stated at cost less depreciation.
Provision for depreciation is made in equal annual instalments over the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows: 4 to 5 years - Vehicles 3 to 10 years - Plant, machinery and equipment, tropical plants and their containers on rental 3 to 10 years - Office equipment, furniture and fittings.
The company selects its depreciation rates carefully and reviews them regularly to take account of any changes in circumstances.
When setting useful economic lives, the principal factors the company takes into account are expected technological developments, expected market requirements and the intensity of which assets are used.
LEASED Where the group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of an asset subject to a lease, the lease is ASSETS treated as a finance lease.
Other leases are treated as operating leases.
Future instalments payable under finance leases, net of finance charges, are included in borrowings with the corresponding asset values recorded in fixed assets and depreciated over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or their lease terms.
Lease payments are apportioned between the finance element, which is charged to the profit and loss account as interest, and the capital element which reduces the outstanding obligation for future instalments.
Payments under operating leases are charged to the profit and loss account on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
RENTOKIL INITIAL PLC 51 Accounting Policies STOCKS Stocks and work in progress are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
PROVISIONS Provision is made in accordance with FRS 12 for: Vacant property - In respect of vacant and partly sub-let leasehold properties to the extent that future rental payments are expected to exceed future rental income.
Environmental - For all known liabilities to remediate contaminated land on the basis of managements best estimate of the costs of these liabilities.
Self insurance - For all claims incurred as at the balance sheet date based on actuarial assessments of these liabilities.
Other provisions - For all other known liabilities which exist at the year end based on managements best estimate as to the cost of settling these liabilities.
DERIVATIVES The derivative instruments used by the group, which are used solely for hedging purposes i. e. to offset foreign AND OTHER exchange and interest rate risks, comprise currency and interest rate swaps, forward rate agreements and forward FINANCIAL foreign exchange contracts.
Such derivative instruments are used to alter the risk profile of an existing underlying INSTRUMENTS exposure of the group in line with the groups treasury policies.
Interest rate differentials under swap arrangements and forward rate agreements used to manage interest rate exposures are recognised by adjustment to net interest payable.
Premiums or discounts arising on the purchase of derivative instruments are amortised over the shorter of the life of the instrument and the underlying exposure.
Currency swap agreements and forward foreign exchange contracts are valued at closing rates of exchange.
Where the borrowings are used to finance net overseas investments exchange differences are taken to reserves in accordance with SSAP 20.
Resulting gains and or losses are offset against foreign exchange gains or losses on the related borrowings or, where the instrument is used to hedge a committed future transaction, are deferred until the transaction occurs.
DEFERRED TAX Deferred tax is recognised in respect of all timing differences that have originated but not reversed at the balance sheet date where transactions or events that result in an obligation to pay more tax in the future or a right to pay less tax in the future have occurred at the balance sheet date.
Timing differences are differences between the taxable profits and results as stated in the financial statements that arise from the inclusion of gains and losses in tax assessments in periods different from those in which they are recognised in the financial statements.
A net deferred tax asset is regarded as recoverable and therefore recognised only when, on the basis of all the available evidence, it can be regarded as more likely than not that there will be suitable profits from which the future reversal of the underlying timing differences can be deducted.
Deferred tax is not recognised when fixed assets are sold and it is more likely than not that the taxable gain will be rolled over, being charged to tax only if and when the replacement assets are sold.
Neither is deferred tax recognised on overseas profits where there is no commitment to remit those profits to the UK.
Deferred tax is measured at the average rates that are expected to apply in the periods in which the timing differences are expected to reverse, based on tax rates and laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
Deferred tax is measured on a non-discounted basis.
SHARE OPTION Own shares held in the Rentokil Initial Employee Share Trust to satisfy obligations under the Rentokil Initial share option SCHEMES schemes are carried at cost as part of fixed asset investments.
These amounts will be transferred to shareholders funds in 2004 in accordance with UITF 38 published in December 2003 and effective for accounting periods ending on or after 22nd June 2004.
If the cost of these shares were to exceed the anticipated proceeds on exercise of the options by employees, the excess will be written off to the profit and loss account in accordance with UITF 17.
