Notice of Meeting NOTICE OF Notice is hereby given that the seventy-seventh annual general meeting of Rentokil Initial plc will be held at The British MEETING Library, 96 Euston Road, London NW1 2DB on 27th May 2004 at 11.00 a. m. AGENDA 1.
To receive the Report of the Directors, the accounts for 2003 and the Independent Auditors Report thereon.
To approve the Remuneration Report.
4. i To re-elect a director retiring by rotation, Mr E F Brown executive director : ii To re-elect a director retiring by rotation, Mr R R Spinney a non-executive director and member of the audit and remuneration committees : iii To re-elect a director retiring by rotation, Mr J C F Wilde chief executive.
That  LLP be re-appointed auditors of the company to hold office until the conclusion of the next general meeting at which accounts are laid before the company and that their remuneration be determined by the directors.
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following special resolution: 6.
That, in substitution for existing authorities, the company be and is hereby generally and unconditionally authorised for the purposes of Section 166 of the Companies Act 1985 to make market purchases within the meaning of Section 163 of that Act of Ordinary shares of 1p each in the capital of the company provided that: i the maximum number of Ordinary shares which may be purchased is 235,420,780: ii notwithstanding paragraph i above, the company may not make market purchases pursuant to the authority conferred by this Resolution of such number of Ordinary shares as in aggregate amounts to 15 per cent.
or more of the number of Ordinary shares which are in issue immediately following the general meeting or any adjournment thereof at which this resolution is passed: iii the minimum price which may be paid for each Ordinary share exclusive of expenses is 1p: iv the maximum price which may be paid for each Ordinary share is an amount exclusive of expenses equal to 105 per cent.
of the average of the middle market quotations for an Ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which such Ordinary share is contracted to be purchased: and v this authority shall expire at the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the company in 2005 or, if earlier, on 27th August 2005 except in relation to the purchase of shares the contract for which was entered into before the expiry of this authority and which might be executed wholly or partly after such expiry.
To transact any other business of the company.
By order of the board Registered Office: R Ward-Jones Felcourt, East Grinstead Secretary West Sussex RH19 2JY 14th April 2004 Registered No.
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint one or more proxies to attend and, on a poll, to vote instead of him.
A proxy need not be a member of the company.
Only those persons who are on the share register at close of business on 25th May 2004 before the time of the meeting shall be entitled to attend and vote at the meeting.
Shares held in uncertified form i. e. in CREST may be voted through the CREST Proxy Voting Service in accordance with the procedures set out in the CREST manual.
A copy, or memorandum of the terms, of every service contract between the company or any of its subsidiaries and any director of the company is available for inspection at the companys registered office and at the offices of Denton Wilde Sapte, One Fleet Place, London EC4M 7WS, during normal business hours on any weekday Saturdays and public holidays excepted until 27th May 2004 and will also be available for inspection at the place of the annual general meeting for at least 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
The annual general meeting is being held at The British Library, 96 Euston Road, London NW1 2DB see map on proxy card.
The nearest underground stations are Kings Cross and Euston.
RENTOKIL INITIAL PLC 79 80 RENTOKIL INITIAL PLC
