736505 1170 70 72 2 24 04 1:46 PM Page 72 Corporate governance continued statements.
The process is reviewed annually Further details are set out in the Shareholder page 73.
The Charter is subject to regular by the directors and accords with the information on page 79. discussion and has been reviewed in the guidance set out in Internal Control: Guidance Rio Tinto maintains a comprehensive light of new requirements and emerging for Directors on the Combined Code.
com, from which its best practice.
The Groups management committees reports and other publications can be freely There is in place a set of procedures, review information on the Groups significant downloaded and through which shareholders including budgetary guidelines, for the risks, with relevant control and monitoring can gain secure online access to their appointment of the external auditor to procedures, for completeness and accuracy.
It is also linked to undertake non audit work, which aims to This information is presented to the directors websites maintained by Group operations, provide the best possible goods and services to enable them to assess the effectiveness of thus offering easy access to a wealth of for the Group at the most advantageous price.
In addition, the boards detailed information about the Group.
Results We review the independence of the external and their committees monitor the Groups presentations and other significant events are auditors on an annual basis and a process is significant risks on an ongoing basis.
also available as they happen and as an also in place to review their effectiveness to Assurance functions, including internal archive on the website.
ensure that the Group continues to receive an auditors and health, safety and environmental Full use is made of the annual general efficient and unbiased service.
auditors, perform reviews of control activities meetings to inform shareholders of current and provide regular written and oral reports developments through appropriate Financial expert to directors and management committees.
presentations and to provide opportunities In January 2003, the Audit committee The directors receive and review minutes of for questions.
reviewed the SEC requirements for audit the meetings of each board committee, in Significant matters affecting both committees financial experts, and, following addition to oral reports from the respective Companies are dealt with under the joint voting an indepth assessment, recommended that chairmen at the first board meeting following procedure, detailed on page 78.
Votes, which the boards consider indentifying Sir Richard the relevant committee meeting.
are cast on a poll, are announced after the Giordano, Sir David Clementi, and Andrew Certain risks, for example natural close of the later of the two annual general Gould as the Audit committees financial disasters, cannot be mitigated to an meetings.
In addition the Companies respond experts, to be identified as such in the 2003 acceptable degree using internal controls.
to individual queries on many issues.
Annual report and financial statements, Such major risks are transferred to third subject to the board satisfying itself that they parties in the international insurance markets, Audit committee: US Blue Ribbon fulfilled the SEC criteria.
At their subsequent to the extent considered appropriate.
Compliance statement meeting, the boards considered each of the Each year, the leaders of Group The Audit committee meets the membership above and resolved that they each possessed businesses and administrative offices requirements of the Combined Code in the the requisite experience, appropriately complete an internal control questionnaire UK and the Blue Ribbon Report in the US.
required, to qualify as financial experts.
that seeks to confirm that adequate internal The Group also meets the disclosure controls are in place and operating effectively.
requirements in respect of audit committees 2003 financial statements The results of this process are reviewed by required by the Australian Stock Exchange.
We have reviewed and discussed with the Executive committee it is then presented The Audit committee is governed by a written management the Groups audited to the board as a further part of their review charter approved by the boards, which the financial statements for the year ended of the Groups internal controls.
This process Audit committee reviews and reassesses 31 December 2003. is continually reviewed and strengthened as each year for adequacy.
A copy of this We have discussed with the external appropriate.
charter is reproduced on page 73. auditors the matters described in the In 2002, the Group also established a The Audit committee comprises the five American Institute of Certified Public Disclosure and procedures committee which members set out below.
The members, with Accountants Auditing Standard No.
90, was tasked with reviewing the adequacy and the exception of David Mayhew, are Audit Committee Communications, and in the effectiveness of Group controls over and independent and are free of any relationship UK Statement of Auditing Standard No 610, procedures for the public disclosure of that would interfere with impartial judgment in Reporting to those charged with Governance financial and related information.
The carrying out their responsibilities.
Mr Mayhew SAS 610, including their judgments regarding committee has been presenting the results of is technically not deemed to be independent the quality of the Groups accounting principles this process to senior management and by virtue of his professional association with and underlying estimates.
directors and will continue to do so.
the Group in his capacity as chairman of We have discussed with the external The Group has material investments in a Cazenove Group plc, a stockbroker and auditors their independence, and received and number of joint ventures and associated financial adviser to Rio Tinto plc.
However, reviewed their written disclosures, as required companies.
Rio Tinto cannot guarantee that the boards have determined that, in their by the US Independence Standards Boards local management of mining assets, where it business judgment, the relationship does not Standard No.
1, Independence Discussions does not have managerial control, will comply interfere with Mr Mayhews exercise of with Audit Committees and SAS 610. with the Groups standards or objectives.
independent judgment and they believe that his Based on the reviews and discussions Accordingly, the review of their internal appointment is in the best interests of the referred to above, we have recommended to controls is less comprehensive than that for Group because of the substantial financial the boards of directors that the financial the Groups managed operations.
knowledge and expertise he brings to the statements referred to above be included in committee.
Communications Communications with shareholders are given Report of the Audit committee Sir Richard Giordano Chairman high priority.
The boards have responsibility The Audit committee met eight times in 2003.
Sir David Clementi to ensure that a satisfactory dialogue with We monitor developments in corporate Andrew Gould shareholders takes place.
In addition to governance in the US, Australia and the UK.
David Mayhew statutory documents, such as the Annual We do so to ensure the Group continues to Lord Tugendhat report and financial statements, Annual apply high and appropriate standards relevant review and Half year report, Rio Tinto to the jurisdictions in which we operate.
produces documents on a wide range of Many of the new US requirements have subjects, including corporate social long been best practice and are incorporated responsibility, which are available on request.
into the committees Charter, reproduced on 72 Rio Tinto 2003 Annual report and financial statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
