126 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2003 Denitions Adjusted earnings Net asset value per share This comprises the profit for the financial year after This is calculated by dividing shareholders funds by the adjusting for profits and losses on items of a capital closing number of shares in issue.
nature, as well as the impact of exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
Net interest cover EBIT This is the ratio of profit before interest, taxation and Adjusted profit before tax exceptional items to net nancing costs before This is dened as profit before tax, goodwill amortisation exceptional items.
Net operating assets Cash operating margin % This is the sum of xed assets excluding Safari This is calculated on a pre-exceptional basis, by shares, stocks and debtors less interest free liabilities.
expressing EBITDA as a percentage of turnover, A reconciliation of this number is provided in note 3. excluding associates.
Operating margin % Cash operating return % This is calculated on a pre-exceptional basis, by This is calculated on a pre-exceptional basis, by expressing profit before interest and taxation as a expressing the sum of EBITDA and cash dividends percentage of turnover, including associates.
received from associates and other investments, as a percentage of net operating assets, adjusted for Operating return % cumulative goodwill eliminated against shareholders This is calculated on a pre-exceptional basis, by funds and accumulated depreciation and amortisation.
expressing profit before interest and taxation, including associates, as a percentage of net operating assets, EBITA excluding goodwill.
This is calculated by expressing earnings before interest, taxation and goodwill amortisation.
Return on equity % This is calculated by dividing adjusted earnings by EBITA margin % shareholders funds.
This is calculated by expressing earnings before interest, taxation and goodwill amortisation as a percentage of Total borrowings turnover including associates.
This comprises the sum of the interest bearing liabilities included in creditors due within and after one year.
EBITDA This comprises net cash inow from operating activities, before working capital movements.
Effective tax rate % This is calculated by dividing the tax charge for the year by the profit before taxation excluding exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
