A29424 S&N accounts 16 7 03 12:47 pm Page 12 11 Scottish & Newcastle Annual Report and Accounts 2003 Operational excellence is fundamental to our business.
Management attention and investment is focused on the most effective methods of ensuring our brands reach our customers and ultimately our consumers.
OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE Effective distribution such as the production of Fosters progress in developing national same route to market.
In May 2003 Efficient operations, especially in France and Portugal.
distribution networks for all its S&N also announced the acquisition distribution, are vitally important Within markets, management key markets.
of Luso, the leading bottled water to deliver excellent customer of supply to the consumer will brand in Portugal, whose on trade service and protect and improve differ depending upon market Non-beer brands marketing and distribution is handled margins.
For example, in On 28 April 2003 S&N announced by Central fide Cervejas.
Total operations from purchasing the UK two thirds of beer volumes an agreed bid for Bulmer, the UK to brewing to distribution need to are sold through the on trade market leader in branded cider, Retail skills be managed as a seamless whole 100,000 bars, restaurants and pubs.
with well-known brands such as In many markets understanding the in order to maximise productivity Deliveries are made to each outlet Strongbow.
Bulmers brands use on trade is key to building brands and and minimise costs.
For example, and beer raising and cellaring the same route to market and are meeting the needs and aspirations of pan-European purchasing contracts equipment are all supplied to ensure complementary to beer.
As a result, our customers and consumers.
give the best prices for packaging the beer reaches the consumer in substantial cost savings can be S&N Retail is the leading operator including cans, glass and cardboard the best condition.
In the UK, S&N made in distribution.
of managed pubs in the UK with an and raw materials such as malt.
is implementing a new distribution In smaller markets such as estate that consistently outperforms it Continual steps are being taken system with two key goals, cost Portugal and Finland where total competitors in like for like sales, cost to ensure brewing efficiency with reduction and improved customer volumes are much lower, other efficiency and return on investments.
the closure of sub-scale breweries service.
products including non-alcoholic and packaging facilities such as In Eastern Europe, huge distances beverages play an important role in Waarloos in Belgium and Coimbra within markets make effective distribution efficiency.
For example, in Portugal and production of key production and distribution critically half of Hartwalls volumes in Finland brands close to the point of sale important, and BBH has made great are non-beer brands that share the A29424 S&N accounts 16 7 03 12:47 pm Page 13
