| ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 135 Substantial shareholdings 43 and 44 in the Remuneration Report.
Dividends As at 7 May 2003, the company had been None of the ofcers had a beneficial interest Although dividends were historically notied that the following companies were in 1% or more of the issued share capital.
declared and paid and financial reports substantial shareholders: published semi-annually, following In addition, as at 7 May 2003, the directors completion of the merger with PaciCorp, Capital Research and and ofcers of the company, as a group, held the company moved to quarterly reporting Management Company 7.38% options to purchase 4,466,130 ordinary and the quarterly payment of dividends.
shares, all of which were issued pursuant to Barclays plc 3.58% A dividend of 7.177 pence per share on the the Long Term Incentive Plan, Executive Share ordinary shares will be paid on 16 June Option Scheme, Executive Share Option Plan Prudential plc 3.55% 2003 to shareholders on the register on 16 2001, ScottishPowers Sharesave Schemes or May 2003.
This makes total dividends for the PaciCorp Stock Incentive Plan.
Legal & General the year of 28.708 pence per share.
A InvestmentManagement 3.38% dividend of $0.4609 per ADS will also be The company does not know of any paid on 16 June 2003 to ADS holders of arrangements the operation of which might The substantial shareholders enjoy the record on 16 May 2003.
This makes total result in a change in control of the group.
same voting rights as all other shareholders.
dividends for the year of $1.8268 per ADS.
Exchange rates Control of company As stated at the time of announcing the The group publishes its consolidated As far as is known to the company, it is not proposed disposal of Southern Water, with Accounts in pounds sterling.
In this directly or indirectly owned or controlled by effect from the financial year commencing 1 document, references to pounds sterling, another corporation or by any foreign April 2003, ScottishPower intends to target pounds, pence or p are to UK currency government.
dividend cover, based on full year earnings and references to US dollars, US$ or $ excluding goodwill amortisation and are to US currency.
Solely for the convenience As at 7 May 2003, no person known to the exceptional items, in the range 1.5 - 2.0 of the reader, this report contains translations company, other than as shown above, times and ideally towards the middle of that of certain pounds sterling amounts into US owned more than 5% of any class of the range.
ScottishPower will aim to grow dollars at specified rates, or, if not so specified, groups voting securities.
dividends broadly in line with earnings at the Noon Buying Rate in New York City thereafter.
for cable transfers in pounds sterling as As at 7 May 2003, the total amount of certied for customs purposes by the voting securities owned by directors and To implement this policy, in the absence of Federal Reserve Bank of New York Noon executive ofcers of ScottishPower as a unforeseen circumstances, ScottishPower Buying Rate on 31 March 2003 of 1.00 group is shown in Table 47 below.
intends to pay an identical dividend for each $1.58.
On 7 May 2003, the Noon Buying of the first three quarters of each year, with Table 47 Voting securities Rate was $1.59 to 1.00.
No representation the dividend for the fourth quarter is made that the pound sterling amounts Title of Class Amount Percentage representing the balance of the total Identity of Group Owned of Class have been, could have been or could be dividend for each year.
In respect of each of converted into US dollars at the rates Ordinary shares the quarters ending 30 June 2003, 30 Directors and ofcers indicated or at any other rates.
September 2003 and 31 December 2003, 18 persons 409,261 0.02% ScottishPower aims to declare a dividend of Table 48 sets out, for the periods indicated, 4.75 pence per share.
Full details of the directors interests in certain information concerning the Noon ScottishPower shares are shown in Tables Buying Rate for US dollars per 1.00.
Dividends paid by the Depositary in respect of ADSs are paid in US dollars based on a market rate of exchange that differs from the Noon Buying Rate.
2 Calculated based on a ratio of four ordinary shares for one ADS.
Table 49 sets out the dividends paid on There are no limitations imposed by UK law to mark to market, investors with a ordinary shares and ADSs in respect of the or by the companys Memorandum and functional currency other than the US past five financial years, excluding any Articles of Association that restrict the right dollar, persons who hold ADSs as part of a associated UK tax credit in respect of such of non-UK resident or non-UK citizen hedge, straddle or conversion transaction, dividends.
A person resident in the UK for owners to hold or to vote the ordinary or holders of 10% or more of the voting tax purposes who receives a dividend from shares.
The statements of the company is generally entitled to a tax UK and US tax laws and practices set out credit, currently at a rate of 1 9th of the Taxation below are based on the laws in force and as dividend associated UK tax credit.
For The following discussion of UK tax and US interpreted by the relevant taxation further information, see Taxation of federal income tax consequences is set authorities as of the date of this report.
forth with respect to US tax considerations statements are subject to any changes in reliance upon the advice of Milbank, occurring after that date in UK or US law or Memorandum and Articles of Association Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP, special US practice, in the interpretation thereof by the A summary of certain provisions of the counsel to the company, and with respect relevant taxation authorities, or in any companys Memorandum and Articles of to UK tax considerations in reliance upon double taxation convention between the US Association will be led with the companys the advice of Freshelds Bruckhaus and the UK.
On 24 July 2001, the US and report to the US Securities and Exchange Deringer, the companys UK lawyers.
The the UK signed a new convention between Commission on Form 20-F. discussion is intended only as a summary the two countries for the avoidance of of the principal US federal income tax and double taxation with respect to taxes on Exchange controls and other limitations UK tax consequences to investors who hold income and capital gains the New Income affecting security holders the ADSs or ordinary shares as capital Tax Convention.
Instruments of ratication There are currently no UK laws, decrees or assets and does not purport to be a with respect to the New Income Tax regulations that restrict the export or import complete analysis or listing of all potential Convention were exchanged on 31 March of capital, including, but not limited to, tax consequences of the purchase, 2003, putting the New Income Tax foreign exchange capital restrictions, or that ownership and disposition of ADSs or Convention into force, subject to certain affect the remittance of dividends or other ordinary shares.
The summary does not effective date provisions that result in the payments to non-UK resident holders of the discuss special tax rules that may be delayed implementation of certain companys securities except as otherwise applicable to certain classes of investors, withholding and income tax provisions.
including banks, insurance companies, tax As of the time of this report, all prior exempt entities, dealers, traders who elect distributions by the company since
