| ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 137 publication of our last annual statement which is owned, directly or indirectly, by credit for the complete amount of the UK were governed by the rules of the treaty in persons that are neither individual residents tax credit: force prior to 1 April 2003, the Expiring of, nor nationals of the US.
As a result, unless otherwise noted, the following discussion is Taxation of dividends Dividend received 90.00 UK tax credit 10.00 based on the Expiring Income Tax Save as set out below in relation to the UK Convention.
The company believes, and the withholding tax applied to the UK tax credit US taxable income 100.00 discussion therefore assumes, that it is not a as dened below, the company is not US tax @ 35% 35.00 passive foreign investment company for US required to withhold any UK taxes from its US tax credit for UK withholding tax 10.00 federal income tax purposes.
dividend payments to US Holders.
Therefore US tax liability 25.00 the amount of a dividend paid to a US Cash dividend received 90.00 Each investor is urged to consult their own Holder will not be reduced by any UK US tax liability 25.00 tax adviser regarding the tax consequences withholding tax.
Under UK tax law and the After-tax cash amount 65.00 of the purchase, ownership and disposition Expiring Income Tax Convention, an Eligible Approximate effective US tax rate of ordinary shares or ADSs under the laws US Holder that makes the appropriate on cash received 27.8% of the US, the UK and their constituent election with respect to dividends paid prior jurisdictions and any other jurisdiction to 1 May 2003, and, as described below, if where the investor may be subject to tax.
elected, with respect to dividends paid Note that the US federal income tax before 1 May 2004, is in theory entitled to consequences of dividends paid to an Eligible If the obligations contemplated by the an additional payment from the UK UK tax US Holder will depend upon the holders Deposit Agreement are performed in credit equal to 1 9th of the amount of any particular circumstances and, consequently, accordance with its terms, a beneficial dividend paid by the company to the holder.
the US federal income tax consequences owner of ADSs will be treated as the owner While, as noted above, the dividend paid by applicable to a particular holder may differ of the underlying ordinary shares for the the company is not subject to any UK from those set out in the above example and purposes of the Expiring Income Tax withholding tax, under the Expiring Income some US Holders may not be able to make Convention and the US Internal Revenue Tax Convention and under current UK law, full or partial use of the UK tax credit.
Eligible Code of 1986, as amended Code.
the UK tax credit that otherwise would be US Holders are urged to consult their own tax payable by the UK is completely offset by a advisers regarding the tax consequences to For the purposes of this summary, the term UK withholding tax equal to 100% of that them of the payment of a dividend by the US Holder means a beneficial owner of UK tax credit.
Accordingly, US Holders will company.
the ADSs that is a US citizen or resident, a receive the full amount of any dividend domestic corporation or partnership, a trust declared by the company without The full procedures for determining and subject to the control of a US person and deduction for UK tax but will not be entitled claiming a US tax credit, with respect to the primary supervision of a US court, or an to an additional cash payment from the UK dividends received from a UK corporation, are estate, the income of which is subject to US in respect of the UK tax credit.
An Eligible outlined in US Internal Revenue Service federal income tax regardless of its source.
US Holder who elects to claim a credit as Revenue Procedure 2000 13, 2000 6 described below against the holders US I. R. B.
For the purposes of this summary, the term federal income tax liability with respect to Eligible US Holder means a US holder that the UK withholding tax imposed on the UK A US Holder recognises income when the is a resident of the US for the purposes of tax credit amount, is required to include, in dividend is actually or constructively received the Expiring Income Tax Convention and addition to the gross amount of the dividend by the holder, in the case of ordinary shares, that satisfies the following conditions: paid by the company, the amount of UK tax or by the Depositary, in the case of ADSs.
The credit in taxable income for US federal dividend will not be eligible for the dividends is not also resident in the UK for UK tax income tax purposes, even though none of received deduction generally allowed to US purposes: the amount of the UK tax credit is paid by corporations in respect of dividends received is not a corporation which, alone or the UK.
An Eligible US Holder who so elects from other US corporations.
Distributions in together with one or more associated to include the amount of the UK tax credit in excess of current and accumulated earnings corporations, controls, directly or indirectly, taxable income, generally will be entitled to and profits, as determined for US federal 10% or more of the voting stock of the credit against the holders US tax liability, income tax purposes, will be treated as a company: the amount of the UK tax credit that the return of capital to the extent of the Eligible whose holding of the ADSs is not holder is deemed to have received, which US Holders basis in the ordinary shares or attributable to a permanent establishment US tax credit may result in a reduction in ADSs and thereafter as a capital gain.
In in the UK through which such holder carries the holders effective US tax rate on the determining the amount of the distribution, on a business or with a xed base in the UK cash dividend received.
Following is a a US Holder will use the spot currency from which such holder performs simplied numerical example of the US tax exchange rate on the date the dividend is independent personal services: and treatment of dividends paid to an Eligible included in income.
Any difference between under certain circumstances, is not a US Holder who is subject to tax at a rate of that amount and the dollars actually received company 25% or more of the capital of 35% and is eligible for and claims a US tax may constitute a foreign currency gain or loss.
| ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 138 Investor Information continued However, an Eligible US Holder that is an as the case may be.
Whether holders of are, or have been, used, held or acquired individual is not required to recognise a gain ADSs who reside in countries other than for the purposes of such trade, profession of less than $200 from the exchange of the US are entitled to a tax credit in respect or vocation or such branch or agency.
foreign currency in a personal transaction of dividends on ADSs depends in general as dened in Section 988 e of the Code.
upon the provisions of conventions or US citizens resident or ordinarily resident in agreements, if any, as may exist between the UK, US corporations resident in the UK Subject to certain limitations and such countries and the UK.
by reason of their business being managed requirements, an Eligible US Holder will be or controlled in the UK and US citizens who entitled under the Expiring Income Tax Under the New Income Tax Convention, US or US corporations which are trading or Convention to credit the UK withholding tax Holders are not entitled to claim the UK tax carrying on a trade, profession or vocation in imposed with respect to the UK tax credit credit with respect to dividends paid by the the UK through a branch or agency and who against the Eligible US Holders US federal company on or after 1 May 2003. or which have used, held or acquired ADSs income tax liability, provided the holder Notwithstanding this effective date, an or ordinary shares for the purposes of such includes the gross amount of the UK tax Eligible US Holder may continue to claim trade, profession or vocation or such branch credit in the holders gross income as the UK tax credit with respect to dividends or agency may be liable for both UK and US described above.
Claiming a US foreign tax paid before 1 May 2004, if the holder elects tax in respect of a gain on the disposal of the credit with respect to the UK withholding tax to apply all the provisions of the Expiring ADSs.
Such holders may not be entitled to a imposed under the Expiring Income Tax Income Tax Convention during such period.
tax credit against their US federal income tax Convention with respect to the UK tax credit, Each investor is urged to consult their own liability for the amount of UK capital gains may result in a lower effective US federal tax adviser regarding the tax consequences tax or UK corporation tax on chargeable income tax rate on dividends paid by the of electing to apply the Expiring Income Tax gains, as the case may be, paid in respect of company for certain Eligible US Holders as Convention in lieu of the New Income Tax such gain unless the holder appropriately demonstrated in the above numerical Convention.
can apply the credit against tax due on example.
An Eligible US Holder is not income from foreign sources.
required to afrmatively make a claim to Taxation of capital gains the UK Inland Revenue to be entitled to the In general, for US tax purposes, US Holders For companies, the UK Inland Revenue has US foreign tax credit, although an Eligible of ADSs will be treated as the owners of the proposed that, in relation to accounting US Holder electing to claim the credit must underlying ordinary shares that are periods commencing on or after 1 January complete an Internal Revenue Service Form represented by such ADSs and deposits 2003, UK statutory references to branch or 8833 Treaty Based Return Position and withdrawals of ordinary shares by US agency should be replaced with references Disclosure and le such Form with the Holders in exchange for ADSs will not be to permanent establishment and the holders US federal income tax return for treated as a sale or other disposition for US references to branch or agency above each year that the tax credit is claimed.
Upon a sale should be read accordingly.
Eligible US Holders that include the amount or other disposition of ordinary shares or of the UK tax credit in gross income, but do ADSs, US Holders will recognise a gain or US information reporting and backup not elect to claim foreign tax credits may loss for US federal income tax purposes in withholding instead claim a deduction for UK an amount equal to the difference between In general, information reporting withholding tax deemed paid.
For foreign the US dollar value of the amount realised requirements will apply to dividend tax credit limitation purposes, the dividend and the US Holders tax basis determined payments or other taxable distributions in grossed-up to include the UK tax deemed in US dollars in such ordinary shares or respect of ordinary shares or ADSs made paid will be income from sources outside ADSs.
Generally, such gain or loss will be a within the US to a non-corporate US the US.
The rules relating to the long-term capital gain or loss if the US person.
Accordingly, individual US Holders computation of foreign tax credits are Holders holding period for such ordinary will receive an annual statement showing complex and Eligible US Holders should shares or ADSs exceeds one year.
Any such the amount of taxable dividends or other consult their own tax advisers to determine gain or loss generally will be income from reportable distributions paid to them whether, and to what extent, a credit would sources within the US for foreign tax credit during the year.
Backup withholding will be available and whether any lings or limitation purposes.
Long-term capital gain apply to such payments i if the holder or other actions may be required to for an individual US Holder is generally beneficial owner fails to provide an accurate substantiate an Eligible US Holders foreign subject to a maximum tax rate of 20%.
taxpayer identication number in the tax credit claim.
manner required by US law and applicable A US Holder who is not resident or regulations, ii if there has been notication If the US Holder is a US partnership, trust ordinarily resident for UK tax purposes in from the Internal Revenue Service of a or estate, the UK tax credit will be available the UK will not generally be liable for UK tax failure by the holder or beneficial owner to only to the extent that the income derived on capital gains recognised on the sale or report all interest or dividends required to by such partnership, trust or estate is other disposition of ADSs or ordinary be shown on its federal income tax returns subject to US federal income tax as the shares, unless the ADS holder carries on a or, iii in certain circumstances, if the income of a resident either in its hands or trade, profession or vocation in the UK holder or beneficial owner fails to comply in the hands of its partners or beneciaries, through a branch or agency and the ADSs with applicable certication requirements.
| ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 139 In general, payment of the proceeds from are later transferred to the Depositarys the sale of ordinary shares or ADSs to or nominee, further stamp duty or stamp duty through a US ofce of a broker is subject to reserve tax will normally be payable at the both US backup withholding and rate of 1.5% rounded up, if necessary, to information reporting requirements, unless the nearest 5 of the value of the ordinary the holder or beneficial owner establishes shares at the time of the transfer.
Different rules apply to payments made outside the US through an A transfer of ordinary shares by the ofce outside the US.
Depositary or its nominee to the relative ADS holder when the ADS holder is not UK inheritance tax transferring beneficial ownership gives rise An individual who is domiciled in the US for to a UK stamp duty liability of 5 per the purposes of the convention between the transfer.
US and the UK for the avoidance of double taxation with respect to estate and gift taxes Taxation of Thus demerger dividend in Estate Tax Convention and who is not a specie national of the UK for the purposes of the Information pertaining to the tax position Estate Tax Convention will not generally be of shareholders following the demerger of subject to UK inheritance tax in respect of Thus can be obtained from the Company the ADSs or ordinary shares on the Secretary at the companys registered individuals death or on a gift of the ADSs ofce and from the companys website: or ordinary shares during the individuals www.
lifetime, unless the ADSs or ordinary shares are part of the business property of a permanent establishment of the individual in the UK or pertain to a xed base in the UK of an individual who performs independent personal services.
Special rules apply to ADSs held in trust.
In the exceptional case where the shares are subject both to UK inheritance tax and to US federal gift or estate tax, the Estate Tax Convention generally provides for the tax paid in the UK to be credited against tax paid in the US.
UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax In practice, no UK stamp duty need be paid on the acquisition or transfer of ADSs provided that any instrument of transfer is executed outside the UK and subsequently remains at all times outside the UK.
An agreement to transfer ADSs will not give rise to a liability to stamp duty reserve tax.
Subject to certain exceptions, a transfer on sale of ordinary shares, as opposed to ADSs will generally be subject to UK stamp duty at a rate of 0.5% rounded up, if necessary, to the nearest 5 of the consideration given for the transfer.
An agreement to transfer such shares will normally give rise to a charge to UK stamp duty reserve tax at a rate of 0.5% of the consideration payable for the transfer, provided that stamp duty reserve tax will not be payable if stamp duty has been paid.
