| ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 70 Accounts 2002 03 Accounting Policies United States Revenue cost definitions US Division PacifiCorp Cost of sales and Definitions A vertically integrated electric utility that The cost of sales for the group, excluding includes the generation, transmission and Southern Water, reflect the direct costs of distribution and sale of electricity to retail, the generation and purchase of electricity, industrial and commercial customers in the purchase and transportation of Definitions portions of six western states: Utah, natural gas, appliance retailing and Oregon, Wyoming, Washington, Idaho and telecommunications services.
For Business segment definitions California.
The operations also include Southern Water, cost of sales represented ScottishPower defines business segments wholesale sales and power purchase the cost of extracting water from for management reporting purposes transactions with various entities.
The underground and raw water surface based on a combination of factors, state regulatory commissions and Federal reservoirs and of its treatment and supply principally differences in products and Energy Regulatory Commission FERC to customers and the collection of services and the regulatory environment regulate the retail and wholesale wastewater and its treatment and disposal.
in which the businesses operate.
The subsidiaries of PacifiCorp Transmission and distribution costs Business segments have been included support its electric utility operations by The cost of transmitting units of electricity under either continuing operations or providing coal mining facilities and from the power stations through the discontinued operations as appropriate.
services, environmental remediation and transmission and distribution networks financing.
The business segments of the group are to customers.
It includes the costs of defined as follows: US Division PPM metering, billing and debt collection.
The competitive energy development, This heading is considered more Continuing operations origination and marketing business appropriate to the electricity industry serving wholesale customers in North than the standard Companies Act United Kingdom American markets.
Electricity products heading of distribution costs.
UK Division Integrated Generation and and services are provided from gas Supply Administrative expenses generation and renewable wind The generation of electricity from the The indirect costs of businesses, the generation resources located in the groups own power stations, the purchase costs of corporate services, property rates western and mid-western US.
Natural gas of external supplies of coal and gas for the and goodwill amortisation.
storage and hub services are provided generation of electricity, the purchase of from gas storage facilities located in external supplies of electricity and gas for Other definitions Alberta, Canada and in Texas.
sale to customers, together with related Company or ScottishPower billing and collection activities, gas storage, Scottish Power plc.
Discontinued operations sale of gas to industrial and domestic customers and the sale of electricity to Group United Kingdom electricity suppliers, in Scotland and Scottish Power plc and its consolidated Southern Water England & Wales and full participation in subsidiaries.
The provision of water and wastewater the New Electricity Trading Arrangements services in the south-east of England, Associated undertakings NETA in England & Wales.
together with related billing and collection Entities in which the group holds a longactivities.
The disposal of the Southern Infrastructure Division Power Systems term participating interest and exercises Water business was completed on 23 The transmission and distribution significant influence.
April 2002. businesses in Scotland and the Joint ventures distribution business of Manweb Thus Entities in which the group holds a longoperating in Merseyside and North Wales The provision of telecommunications term interest and shares control with and, specifically, the transportation of services, internet access and information another company external to the group.
units of electricity from the power services to national corporates, small and stations through the transmission and medium-sized enterprises and residential Subsidiary undertakings distribution networks to customers in customers.
Thus Group plc Thus was Entities in which the group holds a longScotland and to customers in Northern demerged from ScottishPower on 19 term controlling interest.
Ireland and England & Wales through the March 2002.
Appliance Retailing The retailing and servicing of domestic electrical goods and home entertainment appliances.
The business was disposed of and withdrawn from during the year ended 31 March 2002.
| ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 71 Accounting Policies of tax relief during the period of Forward contracts construction and written off as part of the The group enters into forward contracts Basis of accounting total cost over the operational life of the for the purchase and or sale of foreign The Accounts have been prepared under asset.
All other interest payable and currencies in order to manage its the historical cost convention, modified receivable is reflected in the profit and exposure to fluctuations in currency rates to include the revaluation of certain loss account as it arises.
and to hedge overseas net investment.
tangible fixed assets, and in accordance The cash flows from forward purchase with applicable accounting standards in Financial instruments contracts are classified in a manner the UK and, subject to the treatment, Debt instruments consistent with the underlying nature of prior to the disposal of Southern Water, All borrowings are stated at the fair value the hedged transaction.
Hence, unrealised of water infrastructure grants and of consideration received after deduction gains and losses on contracts hedging contributions described under Grants of issue costs.
The issue costs and interest forecast transactions are not accounted and contributions below, comply with the payable on bonds are charged to the for until the maturity of the contract.
requirements of the Companies Act 1985. profit and loss account at a constant rate Foreign currency debtors and creditors over the life of the bond.
Premiums and that are hedged with forward contracts Basis of consolidation discounts arising on the early repayment are translated at the contracted rate at the The group Accounts include the Accounts of borrowings are recognised in the profit balance sheet date.
Spot gains or losses of the company and its subsidiary underand loss account as incurred and received.
on hedges of the overseas net investment takings together with the groups share are recorded in the statement of total of results and net assets of associated Interest rate swaps Forward rate recognised gains and losses with the undertakings and joint ventures.
agreements interest rate differential reflected in the For commercial reasons certain These are used to manage debt interest profit and loss account.
Where a currency subsidiaries have a different year end.
Amounts payable or forward contract no longer represents a The consolidation includes the Accounts receivable in respect of these agreements hedge because either the underlying asset of these subsidiaries as adjusted for are recognised as adjustments to interest or liability has been derecognised, or the material transactions in the period expense over the period of the contracts.
effectiveness of the hedge has been between the year ends and 31 March.
The cash flows from, and gains and losses undermined, it is restated at fair value and arising on terminations of, these contracts any change in value is taken directly to Use of estimates are recognised as returns on investments the profit and loss account and reported The preparation of Accounts in conformity and servicing of finance.
Where associated within exchange losses.
with generally accepted accounting debt is not retired in conjunction with the principles requires management to make termination of an interest swap, gains and Hydro-electric and temperature hedges estimates and assumptions that affect the losses are deferred and are amortised to These instruments are used to hedge reported amounts of assets and liabilities interest expense over the remaining life of fluctuations in weather and temperature and disclosure of contingent assets and the associated debt to the extent that in the US.
On a periodic basis, the group liabilities at the date of the Accounts and such debt remains outstanding.
estimates and records a gain or loss in the reported amounts of revenues and the profit and loss account corresponding expenses during the reporting period.
Actual Interest rate caps Swaptions Options to the total expected future cash flows results can differ from those estimates.
Premiums received and payable on these from these contracts.
contracts are amortised over the period of Turnover the contracts and are disclosed as interest Commodity contracts Turnover comprises the sales value of income and expense.
The accounting for Where there is no physical delivery energy, goods and other services supplied interest rate caps and swaptions is associated with commodity contracts, to customers during the year and excludes otherwise in accordance with interest rate they are recorded at fair value on the Value Added Tax and intra-group sales.
balance sheet and movements reflected Turnover from the sale of energy is the through the profit and loss account.
Gas value of units supplied during the year Cross currency interest rate swaps future contracts are undertaken for and includes an estimate of the value of These are used both to hedge foreign hedging and proprietary trading purposes.
units supplied to customers between the exchange and interest rate exposures Where the instrument is a hedge, the daily date of their last meter reading and the arising on foreign currency debt and to margin calls are initially reflected on the year end, based on external data supplied hedge overseas net investment.
Where balance sheet and subsequently reflected by the electricity and gas market used to hedge debt issues, the debt is through the profit and loss account to settlement processes.
Prior to the disposal recorded at the hedge contracted rate and match the recognition of the hedged item.
of Southern Water in April 2002, turnover accounting is otherwise in accordance Where the instrument is for proprietary also included the sales value of water and with interest rate swaps detailed above.
trading the margin calls are reflected wastewater services.
Where used to hedge overseas net through the profit and loss account.
investment, spot gains or losses are Interest recorded in the statement of total Interest on the funding attributable to recognised gains and losses, with interest major capital projects is capitalised gross recorded in the profit and loss account.
| ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 72 Accounting Policies and Definitions Taxation Mine reclamation and closure costs of the capital repayments outstanding.
In accordance with Financial Reporting Rentals payable under operating leases Provision is made for mine reclamation Standard 19 Deferred tax, full provision and closure costs when an obligation are charged to the profit and loss account is made for deferred tax on a nonarises out of events prior to the year on a straight line basis.
The amount recognised is the As lessor present value of the estimated future Goodwill Rentals receivable under finance leases expenditure determined in accordance Purchased goodwill represents the are allocated to accounting periods to give with local conditions and requirements.
excess of the fair value of the purchase a constant periodic rate of return on the A corresponding tangible fixed asset is consideration over the fair value of the net net cash investment in the lease in each also created of an amount equal to the assets acquired.
The amounts due from lessees provision.
This asset, together with acquisitions prior to 31 March 1998 was under finance leases are recorded in the the cost of the mine, is subsequently written off against reserves.
balance sheet as a debtor at the amount depreciated on a unit of production basis.
On disposal of trading entities, the of the net investment in the lease after The unwinding of the discount is included goodwill previously included in reserves is within net interest and similar charges.
making provisions for bad and doubtful charged to the profit and loss account rentals receivable.
matched by an equal credit to reserves.
Decommissioning costs Goodwill arising on acquisitions since Provision is made for the estimated Investments 1 April 1998 has been capitalised and decommissioning costs at the end of the Investments in subsidiary and associated amortised through the profit and loss producing lives of the groups power undertakings and joint ventures are account over its estimated useful stations on a discounted basis.
Capitalised stated in the balance sheet of the parent economic life.
Goodwill arising on decommissioning costs are depreciated company at cost, or nominal value of overseas acquisitions is regarded as a over the useful lives of the related assets.
shares issued as consideration where currency asset and is retranslated at the The unwinding of the discount is included applicable, less provision for any end of each period at the closing rate of within net interest and similar charges.
and loss account includes the groups Infrastructure accounting share of the operating profits less Tangible fixed assets Water infrastructure assets, being mains losses, net interest charge and taxation Accounting for non-water and sewers, reservoirs, dams, sludge of associated undertakings and joint infrastructure assets pipelines and sea outfalls comprised a ventures.
The group balance sheet Tangible fixed assets are stated at cost or network of systems.
Expenditure on water includes the investment in associated valuation and are generally depreciated infrastructure assets relating to increases undertakings and joint ventures at the on the straight line method over their in capacity or enhancement of the network groups share of their net assets.
Tangible fixed and on maintaining the operating fixed asset investments are carried at cost assets include capitalised employee, capability of the network in accordance less provision for impairment in value.
interest and other costs which are directly with defined standards of service was attributable to construction of fixed assets.
treated as an addition to fixed assets.
Own shares held under trust Land is not depreciated except in the case The amount recorded in the balance sheet The depreciation charge for water of mines see below.
The main for shares in the company purchased for infrastructure assets was the estimated depreciation periods used by the group employee sharesave schemes represents level of annualised expenditure required are as set out below.
the amounts receivable from option to maintain the operating capability of Years holders on exercise of the options.
the network and was based on the asset Coal, oil-fired, gas and other management plan agreed with the water The group has taken advantage of the generating stations 22-45 industry regulator as part of the price exemption within Urgent Issues Task Hydro plant and machinery 20-100 regulation process.
Force UITF Abstract 17 not to apply the Other buildings 40 requirements therein to Inland Revenue The asset management plan was Transmission and distribution plant 20-75 approved savings-related share option developed from historical experience Towers, lines and underground cables 40-60 schemes and equivalent overseas schemes.
combined with a rolling programme of Vehicles, computer software costs, reviews of the condition of the miscellaneous equipment and fittings 3-40 Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP infrastructure assets.
Shares in the company purchased for the The carrying values of tangible fixed assets LTIP are held under trust and are recorded are reviewed for impairment in periods if Leased assets events or changes in circumstances within investments in the balance sheet at As lessee indicate the carrying value may not be Assets leased under finance leases are cost.
The cost of awards made by the trust recoverable.
For those assets with capitalised and depreciated over the under the LTIP, being the difference estimated remaining useful economic lives shorter of the lease periods and the between the fair value of the shares and of more than 50 years, impairment the option price at the date of grant, is estimated operational lives of the assets.
taken to the profit and loss account on a The interest element of the finance lease Impairment losses are recognised in the straight line basis over the period in which repayments is charged to the profit and period in which they are identified.
loss account in proportion to the balance performance is measured.
| ScottishPower Annual Report & Accounts 2002 03 73 Stocks recognise grants and contributions as to the translation of overseas subsidiaries Stocks are valued at the lower of average deferred income.
The effect of this and of matching foreign currency cost and net realisable value.
treatment on the value of tangible fixed borrowings and derivatives are taken assets is disclosed in Note 16. directly to group reserves and are shown US regulatory assets in the statement of total recognised gains Statement of Financial Accounting Pensions and losses.
Standard FAS 71 Accounting for the The group provides pension benefits Effects of Certain Types of Regulation through both defined benefit and defined Company establishes US GAAP for utilities in the US contribution arrangements.
The regular Transactions in foreign currencies are whose regulators have the power to cost of providing pensions and related recorded at the rate ruling at the date of approve and or regulate rates that may be benefits and any variations from regular the transaction.
At the year end, monetary charged to customers.
FAS 71 provides cost arising from the actuarial valuations assets and liabilities denominated in that regulatory assets may be capitalised for defined benefit schemes are charged foreign currencies are translated at the if it is probable that future revenue in an to the profit and loss account over the rate of exchange ruling at the balance amount at least equal to the capitalised expected remaining service lives of sheet date or, where applicable, at the costs will result from the inclusion of that current employees following consultations hedged contracted rate.
Any gain or loss cost in allowable costs for ratemaking with the actuary.
Any difference between arising on the restatement of such purposes.
Due to the different regulatory the charge to the profit and loss account balances is taken to the profit and loss environment, no equivalent GAAP applies and the actual contributions paid to the account.
pension schemes is included as an asset Overseas net investments that are partially or liability in the balance sheet.
Payments Under UK GAAP, the groups policy is to hedged with foreign currency borrowings to defined contribution schemes are recognise regulatory assets established in and derivatives are viewed as a foreign charged against profits as incurred.
accordance with FAS 71 only where they currency asset to the extent that they are comprise rights or other access to future matched with these instruments.
Post-retirement benefits other economic benefits which have arisen as a Exchange differences arising on rethan pensions result of past transactions or events which translation of the investment and the Certain additional post-retirement have created an obligation to transfer borrowings and derivatives are taken benefits, principally healthcare benefits, economic benefits to a third party.
The remaining are provided to eligible retirees within the Measurement of the past transaction or unhedged element of the investment is groups US businesses.
The estimated event and hence the regulatory asset, is recorded at historical cost at the exchange cost of providing such benefits is charged determined in accordance with UK GAAP.
rate ruling at the date of acquisition against profits on a systematic basis without further re-translation.
over the employees working lives within Grants and contributions the group.
Capital grants and customer contributions Exchange rates in respect of additions to non-water The exchange rates applied in the Environmental liabilities infrastructure fixed assets are treated as preparation of the Accounts were Provision for environmental liabilities is deferred income and released to the profit as follows: made when expenditure on remedial work Year ended 31 March and loss account over the estimated is probable and the group is obliged, 2003 2002 2001 operational lives of the related assets.
Prior either legally or constructively through its Average rate for to the disposal of Southern Water in April environmental policies, to undertake such quarters ending: 2002, grants and contributions receivable 30 June $1.46 $1.42 $1.53 work.
Where the amount is expected to be relating to water infrastructure assets were 30 September $1.55 $1.44 $1.48 incurred over the long-term, the amount 31 December $1.57 $1.44 $1.45 deducted from the cost or valuation of recognised is the present value of the 31 March $1.60 $1.43 $1.46 those assets.
While this treatment was in estimated future expenditure and the Closing rate as accordance with SSAP 4, it was not in unwinding of the discount is included at 31 March $1.58 $1.42 $1.42 accordance with the Companies Act 1985. within net interest and similar charges.
The Act requires capital grants and A glossary of terms used in the Accounts contributions to be shown as deferred and their US equivalents is set out on Foreign currencies income rather than offset against the cost page 133.
Group or valuation of tangible fixed assets.
The results and cash flows of overseas This departure from the requirements of subsidiaries are translated to sterling the Act was, in the opinion of the at the average rate of exchange for each directors, necessary for the Accounts to quarter of the financial year.
The net give a true and fair view as, while provision assets of such subsidiaries and the was made for depreciation of water goodwill arising on their acquisition are infrastructure assets, these assets did not translated to sterling at the closing rates have determinable finite lives and of exchange ruling at the balance sheet therefore no basis existed on which to date.
